The Guardian went to jail yesterday. Mercifully it was only a short sentence and for once there was no overcrowding.Liverpool's Bridewell prison has not had residents since 2000, but now it awaits guests of a different kind. It has been put up for sale with a possible future as a luxury hotel or flats. For £600,000, purchasers will acquire the Grade II-listed building, offices and utility rooms. What distinguishes it as a property portfolio, though, are the 45 cells, described in the brochure as being with "absolute minimum decoration". The man in charge of selling all this, estate agent Tom Dears, locked us in - but only to stop passing ex-residents from helping themselves to a souvenir fitting or two. Bridewell, on Cheapside in the heart of Liverpool, was the city's main lockup for 160 years. The site closed in 1999. Then it was realised that the building might be needed to house those who would be waiting for court appearances after taking millennium celebrations too far. The jail reopened for the duration of the festivities. "Full house every night," mused Walter Bruce, a former policeman who worked there for 14 years. "The patrols would bring them in, blue in the face, on a Saturday afternoon," said Mr Bruce. "We'd feed them up over the weekend and put them in front of the magistrates on Monday morning." The accused would sit at the back of the court for an hour, then leave refreshed after their weekend break. "We saved many a life that way," says Mr Bruce - and who would doubt a policeman? Tim, a career criminal in his 60s who prefers not to give his full name, takes a rather less benign view of his old haunt. The property now being marketed so intensively remains in his memory as "a khazi". "The food was swill, the cozzers wouldn't get off their arses if the place had been on fire." He paused. "Except of course to give you a slap, if you stepped out of line. They were quick enough to do that." But Tim warms to the idea of seeing his old prison becoming a hotel. "We could meet the punters at Lime Street station or the airport in a sweat box" - a prison van. "Rub 'em down, cuff 'em up and bring 'em here in style," he said. Standing at the old charge desk, he says: "This would become the reception." "We'd need to take their shoelaces, belt and ties and fingerprints, then bang 'em up". The cells are on two floors. Tim said that the further you were away from the desk, the worse the service was. "Lazy bastards, most of the cozzers who worked here." We were in a cell now, cold, dank and still holding the peculiar urine-based aroma common to all slammers. Will the new owners leave the graffiti in place? A certain Franny was a prolific scrawler - and a regular visitor, judging by the number of cell doors and walls on which he'd left his mark. Another author, who preferred to remain anonymous, opined that, "One day you will all be free". That uplifting message was followed by an earthier "Fuck the law". Kilroy has been there of course and had a succesful time of it, if the result, "Kilroy one - police nil" is to be believed. What was the game? Fighting, possibly. "Saturday night could be a bit rough," remembers former jailer Wally Bruce. That was the fault of the Royal Iris. The boat had an all day drinking licence and, along with the wine lodge in the city, seems to have been responsible for No Vacancies signs that the slammer often put up. Pressed further, Wally conceded that "it was a hard Bridewell". As to the cuisine, there was a limited menu, especially for breakfast. Beans on toast, 365 days a year, according to Wally. "Too early in the morning to be going to the trouble of cooking any thing else" was his excuse. Guests at the new boutique hotel likely to open in the prison by the time Liverpool becomes Europe's city of culture in 2008 will demand something rather more refined. According to the original 1859 estimate the new main lock-up and keepers' house cost £533 in total. That includes the many hundreds of flagstones lining the floors - all either Caithness or Llangollen stone. Most of the brickwork had been carted across the Pennines from Yorkshire. It seems the finance committee of the Corporation of Liverpool got a bargain. So will the next owner of Liverpool's Bridewell. For £600,000 they will get a couple of ghosts thrown in. Unnamed, unfortunately, though their fingerprints may be on file.