It was in January last year that a police officer came to my house in Northamptonshire to warn me that I was in danger of having my shotgun licence revoked. This was because I had rashly written that I was so fed up with burglars that I intended to arm myself and lie in wait like Tony Martin for the next intruder.I wrote this in G2 knowing full well, as Tony Martin had already discovered to his cost, that one isn't allowed to go around shooting burglars, and I told the officer that I hadn't meant to be taken seriously. He said he had assumed as much, but that his superiors in the Northamptonshire police were not amused and would probably be writing to me. In the event they never did so, and my shotgun is still safely locked up in its metal cupboard, from which - following the conviction this week of five members of the Johnson gang - I have lost all temptation to remove it. For I feel much safer now that the Johnsons are not around.It now seems more than likely that it was the Johnsons who were responsible for two break-ins at my Uncle Robin's house during which most things of any value were removed. That was what the police suspected at the time, and the burglaries certainly had all the hallmarks of a Johnson operation. They had been carefully planned and audaciously carried out.The burglars must have known that Robin was away wintering in Thailand at the time and that the Inigo Jones pavilion in which he lives would be unoccupied during the Christmas and New Year holidays. It is also the sort of building the Johnsons like to rob - an architectural gem suggesting snootiness and privilege.Ricky Johnson, 54, the father of the gang, once said in a BBC documentary that "I feel I have got the fucking right to rob the lords out there", and while Robin is far from being a lord (he bought Stoke Park for £3,500 in 1954), he might well have been seen by the Johnsons as belonging to that hated category.Anyway, whoever they were, the robbers roared across open parkland in 4x4s, scaled a stone balustrade, smashed a basement window, and ransacked every drawer and cupboard in the house before making off with most of the furniture, silver and china. This happened three days before Christmas; and living as I do across the lawn from Robin's house and being in charge of it at the time, I had his basement window boarded up the next day - only for the robbers to return a week later and break in again, taking whatever stuff they had missed first time around.This was more than a little disheartening, and may have been partly responsible for Uncle Robin's subsequent decision (about which I wrote the other day, giving his age wrongly as 88 instead of 86) to settle in Thailand more or less permanently. It must be hard for him to feel the same about a house that has been so comprehensively defiled.Apart from saying unofficially that they thought it was the Johnsons who had done it, the police didn't appear to hold out any hope of catching the burglars and soon wrote to me saying the crimes were "unresolved" and that they were closing their investigation.This led me to write some harsh words about the uselessness of the police and their preference for form filling and "victim support" over the more difficult task of actually catching criminals, but little did I then know that five police forces were at that time secretly working together to bring the Johnsons to justice. I am happy now to eat my words.It is, of course, possible that it wasn't the Johnsons but some other gang that ransacked Stoke Park; and the place is not officially listed among the houses they robbed during their 20-year career. But I would be astonished if it turned out not to have been them. Even if the robberies were not as spectacular as the ones at Waddesdon, the Rothschild house (in whose park the Johnsons hid overnight in a camouflaged truck before brazenly driving out with their loot next day), and at Ramsbury Manor, Harry Hyams' home (a window of which they rammed with metal rods attached to the front of a Subaru), they had something of the same dash and ferocity. And whoever robbed Stoke Park was also "forensically aware", as the judge put it, for they left no fingerprints or other signs of their visit.It seems likely that the Johnsons carried out many more robberies than have so far been attributed to them, for robbery was their passion. More than for the vast rewards it brought them, they loved it for its own sake, and any day spent without planning or committing a break-in must have seemed an empty one. From their pictures they looked like the kind of staged villains that the British treasure so much - arrogant, ruthless, repulsive, and thoroughly committed and professional. And to protect themselves against the risk of ever feeling any compunction for the havoc and misery they have caused, they claim virtue in a mission to fleece "the lords out there". But the most striking thing about the Johnsons is the amount of fear and anxiety just one little gang can cause. They managed to give the impression that the English countryside was swarming with robbers and that no country house was safe.Now that they are behind bars, everyone will calm down and realise that England is not quite such a crime-infested country as they thought and I, for one, will certainly sleep easier at night.This week Alexander visited the marvellous cathedral at Orvieto, in Umbria, Italy: "More splendid than such a small city could justify, it is a testament to the ambition of its medieval citizens - an ambition a bit like wanting to host the Olympics today."