 William Hague's claim "The way in which the Macpherson report has been used to brand every officer and every branch of the force as racist, has contributed directly to a collapse of police morale and recruitment, and has led to a crisis on our streets."   Analysis  The Macpherson report did not brand every police officer as racist. It said the Metropolitan police was infected with "institutional racism". This it defined as a "collective failure of an organisation to provide a professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin. It can be seen in processes, attitudes and behaviour which amounts to discrimination through unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness and racist stereotyping which disadvantage minority ethnic people ...We do not accept that a finding of institutional racism means all officers are racist." Recommendation 60 of the Macpherson report said powers of stop and search "should remain unchanged." Police numbers have been in decline since 1993 when they peaked at 127,000, long before the publication of the Macpherson report in February 1999. Figures published yesterday show that in most forces numbers have started to rise again. In London, they fell this year by 1,200 but the Police Federation has also cited housing costs, uncompetitive pay and low unemployment as factors.   William Hague's claim  "We have had 21 months to assess impact of the Macpherson report. In that period the use of stop and search powers by the Met police has fallen. In February 1999, the Met made 18,752 arrests following stop and searches. In September this year, new provisional figures show that has dropped by a third to just 11,858 arrests."   Analysis  Conservative Central Office was forced to admit last night that William Hague had quoted the wrong figures. The correct figures for the level of arrests are 2,609 in February 1999 and 1,898 in September 2000 - a fall of 711 and not the 7,000 fewer arrests portrayed by the Tory leader. The figures he quoted related to the number of times stop and search powers were used. In addition, the Metropolitan police say the record shows "improving statistics in relation to stop and search". In comparing December 1998 to December 1999 they note that the number of searches which were running at 300,000 a year had fallen by 38.23% but the arrest rate had improved from 14% to 16% as the tactic was targeted on those who were acting suspiciously or on the basis of intelligence. The Home Office also says it is not the number of stop and searches that is important but how they are used. The most common reason for arrest after being stopped on the street is that drugs have been found and yet drug offences have fallen in London in the past year. Macpherson did not recommend reducing use of stop and search powers; instead he said in order to combat discrimination against black and Asian people stops should be recorded and a written reason given by the officer.   William Hague's claim "At the same time, street crime has soared - not just in London but around the country. This year's British Crime Survey shows robberies up 14%, muggings up 4% and violence against a stranger up 29%."  Analysis  Paul Wiles, Home Office research director, said yesterday there was no direct link between stop and search and street crime levels. Four studies of stop and search published last month said the evidence was that searches probably detect offenders for only a small proportion of all crimes but they can make a notable contribution to arrests. However, many arrests are for minor offences, such as possession of small amounts of cannabis. The Police Research Group also found that there was a small disruptive effect on criminal activities but little evidence that the practice deterred many criminals. Only one in 10 stops leads to an arrest.   William Hague's claim  "The people who are suffering most from the post-Macpherson collapse in police morale and the rise in street crime are members of the ethnic minority communities ... We will expect the police to use rigorously the powers [of stop and search] which they have been given to uphold the law and fight crime ... Political correctness will not be allowed to get in the way of law enforcement ... a disproportionate number of street robberies are committed by young black men, often against other black people, just as street violence and burglary tend to be committed by young white men."   Analysis  Criminal justice statistics repeatedly show that black and Asian communities suffer disproportionately from crime partly because they are concentrated on poor, inner city estates with the highest crime levels. Home Office research also confirms the different patterns of offending among black and white youths, partly due to more black youths being out on the streets. However, the Met police do not believe that stop and search is effective in reducing street robberies; instead they have launched intensive undercover surveillance operations to go after street gangs and muggers. No "politically correct" politician or police officer has recommended that stop and search powers should not be used. Indeed, both Tony Blair, Jack Straw, the home secretary, and the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, have urged constables to continue to use such powers.   Conclusion  William Hague has revived an argument - for the third time in a year - over claims from the Met police federation, the trade union, that the police had "retreated" from policing crime at the Notting Hill carnival, because they were under pressure to ignore black crime. Mr Hague's speech is a thinly coded repetition of the message purveyed by the Daily Telegraph and Daily Mail that "the liberal establishment" was somehow responsible for allowing black criminals to get away with it. The evidence shows Macpherson did not recommend reduction in the use of stop and search. Its use has fallen sharply but the Met says it is now used in a more targeted way and that surveillance operations are more effective in dealing with street muggings.  Useful links The Stephen Lawrence Campaign  Metropolitan Police