A new disciplinary offence of "racial misconduct" should be created as part of an attempt to end bigotry in the police service, the government's official race watchdog said in a report published today.The Commission for Racial Equality (CRE) found that forces in England and Wales were still "frozen solid at the core" in their attempts to deal with racism. The author of the report, Sir David Calvert-Smith , a former director of public prosecutions and now a high court judge, found that while there was support for change at the top of the service there was "ice in the heart" of middle management. The report made 125 recommendations to improve race and diversity in the police. It said the police code of conduct should be rewritten to include a duty incumbent upon all ranks to be impartial and not tolerate racist behaviour. Racial misconduct cases are currently brought under different sections of the code, which increases the chance they are not properly recorded. The 300-page study says: "We believe there should be a specific category for the offence of racial misconduct so that such cases are easy to identify and record." The CRE inquiry was launched in October 2003 in the wake of the BBC documentary The Secret Policeman, which highlighted racist behaviour among recruits in several forces. Ten officers resigned after the broadcast of the documentary, which showed one recruit wearing a Klu Klux Klan costume.Last June, an interim CRE report concluded that diversity training for police officers might simply have driven discrimination underground and created a new breed of "stealth racist". Today Sir David said there was "still a long way to go" before every officer treated the public and colleagues "with fairness and respect, regardless of their ethnic origin". However, he stressed that "significant progress" had been made in the six years since the Macpherson inquiry, which followed the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence. That investigation concluded that London's police force, the Metropolitan police - which was criticised for its investigation into Stephen's killing - was "institutionally racist". Asked on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme whether the Macpherson description of "institutional racism" still applied, Sir David said: "There are areas of the police service in which that phrase could probably still be used. I think that cultures do take a long time to change." The CRE report today recommends changes at every level of police activity, from recruitment to training, complaints and governance. It concludes there is a lack of cohesion and "haphazard compliance" with the duty to "eliminate racial discrimination" within the police service.Among Sir David's proposals is that promotion be influenced by officers' ability to lead ethnically diverse teams.The report also recommends that targets be introduced for the hiring of ethnic minority recruits.Sir David said that, despite the strategies introduced in police training to root out the kind of overt racism seen in the BBC documentary, some people would still join the police to "bully people". Trevor Phillips, the chairman of the CRE, said he accepted it would not be possible to "weed out every single racist", but the goal was to "change the culture of the police service so that racists are made to feel uncomfortable and isolated". He said he would be writing to 14 chief constables and the chairmen of eight police authorities, telling them to improve their race equality schemes. Failure to do so could cause the CRE to consider legal action, he said. Commenting ahead of today's publication, a spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), Peter Fahy, the chief constable of Cheshire police, said: "Only our harshest critics would fail to acknowledge the progress made since the Stephen Lawrence report."Acpo believes the police service has made real progress on such issues as the investigation of racist crime, with a significant increase in the number of convictions, in the way critical incidents such as racist murders are handled and in the work carried out to strengthen community relations and cohesion during a time of great tension following September 11."