Renowned for culture and polite respectability, Edinburgh's associations with sex crime, murder and decapitation had come courtesy of it's rich history and thriving literary scene - until now.When the body parts of a convicted sex offender were discovered last week in an upmarket neighbourhood, its well-to-do residents gagged. Not only was it a particularly brutal killing, it exposed a side of Edinburgh they'd rather not talk about.Behind the smart avenues and historic sites lies a grim underbelly of vice and perversion. It is a heady mix that inspired Ian Rankin to set the hugely popular Rebus detective novels in the city. Last week, after hearing news of the murder, a curious Rankin walked from his home to 28 Merchiston Avenue, where he found the type of police operation his hero would not have batted an eyelid at. But Rankin, like the majority of this city's middle class, had never visited a murder scene. Beyond the cordons lay a shocking spectacle. In a compost heap, at the back of a shared garden, lay most of Alan Wilson. The 51-year-old former history teacher had been hacked into six pieces. His head had been cut from his torso and his legs were in a nearby wheelie bin. Fact and fiction had collided, as had Edinburgh's parallel worlds. For years Wilson had led what appeared to be a respectable lifestyle. Married with two children, he was a history teacher at the city's James Gillespie's High School. In fact, he lived a life of depravity. During the Nineties, Wilson made a series of sexual assaults on three teenage boys. He would pick on the insecure, offering them a shoulder to cry on. He would then ply the 16- and 17-year-olds with drink and lure them to his home near the Royal Mile, where he sexually assaulted them. In 2000, he was jailed for 18 months. Wilson was more than a sexual predator who met a grisly end, however. He was a connoisseur of grisly ends. He had worked part-time as a macabre tour guide, regaling visitors with tales of the body-snatchers Burke and Hare. He could describe in minute detail how Burke was skinned and hanged. Wilson even wrote a number of books on the city's violent past, with titles such as Haunted Edinburgh. Now he has entered the realms of Scottish folklore in the most chilling way possible. His interest in local history and his sexual predilections led him to skip between respectable and underworld Edinburgh, experiencing the Jekyll and Hyde nature of the city on a daily basis. His was a well-known face in the Merchiston neighbourhood that is home not only to Rankin, but to J.K. Rowling and politicians Alistair Darling and Robin Cook. After his visit to the murder scene, Rankin revealed that he had a copy of Haunted Edinburgh and had even been contacted by Wilson about the possibility of launching a Rebus tour. But there were those who Wilson came to know in the city's notorious Saughton prison: a quite different Edinburgh establishment. Theirs is a city dominated by prostitution, sleazy bars and drugs. And while ostracised by his family, Wilson remained in contact with some of those he knew from his previous life. Former Scotland rugby international Norrie Rowan rented Wilson the flat where his body was found. Rowan also owns underground vaults in the city where Wilson worked as a ghost tour guide. 'He was a quiet, unassuming guy,' said Rowan, who had known his tenant for nearly 10 years. Wilson, though, was not living at 28 Merchiston Avenue himself. For the past eight months it had been occupied by one of his friends, though he visited regularly. Isabel Smith lives above the ground floor flat and said Wilson had seemed like a 'fairly nice man'. 'He was always polite and very pleasant to me,' she told The Observer. 'I thought he was a decent man, but of course that was before I knew what I know now about his background.' But once, when she visited the flat to ask about a matter of maintenance, she was greeted by a naked Wilson: 'I was rather shocked. He was sort of half-hiding behind the door, but he hadn't any clothes on.' Smith said that for weeks she had been aware of 'strange noises' coming from the garden where Wilson was found. 'It sounded like the scraping of a spade,' she said. The noises came again the night before Wilson's remains were found. 'There were also snowballs thrown at my window and fireworks set off. It was as if someone was trying to see if I was awake. I just kept the lights off, it was very frightening.' Other neighbours claim to have heard screams coming from the general area and the city police received a rash of phone calls. Officers anticipated a domestic disturbance. They found a modern-day horror story. Detective Superintendent Bert Swanson, who is leading the inquiry, said: 'Alan had probably been dead for a number of days before his body was discovered. We are trying to build up a picture of where he has been, particularly since the start of February.' Other police sources have indicated that Wilson's body may have been kept in water, probably in a bath, for days. Officers have suggested that he may have been killed elsewhere. Inquiries continue and no arrests have been made in direct connection with the death. One of the last times Wilson was seen was at the end of last month, when he was spotted in the smart Montpelliers bar, just a five-minute walk from the flat. A former pupil working behind the bar noticed that he was with a character who was 'not typical' of the clientele. Right up to his death, it seems, Alan Wilson forced the two extremes of Edinburgh society to stare each other in the face.