The government should impose harsher punishment on professionals who decide not to report female genital mutilation in children, saying they are “complicit in a crime being committed”, according to a group of MPs.The failure of the UK to make a single prosecution against FGM despite changes in legislation that make it mandatory for professionals to report FGM is “beyond belief” and is leading to “the preventable mutilation of thousands of girls”, according to a damning report from the home affairs select committee.The committee says it is alarmed by reports that clinicians are ignoring the requirement to report child cases of FGM to the police, which was put in place last year, and urges NHS employers and royal colleges to “take a hard line against such attitudes”.It states: “Existing disciplinary procedures for professionals who ignore the duty on mandatory reporting are insufficient and ineffective and it is unacceptable that some clinicians appear to refuse to accept it as their responsibility. The duty to report must not be seen as optional. A decision not to report puts children’s lives at risk and is complicit in a crime being committed.”The committee risks reigniting a row with health professionals, some of whom have argued that mandatory reporting is counter-productive and compromises patient confidence. The first annual statistics gathered on FGM released in July revealed there had been 5,700 new cases of female genital mutilation recorded in England in 2015-16, and provided hard evidence that the practice was happening on UK soil, with 18 cases recorded as happening in the UK. There are an estimated  134,600 women with FGM born in countries where FGM is practised and living in England. More than 20,000 girls a year are thought to be at risk of FGM in the UK.FGM – the practice of removing some or all of a girl’s outer sexual organs, which can lead to serious and lifelong health complications – has been illegal in the UK since 1985 but it took 29 years before the first prosecution was brought to trial. The defendants were found not guilty. Since 2010, only 29 cases of FGM offences have been referred to the CPS, with a number of cases still live. The report compared these result to other countries: in a similar period there have been 40 FGM-related trials in France, six in Spain; two in Italy and Sweden; and one each in the Netherlands and Denmark.“It is beyond belief that there still has not been a successful prosecution for an FGM offence since it was made illegal over 30 years ago,” stated the report. “That is a lamentable record and the failure to identify cases, to prosecute and to achieve convictions can only have negative consequences for those who are brave enough to come forward to highlight this crime.”There was a “strong case” for routine medical examinations of children deemed to be at particularly high risk of FGM, said the committee. The practice had resulted in “large number of successful prosecutions in relation to FGM in France” but would require “a radical change in practice in the UK” and risked being “unnecessarily traumatic”.The report also criticised the quality of data being gathered on FGM, although some progress had been made. Despite publicity surrounding the Government’s Summit on FGM in 2015, there was still “a paucity of information on the scale of FGM, on its trends over time and on the number of girls at risk”, stated the report. It called for a government FGM Unit – similar in scope to the Forced Marriage Unit – to collect data and report on progress in police investigations.Police said on Wednesday that 33 children had been referred to safeguarding services, an 11-year-old girl was taken into police protection and a man and woman detained at Heathrow airport following a police operation that targeted flights to countries with high rates of FGM. Officers spoke to 5,000 people about UK law during Operation Limelight, according to the National Police Chiefs’ Council, but the report said “much more needs to be done to detect and prevent girls from being taken out of the UK to undergo FGM”.Alison Macfarlane, a professor of perinatal health at City University London and author of a report on the prevalence of FGM in the UK, said the current methods of collecting data on FGM were “completely meaningless”. She added: “Ferocious penalties against doctors who don’t report FGM gets nobody anywhere. It is a sideshow from the positive things that are being done to prevent FGM, and it will deter women and girls from going to the doctor for help they may need.”The Royal College of Midwives said that while a prosecution was “an important element” in the fight against FGM, many survivors were finding it difficult to access health care and psychological support. “We must address the need for culturally appropriate physiological services for survivors of FGM,” said the college’s professional policy adviser, Janet Fyle. “They are not being provided at anywhere near the levels required,” she added.Equality Now, which has advised the government on FGM policy, said it did not support medical examinations of girls and did not think an FGM unit would be beneficial as “past experience showed that this did not work very effectively”. Mary Wandia, End FGM programme manager, said: “Every girl at risk of FGM should be protected in every possible way – particularly by those with a duty of care. If there is a failure to prevent this – or any incidence of child abuse – then the person who failed should be held to account.”Nimko Ali, an anti-FGM activist and survivor, said she was confident that data collection and mandatory reporting – as well as a raised awareness about FGM – would result in a prosecution and welcomed the call for professionals to face disciplinary procedures if they failed to report FGM. “That prosecution will take time, but what is more important is that these policies are preventing girls from being cut in the first place, she said.” 