The recent debacle over the release of foreign-national prisoners, and the evidence given by the new home secretary, John Reid, to the House of Commons home affairs select committee on Tuesday, have focused public attention on the chaotic affairs of the Home Office. It has always seemed to me that there are two separate but related problems, each made worse by the sheer amount of rhetoric, ill-thought-out legislation, initiatives and ministerial changes with which the Home Office has been plagued, certainly since 1997.The first problem is that the Home Office is too big and contains too many functions. Essentially it contains two separate ministries - one for the administration of justice and one for what the US now calls homeland security. The fact that every other country in the world, faced with exactly the same problem, has a ministry of justice, suggests that we are on our own about this. Homeland security may not be the right term, but a separate home ministry, dealing with matters such as security and asylum, demands the full attention of another minister in today's world.But that is not the whole story, because this dysfunctional head is fixed on to a dysfunctional body. At the heart of all this is what is called the "cult of managerialism", the erroneous belief that results can be achieved by the issue of written instructions, targets and performance indicators. No one can fault the Home Office for the amount of these that spew forth. But their individual merit is clouded by the fact that the impact of any one on any other part of the system never seems to be worked out. It was said under David Blunkett that there were three criminal justice system priorities - arrest more quickly, sentence more severely and reduce overcrowding in prisons.Somehow the Home Office in general, and individual parts, such as the prison service, simply will not listen. John Reid has found - I suspect to his total disbelief, coming from the Ministry of Defence - that, for example, no one was in charge of foreign-national prisoners. That I had recommended such an appointment in my annual report of 2001 appears, like many such recommendations to do with management, to have been ignored.When Dr Reid calls a temporary halt to all current initiatives, as I believe he must if he is to make sense of the mess he has inherited, he will become aware of one overriding truth. Until he installs and imposes a management structure in each of the operations for which he is responsible - prisons, probation, immigration - within which named individuals are accountable to him for discrete functions or groups of people, nothing will happen and the same sort of nonsense that saw him hurriedly transferred in will see him swiftly transferred out. The fact that he inherited this from Charles Clarke, who inherited something that David Blunkett made worse than what he inherited from Jack Straw, who made worse what he inherited from Michael Howard, will be of no account. A dysfunctional structure will not function whoever is in charge.Once he has that structure in place, then he can start giving them instructions. It is unfortunate that Tony Blair does not seem to have grasped this fact, judging from the nine priorities that he issued to Dr Reid. Such instructions confirm the worst fears of those of us who would dearly like to see the criminal justice system function as we know it can do. Here we have a government that is strong on rhetoric and weak on practical application. The downside of adopting such an approach to the Home Office as currently constituted, is that people's lives and livelihoods are at stake. · David Ramsbotham was chief inspector of prisons from 1995 to 2001. ramsbothamd@parliament.uk