Whitehall mandarins have accused the government's antisocial behaviour tsar Louise Casey of bringing the civil service and the Home Office into disrepute.Their comments follow Ms Casey's controversial after-dinner speech to an audience of chief police officers.Jonathan Baume, the general secretary of the senior civil service union, the First Division Association, said: "Ms Casey's reported remarks are a clear breach of the civil service code which brings both the civil service and the Home Office into disrepute."He said the Home Office, which is investigating the speech given to an event last month organised by the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers, should take a "robust approach". "I would also urge the Civil Service Commission and the cabinet secretary to review the quality of training and development for external appointees to the senior civil service. This is especially important given the government's aim to bring even more people from other sectors in the civil service." Despite the criticism levelled at Ms Casey by the trade union, the prime minister today came to her defence.In a statement Downing Street said: "The prime minister's regard for Louise Casey is well known and based on her record of achievement in several government posts."The Home Office has said they are looking into these remarks as they would with any civil servant. All of the matters would be for the Home Office."Ms Casey was working as normal this morning despite wide publicity over the secretly taped speech. The Home Office confirmed that any civil servant found to be in breach of its code could face disciplinary action ranging from a letter of warning to dismissal.A spokesman said that the Home Office permanent secretary, Sir John Gieve, was in the process of looking at what Ms Casey had said, as well as its context and the nature of the event. "That is different from a full investigation - it's preliminary," he said. A decision on whether to launch a formal investigation was not expected to be made today, he said. The government tsar, who has a reputation of being outspoken, said in the speech that government ministers might perform better if they turned up in the morning "pissed" and that "doing things sober is no way to get things done". She said that she would "deck" Downing Street policy advisers if they kept spouting jargon at her.Ms Casey, who has been a key figure in getting the government's antisocial behaviour message across to the public, also defended binge drinking.She said: "I suppose you can't binge drink anymore because lots of people have said you can't do it. I don't know who bloody made that up - it's nonsense." Ms Casey was appointed head of the government's antisocial behaviour unit two years ago, and has a reputation for being blunt both in her current role and previously when she was head of the government's homelessness unit.She is one of Tony Blair's favoured top civil servants and last week the prime minister, unhappy with progress being made on the yob culture by the home secretary, Charles Clarke, announced that in future she should report directly to him instead.