The first wife of Sion Jenkins is expected to take her revenge in a detailed and carefully worded attack on her former husband which will describe the domestic violence she claims she suffered.Lois Jenkins has written a 20,000-word article which is likely to be published this weekend and will cover events during their marriage and over the past nine years after the murder of her 13-year-old foster daughter, Billie-Jo.Mr Jenkins, who was formally acquitted of the murder at the Old Bailey on Thursday, is also involved in a bidding war. He is in negotiations with the BBC, ITV and a national newspaper for exclusive rights to his account of his battle to clear his name.After an Old Bailey retrial jury failed to reach a verdict, Mr Jenkins was formally cleared on Thursday by the trial judge of battering Billie-Jo to death with a metal tent peg in February 1997. He spent six years in prison for the murder and had his conviction quashed at his second appeal in 2004 after scientists presented fresh evidence that blood spots found on his clothes were exhaled from Billie-Jo's nose as she lay dying.Testimony from Mrs Jenkins about the years of domestic violence she claims to have suffered was not put to any of the three juries to have tried her ex-husband. She told the appeal court in 2004 that her husband began to hit her three weeks before they married in 1982 and the violence continued throughout the marriage. Lois Jenkins, who moved to Tasmania with the couple's four daughters after Mr Jenkins was convicted of the murder in 1998, also claimed he struck her daughters with a stick and a slipper.Mr Jenkins has attacked Sussex police for incompetence and called for them to reopen the murder inquiry. He is being courted by ITV's Tonight With Trevor McDonald and the BBC's Real Story. A spokeswoman for the BBC's Real Story said they felt it was in the public interest to cover the story.Mr Jenkins, formerly deputy headteacher of William Parker school in Hastings, East Sussex, now lives with his second wife, Christina Ferneyhough, in Lymington, Hampshire. Billie-Jo was battered to death with a metal tent peg nine years ago next Wednesday as she painted the doors in the garden of the family home in Hastings.Her natural father, Bill Jenkins, sat through every day of Mr Jenkins's last murder trial at the Old Bailey. He has given his exclusive story to a Sunday newspaper. The dead girl's mother, Debbie Jenkins, who did not attend the court hearing, has been ringing national newspapers offering to talk for £10,000.Lois Jenkins had an article published in the Sunday Times in 2003, in which she expressed regret at failing to address "my husband's violent outbursts".