Kamikaze pizza delivery riders who weave through traffic on bikes of dubious quality could be sent back to school in a tough safety crackdown under consideration by ministers.After a five-year study, a government advisory group on motorcycling yesterday questioned the wisdom of allowing couriers and food delivery drivers to work while holding L plates rather than a full licence. The group, which includes safety specialists and bikers' representatives, urged the roads minister, David Jamieson, to consider new training standards for Britain's 5,000 despatch riders. At present, delivery drivers can begin work after less than a day's basic learning. The proposal is part of a wider blueprint to improve motorcycle safety. Mr Jamieson described the plans as "timely". He said: "Motorcyclist deaths rose by 14% in 2003 and this is a challenge we must face up to. "The government and the motorcycling community are working together to make biking safer and to take account of the needs of motorcyclists." The number of pizza delivery riders soared during the 1990s as Britain caught on to an American appetite for eating fast food at home. Smaller pizza outlets typically use casual workers with provisional licences who have little intention of taking a driving test. Pizza bosses complained yesterday that any sudden change in the rules could have devastating consequences. Jim Winship, director of the Pizza, Pasta and Italian Food Association, said it would be tough to find staff with full licences. He added: "Most of the peo ple who want to do this sort of job are young people looking for evening work. It is very difficult to fill these jobs with older people." The Despatch Association, which represents couriers, insisted there was little of a safety problem. Phillip Stone, chief executive, said: "Despatch drivers are professional drivers. They are inclined to be much safer and more professional than other drivers because their livelihood depends on it." Ministers have grown increasingly concerned about the casualty rate among bikers. There were 693 deaths last year, an increase of 84, which threatened to jeopardise progress towards an overall target of cutting serious road casualties by 50% within a decade. Middle-aged "born again" bikers who buy powerful machines in their 30s and 40s are considered partly to blame for the increase. Yesterday's proposals included requiring riders to tot up as much as 20 hours of supervised riding on bikes of more than 500cc before they riding on their own.