David Blunkett, when home secretary, announced proudly that a new law would be passed to ensure that violent criminals would be kept in prison for a long time. The idea was that a judge could label perpetrators of certain offences as dangerous - posing a significant risk of serious harm to the public - and could then impose much longer sentences than the norm. The scheme, part of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, quickly descended into chaos and misinterpretation. Judges and lawyers complained that the definitions and guidance as to who was dangerous were vague, unclear and unworkable.This dissatisfaction has been given a boost from two influential quarters. The court of appeal ruled, in eight separate cases, that judges sentencing violent and sexual offenders had made mistakes because they hadn't understood the law, with the result that over-lenient sentences had been passed. And last week, the man who knows more about sentencing in England and Wales than anyone else alive vigorously attacked the 2003 law. David Thomas QC, who teaches judges how to sentence, described the working of the dangerous offender provisions as a "lottery".In the past, he pointed out at a conference held by legal publishers Sweet and Maxwell, judges could choose between a variety of sentences, according to their assessment of the best interests of society. But they "no longer have the power to tailor the sentences to the problems presented by the offender ... Judges are now obliged to apply rules, enacted to fulfil a political agenda, which do not take account of the practical realities."The government has promised a new criminal justice bill in this parliamentary session."The best thing that the new bill could do would be to sort out the problems created by the last one," says Dr Thomas. That is a wish unlikely to be granted.The meal at Chops, according to the restaurant critic of the Philadelphia Inquirer, "was expensive and disappointing, from the soggy and sour chopped salad to a miserably tough and fatty strip steak". The eatery's libel lawsuit against the paper and its critic followed soon afterwards, but I assumed it would fail on the grounds that it was the writer's honest opinion - we call it fair comment here.I read that no such claim has ever succeeded in a US court - nor, as far as I know, in Britain, though there have been two restaurant victories in the Irish courts.But this American one may break the succession of failures, for a legal reason which would also apply here. According to the claim, the critic "ate a steak sandwich ... not a strip steak, and therefore had, and has, no personal knowledge of the quality of the Chops strip steak".In other words, he'd told his public that the pricey, upmarket steak was no good whereas he'd only eaten the cheapo meat.Getting a basic fact wrong could lose him the defence of saying "it was my honest opinion as a critic".