Women in south-west London were warned yesterday to take sensible precautions over their personal safety after two murders and four serious attacks, in which the victims were left for dead, in the past 18 months.But detectives are still unclear whether they are hunting a would-be serial killer or several different assailants.Police are now formally linking the investigations into the murders of the 22-year-old French student Amélie Delagrange last month and Marsha McDonnell, 19, in February last year with four other assaults within a five-mile radius.All the victims were young females with blond or light brown, shoulder length hair, they were all hit from behind with a large blunt instrument, and the attacks all took place between 10pm and 1am.Detective Chief Inspector Andy Murphy, of Scotland Yard's homicide squad, raised the possibility of a serial killer. But he also admitted that there were disparities, and that it was "hugely possible" there was more than one attacker.Detectives have not uncovered any forensic-science or personal connections between any of the six cases. However, Mr Murphy said they could not disprove a link.Mr Murphy said women in the area should take reasonable precautions - staying alert to their surroundings, avoiding badly lit streets and deserted parks late at night. But he did not want to instigate panic, and stressed he was not telling women not to go out alone at night.At least two of the victims were wearing personal stereos, and Mr Murphy said this could prove dangerous in many circumstances as they distracted the wearer from what was going on around them.Ms Delagrange received two blows to the back of the head when she took a short cut home across Twickenham Green after a night out with friends on August 19. Ms McDonnell was killed near her home in Hampton on February 4 2003. The killer hit her three times on the back of the head.The four women who survived serious assaults were a 28-year-old in Feltham on August 23; Edel Harbison, 34, in Twickenham on April 18; Dawn Brunton, 36, in Hounslow on November 5 2003; and a 17-year-old in Strawberry Hill in Richmond on January 8 2003.Mr Murphy said no weapon had been found, and it was not clear if the same weapon had been used in more than one attack. But all were carried out with a blunt instrument. "We can say what it isn't. It isn't the type of hammer you keep in your toolbox. It could be a large flat hammer, like a 4lb hammer. It could be a baseball bat, a pipe or a large heavy branch, anything that can be wielded with force."Four suspects have been arrested in connection with Ms Delagrange's murder. A 42-year-old man was arrested in Richmond on Friday, a 47-year-old man in Kew on September 10, and another man, aged 31, in Richmond on September 1. All three are on police bail. Police detained a fourth man, aged 22, in Whitechapel, east London, on August 28, and he has since been transferred to a psychi atric hospital under the Mental Health Act.Ms Delagrange's purse and personal stereo were recovered from the river at Walton-on-Thames, about six miles from where she was killed, leading police to think her killer might have driven away from the scene. Her handbag and mobile phone are still missing.There have been five people arrested in connection with Ms McDonnell's murder, including a 16-year-old youth, who is detained under the Mental Health Act.Nobody has been charged with either murder, and Mr Murphy said that there were several other people who were "of interest" to the police, but there was no "prime suspect."There were no attacks between February and November last year, indicating that the assailant may have been in prison or away from London. He said that it was possible that the perpetrator or perpetrators had exhibited suspicious behaviour or mood swings around the time of the attacks. "Clearly, somebody has committed some terrible offences and there may well be in the days leading up to the attack, or in the immediate aftermath, a change in them."