The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday April 30 2007 In the article below, we wrongly described Peter Halliday as a Church of England priest.The Church of England was criticised yesterday for failing to report a self-confessed child abuser to the police, a move that allowed the man to continue to work closely with children.Peter Halliday, a choirmaster, told church officials 17 years ago that he had abused a child. But rather than going to the police the church simply forced him to leave his post. He was able to gain positions of trust within a prestigious church music school, where he worked alongside children, and became a school governor.Halliday, 61, was jailed for two and a half years yesterday for abusing three boys, but police said he might have abused scores of other children and appealed for any other victims to contact them.The NSPCC, the children's charity, expressed concern that there could be many more men such as Halliday who had not been reported to the police.Sentencing him at Winchester crown court Judge Ian Pearson said it was "unfortunate" the church had not gone to the police. "These young men are still badly affected by what you did," he said.Halliday abused the three boys, aged nine to 14, who were in the choir at St Peter's church, in Farnborough, Hampshire, between 1985 and 1990. He pleaded guilty to 10 sample counts of indecent assault.Ruth Bowskill, prosecuting, said Halliday's victims described him as a "fierce man, bully and revolting character". One victim said he went on holiday with Halliday and his family and was invited to call him "Daddy". Another victim said he had been assaulted in a swimming pool 20 or 30 times. The third victim said he was assaulted in a swimming pool and also in bed while at Halliday's home.Ms Bowskill said Halliday's third victim "felt earmarked and groomed". She also said that Halliday had kissed the boy goodbye and said "I love you" on one occasion.In 1990, at a Christian camp, the third victim told a leader about the incidents. The Bishop of Dorking at the time, David Wilcox, and the rector of St Peter's, the Rev Alan Boddington, were informed. Halliday admitted abusing that boy, but did not mention the other two.He was told to leave the church immediately. Reportedly, the victim's parents did not want the church to go to the police, and the bishop decided not to. He continued to work as a volunteer for the Royal School of Church Music (RSCM). In 2000 he became honorary chairman of the RSCM's Guildford area.In 1993 a former choirboy came across Halliday at a residential course where he was singing with the RSCM. After the boy told the RSCM about Halliday's past it made checks about the concerns but was reassured by St Peter's that there was nothing to worry about, it claims. A spokesperson for the RSCM said: "Had the RSCM known of the risks posed by Halliday, his contact with children would have been terminated immediately." Halliday was finally brought to justice when one of his victims went to the police.A spokesman for the Guildford diocese said: "We are completely satisfied that what was done at the time was the way things happened in those days, when child protection awareness was on the cusp of serious change." But the Churches' Child Protection Advisory Service (CCPAS) said yesterday that officials had "seriously mishandled" the case. Its chief executive, David Pearson, said: "It has been stated that the law was different back then. Sadly, the fact is that those in charge at the time failed to ... take professional advice when it was readily available."