At last. Almost seven years after the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence comes concrete proof, rather than promises, programmes and policies, that the police have been taking the case seriously. Two arrests, announced yesterday and described by those close to the investigation as "significant", are a major breakthrough. The fact that it has taken so long is cause for concern; the fact that it has happened at all is cause for celebration.First and foremost the arrests represent a great potential victory for the Lawrences. For all the column inches dedicated to describing them as a "dignified", "upstanding" family, a crucial fact has often been forgotten - they lost a son and their ability to fully grieve that loss has been impaired by the inability of the police to bring his killers to justice. Stephen's death did not become a national issue by accident; it emerged as a landmark on the nation's political and racial landscape as a result of their tireless campaigning in the face of political stonewalling under the Tories and the obfuscation and wilful negligence of the police. Their persistence has been laudable but their patience has been cruelly tested by the incompetence, racism and corruption within the Metropolitan police force.Yesterday's arrests are also a crucial step forward for the Metropolitan police themselves. For all the internal discontent voiced about changes implemented as a result of the Macpherson report into the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry; for all their attempts to transform the style, and substance, of their work, it is breakthroughs of this nature that they need. Some hard evidence that they have the will and the competence to see that justice is done.The Lawrence family can be excused for treating this latest development with healthy scepticism. They have been let down by the police and the criminal justice system far too often to trust anything other than a hard conviction of the murderers of their son. But for the first time in a long while there is, at least, hope. At last.