Venture into your town centre at sunset tonight and you will witness a weekly ritual. All over Britain, gaggles of young men in their polo shirts and gangs of young girls tottering on their high heels will be trooping off to a drinking factory, easily identifiable by the couple of heavies on the door.Venture back at midnight and you'll see how the ritual all too often ends. The bonhomie of dusk will have been replaced by something nastier. The shirts will be bloodstained, the girls in high heels will be puking up, the police vans will be full.The government has had enough of Britain being turned into what looks like a John Wayne movie every weekend, and I can understand why it is concerned. On nine days every fortnight I'm a journalist, on the tenth I'm a magistrate, sitting more often than not in the youth court. And from the bench, it's plain that the crime figures do not lie: more of those appearing in the courts are there for drink-fuelled violent crime. More particularly, the intoxicated offenders are getting younger, more and more of them are girls, and the offences are becoming more serious. When I first became a magistrate 12 years ago, easily the most common offence committed by teenage girls was shoplifting. Now they are likely to be up for affray, serious assaults on police and group attacks where victims are kicked into unconsciousness. So now we are to have a summer crackdown. There will be spot-checks to make sure the bouncers are not letting in under-age drinkers, there will be "sting" operations, there will be naming and shaming of bars and offlicences that break the law. And my bet is the impact will be negligible. Why? Because the government has failed to recognise that binge drinking is part of our culture, carefully fostered and manipulated by the drinks industry. The mayhem on Britain's streets on a Friday or Saturday night is a textbook case of how Labour's kid-gloves approach to business has failed. Take the complete deregulation of licensing laws, which ministers say is based on research that liberalisation will lead to a dimunition in binge drinking and the criminality that is associated with it. But as one charity, the Institute of Alcohol Studies, notes, this supposedly independent research was based on a report produced for the drinks industry in 1992. In other words, before drinking factories, before drink as much as you can for £15, before Breezers, alcopops and all the other attempts to entice young drinkers. An open-all-hours approach allows more drinks to be sold; the idea that they will be sold to the bloke who fancies a quiet pint and a game of dominoes at 1am rather than those who have been knocking them back since 8pm seems, to say the least, far-fetched. Certainly the police think so. As the Association of Police Officers puts it: "Extending hours will not normally stagger hours, and it has the potential to lead to increased anti-social behaviour and costs for the police service and local authorities."This message is not getting through. The voice being heard - as with the deregulation of gambling - is that of business, which has convinced the government that it is part of the solution rather than part of the problem. We're doing our best, the industry argues. If there is a crisis, it is a crisis of upbringing, of parenting, of cultural norms, of the tendency for violent crime to increase in economic upswings. All of which is true, up to a point. There is something dysfunctional about a society where the ambition of 15- and 16- year-olds is to get "off their face", and where many parents are making no effort to stop them doing so. But it is risible to argue that the rise in violent crime among teenagers has nothing to do with drinks aimed at young audiences, at the creation of venues meant to deter the more mature drinker and the marketing of drinks designed to make drinking associated with virility or sexual prowess. The industry is quite happy to go along with the idea that there should be a crackdown on the few "bad apples" in the hope that a show of good citizenship will prevent a more radical conclusion being reached: namely that young people are being cynically targeted and exploited. Yes, of course, every company worth its salt says it takes corporate social responsibility very seriously, because that's the message ministers want to hear. But what does all the stuff about encouraging sensible drinking mean? There are copious examples of campaigns that suggest having a wild night out makes you cool and sexy; I can't recall one that said you can still be a real man if you stick to a couple of pints of bitter shandy. Stripped of the CSR cant, the industry's modus operandi seems to be to pack 'em in, get 'em drunk and chuck 'em out. Let somebody else pay for what economists call externalities: the noise, the unsafe streets, the ill-health, the days off work, the deaths on the roads. The government believes that Britain could become like those parts of continental Europe where liberal licensing laws are not linked to binge drinking and violence. It may, however, be missing a key point, which is that other countries can cope with deregulation because they already have a more mature approach. The Institute of Alcohol Studies says recent evidence from countries such as Australia, Iceland, Ireland and New Zealand suggests liberalisation has led to more violent disorder. Interestingly, the economic liberalism of the US - the source of many Labour policies - does not extend to the licensing laws, where the legal age for drinking in public is not 18 but a rigorously enforced 21. When he was at the spring meetings of the IMF two weeks ago, Gordon Brown was complaining that he was being woken every morning at 3am, but it was his jet-lagged baby son who was responsible, not drunken brawlers on Georgetown's M Street. For a UK visitor, it was reassuring to wander around on a Saturday night without fear of being glassed by a total stranger. The government here has not the slightest intention of going down the American route, and there are good reasons for caution - the risk of pushing the problem underground, the rights of lawabiding 18- to 21-year-olds. But if the problem escalates, it will come under pressure to act from other groups who also have rights: the right to feel safe on the streets, to have a decent night's sleep, to go shopping in the morning without encountering lakes of chucked-up chicken tikka masala. For the time being, there will be a slightly harder version of the policy pursued for the past decade or more. The government hopes that de-regulation, CSR and sporadic crackdowns by thinly-stretched enforcement agencies will work. But in the youth courts, we're not holding our breath. · Larry Elliott is the Guardian's economics editor larry.elliott@theguardian.com