The editor of a leading black newspaper is set to sue the Metropolitan Police after he and his girlfriend were subjected to a humiliating stop and search ordeal.Michael Eboda, editor of the New Nation newspaper, had travelled up to Manchester last weekend to watch a football match with his girlfriend, Yvonne. The pair returned to London on Sunday and were pulling into the driveway of his home in Clapton, east London, when he was ordered to pull over by four armed police officers. At least 30 more officers then arrived, many armed and others with dogs, and began frisking the couple and searching Eboda's vehicle. Eboda drives a Jaguar and was told he was being searched because his flashy car and skin colour 'fit the profile' of those involved in gun crime in the area. 'I was completely and utterly humiliated on my own doorstep. I run four minority newspapers, how the hell am I supposed to tell my readers that they can trust the police when the police themselves see nothing wrong with stopping and searching someone just because they are black and drive a nice car? 'I've said it before and I'll say it again: arbitrary stop and search will only serve to increase tension between the police and minority ethnic communities. I have already consulted with solicitors and there is a very strong possibility that I will be taking legal action over this.' Eboda was stopped because police had issued a Section 60 notice in the streets around his home. The order gives police the right to stop any person or vehicle and make any search they see fit regardless of whether they have grounds for suspicion. Many see the use of such notices as a reintroduction by stealth of the much-hated sus laws of the 1970s, which spurred inner city riots. Community leaders fear police will undo work done to build bridges with the black community. 'The wall of silence no longer exists, co-operation between the police and the black community is an all-time high,' says Lee Jasper, the Mayor of London's adviser on race. 'This kind of experience could easily destroy all that.' A Scotland Yard spokesman said it would not comment on individual cases but added that it had not received any formal complaint relating to the incident.