Police are investigating the murder of a motorcyclist who was shot dead on the M40 in Warwickshire yesterday while returning from a motorcycle festival. The man was travelling with two other bikers on the southbound carriageway between junctions 12 and 13 near Leamington Spa when he was shot, detectives said.Air ambulance crews treated the man at the scene, but he died soon afterwards. Warwickshire police refused to confirm if he had been a gang member, but said the possibility that biker gangs were involved was a "very active line of inquiry".Detectives were yesterday seeking a green older Rover car following the incident.The investigation forced the closure of both carriageways between southbound junctions 14 at Warwick and 12 at Gaydon, and northbound between 12 and 13 at Bishops Tachbrook, prompting traffic chaos, with 10-mile tailbacks. Police said the motorway was likely to remain closed overnight and part of today.The West Midlands ambulance service said it was called to the southbound carriageway at 2.20pm. A spokesman said paramedics found a motorcyclist who had "suffered very serious injuries" and he was pronounced dead at the scene.Paul Roberts, from Worthing, was driving along the M40 when the incident happened. He told BBC News: "Suddenly we had to stop ... soon other motorists were out of their cars and on the carriageway. One lady in a BMW took a first aid kit to the man who was lying on his front just next to the central reservation. It was noticeable that the man was very still and was not wearing any shoes."Detective Superintendent Ken Lawrence said: "We want to know if any witnesses travelling on the motorway between 2.30-2.45pm were aware of a green Rover car that acted in any way unusual or strange. All I know is that it was an older Rover, a 620 probably. One or two witness accounts have mentioned this car being close to the motorcycles at the time that something clearly happened."The victim, who has not been identified, was travelling from the Bulldog Bash motorcycle festival at Long Marston airfield near Stratford-upon-Avon, about 20 miles from the incident.The chief organiser of the festival, Bilbo, said the man was a member of the Hells Angels. He said: "I did know him, he was 33-years-old and was a Hells Angel ... you couldn't wish to meet a better person."Bilbo, 56, who has been member of the Wessex Hells Angels chapter for 30 years, refused to speculate on whether the man had been murdered by a rival biker gang."I have no idea why this would happen," he said. "It's deeply shocking. This year was a massive event and it all went off virtually trouble free. We had one mobile phone lost and that was returned."The four-day festival which ended yesterday featured drag racing, a custom bike show and rock acts including Status Quo and The Damned. It attracted almost 30,000 people, from mainstream motorcycle clubs to smaller clubs from many countries, Bilbo said.Six years ago three bikers from France and Canada were shot at on the M40 as they returned from the festival, and one of them required hospital treatment for leg wounds. Police at the time described it as an "indiscriminate" attack.