Last week I wrote about intrusions into the McCanns' private lives - not just by old media, but by bloggers and people who post comments on the web. As usual, my column appeared on Comment is free (Cif) and readers were able to post comments. The same day another piece on Cif discussed the relationship between the media and the police in the McCann case and in other criminal investigations - but it was closed for comment.A short note explained that this was for "legal reasons". Some readers felt this was not so much an explanation as a lofty way of saying either "we're not going to tell you why" or "it's too complicated for you to understand".A similar note appeared on another discussion thread, which was closed prematurely the previous week. A reader who contacted me about it assumed, rightly, that it had something to do with the McCann case. "I have no reason for doubting that the editor may have been justified," he said, "but I think it would be fair if that justification were explained to Guardian readers." I talked to Cif's editors and moderators about the issue.At least 20 pieces involving the McCanns have appeared on Cif since Madeleine McCann went missing in May. Not all were blogs commissioned by Cif, some were comment pieces published in the paper and automatically transported to Cif. Hundreds of comments were posted to a few articles in September, after the Portuguese police named the McCanns as formal suspects, with headache-inducing consequences for the moderators. Discussion threads on four pieces were closed, or closed early. The Guardian's talk policy does not allow defamatory postings and the problem was that many of the deleted comments were no more than strong opinions weakly held - they had no basis in fact.The moderators are not lawyers, or fact-checkers. They cannot give reasons to every user whose comments are deleted, though they try to do so when time permits. To put their task in perspective, on one Friday in September, more than 3,800 comments were posted on the Guardian website. The volume means that the moderators' approach to enforcing the talk policy has to be broad brush. The McCann postings stretched the moderating resources too far, the moderators told me. They were concerned about the number of postings they were deleting and they were aware that people were frustrated. All things considered, a decision was made to close threads down. Roughly 1 in 5 of the postings to one piece were deleted and the decision to stop the discussion there was understandable, but I'm not persuaded that it was justified in the other cases.It seems to me that where the subject matter of a piece dictates that the discussion thread will need to be closely moderated then consideration should be given to applying appropriate resources to it as a special case. In all cases, where there is persistent breach of the talk policy some (brief) guidance should be published on the thread and, if ignored, it should be followed by a warning that the discussion may be closed down. The closure of a discussion thread in anticipation of breaches of the talk policy puts the punishment before the crime.There will, of course, be times when people should not expect to be able to comment on articles, for example where a court order has been made, or where the case is active under the UK's contempt laws - but in those cases a note could be posted saying exactly that.Users who post defamatory comments in breach of the talk policy shoulder some of the blame for the practical problems that this causes the site and its moderators. On the one McCann discussion thread where a warning and guidance was posted the situation did not improve and so it was closed down. Some users, the moderators tell me, take Cif's name in vain when their postings are deleted, but they should bear in mind that "comment is free" is less than half the point made by CP Scott in the essay he published in the Manchester Guardian, in 1921, to celebrate the paper's centenary. The full quote is "Comment is free, but facts are sacred".