Tony Blair must be regretting his boast, in an email exchange published in last Sunday's Observer, that he would "harry, hassle and hound" criminals from the country. Instead of chasing them out, it is now clear that the government has been setting them loose, allowing 1,023 foreign prisoners to walk away at the end of their sentences rather than considering them for deportation, as should have been the case. Rarely has the gap between the rhetoric and the reality of government been exposed so swiftly. The home secretary, Charles Clarke - who himself said on Monday that "ordinary people also have the right to be protected" - wrapped himself in sackcloth and ashes yesterday in a bid to hang on to his job and to contain as best he could the great harm that has been done to Labour's reputation as a guardian of law and order. But his brief statement to MPs only served to magnify the gravity of the error. Calls for resignations are routine in politics, and they duly came yesterday from both opposition parties. But the hunt for a ministerial scalp will continue until Mr Clarke can demonstrate convincingly that his role in the affair was to overcome the Home Office's inept performance, rather than prolong it.That is still not certain and though Mr Clarke made a robust case yesterday, some Labour MPs sounded unconvinced. Mr Clarke did not help himself by claiming, as the news broke, that "very few" prisoners had slipped through the net since action was supposedly taken last July. The figure, he admitted later, was 288, a quarter of the total and an acceleration on the previous rate. The stable door has now been shut, but horses bolted even as the home secretary lumbered towards it. That left the prime minister looking unhappy yesterday. To Mr Clarke's credit he has stepped forward to take criticism, rather than ducking it, as the Treasury has from the tax credits fiasco, although after such a sudden admission of departmental maladministration he could hardly escape a mauling. But the "systemic failure" both he and the prime minister blamed yesterday was evasive. Mr Blair made it sound like an unfortunate fungal disease that had infected the Home Office's roots from outside, rather than what it was, which was self-inflicted incompetence.For all ministers, not just Mr Clarke, this episode should be taken as a painful lesson in the difficult and ineffectual nature of much government activity. Since 1997 Labour's language has often cantered well ahead of what is actually being done and in no area is this more true than the sprawling Home Office and its unhappy sections, including prisons and immigration, which might be better off in different departments. It is true that for any government, coping with a rising prison population and a rising proportion of foreign prisoners would be difficult. Michael Howard, who had the chutzpah to tackle Mr Clarke in the Commons yesterday, ought to know that. But for this government in particular, doing something new and eye-catching has an attraction that sound administration does not, with the consequence that Mr Clarke's department is boasting this spring about three huge new pieces of legislation, on terror, identity cards and immigration, while failing to implement existing laws in anything like a competent manner. The Home Office cannot even publish an acceptable set of financial accounts.That is why the shambles over foreign prisoner releases fits a pattern administrative failure, rather than stands out as a sad exception to general success. The issue is not really whether a single minister made a single blunder, but whether government is trying to do too much, too fast and with little regard to the consequences. Mr Clarke should keep his job, but he should devote himself to making his rambling and disconnected department deliver on existing duties, not rushing before parliament and the media to make new promises.