A 17-year-old was today cleared of the murder of Damilola Taylor after a judge threw out the evidence of the prosecution's main witness.Old Bailey judge Justice Hooper directed the jury to find the boy not guilty of murder and other charges on his direction.The case against him relied on identification evidence from a 14-year-old girl who said she had witnessed the killing of 10-year-old Damilola.But the judge ruled that the girl had told "embellished lies" to the police which, along with other factors, would taint her evidence.The judge, after a lengthy ruling, said: "My conclusion is that no reasonable jury, properly directed, can be sure that [the girl's] account of what she saw in Blakes Road is reliable." He also criticised police for offering the girl inducements to say she was there, as they believed she was.But the inducements, including being more guaranteed to receive a £50,000 reward, meant the danger that she was persuaded to "tell untruths is very real" the judge said.The boy, who cannot be identified because of his age, looked relieved after hearing that he would be cleared.Damilola's mother, Gloria Taylor, sat stoney faced with her arms crossed during the hearing.Her 10-year-old son bled to death after being stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle in November 2000. He was attacked on the North Peckham estate in south London, where he lived as he walked home from a computer class.Three teenagers are now on trial for his murder: two brothers aged 16, and a 15-year-old. The defendants deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob.The prosecution alleged that the girl, who was 12 at the time of the attack, had witnessed Damilola's murder. She testified that she had watched the attack while hiding behind a parked car. She came forward to police one month after the murder.Mr Justice Hooper said today: "There is no independent support for her account that she was there and able to see the incident which led to Damilola's death. "The highest it could be put is that she could have been in the vicinity at the time. In some cases, support can come from the fact that a witness described a fact that they would be unaware of if not at the scene. "There is no dispute that the core information she gave to police was in the public domain," he added.The judge said her account of the location of the attack was contradicted by the evidence of the blood trail found at the scene. In addition there was no glass with blood on it found where she claimed the incident occurred. Defence lawyers pointed out that the girl had changed her story several times before the case came to trial. They produced evidence that she and her mother had run up a £4,100 hotel bill in advance of the trial, and that police had bought her clothes, mobile phones and paid for hundreds of pounds of calls to her friends. Police admitted to the hotel bills and to buying the girl clothes and giving her two mobile phones, but denied this was meant to entice the girl into giving evidence at trial. Defence lawyers also claimed the police had instructed the girl on what to say, a point both the girl and the police denied.Throughout the trial, the girl stuck to her claim that she had witnessed he murder."I make no bones about it - you weren't there [at the scene], were you?" asked Ann Mallalieu QC for the defence during cross examination. "I was there," the girl replied.The trial continues.