It required six months hard graft, meticulous attention to detail and the scraping away of tonnes of earth and concrete to carve the tunnel found burrowed into a Manchester shopping centre.Yet the gang behind what should have been one of the most audacious heists Manchester police have witnessed ultimately escaped with little more than the cost of a secondhand car.Announcing an investigation into what detectives are adamant is a local criminal outfit, police yesterday revealed fresh details into how the "mole gang" spent months digging a 100ft-long passage beneath a video shop where a cash machine was located. However, the Hollywood-style heist yielded just £6,000 in a city where a luxury apartment can cost £1,000 a month.A police spokesman said the gang escaped with around the same amount he had recently paid for a secondhand car – £5,500. He dismissed their haul as "pocket-change".It was plausible, he said, that the gang may have even lost money on the operation given the amount of "time, effort and equipment hire" involved.Police said the theft at a Blockbuster store in the Fallowfield shopping precinct in Levenshulme, occurred between 5.30pm on 2 January, a bank holiday, and the following morning. The 4ft-high tunnel was supported with scaffolding and wired up to the local electricity grid for lighting. An entrance cut into a nearby railway embankment led beneath a car park to the shopping precinct. Police, however, said they have yet to discover how the gang disposed of the tonnes of earth.The robbery has echoes of criminal ventures in films such as The Bank Job, the 2008 release in which a gang digs a tunnel beneath a fast food restaurant to reach an underground vault. In south Manchester's real-life version, the gang appear to have used heavy drilling equipment to reach the cash machine. It is also believed they bored tiny holes into the floor of the video store through which they poked telescopic cameras to check their progress.A source at the shopping precinct said yesterday: "There was just over £6,000 in the machine. It was only when security came to fill the machine back up that they discovered the hole."Police admit they are baffled at the target given the obvious expertise and determination possessed by the criminals. Even when fully stocked, the cash machine can only hold £20,000.The discovery comes four years after a similar tunnel was discovered just several feet from the latest passage by workmen laying cables. Builders were astonished to find a 40ft tunnel from the railway embankment towards the Blockbuster store. The original tunnel was filled in with concrete to prevent it being used again. Police sources confirmed they are examining the likelihood that both were dug by the same people. "It's entirely possible given the MO [modus operandi] although it may have been copycats," said a police source.Although the investigation is in its early stages, detectives are adamant that those responsible are local, given the nature of the crime. The source added: "Given the amount of effort and skill invested, they could have got a lot more than this paltry amount of cash if they had selected a different target."Detective sergeant Ian Shore, from Longsight CID, south Manchester, said: "In all my years of service, I have never seen anything quite as elaborate as this.These people obviously spent a long time plotting this crime and I doubt they would have been able to keep their plans secret for all that time. The financial detriment to the victim could have been a lot worse.''Manchester police hope to allow the media into the tunnel on Monday.