Once again each side, the press and the Government, has executed familiar steps in a ritual dance. Both have acted just as we have come to expect in response to the leaking of the official report into the murder of Stephen Lawrence.The Government's initial act was to obtain a court order to prevent the Sunday Telegraph from continuing to publish the material which appeared in its first edition.One was reminded of stable doors being bolted after the horse had fled. That cliché was only the first of many as those fierce rivals for the public affection, editors and ministers, began to read an age-old script. Papers rallied the people with cries of press freedom and the public's right to know. Ministers maintained it was they who have the people's genuine interests at heart by constraining the press and upholding the right to confidentiality in the wider public interest.While editors prepared thundering leading articles in defence of their trade and Whitehall started a hunt for the mole who gave the information, Westminster gave in to the inevitable. In a climbdown sure to be regarded as ignominious, the Saturday night injunction was revoked by yesterday afternoon, allowing papers to publish all that had been in the original Sunday Telegraph report.How many times have we been in this situation? In such circumstances it would be easy to mount an argument firmly in support of the press but I will leave that to the leader writers. They have done it before so it won't tax them.If the injunction had not been lifted they would have argued that Scotland would have known what England and Wales could not, due to its having a separate jurisdiction. Similarly, they would have told how the Internet was already humming with the news. They would have said how ludicrous it was that readers of the Sunday Telegraph's first edition, the Observer's second edition and viewers of ITN's evening news bulletins would already know the story.Indeed, people from every nation knew the news before most Britons. Yes, this does echo the Spycatcher affair and a case very close to Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, when restrictions were placed on the naming of his son for being involved in a minor drugs scandal and eventually lifted.In all three instances it is perfectly reasonable to argue that once the stories were in the public domain it was a waste of time to try to gag papers. It is equally understandable that editors have lined up to support the Telegraph by asserting that the paper was merely doing its job.I have little doubt that members of this government will be characterised as control freaks and censors, though it sticks in the throat to hear Tory politicians, such as Sir Norman Fowler, leading the charge. As chairman of a regional newspaper company he has an axe to grind.But what kind of press have we got here? Why is it so important to read about a report three days before it will be published anyway? Is there a case, if not for defending the Government's action, at least for understanding why it occurred?The central problem revolves around the nature of national newspapers in Britain. These are commercial enterprises fighting a non-stop circulation war. Though all of them like to maintain that they also exist as public service vehicles, that is a fiction. Most, with the honourable exception of the Guardian, owned by the Scott Trust, exist to make money. News is a commodity. Scoops and leaks are the highest-prized commodity of all.We also need to remind ourselves that papers are not politically neutral. Even those that claim to be as tough on Labour as they are on the Tories denigrate Parliament itself. They seek to bring all governments, all cabinets, all politicians into disrepute. They are negative, critical and, under the guise of acting as guardians of the public, they ridicule every public institution.Newspapers have an agenda. They are not objective observers, helping to make politicians more accountable. In recent times they have even come to view themselves as political players, as the self-selected opposition to representative government. This has nothing to do with making government more accountable but with exciting the public in order to boost sales.We must be careful when comparing the press in Britain and the United States. True, the US has a written constitution which guarantees freedom of speech. But American papers are different too. They retain a public service ethic. Most of them are free from competition. They don't have to be first with the news, scooping rivals to attract readers, which is a peculiarly British disease.There is no reason why we need to know what is in the Lawrence report now rather than on Wednesday. This is heresy: a journalist attacking a paper's scoop. But there are scoops and scoops. To discover what is being concealed from us because of a possible harm is a genuine scoop. To tell us what we will soon hear as a matter of course is not. No one who believes in freedom likes to see the state attempting to muzzle newspapers. But anyone who understands the ethos of our papers nowadays knows they do not merit the kind of support they think they deserve.