Tony Blair conceded today that Iraqi weapons of mass destruction "may never be found" but claimed that they could have been "hidden, removed or destroyed".Appearing before the Commons liaison committee of senior MPs, the prime minister said: "I was very, very confident the Iraq Survey Group would find them - I have to accept we haven't found them and we may not find them."But - a week before the Butler inquiry into intelligence failures over Iraq reports back - Mr Blair warned against going to the "other extreme" and believing that Saddam never held WMD; they could have been "hidden, removed or destroyed", he added.Mr Blair's biannual grilling by the panel, consisting of the chairs of Commons select committees, lasted two and a half hours and covered topics ranging from Iraq to his plans for the public services.Asked by Tory MP Sir George Younger if it had been a mistake to put so much emphasis on Iraqi WMD and not regime change, he replied: "Just because we haven't found stockpiles of WMD doesn't mean he was not a threat." "I genuinely believed those stockpiles were there," he insisted. "He [Saddam] was a threat in WMD terms."In an unexpected hint ahead of next Monday's comprehensive spending review by the chancellor, Mr Blair let slip that, contrary to some leaks, defence would not be one of the departments facing cuts.Asked by the Tory MP Robert Key where cuts may fall, Mr Blair surprised MPs by saying: "I don't think we'll be cutting defence spending at all."Many reports had speculated that Geoff Hoon would be forced to find 1% of cuts.Foreign affairs  Mr Blair also revealed that one of the constraints on returning the remaining four UK detainees in Guantánamo Bay was a proper "security infrastructure" in Britain - implying that there were unresolved intelligence concerns about the men.Quizzed by MPs, he confirmed that he had personally discussed the case of the four detainees with the US president, George Bush, "a few weeks ago". Although he was careful not to comment on individual cases, Mr Blair told the committee: "I am not yet satisfied that we have the necessary machinery in place but we are working on that. "We all know that we are faced with a significant terrorism threat. These people were picked up in circumstances where we believe at the very least there are issues that need to be resolved, let us say, in respect of those individuals. "I just have to be careful in terms of the security of this country."Although he was pressed by several MPs - both Labour and Tory - to list the achievement of his "special relationship" with the US, he rejected that Britain was merely "thrown scraps" by Mr Bush.Showing some real anger, he said: "And if you really want to know I think most countries round the world would give their eye teeth to have that relationship. "And it is a shame that here it is seen somehow as a sign of mockery that we have the closeness of that relationship." In one of today's most difficult questions, Tory Sir George Young reminded Mr Blair that he had told the Labour party conference two years ago that "another Rwanda" would not be allowed to happen - and contrasted those words with the current situation in Darfur, Sudan.The prime minister agreed it was a "very serious situation" - but that no country had done more for Africa than Britain.Anti-social behaviour The prime minister also promised to bring in more legislation to crack down on yobs, if anti-social behaviour continues to make people's lives "hell".He said: "I am very willing to go back and legislate again on this anti-social behaviour, if there are problems with the way the law is being used because it is a big, big issue for people."Burnley Labour MP, Peter Pike, complained about gangs hanging around the streets terrorising people, while Tory MP Sir Nicholas Winterton said that residents in his Macclesfield constituency were having "their lives made hell" by small gangs of yobs.Labour's John Denham, however, queried whether tough policing, and the emphasis on fighting terrorism, had led the police to downgrade community cohesion.Mr Blair responded by insisting that communities back "tough policing" against drug-dealers, vandals and yobs. He added that most people were in favour of "some pretty hard stuff" to deal with the problems. "For a lot of these local communities, they want pretty tough policing," he said. "They do want their community cohesion, but they want tough policing as well. "Provided they think the tough policing is fair on the basis to whom it is applied - in other words it is applied whatever the colour of your skin or your religion - then actually they are up for some pretty hard stuff in dealing with drug-dealers, in dealing with people who cause dissent and difficulty within their community." Public services The prime minister also insisted that the expansion of "choice" in public services would not mean a "free-for-all" in schools and hospitals. He told the committee that giving parents and patients real choice in health and education meant building up capacity. With both Labour and the Conservatives putting forward rival policies for expanding choice in public services, Mr Blair said that while it was an "important lever" for driving up standards it was not the "be-all and end-all". "Choice is meaningless unless the capacity is there, unless you are providing, for example, the good schools," he said. "You have got to combine choice with expanding capacity and raising standards." But both Tony Wright and Alan Williams - Labour MPs - said they did not understand how the concept of choice would work.Mr Williams said: "Of course, what everyone wants is the good school and the good hospital on their door step. The question is that given that we live in an imperfect world, and they don't always have it, are they then just stuck with a failing or poor service on their doorstep or can they exercise the choice to go elsewhere?" Mr Blair said it was "highly inequitable" if people did not have the right to exercise choice over which schools or hospitals they used.His comments come as a BBC-commissioned poll found that the public were enthusiastic about having more choice in education and health provision but had mixed views about the involvement of private companies in the public sector.Some 79% of those questioned wanted to be treated as customers in education and health services, while 74% said choice would make the health service better and almost 60% saying it would make education better. Some 70% overall - and 68% of Tory voters - were opposed to the idea of the state subsidising people who opt to go private to purchase health care. And 37% said they did not think that private companies should be involved in any way in providing public services.