A rift appeared last night between Britain's most senior police officers and the home secretary after chief constables told David Blunkett that the first national policing plan may be doomed to failure within hours of its publication.The criticism provoked a robust response from the Home Office. "The police have had 25% more funding since 2000 and record police numbers and so we and the public are entitled to ask for better performance in return," said a Whitehall source. The row comes just before today's publication of the criminal justice bill, designed to halt the fall in detection and conviction rates. It became clear last night that the new system of fixed penalty fines to tackle anti-social behaviour is to be extended to teenagers as well as adults. A row with the police now will be regarded as an unwelcome aggravation by Mr Blunkett. But the decision by chief constables to flex their muscles reflects deep suspicions on both sides. The national police plan, outlined yesterday, asks chief constables to put tackling drug-related crime, car crime, burglary, street crime and anti-social behaviour at the top of their priorities when they draw up their local policing plans. Chris Fox, the chief constable of Northamptonshire, on behalf of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said that while they supported the concept of a national policing plan they were doubtful it could be delivered. "Whilst the document may be useful in describing the police service we would like to see, as a plan it may be a plan to fail."In what, for chief constables, is scathing language, Mr Fox claimed that the 50 "actions and priorities" to be included in each force's plan left little room for local flexibility. When it referred to local concerns, they were not those of the public but of the Home Office. The chief constables said they were supposed to be cutting bureaucracy, yet each force would be asked to produce six local plans, each with a plethora of targets. The criticism surprised Mr Blunkett. The plan had been produced after consultation, during which the chief constables did not voice their concerns, ministers claimed. The plan also reduced the total number of indicators that the Home Office was asking the police to meet. Mr Blunkett said yesterday the plan was "a working document, not a wish list", and it was an essential part of wider reforms to cut crime and anti-social behaviour. "Parliament has agreed our police reform agenda and it is now down to police authorities and forces to implement it," he said. Meanwhile, German, French and other European police and customs officers are to be allowed to mount surveillance operations in Britain for the first time and will not need the prior approval of a judge, under a Home Office bill published yesterday. The crime (international cooperation) bill will give foreign police and customs officers the power to track a suspect entering Britain for up to five hours, during which they would be expected to contact British officers to mount a joint operation. The bill will also allow for UK citizens who commit terrorist acts against British embassies and their staff or other British interests anywhere in the world to be brought back to Britain to stand trial. In Europe the legislation will also allow requests to be made to bring back to Britain anybody who commits terrorist attacks against British interests. The bill will also facilitate Britain's access to the Schengen information system database of wanted persons, stolen vehicles, and firearms across Europe from 2004. The information commissioner, the official privacy watchdog, is to be given "unprecedented powers" to monitor and challenge data held on the system on British suspects.