Crucial government funding cuts are "leaving black youths to die", an independent advisor to the Home Office warned today.Dr Derrick Campbell said financial support earmarked for community cohesion was not going to the right organisations. His controversial comments came as police appealed for calm in Birmingham after gang violence caused two deaths in the West Midlands in just 24 hours. All three incidents involved black youths and included the shooting dead of Dimitri Foskin, 24, in the Newtown area of Birmingham on Saturday night. Campbell, who is chairman of the National Independent Advisory Group on Criminal Use of Firearms, told the BBC: "We have clear evidence of organisations which used to be funded and have delivered on outcomes but have suddenly not been supported. "We have to ask the question whether there seems to be an acceptance that if another black youth is killed they are just another one that we don't have to worry about. "Black youths within this country have been left to die. And that's a very strong statement but it's a statement that seems to be borne out through evidence about black youths who seem to be at the top of the list when it comes to our youngsters being killed."Campbell said there was hard evidence from community groups in the Birmingham area that their level of funding was being cut - a situation that he claimed was reflected nationally. He added: "Now we're asking very serious questions of national government and local government as to why it seems that resources that have been allocated for community cohesion and other activities have not been going to those organisations." A Home Office spokesman told the BBC: "The government is committed to tackling gun, gang and knife crime and getting weapons off our streets. "In July we launched the £100m youth crime action plan which sets out a comprehensive package of tough enforcement and intensive prevention measures as well as more support for parents to tackle offending and reduce reoffending."