The best friend of murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence was today remanded in custody charged with the attempted rape of an 18-year-old girl.Duwayne Brooks, 24, appeared before Greenwich Magistrates Court in south east London charged with attempted rape and indecently assaulting a teenager in his bedroom at a hostel in Peckham on Saturday, September 4. Brooks who stood in the dock wearing a crumpled white shirt, a black and white tie and dark trousers, did not speak during the 15 minute hearing. The background to the charge was outlined by prosecutor Michael McCrone. He said that Brooks first met the girl, who is now 18 and whose name was not mentioned, approximately four years ago, through a local church. He said Brooks made several sexual advances towards her, but she did not want to take it any further. But Brooks continued to make advances to her and she said it became "a nuisance", Mr McCrone said. Mr McCrone said the girl was not interested in a sexual relationship with him and she did not see him again after 1996 until they met again by chance earlier this year when Brooks again made advances towards her.  Mr McCrone said that since the incident on September 4 the girl has been so traumatised that she has not left her home except briefly to attend a wedding ceremony. The prosecutor said that Brooks was arrested on Thursday September 16 at the hostel in Peckham where he lives and when interviewed he made no comment throughout. Mr McCrone objected to bail being granted to Brooks on the grounds that he may try to interfere with witnesses, commit further offenses, or fail to surrender to bail, for which he has a previous conviction. Miss Louise Hooker, the duty solicitor acting for Brooks, said that he denies all the charges. She said: "He is a household name because of the Lawrence inquiry." She said he is registered as a protected person but his address was revealed in error and he has since been living in a hostel while police try to find him a new safe address. She said that Brooks has lived in the Lewisham area all his life and the victim is from the Catford area of southeast London. His mother and sister listened intently to proceedings from the public gallery at the back of the court. A bail application made on behalf of Brooks by duty solicitor, Louise Hooker, was refused by stipendiary magistrate Peter Wallis. Brooks was remanded in custody for seven days and is due to reappear before the court on Friday, September 24.