Scots are almost twice as likely to commit homicide or kill themselves as people anywhere else in Britain, a study has found. Research published today blames alcohol and drug consumption for the markedly higher homicide and suicide rate. The study found that there were 500 killings in Scotland over a five-year period and 5,000 suicides over six years, figures that, proportionately, are almost double those for England and Wales. The victims and culprits were mostly young men and the incidents often involved knives.The report comes 24 hours before Scottish ministers are expected to announce plans to raise the age for buying alcohol from shops from 18 to 21. The Scottish government commissioned the study, which was carried out by the University of Manchester. The research team looked at all homicides and suicides in Britain. Homicide rates in Scotland were 2.12 per 100,000, compared with 1.23 per 100,000 in England and Wales. Suicide rates in Scotland equated to 18.2 per 100,000 of the population, compared with 10.2 per 100,000 in England and Wales. Rates for homicide and suicide among mental health patients were also proportionately much higher in Scotland than elsewhere.The researchers said that what was remarkable was the role drugs and alcohol had played. "Alcohol and drugs misuse runs through these findings and it appears to be a major contributor to risk in mental health care and broader society," said the research director, Professor Louis Appleby. "The findings suggest that alcohol and drugs lie behind Scotland's high rates of suicide and homicide and the frequency with which they occur as antecedents in our report are striking."Scotland's destructive relationship with alcohol is estimated to cost the country £2.25bn a year in health, social and criminal justice costs. Seven out of 10 of those accused of murder in Scotland had been drunk or on drugs at the time.Tomorrow the Scottish justice minister, Kenny MacAskill, is expected to announce a ban on under-21s buying alcohol at supermarkets and off-licences. They will still be allowed to drink in pubs and bars.