 The bomber Bilal Abdulla Abdulla, now 29, was born in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, where his father was training at Stoke Mandeville hospital on an Iraq government scholarship and his mother working as a pharmacist.His father, Professor Talal Abdulla, later achieved the top marks in the country in his Royal College of Physicians exams. The family returned to Baghdad when Abdulla was five and Abdulla grew up in an affluent suburb of the Iraqi capital. He decided to follow his father into medicine and returned to England in 1999 to try to go on and study medicine in Britain. However, he could not afford the fees and returned to Iraq. In 2004, as the country slid into anarchy, Abdulla graduated from the University of Baghdad medical school, and according to his lecturers it was clear that he became politicised, blaming US-led forces and "Shia militia" for the violence that devastated the country and claimed the life of at least one of his university friends.At the end of 2004 he returned to England to complete his medical training in Cambridge, and it was during this time that he met co-defendants Asha and Ahmed. In Cambridge Abdulla's views hardened. Known for his encyclopedic knowledge of Islam and Arabic, he argued that Shia Muslims were "cancerous" and threatened to kill his Muslim flatmate because he played the guitar and was not pious enough.In May 2006 he visited Iraq for three months, where prosecutors claim he joined a band of insurgent fighters before realising he could be more effective using his cover as a doctor and his British passport to strike in the UK. In court Abdulla denied he had any contact with insurgents, claiming he had gone to Iraq to help his family escape the violence. However, a will written on his laptop included a statement addressed to the Soldiers of the Islamic States of Iraq. The court heard he last looked at the document hours before setting off on his suicide mission to Glasgow airport. Throughout the trial Abdulla, a diabetes specialist, maintained that he was a "healer not a killer" and that the London attacks had been a stunt.  The engineer Kafeel Ahmed Ahmed, 28, died in hospital from severe burns four weeks after a Jeep laden with petrol and gas canisters crashed into the terminal building at Glasgow airport.The engineer was the technical expert in the terror cell and had spent months in India working on a design for the car bombs. Born in Bangalore, Ahmed modelled the devices on those used by insurgent forces in Iraq, but the tests he had carried out in India had used fuel that was more flammable than that found in the UK and, because of a lack of oxygen in the cars and a loose connection, the bombs failed to go off.Between 2001 and 2003 Ahmed obtained a master's degree in aeronautical engineering at Queen's University, Belfast, where he became president of the Islamic society. While there he is reported to have become friends with an Algerian known as Abbas Boutrab, the first al-Qaida operative to be jailed in the province after being convicted at Belfast crown court in 2005 for downloading information to bring down airliners.In May 2004 Ahmed began work on a PhD project at the faculty of science and technology at the Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge, which he never completed. During his time in Cambridge he met Abdulla, who became one of his closest friends. He returned to India in the summer of 2005, then returned to the UK in May last year.Before leaving, he told his family: "I am involved in a large-scale, confidential project. It is about global warming. It involves a lot of travelling. The project has to be started in the UK."He died on August 2 last year after spending five weeks in the Royal Alexandra hospital. A suicide note in the drafts folder of his Google Mail account on 28 June, the day before the London attacks, read: "I have achieved one of the two promises from Allah. Me and some brothers were given the opportunity to hit the devil's place, the core, and this is what we have tried by the help of Allah, and this was a priority." The alleged financier Mohammed Asha Asha, 28, was a Jordanian born in Saudi Arabia. The court heard he was from an "open-minded family" that had moderate religious views. He moved to England in 2005 and during a clinical attachment at Addenbrooke's hospital, Cambridge, he met Abdulla.The court heard he helped Abdulla with his exams and the young doctor returned the favour by letting Asha stay in his flat when he was struggling to make ends meet. The prosecution said that it was during this stay that Asha met Ahmed. During the trial the prosecution alleged Asha had offered finance and ongoing support as the plot took shape. The jury heard evidence of regular phone calls and meetings between the pair. But Asha was not in either London or Glasgow when the attacks took place and he denied any knowledge of Abdulla's plans. Yesterday the jury cleared him of any involvement.Asha received glowing references from colleagues on the neurology ward at the University of North Staffordshire hospital. Before his arrest Asha made two presentations to the Society of British Neurological Surgeons and while in custody he had two pieces of research accepted for publication, including one in the British Medical Journal.