The home secretary, David Blunkett, will attempt to kick-start the second phase of his police reform programme today with pledges to provide a "customer service culture" which gives the public a real say in local policing.Mr Blunkett, speaking at the Police Superintendents' Association conference, will expand on the minimum standards of service that the public can expect from the police and how they can trigger immediate official action on particular persistent problems, such as anti-social behaviour.The superintendents are expected to tell the home secretary that they are going to campaign to put traffic police back on the roads under the slogan "cameras don't care - traffic cops do". He is also expected to face renewed demands for the 43 police forces in England and Wales to move towards a more national structure. But the home secretary is likely to warn that the experience in other areas of public sector, such as the health service, is that structural changes can prove expensive and initially lead to a dip in performance. Home Office ministers are wary of introducing changes in the structure of police forces if it is at the expense of driving up standards of service. The detailed implementation of the second phase of police reform - one of the flagship bills of Tony Blair's public services reform - is to be spelled out in a white paper before legislation this autumn. It is expected to prove more controversial than the the initial package, which included the modernisation of pay and conditions, the establishment of a national police standards unit and the introduction of community support officers. The legislation is likely to see the transfer of power and resources away from the 43 chief constables in their force headquarters down to the superintendents who run each of the 250 local police divisions known as basic command units. Home Office research published last week showed that most of the public want regular newsletters and a local, recognisable beat officer they can talk to. The reform package will include new ways in which the police can become "embedded" in local communities and responsive to their needs. The superintendents' president, Rick Naylor, is expected to defend their call for a national police force, arguing that it does not conflict with delivering different styles of local policing. Sir Michael Bichard's report into the way the Humberside and Cambridgeshire forces handled the Ian Huntley case is widely seen in the police as the most graphic example of the differing ways that two police forces deal with one piece of information. But the superintendents believe it is symptomatic of a wider malaise involving different approaches to issues that demand a national approach. The campaign to bring back traffic police is based on the idea that it is the "forgotten arm of policing" and that all the police do is put up cameras and persecute "innocent" motorists while the number of road deaths fails to fall.