The former wife of Siôn Jenkins began to suspect he was guilty of the murder of their foster daughter, Billie-Jo, following his behaviour at a press conference three days after her death, a court heard yesterday.Billie-Jo, 13, was bludgeoned to death with a metal tent peg on the patio of the family home in Hastings, East Sussex, where she had been painting the doors to earn extra pocket money. The jury at the retrial of Mr Jenkins for the girl's murder heard that, shortly after a police appeal to help find the murderer, Lois Jenkins was lying in bed with him when she began to have doubts about his innocence. She later told police: "Three or four days following the murder and in the middle of the night it began to dawn on me that Siôn was responsible for the murder. It may have been because of the way Siôn handled the press conference." Mr Jenkins, 47, was arrested and charged with the teenager's murder six days later. In Mrs Jenkins's statement to police dated July 2003, which was read to her as she gave evidence at the Old Bailey, she continued: "Following this I had become paranoid about my thoughts and the implications such thoughts could have on the girls and I. I was trying to suppress my fears that he might be guilty." Mrs Jenkins, 43, told police she had discussed the possibility with a friend who had had similar thoughts. But she did not mention her fears to the police at the time. The former social worker, who divorced Mr Jenkins after his conviction for murder in 1998 and emigrated to Tasmania, wept as she gave evidence on the fifth day of the trial by video link from a secret location to protect her privacy. Under cross-examination by Christopher Sallon, for the defence, she said she "became hysterical" after being told by the police about forensic evidence of spatters of blood on his clothing and discrepancies between Mr Jenkins's version of events and the statements of the couple's two daughters, Annie, 12, and Lottie, 10. She told the jury: "I couldn't cope with the information. I went hysterical. I remember lying on the bed banging my fists on the bed. I had to ask the officers to leave. There was so much information I couldn't accommodate it." Earlier, the court heard defence claims that Billie-Jo was being watched and followed and had received crank calls. In one, the teenager claimed a man told her he was watching her and he knew she was alone. She also said she had been flashed at opposite her home. On one occasion, the defence said, somebody tried to prise open the patio doors with a crowbar. On the day of the murder, in February 1997, Billie-Jo borrowed a video camera from Mr Jenkins and filmed herself playing with the family's dog, Buster. Asked whether she had seen the footage, Mrs Jenkins replied that she had not, adding: "I'd like to." Mr Jenkins, from Aberystwyth, denies murder. The case continues.