It was only when he heard the screaming that Selahattin realised something was wrong and rushed to his window. Until then the young student, who shares a house in the heart of London's Turkish community, had thought local kids were messing about with leftover fireworks.'I looked out and saw a man crawling across the pavement on his hands and knees, screaming with pain. His clothes were soaked with blood,' he said. 'I just knew he'd been shot. Then I saw that he was moving towards another man who was lying on the ground, not moving. He'd been shot too. It was like something out of a film. It was terrifying. That was when I called the police.' What Selahattin witnessed last week was the end of a vicious confrontation during which more than 40 Turkish and Kurdish men armed with guns, knives and baseball bats fought a pitched battle in the streets of north London. The fight had started in the Dostlar Social Club on Green Lanes - the centre of London's Turkish, Kurdish and Cypriot community - then spread into the surrounding areas as rival gang members pursued one another, often firing indiscriminately. When it was over, 20 men had been injured, four had gunshot wounds and one man was dead. Forty-three-year-old father of two Alisan Dogan, a cleaner at the Dostlar, died in the early hours of last Sunday from a single knife wound. Last night two police officers kept watch over the Dostlar where a white forensic tent covers the entrance and the pavement outside. Across the road a mobile police station has been set up, next to a board asking for witnesses to come forward. But police already admit that they have come up against a wall of silence and have made little progress during the past week. What is becoming increasingly clear is that the battles on the streets of north London are being orchestrated, funded and controlled by one of the wealthiest and most powerful figures in organised crime in the world - a man who, despite being virtually unknown outside Turkish circles, has become to heroin what Pablo Escobar was to cocaine. Huseyin Baybasin, otherwise known as the heroin emperor, is serving a 20-year sentence in the Netherlands, yet in the streets around Green Lanes, people are terrified of him. 'The police are not going to solve anything,' said one local Kurdish businessman who asked not to be named. 'They come here and set up their things and make a big show of doing something but we all know it is for nothing. The only people who know what went on inside that café are the people who were there and some of them were criminals and drug traffickers. No one is going to come forward with any information because they think the police will treat them as suspects and the criminals will turn against them. When they come to kill you, then it is all over. There is nothing you can do.' This is not the first time violence has erupted in Green Lanes and few locals believe it will be the last. At stake is control of Britain's multi-million pound heroin trade. Ninety per cent of the trade is controlled by Turkish and Kurdish gangs but increasingly they are fighting among themselves or with rivals trying to muscle in on the lucrative business. In the past five years at least 25 murders have been attributed to the activities of the heroin gangs and if this trend continues, they will soon be responsible for more gang-related deaths than any other criminal faction, detectives predict. Compared with last week's street battle, the executions are usually brutally efficient. In May 2001 26-year-old Oguzhan Ozdemir from Enfield, north London, was shot dead. Two months earlier Hasan Mamali, 23, and his friend Sama Mustafa, 26, were gunned down in east London. Mamali was shot in the head as he sat in the back of a car. Mustafa tried to run, but was brought down with a volley of shots. In January, one man was found dead and two others were seriously injured in a shooting at the far end of Green Lanes. All the victims were east European and one theory was that they had crossed Turkish heroin suppliers. Then in the summer, 24 shots were fired in a running battle between rival gangs. Miraculously, no one was injured. The background to the violence is the increasing growth of the drug trade. More than £1 million worth of heroin was recovered earlier this month after a series of raids on cafés up and down Green Lanes. This came after a 42-year-old Turkish-Cypriot was arrested following the recovery of 42 kilos of heroin with a street value of more than £10m from a flat in Enfield. Much of the criminal activity is centred around certain Turkish cafés which are notorious for not selling anything. These bar 'foreigners' from entering and yet, somehow, manage to make enough money to pay the rent. These cafés are centres for illegal gambling. The back rooms are also used for planning and delivery of drug shipments. Once the drugs are brought in through Dover, the loads are split and usually sent to London and Liverpool, another Turkish stronghold. With the properties occupied on a 24-hour basis and their prominent High Street locations making normal surveillance almost impossible, successful police raids on the cafés are few and far between. Tensions in the area have been running high all year. In June, when Turkish football fans halted traffic in Green Lanes to stage an impromptu victory march after their country beat Senegal in the World Cup, it didn't take long for the carnival atmosphere to turn nasty. As the crowd passed a Kurdish-owned grocery store, words were exchanged and then all hell broke loose. Within minutes, members of the rival drug gangs had appeared on the streets armed with tyre irons, cricket bats and staves of wood. They fought viciously and openly until more than 50 police officers in riot gear arrived and battled to keep the warring sides apart. One reason the level of violence is increasing is that the gang members are getting younger and more reckless. The biggest force in Green Lanes is a team known as the Bombers, most of whom are aged between 14 and 18. According to Selahattin, there is no shortage of recruits. 'They give them guns and they pay them to help out with the drug business. I have my studies but for others, they have nothing, they see themselves as having no future. There is no reason for them to resist.' Although police would not confirm the ages of all those involved in the fighting, they admitted that one of the gunshot victims was 16 years old. Sources within the community say the young gunmen are paid up to £200 to oversee a drug delivery, supervise the arrival of illegal immigrants or ensure that protection money is paid. The guns and money are supplied directly by Baybasin's relatives and the members of the Bombers are said to be supremely loyal to him. One theory for the recent battle is that a rival gang attempted to collect protection from the Dostlarcafé and the Bombers went there mob-handed to confront them. Protection is a way of life for businesses operating in and around Green Lanes. Those who attempt to resist are either beaten or find their businesses mysteriously burned to the ground. Although complaints about the protection rackets date back to the early Nineties, police have struggled to infiltrate the gangs responsible because they are close-knit, often only employing family members or long-term friends. Until now the number of murders within the Turkish community has been relatively low. One police source with special Turkish knowledge told The Observer: 'The information we receive says the decision to kill someone is never taken lightly; it is always a calculated tool. A shooting within the Turkish gangs has usually been debated and agreed by senior figures here and abroad.' In the case of last week's battles on Green Lanes and other recent incidents, that figure is almost certainly Huseyin Baybasin. Despite being in prison, his influence is as strong as ever. Detectives from Interpol say his extensive family is ruthlessly maintaining his empire in his absence. A drug smuggler for more than 30 years, 46-year-old Baybasin has amassed a fortune of more than £10 billion. Born in the small Turkish district of Lice, Baybasin's criminal life began with hashish trafficking but he moved into heroin and, after being joined by siblings and other relatives, launched his business internationally. In 1984 he was arrested in London with a large consignment of heroin and sentenced to 12 years imprisonment. After just three years behind bars he was transferred to Turkey and immediately released, prompting allegations of cor ruption at the highest levels of Turkish government. As his empire grew, Baybasin invested heavily. He has a string of business and property interests in Britain including a seaside hotel in Brighton and several foreign exchange bureaus. He also owns dozens of beach resorts, electrical shops and car hire businesses along Turkey's southern coast. Many are used by thousands of British holidaymakers each year. According to Interpol, the Baybasin family has been involved in large-scale heroin smuggling in Britain, Turkey, Germany, Netherlands, Italy and Spain. As well as Huseyin, two of his brothers, Abdullah Baybasin and Sirin Baybasin, were arrested in London. Interpol says crime dossiers have been opened for a further 12 members of the Baybasin family and dozens more associates. Last year Huseyin Baybasin was arrested in the Netherlands as part of a global crackdown on his activities. He faced a life sentence if convicted of charges of conspiracy to murder, kidnapping and drug-smuggling. He pleaded not guilty to all the charges. His defence, however, was not that he did not smuggle drugs - something to which he freely admitted during a newspaper interview before his arrest - but that he was acting on behalf of the Turkish Government. 'I consider myself to be an official, a diplomat, a policeman,' he told the Amsterdam newspaper De Volkskrant. He admitted that his wealth came from heroin, but said he became head one of the world's biggest drugs syndicates only with the full support of Turkish politicians, police officials and the Turkish security service, the MIT. Despite this, he was convicted. Harringay's Chief Superintendent Stephen James said: 'There is Turkish-organised crime in north London based on the heroin trade. It is extremely powerful, based more in Istanbul than London. It is family-controlled and for years it has remained covert. Mainly due to disputes over money, violence has broken out in public. These gangs have created a climate of fear in these areas; there is a wall of fear that we need to break down.' Selahattin would like to leave Harringay but says it is difficult to find suitable accommodation elsewhere. 'Everyone knows this is not the end of it. It is only a matter of time before it happens again. There are always going to be young people willing to go out and do the dirty work. And the people in charge of everything, they just carry on. They are unstoppable.' The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the Record column, Sunday November 24, 2002 Harringay, London, is located in the borough of Haringey, which often gives rise to confusion. Chief Superintendent Stephen James is therefore Haringey's police chief, not Harringay's as we stated.