Police demanded new controls last night to combat soaring levels of gun crime, which senior officers described as 'a cancer' spreading across Britain.The calls for urgent action came as police launched an investigation into the shooting of three men in Berkshire, days after a jeweller was shot dead in Nottingham and hit men sprayed machine-gunfire in a busy street in Hertfordshire. On Tuesday, Marian Bates was shot dead as she tried to protect her daughter from two armed robbers who burst into her Nottinghamshire jewellers'. On Thursday, gangland figure Dave King was shot dead in Hertfordshire in a daylight machine-gun attack. On Friday night there was another shooting in Reading, a week after a crackdown on local drug dealers. Police are investigating reports that the two events may be related. With gun crime doubling since Labour came to power, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes called last night for better controls on guns coming into the UK. 'The message to those who use guns to carry out their crimes must be clear and it must be tough,' he said. 'If someone uses a gun to commit a crime, he should get the toughest possible sentence handed down by the courts.' The Association of Chief Police Officers has previously called for closer links between police and local communities in order to tackle rising gun crime. 'We have a duty to the communities who live in the shadow of gun crime to step up our efforts to root out those who organise and carry out such acts of violence,' said a spokesman. 'The solutions, however, lie beyond the power of law enforcement agencies alone.' A Home Office spokesman said: 'The Government has announced a range of actions to tackle gun crime which, although still low, has seen an unacceptable rise in recent years. The Criminal Justice Bill includes our proposals for a five-year mandatory minimum sentence for illegal possession of a firearm. This is a clear demonstration of our commitment both to deter criminals from using firearms and to ensure that those who do receive appropriately tough sentences.'