We were burgled a few weeks ago, a process that took the burglars about five minutes and has since taken us hours. An endless procession of visitors arrives after your burglary, even if you choose not to ask for counselling. There are people from the burglar alarm provider, who argue that it might not have happened had you only been better equipped with their sensors and their warning lights and the like, all of which they will now be only too pleased to fit for you, at a price. There are people to patch up your windows and later to put in windows of a more robust and burglar-proof persuasion. There are several kinds of policemen and policewomen, some to make notes of the incident, some to check the place for fingerprints and footprints (but our burglars wore gloves and trainers, so not much hope of detection there), and still others, crime prevention officers, to advise on additional burglar-proofing using the latest technologies.All were extremely concerned and courteous and, as far as is reasonably possible, reassuring. Yet as time went on, I began to sense a slightly disturbing tendency they all seemed to have in common. They all seemed, in lesser or greater measure, to use the expression "to be honest with you ..."This expression occurs a great deal in ordinary conversation and, except for the recently burgled, those thus addressed probably scarcely notice. It is really a form of pleasantry or a way of buying time while one thinks of a suitable answer, in the same league as "come to think of it" or "one way and another". What is rather more unsettling is to hear these terms used by people who are selling you something. "To be honest with you ..." they say, or "to be absolutely honest", or even in one case, without any apparent sense of overkill, "to be absolutely and totally honest ..." And once you begin to notice in your state of post-burglar trauma, this curious usage seems to crop up all around you, routinely emitted by greengrocers and estate agents and that nice young man in the off-licence - and even, Dr Rowan Williams might wish me to add, by journalists. You even begin to suspect it must be there for a purpose. It becomes increasingly difficult when it occurs so repeatedly not to start asking awkward questions. If your salesman is now being honest, what was he being before? Presumably, less than honest. If he is being absolutely and totally honest, what kind of honesty has he deployed up to now? Partial honesty? Conditional honesty? These apparent gradations of honesty are a difficult concept. There was a time when honesty was thought of as indivisible -you were either honest or you were not. Apparently not any more. Why does this happen? When so many people with something to sell resort to the sudden promise to be honest, or candid, or frank, or whatever, one is tempted to think they've been taught do so in salesmanship school. They ought to be taught the reverse. The salesman who gives you real confidence is surely the one who, you think (probably wrongly), will tell you the truth at all times. It might even be more reassuring if the salesman were to say in mid-spiel "to depart from the truth just for a moment ..." - thus emphasising the total and absolute truthfulness of everything else he was saying. And yet on the whole they get away with it. Though they've given us every reason to think that their honesty may have lapsed every now and then, that does not necessarily stop us from agreeing that we do need even more anti-burglar devices. Presumably the blanket disbelief that seems nowadays to be applied to every kind of political pronouncement has not yet spread to the broader marketplace. Politicians would not expect to get away with saying "to be absolutely truthful with you ..."; they have their own well-stocked banks of devices that they can deploy to buy time or to fend off a developing attack from John Humphrys. (Notice how often a participant about to be given a bad time on the Today programme will reply to the very first question by saying "Good morning", forcing the interviewer to say "Good morning" back, so the momentum is lost and the interviewer is left looking less than courteous.) They haven't, of course, caught our burglars. They didn't pretend that they would, and we certainly didn't expect them to. But suppose they did: do burglars under questioning, I wonder, sometimes say to the police "to be absolutely honest with you...", or even "to be totally honest and truthful with you, just this once"? To be absolutely honest and totally truthful with you, I haven't the slightest idea.  McElsewhere@aol.com