'How are you today?" asks Sergeant Hudson. "Are you aggressive? I'm not going to take off the cuffs if you're aggressive. It doesn't cost anything to be polite." The man standing before him is 6ft tall and furious. He has been arrested following a road-rage incident. He alleges that another driver called him a "black bastard". She alleges he punched her on the nose and dragged her out of the car unprovoked."She called me a black bastard," says the man. "This is a racial motive. She called me a black bastard. Then she got her friends over - they hit me and they arrested me 'cause I am black." "Please stop sucking your teeth," says Hudson. "It's bad manners." "My teeth are ACHING, my face is ACHING. I am in pain. I am in pain." "What is your postcode please? And do you pronounce the 'g' in your surname?" "No." "Now, isn't it better when we talk calmly?" "Yes, sir." "Don't call me sir. Anyone can be a sir. Call me sergeant." "Yes, sergeant." "Are you calm?" "Yes." "You're a bit mercurial, aren't you." "What are you calling me?" "Mercurial. Up and down. Like a thermometer." "I'm not a thermometer! I'm a human being like you are!" "Do you want a drug referral?" "I don't take drugs! I am a Muslim! I don't take drugs! I don't eat pork!" "OK, don't get out of your pram. As for your accusation of institutional racism, I refute that." "How come I was the only one arrested?" "We treat black people just like we treat everybody else." He takes off the man's handcuffs. "Do you read and write English?" "Yes," says the man, igniting again. "Why would I not? Am I not speaking the same language as you?" "I can speak a bit of German, but I can't read or write it. There's a difference." "My girlfriend is a lawyer. I'm afraid of nothing. Nothing!" "Stop raising your voice, please." "Sorry, sergeant. You are all racists! I pay for you! I work hard, I pay for you! Sorry, sergeant. I'm going to take this to court myself." They remove him for a body search. "I don't have NOTHING on me. You can check my bollocks if you like." "We'd rather not," says the sergeant. "Officer? Cell number seven is beckoning." At the back of Kentish Town police station are 11 cells and two juvenile detention rooms. Prisoners are held here for up to 36 hours. Since something as simple as arresting a shoplifter can take six hours to process (including one hour in the queue to book them in), officers spend a lot of time here, too. There is dirty light from a single window; a wooden bench; a height chart, a panic strip and a poster illustrating how to restrain a prisoner without asphyxiating him. "Remember your training," it reads. "Prone restraint will need to be justified." Besides the road-rage suspect, there are three people in custody today. Two were caught stealing buns from a hotel's buffet breakfast (they weren't staying at the hotel) and the other is an alleged housebreaker. The bun-stealers are subdued and say they "can't be arsed" to come to the phone when their solicitor rings. "There's no audience for them to perform to," says Hudson cheerfully. He is a veteran cop with a grey moustache and the girth of a bull seal. "They're just a little voice in space." The duty jailer is a young officer seconded to the job for three months. PC O'Shea escorts prisoners to and from cells. He is affectionately mocked by colleagues for reading the Guardian and holding progressive views on the licensing laws. "Camden has always been an arty-farty neighbourhood," says Hudson, indicating his colleague. "I suppose they call them the chattering classes. Kentish Town is more solidly working class. We have famous people living in the borough: Joan Bakewell; that Oasis fella - Liam is it? And Harry Enfield. There's houses up by Regent's Park you couldn't afford to lease even if you won the double rollover." At lunchtime, a teenage boy is brought in by two plain-clothes officers and charged with causing damage to property. Hudson reads him his rights and gives him a date to attend Camden youth court. "I'll go if I can be bothered," says the boy. "You'll go unless you want to come back and see me," says Hudson. The boy picks up a broken stapler on the sergeant's desk. "I can fix it if you like," he says. "I know where the spring goes." "Flash little git," says Hudson after the boy has gone. "You'll get some clever-bugger solicitor advising him not to comment and of course you can't let him off on a caution if he denies it, so a kid with no previous convictions goes to court because a solicitor is trying to be clever."  4pm Two policemen seek me out and ask to speak anonymously about the culture of despair in which they say they work. "Everyone's keeping their heads down and trying to get to the end of their 30 years," says one urgently. "There's no way my son is going to be a police officer. It would kill me. It's shit money for shit work. We deal with the people that the rest of society wishes didn't exist." "There's a culture of portfolio-building," whispers his colleague. "In order to get promotion, you must be seen to have changed things. So the people upstairs make bullshit changes for the sake of it and we're the ones who suffer. You risk losing your job every time you come into work. You hear the word race and you think, 'shit'. People are demoralised, pissed off and burnt out." "I have a black colleague," says his friend. "After the Macpherson report I'm looking at him thinking, 'Does he think I'm racist?' " Later, one of their colleagues comes over and says: "Ignore Tweedledum and Tweedledee. They're always bloody moaning."   6pm An almighty row is emanating from cell seven. The road-rage suspect has used his belt buckle to smash up the ceramic toilet bowl in his cell. "That old thing, the race card," says Hudson, shaking his head. "It mitigates all evils." He settles down to fill in the paperwork. "Once everyone has calmed down, we'll get to the truth." The arresting officer exhales. "I don't know if we'll ever get to the truth," he says wistfully.   7pm Through the hatch, the road-rage suspect yells that he's going to take the Metropolitan police to court for wrongful imprisonment. "We don't have the wisdom of Solomon," says Hudson. "We have to make a call in the heat of the moment. The lawyers can sit there and ponder, but you're faced with a violent situation and you have to decide what's going on. It may be that we end up arresting the other driver. If we are wrong, all we can do is put up our hands and say sorry. But people always think it's a conspiracy when we get it wrong."   7.30pm One of the bun-stealers is brought out for questioning. She is four months pregnant and replies to everything with a roll of her eyes. Records show that she has failed to turn up for several previous court dates. Hudson decides to keep her in overnight. "Do you have anyone to bring you in extra goodies?" he asks. She shakes her head sadly.   8.50pm "I use Nivea facial for men," confides Hudson. "It's got vitamin E in it." The solicitor for the road-rage suspect runs in carrying an overstuffed leather briefcase. Hudson eyes him suspiciously and, when the lawyer is out of earshot, says: "Solicitors really get up my nose. We had one here the other night, a young lady. I said to her, 'You're here late,' and she said, 'Oh, I don't mind. I'm earning £40 an hour.' 'You're lucky,' I said. She said, 'I'm a graduate,' smug as anything. They speak to us as if we're halfwits. But one-third of police officers are graduates." When the solicitor returns, Hudson says testily: "If your client destroys any more police property, I'm going to charge him." Hudson turns his back and the solicitor rolls his eyes. "Old school," he says. "People like him make life as difficult as possible for us." The solicitor, the suspect and the arresting officer go into an interview room. "Not one independent witness supports your statement," says the officer. "You did not have grounds to arrest me," says the suspect. "It's because I was a black man and everyone else was white." "What made you push her?" "She was saying abusive words. You're not listening to me." "You seemed annoyed that she wanted to reverse park." "What? So I was in the sin?"   11.06pm The man is charged with common assault and released pending a bail hearing. "What a nice, friendly chap he was," says Hudson. They are going to "refer him" - that is, let the superintendent decide if the case is worth pursuing. The man has a couple of previous cautions, but none for violence. "It feels like a bit of a cop-out - all that work then a caution," says the arresting officer dejectedly. "That's what the CPS [crown prosecution service] will want," says Hudson. "Anything to avoid going to court."   Midnight Hudson has been relieved. A new team clocks on. One of them is rooting about in the fridge, searching for a lost DNA sample. Over the next six hours a man will come in after stabbing his best friend with a kitchen knife, a heroin addict will be held for credit-card fraud at a supermarket, and a 24-hour plumber will fix the toilet bowl. "Don't touch the gate on cell one," warns the night sergeant before handing around some rubber gloves. A teenage girl, brought in for calling a kebab-shop owner a "Turkish bastard", has been maliciously dribbling saliva through the hatch.