A couple funded a luxury lifestyle of champagne and top-class hotels by siphoning off up to £650,000 from a Citizens Advice Bureau office, a jury was told yesterday. Dale Foster, 64, and wife Sally, 49, of Swansea, south Wales, jointly ran the charity's office in the town of Ammanford and paid for their lifestyle by "systematically plundering" the bureau's bank accounts. A snapshot of the couple's spending from mid-October 2003 to mid-January 2004, amounting to £56,000, was set out for the jury at Swansea crown court.Geraint Walters, prosecuting, said the couple made several trips to London to kit themselves out for a luxury skiing trip, staying at the Ritz hotel with several stopovers at the Hotel Carnaby Tower. Their skiing holiday at Canada's luxury Whistler resort cost £17,000. The couple shopped at designer sports outlets, Harrods, and Harvey Nichols as they prepared for the break, Walters said. More than £2,000 was spent on champagne and fine wine, £8,000 on designer furniture and £1,300 on designer vinyl wallpaper for their home. At the time the couple were among the few salaried staff at the CAB branch, which was largely run by volunteers. Police traced credit card transactions from the couple's accounts totalling £40,000 alone, without the skiing holiday, over the three-month period. "Just imagine spending £40,000 by using your credit card during a period of 12 weeks when your only source of income is your legitimate employment at the CAB," said Walters. "We say that that kind of snapshot of expenditure shows that these defendants clearly knew that the lifestyle was being funded by dishonesty." The couple deny 11 counts of theft and five of false accounting over five years up to Easter 2006, when the scam came to light after the couple suddenly quit work, allegedly because they knew the con was unwinding. Walters said that the Ammanford bureau had clinched the contract to run a Wales-wide CAB call centre from 2002 onwards. He said it meant the Ammanford office, located in a former terrace house, was "awash with cash". Over four years from 2002 the contract amounted to £1.2m without counting substantial Welsh Assembly, county and community council grants. Mrs Foster was the manager and her husband worked in an administrative role. He was originally taken on at £9,000 a year in 1997. When the couple quit, by posting the office keys through a volunteer's workplace letterbox, it was found they had overpaid themselves to the tune of £150,000 over five years, the jury was told. They had also claimed £76,000 in expenses over the period, fitted their home with a £3,500 alarm system and bought a 42in plasma TV for £4,000, all from bureau funds. Walters said the couple siphoned off cash into two secret accounts at the town's NatWest bank. The couple are also accused of setting up a bogus company as a way of creating a legitimate paper trail for the purposes of bookkeeping. When police eventually searched the couple's home, they discovered the plasma TV above the mantelpiece. The home was for sale and they moved to France. Walters said: "The evidence will show that these two defendants are unspeakably brazen individuals. They took for fools for years those volunteers giving up their time." The trial continues.