Anyone familiar with daytime TV relationship gurus such as Jerry Springer and Jeremy Kyle will have seen polygraphs in action. The accused husband/girlfriend/mother is hooked up to a lie detector as they face a barrage of questions. The machine monitors something known as skin conductance, basically the moisture level of the skin, which usually changes when someone is telling fibs. If this happens the show can then brand them a liar, a cheat and a scoundrel and offer various forms of counselling to their weeping loved one.But polygraph tests can be manipulated by the subject (see various guides on how to cheat a polygraph) and their validity and reliability have been challenged for decades.Surely, with the huge advances we've seen in neuroscience and brain imaging in recent years, there must be a more reliable way to detect deception? Yesterday The Royal Society published the first in a series of essays from the Brain Waves project, and some of them address just this question.Research looking at changes and patterns in brain activity has identified areas of the brain, known as the prefrontal cortices, that seem to play a part in preventing someone telling the truth, while also helping them to generate a false response. Monitoring such changes has proved successful on a case-by-case basis, but it could still fall foul of the same tricks used to manipulate a polygraph test.Because lying involves a conscious decision, another approach is to rely on unconscious knowledge or recognition of an event. The principle of the guilty knowledge test (GKT) is explained by Professor Geraint Rees in his report, "Contemporary neuroscience and technology": "The so-called guilty knowledge test utilises a series of multiple-choice questions, each having one relevant alternative (eg. some aspects of a crime under investigation) and several neutral alternatives, all chosen to be indistinguishable by an innocent participant. If the subject's physiological (or brain imaging) responses to the relevant alternative are consistently greater than for the neutral alternatives, then knowledge of the event is inferred."Although this form of GKT has shown some success in proving innocence, there is a question mark over its ability to distinguish between someone who knows something about the crime but is innocent and the person who actually committed the crime.The process of evaluating the reliability, sensitivity and suitability of any of these methods has serious limitations. The test subjects are often young, healthy adults who are asked to simulate deception. How the brain responses of such people differ from those of people who have actually been convicted of a crime – who include older people and those with mental illnesses – hasn't been established. As Rees writes, "It is not clear whether such simulated deception corresponds in any way to deception carried out in the real world."These neuroimaging technologies aren't being used by police in the UK yet, and have little support from neuroscientists, but Professor Steven Rose writes of their use in Indian and US trials. There are also a number of commercial companies offering the devices for lie detection, like US company No Lie MRI which claims to have "the first and only direct measure of truth verification and lie detection in human history!"Scientists are unconvinced of claims like this. As Rees comments: "It remains uncertain whether such technologies will ever be sufficiently robust to be used in such 'real world' settings."The fourth in the Brain Waves series will focus more on some of these issues, and discuss applications of neuroscience within the law. With high expectations from the justice system and a great deal of public interest, this field is one with an interesting future.