The mother of Anthony Hinchliffe, the five-year-old boy found with ligature-type wounds on his neck, appealed today for anyone with information about the case to contact police."This has been a very distressing time for both myself and my family," Anthony's mother, Terry Brown, said. "One of my main concerns, now that I have [my son] back with me, is for anyone who has any information that can help the police to come forward and get in touch. If you do know anything at all, please call."West Yorkshire police arrested and questioned five children, all aged between 11 and 12, over the suspected murder attempt , which happened in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, on Tuesday evening. A 12-year-old girl remains in custody after being rearrested in connection with the attack on Anthony, who was found wandering dazed and bruised after disappearing from his mother's back garden. The girl had earlier been released by police after magistrates refused to grant a warrant to extend the time they could keep her in custody. Detectives have refused to confirm reports that the five-year-old boy sustained his injuries through being hanged.It is believed he was taken from his mother's back garden and led to a nearby wood, known as Devil's Ditch, where he suffered neck injuries and bruising to his body. Anthony was found in a distraught state by his 22-year-old cousin and a member of the public in a wooded area close to the Earlsheaton medical centre in Dewsbury. The incident happened between 5.30pm and 6pm on Tuesday. Officers said they expected to arrest two or three more people in connection with the investigation, and have appealed for witnesses to come forward. Anthony, who was released from hospital yesterday, had been taken against his will, his cousin told the Yorkshire Post. She said he had been playing in the back garden while his mother washed the dishes when he disappeared, and his family then began to search for him.His cousin said he had been taken to Earlsheaton park by a 12-year-old girl he had been playing with in the garden, and that they then met up with a group of other children. She added that Anthony broke down in tears when she finally found him. "He just burst into tears," she told the Post. "He was shocked and dazed. He was frantic and crying. "I asked him: 'What has happened?' He said: 'Some boys and girls tied a rope around my neck and tried to tie me to a tree'." Detective Superintendent Andy Brennan, the senior investigating officer in the case, said Anthony was not related to any of his attackers. "He has got a number of bruises to his body and has a number of marks around his neck," he said. "Clearly, what we would hope to gain by interviewing him today and this evening would be to establish how he came by those injuries." Asked whether the boy had been hanged, Mr Brennan replied: "He has marks around his neck which could be consistent with ligature marks. However, he has not been interviewed in relation to how he came by them. But clearly there are marks around his neck." Anthony was being interviewed today by specially trained officers who will attempt to piece together exactly what happened. Police said a "number of items" had been recovered from the scene, which backs on to parkland. The boy's father, who lives apart from Ms Brown, said he believed his son had been taken from the garden of his mother's three-bedroom house and led to the scene where he was injured. A neighbour living close to the boy's home said she had seen the youngster looking "in a bad way" on the night of the alleged attack.