Compelling forensic evidence links two brothers to the "cruel and callous" killing of 10 year old Damilola Taylor, an Old Bailey jury was told yesterday at the start of the third trial concerning his death.Danny Preddie, 18, and his brother Ricky, 19, of Peckham, south-east London, are being retried for Damilola's manslaughter after being acquitted of his murder earlier this year. The previous jury could not agree on a manslaughter charge.The pair were aged 12 and 13 when Damilola died in November 2000, after being stabbed in the thigh with a broken beer bottle. He bled to death in a stairwell on the North Peckham Estate.Victor Temple QC, prosecuting, said the evidence had come to light after a re-investigation of the case. He told the jury: "Crucially, detailed forensic evidence concerning blood and fibres was recovered from items of clothing and footwear attributable to these two defendants. The totality of evidence now available points with certainty to the criminal involvement of these two defendants."The brothers deny manslaughter. Mr Temple said that at first four teenagers were charged with Damilola's murder, but there was no forensic evidence - fingerprints, DNA or fibres - linking them to the killing, and they were cleared after an Old Bailey trial. After this, Mr Temple said, the evidence was re-examined and re-assessed. Mr Temple alleged that on November 27 2000, the brothers approached Damilola after he had been to an after-school club. He said: "One of the Preddie brothers had broken and/or had possession of a recently broken beer bottle - a fact that the other brother fully appreciated."The brother holding the broken bottle thrust it into Damilola Taylor's inner left thigh. Both the brothers were streetwise beyond their age, but neither chose to come to his aid, neither called for an ambulance or other assistance, despite it being obvious to anyone that Damilola was in need of immediate medical attention. Instead, both, after a brief pause, walked off and then fled the scene."Damilola was discovered by Bill Casal, who followed a trail of blood up the stairwell in Blakes Road. His last words to Mr Casal had been "I'm OK, I'm OK."The court was told of bloodstains and fibres found during the second investigation and missed during the first inquiry. A trainer taken from Danny Preddie's room was found to have a bloodstain from Damilola; and in it was a fibre indistinguishable from his school trousers."It was missed by the laboratory staff who originally examined the trainer," Mr Temple said. Whether this was due to "technical difficulties or human error" was not a matter for the jury, he said.The trial continues.