Eileen Ward was right about her mother; she had a great deal to say. Of necessity, she said it all at volume, screeching above the pitch of the telly and the roar of her children. At 41, Kathleen Ward's blue eyes are still bright, but the rest of her has worn like her voice, ragged from fighting a losing battle. "Jimmy, will you have manners! I'm speaking! Oh, he's a hyperactive child, that's what he is. Problem child, I call him. You usually get one in the family, but I got seven." Sometimes I would call at lunchtime and the children would say she wasn't up yet. At other times, she was out at her sister's, for the regular phone call to her daughter, Kathleen, or to her husband, Tommy, who was locked up. But most of the time I'd find her in the one downstairs room of their two-bedroom terrace, battling to stay afloat in the bedlam of family life. There were days of relative calm, when the weather was dry and the children played out in the street. But on rainy days, when the room heaved like a storm, the little ones would lunge at her like a life raft, and it looked as if she might drown. "Honest to God, my nerves; I'm ready to crack." Kathleen Ward was born and raised in Manchester, but her family - like her husband - are Irish, and she attributed many of their troubles to anti-Irish racism. "We used to get letters through the letter box: 'Go back to Ireland.' We had the house shot up. Three bullets through the window ... "Douggie, will you sit down! Honest to God, they don't know how to sit down properly ... "I have had fire bombs through my letter box. My windows getting broke." The litany went on - one council officer was "the most racist woman you'll ever meet". Eileen agreed. But then, there was the time Eileen was shot at on her way home from the chip shop; that might have been something else, a mistaken identification. And the boy who had pushed young Tommy off a wall and broken his leg, Eileen's Asbo was entirely down to his grandmother. In the turmoil of dramas, blame was continually reassigned, the only constant being a flame of indignation. "I would never report anything to housing, I'm just not one of them women. And now I'm dragging my kids from pillar to post. A two-bedroom house with seven of us! And they say they won't put my children in school until I get a permanent address. Honest to God, it's ridiculous. You know, the paedophiles, they never get named and shamed. And there's me with seven kids. All they ever done was stick up for themselves. You've got to defend yourself, haven't you?"In Kathleen Ward's mind, the family's troubles all began when her husband was sent to prison. "It was a different life before that, I swear to God. Oh, you know the peace I had. With their dad, it's like magic. I tell you, he is so strict. They are so scared of Tommy, and he doesn't even hit them. His voice is enough for my children." But in 2001 Tommy was sentenced to eight years for armed robbery. "Oh God, my world was taken away from me. An hour's luck in my life I've never had. You know, Tommy was a great father. And he's a good husband. He was never violent. But Tommy used to warn them, if I ever see somebody hitting you, I will kill you if I see you walk away. You've got to hit them back." "We was never bad," Eileen said ruefully. "We was never wild. I was no trouble. But people try to take the piss." Tommy's legendary severity has been canonised since his incarceration, but it used to make Kathleen Ward weep for her children, and in between bursts of praise for her father" Eileen would agree he was too strict. "And he was still strict," she added one afternoon, "even when he were on drugs." I'm not sure whether Kathleen Ward would have mentioned that Tommy was smoking crack at the time of his arrest, but she was reluctant to defend him. "He said, 'I'm sorry, I went through a bad phase', he said he was wrecked out of his head. He said he went on the rock because of what happened to Eileen." She shook her head. "But to me it's an excuse." What did happen to Eileen? "Oh," Kathleen said, she was abused. She was nine. The boy who did it was 16." Eileen added, "It ruined my life." Kathleen Ward keeps her family on £147 social security and £60 child benefit a week. The children eat and sleep when they can, the little ones scaling the kitchen cupboards for bowls of cereal, and wander the streets at will. The council won't re-house the family unless Kathleen signs an agreement to keep her two eldest daughters away, but she refuses; Eileen functions as a surrogate second parent, dispensing sweet money and refereeing the ceaseless uproar. And Eileen needs her mother, for this summer she is having a baby herself. Eileen and her 17-year-old boyfriend do not know how or where they will bring it up, and faced with their unknowable future, the entirety of their lack of planning seems to reassure them. If nothing has been set up, nothing can go wrong. I asked Kathleen on several occasions if she thought anyone had ever had grounds to complain about her family. Every time, her face - usually so distracted - would stiffen, poised for self-defence. "Noise," was the halting reply. "Yeah, sometimes the kids could be very, very noisy. I'll hold up my hands to that. But the lady next door was all right, she never had anything to complain about. She'd shout like, shut up, but you know, all right. She just didn't like the music." One afternoon I passed by their old council house. The neighbour's door opened a crack to show half the face of an elderly, frightened woman. She had lived there 30 years, she said, and known nothing like the Wards. "Throwing stuff over the wall. Banging on the door. Swearing. Police always being called. Noise was terrible. She were all right with me, the mother. But the kids couldn't be told. And he was always beating her up. The woman who moved in after them, she had to move out. The kids were always shouting through the letter box, 'This is our house!'" You might not want to live next door to the Wards. But have the Asbos actually helped? The government has dispensed with legal nicety in favour of "what works", so the question is whether they do. According to Curley, only a third of Manchester's Asbo cases result in prosecution for breach of order. But a lawyer whose firm regularly represents clients facing Asbos in the city told me she could think of only one instance of an Asbo that had not ended in prosecution. Other lawyers I spoke to were less pessimistic, but none thought two-thirds of people with Asbos stayed out of the criminal courts. The disagreement may arise from the fact that many are prosecuted not for breach of their Asbo but for other crimes. You could argue that, because they had obeyed the terms of the Asbo, it had been effective. But if they had gone ahead and broken other laws, you might wonder what the point of the Asbo had been. Moreover, a great number of orders contain prohibitions against offences that are already illegal, and it is up to the courts to decide whether it is worth prosecuting for the breach as well as the offence. If an Asbo is essentially a warning system, as Curley has said, then the only one that can be said to work completely results in prosecution neither for breach nor for any other offence. But what kind of person would receive such a successful Asbo? Probably somebody young, at the humble end of the anti-social spectrum. "This is not about a group of kids playing football or riding bikes," Curley told me. But logically, at its most successful, it would be. At this point, we are talking about using quite draconian legislation against youngsters who have done little wrong. Youngsters, in other words, such as Michael Talbot. The 13-year-old's mother appeals to history in defence of his behaviour. "Playing football and running through gardens" - this is what boys have always done. But is Susan Ashton a reliable witness? One of the neighbours who made statements to the council was Patricia O'Reilly, and she presents a problem for instinctive critics of Asbos. A sensible working-class widow in her 50s, she saw nothing traditional about Michael Talbot's behaviour. "He was the ringleader, and they were terrorising people. It was awful, really, really bad. They were wrecking trees, jumping in privets. They were just bent on damaging. And they think they've a right to do it. That's what I can't stand, me. We didn't go and do damage when we were young, you just wouldn't have done. And to throw mud and stones at old people in their gardens! Terrorising the neighbourhood, picking on elderly people on their own, tearing up plants, running riot through the estate. Of course, we all used to knock on people's doors. We did knock-a-door, but you'd do it one time, you wouldn't go back three, four, five times a night, every night. I mean, that is ridiculous. It would drive you barmy." Patricia O'Reilly wonders what would have happened had Asbos not existed. As it is, "That Michael Talbot stays in now, he don't go out. So the Asbo, it's worked. The estate's lovely and peaceful now. It's wonderful. Personally, I think the younger you get them, the better." Far from being a liberal's worst nightmare, you might say a case like Michael Talbot's is the exemplary face of Asbos. It is certainly an advert for the "younger the better" approach, and evidence that Asbos can work. Peace has been restored to an estate and a young boy steered back from the brink of delinquency. Here was an Asbo successfully restoring the glue of society. But Curley said something disturbing. He did not see his role as merely restoring pre-Thatcherite social values. His job was about reinforcing new ones - and ones with a decidedly Thatcherite flavour. "Yes, we used to bang on doors when we were young," he agreed. "But there used to be badger-baiting once, too. It's different now isn't it? Things are moving on; people want to live differently. It's right that people have high expectations for themselves. It's about respect." Were we being disrespectful by running in gardens when we were children? "Oh, absolutely. People have higher expectations now. We don't want people running in our gardens. It's unacceptable. We have moved on; we want more." This sentiment runs to the core of anti-social debate and may explain the discrepancy between the crystal-clear severity of policy and the haphazard reality of its impact on the families it targets. Modern politics proceeds on the broad assumption that everyone in Britain today is more or less the same. We want the same sort of homes, watch the same TV programmes, share the same values and aspirations. We expect the same privacy in our gardens. To varying degrees, we all belong to the same class. But Susan Ashton does not mind children running through her garden, Zach Tutin does not share Curley's vision of Manchester, and the Wards inhabit another universe altogether. One of Zach's friends, a brash girl in sportswear and big hooped earrings, nearly fainted when she heard me ask our photographer where he lived. "What?!" she gasped. "You'll get in a car with him, and you don't even know where he lives?" These children may be bold, but they are not modern. In today's political discourse, families such as these can be recognised only as problems. But what of their own problems? If we scrutinise the Wards through the lens of a society that has "moved on", we register only the terrible shape of their deviance, never the detail. Curley is correct; their former neighbour, a scared old woman, is not "middle class". But the Wards are becoming the Victorian undeserving poor. So much of these families' narrative is unknowable - the chaos of local feuds, the self-delusion and counter-allegation ("You look in her rubbish bins, you'll not find food, it's all empty cider bottles") - that very few observations can be made with confidence. But one of the few irrefutable claims the parents made was that, unlike their accusers, they were unafraid of children. "How can normal adult people be scared of a young boy?" demanded Susan Ashton. "Why not talk to the kids, get to know them? They aren't horrible! You've just got to be on their wavelength." Anti-social behaviour is often attributed to "a breakdown in family values", but you will seldom meet more ferociously close families than these. "I'd die for my family," said Eileen Ward. "I'd kill for my family. My family's my life. When I see my mum happy, I'm happy. When I see her sad, I'm sad." The difficulties seemed, if anything, to stem from an excessive family bond. Susan Ashton's intensity towards her son both infantilised and aggrandised him; while she raged in his defence, Michael fidgeted in uneasy silence, compromised by her passion which cannot allow him to speak the truth. Zach Tutin's mother was deaf to confession. "Zach call some woman a cripple? No! He'd never dream of it!" "I did," Zach said, quietly. "She was horrible." "These people!" His mother swept his words aside. "They can't let kids be kids, can they?" "And I smashed the windows, yeah." "Every kid smashes windows! He's a boy, isn't he? You know what, they're all dead talented, Zach and his mates. The way they MC and everything." If family loyalty can obscure the truth, at times the very concept of truth is problematic, being infinitely elusive and elastic. The Wards survive on an endless refrain - the house has just been cleaned, is about to be cleaned - in a never-never land of delusion in which their imagined existence can never match their reality. "We're very clean people," Eileen declared, surrounded by unutterable squalor. "Dirt's disgusting." Eileen and her mother argued about her boyfriend one afternoon. Kathleen Ward hasn't trusted him since he beat up her daughter. "What about Dad?" Eileen demanded. "He used to hit you." "Your father never laid a finger on me! Not once!" flamed Kathleen Ward. Eileen knew her father had once been to prison for beating her mother - yet even when her mother said so herself moments later, nobody bothered to correct the discrepancy. Truth and falsehood are not polarised in the Wards' house, they are interchangeable currencies, and no one seems to know or remember which they are using. Arguments are won on velocity of feeling, not veracity. "Have you seen Shameless? On the telly?" two of the children asked. Shameless was a Channel 4 drama about a large working-class family on an east Manchester council estate. "We're just like Shameless," they laughed. The tragedy for the Wards is that they are nothing like Shameless. To achieve social parity with C4's dysfunctional fictional family, the Wards would need to undergo upward mobility on a scale beyond their wildest dreams. But in the eyes of the law, they are shameless. They are defiant, fierce, unforgiving; incapable of remorse or reform. It is an impression their lives depend upon maintaining - but just once, for a brief moment, it cracked. We wanted to photograph the family. Kathleen Ward was mortified. The state of the kids, the state of the house, the state of herself - "The shame!" she panicked. "Oh, the shame." For a long time, it seemed she would not allow it, but the depth of fear was masked in a flurry of laughter and fluster. Then, eventually, she agreed. She looked straight at the camera, and something changed. In her tired face, the horror of naked inadequacy was exposed.· Read part one of When home's a prison here