Where has Louise Casey been for the past 15 years? In a report published yesterday, the government's crime adviser tells us that we face a crisis of confidence in the justice system. The public think the system is remote, opaque and stacked in favour of the offender; they do not believe crime is going down; and 55% of them say it is the most important issue facing Britain. The report urges ministers to make justice more visible, by putting offenders doing community "payback" in uniform, displaying "conviction posters" in neighbourhoods, and appointing a commissioner to press the interests of victims across government. Casey then, with the impatience that has become her trademark, dismisses those who whimper about civil liberties being infringed. "Who," she demands, "is speaking up for the rights of law-abiding decent people?"The answer is that governments have been doing precisely that for some time. Since the mid-90s - a period during which overall crime levels have been falling - our rulers have treated crime not as a social problem, but as the social problem. Government has become a restless source of initiatives, rhetoric, crackdowns, policies, partnerships, laws, tsars, agencies and reports, of which this is but the latest. New Labour has passed more crime legislation since 1997 than was enacted in the previous century. It has created more than 3,000 new criminal offences. It has thrown resources at the police and subjected them to reform after reform. Sentences have become longer, and prison numbers are at record levels. Get-tough hyperactivity has been the order of the day.This has been pursued, very publicly, in the name of the victim and the law-abiding citizen. But to what end? According to Casey, most people cling stubbornly to the view that crime is rising and blame the government. A minority accepts that it is has fallen, but does not give the government credit. New Labour has, it seems, been hoist by its own petard, become the victim of its own expectation-raising and criminal justice system-bashing rhetoric. Yet what is Casey's solution? There are some sensible ideas here, such as removing responsibility for crime statistics from the Home Office. But for the most part government is urged to take another ride on the law and order merry-go-round, to issue a fresh batch of crowd-pleasing measures that can appease its apparently angry and anxious consumers. The chase must go on. The Casey report is, in this respect, hardly paradigm-busting stuff. In fact, it is better understood as a symptom of the malaise that today affects how politicians think about and respond to crime - one that risks making democratic politics one of crime's forgotten victims. How so? And how may we escape from the snares this has created?The report is symptomatic of how government has come to talk up crime in ways that make absolute protection against it seem a reasonable expectation. Public protection, according to this view, is something government can and should pursue as a defining priority and for its own sake, forgetting the obvious but today controversial point that what matters in a liberal democracy is not that we control crime, but the means and temper we bring to the task. It may be no accident that crime came to dominate British politics around the time that governments lost faith in their capacity to deliver other forms of security: we may not be able to save your job or guarantee your pension, but we will protect you from criminals. Crime has, in other words, come to the political fore in tandem with the rise of anti-political sentiment. Security is the ideology of the post-ideological age, absolute safety its utopia. Hence all the frenetic and principle-lite activity.This has coincided with a shift in the meaning of political responsibility. No longer can criminal justice be left to experts who, as they see it, "effectively" and "humanely" manage the crime problem on the public's behalf. Nor is it the task of government to restrain, educate or lead opinion on criminal justice matters. Not any more. Paternalism has been replaced by a political disposition that holds it to be the task of government to elicit the experiences of customers and act accordingly - to be a translator of consumer will. Hence the predominance of populist measures, the care taken to avoid appearing "soft", and advent of a penal system in which a right, but unpopular, course is pursued with trepidation and by stealth. Many of those troubled by these aspects of our political culture will discover in Casey's report ammunition for the view that crime is too important to be left to elected politicians. They will find evidence that progressive and effective penal policy cannot survive a battle with a hostile media and ill-informed public opinion. They will be confirmed in the view that government should treat penal policy as it now does monetary policy - insulated from populist reasoning and electoral pressure and placed in the hands of experts.This is a counsel of despair - one likely to corrode democratic politics further while fuelling discontent among spectators of an expert-led drama. The mistake the Casey report makes is not to think that the criminal justice system must be minimally credible to those in whose name it is conducted. Nor is she wrong to want to find ways of engaging the public in deliberation about how that system can and should operate. Her mistake is to lazily and hastily collapse that project into a frame that places offenders and victims in a zero-sum game, and to scoff at the protections a liberal criminal justice system provides. It is to view public confidence through a consumerist lens that affords government no legitimate role in raising the quality of public debate, highlighting value conflicts and resource trade-offs, correcting crime myths, or taking on mass-mediated opinion. And it is to recycle the view that "public opinion" remains preoccupied with crime and eager for harsh, ostentatious punishment.There is, in fact, good evidence to the contrary - evidence that the majority of citizens go about their lives without being affected by or thinking about crime; that they feel ambivalent towards punishment; and that when they participate in the system or engage with "their" offender, this makes them think and act less and less like Louise Casey. · Ian Loader is professor of criminology at the University of Oxford and co-author of Civilizing Security ian.loader@crim.ox.ac.uk