Lord Falconer was today accused of performing a "total U-turn" after he authorised the early release of non-violent prisoners including burglars, drug dealers and fraudsters - just six weeks after he denied the government was contemplating the move to ease acute overcrowding.The justice minister told the House of Lords he had issued guidance to prison governors concerning inmates coming to the end of sentences of a maximum of four years as a "temporary" measure. The controversial move will allow prisoners to be released up to 18 days early and has attracted widespread criticism from opposition parties and the police. The shadow prisons minister, Edward Garnier, said: "What we have seen today is the government doing a total U-turn on early release within a matter of weeks - and it is the public that will pay the price with their safety."But the relentless pressure on prison places - with the jail population hitting a record figure of 81,016 - left the new Ministry of Justice with little option. An MoJ spokesman said an estimated 25,500 prisoners would be released early over a year. This would mean the total prison population will be reduced by 1,200 at any one time. Lord Falconer said only prisoners who met certain criteria would be considered. "The criteria excludes offenders convicted of serious or violent crimes, those who have broken the terms of their licence in the past and foreign nationals subject to deportation." The programme will start on June 29, although police and court cells will be needed until the end of the year. But the shadow home secretary, David Davis, attacked the plans, saying the public would still pay for the government's incompetence. "It is clear from what has been announced today that there will be a continuing reliance on police and court cells, meaning the taxpayer will continue to pay through their pay packets," he said.  "The government's poor record at preventing those released on licence from committing more crimes means they will also continue to pay with their safety." The cost of housing prisoners in court and police cells has reached £1m a week, and yesterday the Prison Governors' Association called for early releases to provide "breathing space". More jail places are in the pipeline but will not come on stream soon enough to avert an immediate crisis. Lord Falconer also told peers that funds for an extra 1,500 places had been granted by the Treasury in addition to the money for 8,000 more places first announced in July last year.Speaking to the Association of Chief Police Officers in Manchester earlier today, Gordon Brown pledged additional money for more places, including "extra fast-build units this year". Earlier today, Tony Blair's claimed the overcrowding problems were in part due to the government's success in tackling crime. "Partly it is because we have been catching more people, giving them longer sentences and convicting more people, and therefore that does create pressures," he said. Offenders will be risk-assessed by prison staff ahead of release, in the hope of reassuring the public. They will also be subject to some form of supervision and could be recalled to prison if they breach the terms of their release licence. Earlier, the chairman of the Police Federation, Jan Berry, said the proposal was not "safe or viable". "The early release of prisoners gives cause for concern," she said. "The resilience of the service is already stretched to breaking point and whilst in the future it could be made possible to effectively monitor more offenders in the community, the structure and the resources are not in place to make this a safe or viable option at the present time." Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrats' justice spokesman, said: "Creating thousands more offences, sending thousands more people to prison and then releasing others before they have served their time is the criminal justice policy of the madhouse." But the Prison Reform Trust welcomed the news, saying that the government ought to use the time to assess a way forward. Juliet Lyon, the lobby group's director, said: "Releasing some people, assessed as no risk to the public, will take the heat off overcrowded jails for a while. "Instead of lurching from crisis to crisis, [the] government must use this respite to set out how it will reserve prison for serious and violent offenders." She suggested that these plans could include enforced community work for the 6,000 prisoners serving less than six months, diversion for the mentally ill and treatment for addicts.