Stephen Lawrence was stabbed to death in Eltham, south London, on the night of April 22, 1993. He was 18. None of the suspects - five white racists - has been convicted. Scotland Yard brought in a senior officer, Detective Chief Superintendent Roderick Barker, to conduct an internal inquiry into the police investigation into Stephen's death. He concluded that the investigation "progressed satisfactorily and all lines of inquiry had been correctly pursued". As evidence of police incompetence emerged - and of conscious or unconscious racism in the way they treated the family, as well as Duwayne Brooks, Stephen's best friend and a witness to the attack - the Lawrence family took up the matter with the Police Complaints Authority. The PCA ordered a second internal inquiry, which was conducted by Kent police. Pressure for a public inquiry mounted after the collapse of the private prosecution, brought by the Lawrence family, and the inquest into Stephen's death, at which the five suspects - Neil and Jamie Acourt, Luke Knight, David Norris, and Gary Dobson - refused to answer any questions. In 1997, Jack Straw, the new Home Secretary, agreed to a public inquiry chaired by Sir William Macpherson, a former High Court judge.  The inquiry revealed a catalogue of errors and ineptitude - and hints of corruption - which police witnesses strongly denied was the result of prejudice or racism on their part. Barker admitted he covered up criticism to protect senior officers involved in the Lawrence investigation. Macpherson called him an unreliable witness, and his report "indefensible". Other senior police witnesses admitted serious mistakes were made.  After 69 days of public hearings, Macpherson's report, to be published next month, is expected to include a damning indictment of the police handling of the Lawrence case and to call for a radical shake-up in the policing of racial crime.  The following pages contain edited extracts from The Colour Of Justice, my dramatisation of the inquiry that was taken from more than 10,000 pages of transcripts.  The questioning of Linda Bethel