The six-day manhunt for Raoul Moat intensified today after the fugitive threatened to widen his "war" with Northumberland police to include members of the public. The new threat emerged as police raced to unravel a network of accomplices suspected of harbouring the 37-year-old former nightclub bouncer.Two men appeared in court charged with conspiracy to murder and possessing a firearm with intent, while another two were being questioned on suspicion of assisting an offender.Sue Sim, temporary chief constable for the Northumbria force, said that Moat had made unspecified "threats towards the wider public", but the force reassured those living around Rothbury, where the gunman is believed to be hiding, that they had sufficient sources to respond to any such threat.Police also issued CCTV photographs of Moat, taken last Friday, which show a thinner man than the one who had appeared in earlier pictures.Moat is alleged to have shot his former girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart, and killed her new partner, Chris Brown, in the Scafell area of Birtley, Gateshead, early on Saturday. The next day Moat allegedly shot and seriously injured PC David Rathband as he sat in his patrol car at a roundabout.Sim said that the challenging terrain of the search area was further complicating the hunt. "This is a beautiful part of Northumbria but it is extremely difficult to search," she said. "The area is full of hills, caves, ravines, dense woodland and deep water. This search will take time and we must protect those involved."The two men who went before Newcastle magistrates were initially thought to have been Moat's hostages.However, Qhuram Awan, 23, of Blyth, Northumberland, and Karl Ness, 26, of Dudley, North Tyneside, were arrested and charged with conspiracy to murder and possessing a firearm with intent. They were remanded in custody to appear before Newcastle crown court next month.The other two men who have been arrested were detained near Rothbury on Wednesday afternoon. The pair were seen in a maroon 4x4 vehicle surrounded by armed officers on the main road in to town just before 6pm. The men, one of whom was bare chested, were held at the side of the road as the vehicle was searched.A farm near the village of Elsdon, 10 miles from Rothbury, near Otterburn, was cordoned off after a farmer noticed that someone appeared to have been sleeping rough in an outbuilding.Armed police searched the buildings as the police helicopter scoured the fields, but it turned out to be one of many ongoing operations.Meanwhile, residents in the area were advised to keep their windows and doors closed and not take unnecessary risks, such as walking dogs in the hills.In Rothbury, news spread quickly that Moat was now threatening to harm members of the public.Armed officers patrolled the streets and police held a public meeting as residents expressed concerns about whether it was safe to go out into the surrounding countryside.Police have described Moat as having a northern accent. He is 1.9m tall (6ft 3in) and has light-coloured cropped hair. He is righthanded and wears size-12 shoes. Police added that could be wearing a grey or light-blue hooded-top, a red or orange T-shirt, with dark coloured jeans and white trainers. It is possible he looks unkempt. It is thought he has one or two weapons and a large quantity of ammunition.