We have met many different kinds of parents during the recent turmoil. There is the loving 58-year-old mother who refuses to believe that her 19-year-old twins could be guilty of looting a Currys store in Brixton. "They are good boys, and they don't need to steal," she says. "That's not how I raised them . . . They are not streetwise, they are not like that."There is the 42-year-old whose low opinion of her 22-year-old daughter means she isn't surprised she was allegedly caught on CCTV looting a shop in Tottenham. "She can be a bad person and causes me trouble, so I don't want to have anything to do with her," she says. "She can be aggressive, and we no longer speak."There are Robert and Lindsay Johnson, the wealthy businessman and his wife who live in a farmhouse in Kent and seek only the best for their 19-year-old daughter Laura, who reads English and Italian at the University of Exeter. They went to a court in Bexleyheath to stand by their daughter as she was accused of looting a shopping centre in Charlton, south London.There is no model of parenthood that will necessarily protect a child from criminality, but "bad parenting" is nevertheless widely held to be the single most important cause of the mass delinquency of the past week, not least by the prime minister.The absence of caring fathers is especially condemned, and we have seen what fruit committed fatherhood can bear in the heroic example of 21-year-old Haroon Jahan who was killed while trying to protect shops from looters in Birmingham.But at the same time, it isn't inevitable that having a bad father will make you bad, too. Take Barack Obama. His father, also called Barack, was a drunkard, liar, sponger and philanderer, who had at least five children by four wives. Barack Sr abandoned Barack Jr when he was two, and never saw him again except for a brief period when he was 10.Yet he wrote in his memoir Dreams From My Father that Barack Sr had given him "some bulwark with which to grow up, an image to live up to or disappoint". And, as we know, the boy grew up leading a virtuous, disciplined, hard-working life that resulted in him becoming the first black man to occupy the White House. No looter he.That's not to suggest that good fathers aren't a good thing, but it is pointless to rely on them as role models for boys when there are so few around. According to the Labour MP David Lammy, in areas such as his Tottenham constituency "59% of black Caribbean children are looked after by a lone parent".It seems equally futile to recommend, as the liberal thinktank CentreForum has done, that mothers and fathers should enrol in classes to improve their "parenting skills". Parenting, it is argued, is not a natural gift, but a skill to be learned. But few parents would accept this, and what use are rules for good parenthood, such as reading to your child for at least 15 minutes a day, when the child will just throw the book at you?As explained by Amelia Gentleman in the Guardian yesterday, the central problem is an erosion of authority: children are no longer respectful of it, and parents and teachers are fearful of imposing it. It is no fun for any parent, good or bad, to impose discipline on a rebellious child, and it's not surprising that many parents give up trying.So what's to be done? With so many families in a mess, the best hope must be for schools to take the lead in imposing discipline on children, and for parents to be somehow coerced into siding with the schools.Mice strike noble blow We are threatened with a new breed of European supermouse that is immune to warfarin and other poisons. This is reportedly the consequence of German and Spanish mice mating with Algerian mice, a species from which European mice have been separated for more than a million years. Algerian mice have genes that render them resistant to almost any chemical pesticide, and these genes have now leaked into the European population. They haven't reached Britain yet, but experts think it's only a matter of time.While this is another example of rodents' notorious ingenuity, I am not worried because I rely for mouse control on a large armoury of mousetraps. Most of these are of a kind that don't kill mice, but even those that do seem to me more humane than warfarin, which causes a slow death from bleeding. Even death by cat is kinder than that. But more important, the supermouse will render useless those chemical poisons that are so reviled in our ecological age. It has struck a noble blow for the environment.Supersize wake-up callIt is a well-known feature of the US that everything is too large – buildings, cars, fridges, steaks, you name it. The same applies to recycling bins, which in the city of Toledo, Ohio, are so big that residents have complained that they are difficult to move. Now their size has cost a woman her life. Sheila Decoster, 62, fell head-first from the porch of her house into a bin where she later died. May Americans see this as a wake-up call.