Despite David Rathband's determination to put his life back together after Raoul Moat stole up on his patrol car with a shotgun, the injured policeman's struggle to reconcile himself to what happened to him on 4 July 2010 proved an agonising one.When he was released from hospital less than three weeks after the attack, Rathband said he felt no bitterness towards Moat and was concentrating on getting better so that he could return to work."I'm just a policeman and a person very proud to be a policeman and that's one of the things that keeps me going," he told BBC Radio 5 Live. "I want to get back to a job that I enjoyed doing."In October 2010 – three months after he was shot and blinded – he set up the Blue Lamp Foundation, a charity to help emergency services staff injured in the line of duty.By last year, however, the strain was beginning to show and in November 2011 he announced that he had separated from his wife, Kath.Last September, Rathband gave a moving interview in which he said he was "struggling to deal with being blind" and feared he may have become a burden to those around him."[I] don't know whether a lot of this is my own perceptions and my insecurities but I hear people's voices when they're talking to me and I feel the resentment in their voice for having to guide me round. There's lots of things like that."He also told BBC Radio 4's In Touch programme that he felt neglected. "Very early on there was no involvement from social services. I waited 10 months for them to speak to me," he said. "My work – best will in the world, my chief constable has been very supportive – but I feel as if the majority of the people that I've worked with or by have forgotten what happened to me and why it happened to me and what I tried to do."Rathband added that although some steps had been taken to help him, he felt his experience was a typical one."I think it's indicative of being blind. People just think: 'Well, they get on with it,'" he said.The biggest challenge was reconciling himself to losing his sight. "I've spoken to quite a few people over the last few months and everybody tells me you've got 10 years before you realise you can deal with being blind. At the moment I can't even see the next 12 months but I'm taking each day as it comes. I'm trying my best. It's tough, but I've lasted 14 months."Rathband said that it was the "little bits", like the Great North Run, that kept him going. "So I'll pick something else because I can't deal with just concentrating on stumbling round my garden or going shopping and having to walk round with somebody's elbow."He denied that he was unable to accept help, saying that he had simply tried to be as independent as he could."I took a conscious decision when I left hospital that I would try my best for as long as possible to do it on my own with my family, and the camel's back has broken. I can't do it on my own," he said. "And I'm the one that came forward and said I need some help and that was in January. So I can push myself to go out the door and go and do all these things but mentally and emotionally they are different and I'm not in a place where I've evolved to enjoy being blind and having a fulfilled life and that's the bit I'm struggling with."At the end of the interview, Rathband said he hoped that he would eventually be able to accept what had happened."I'm hoping that one day comes along and I'd love to [reach a] point where I can get to a day in my life and say: 'Do you know what? I've cracked this.'"