Record numbers of threatening and malicious text messages are being sent across the mobile phone network as thousands fall victim to what is quickly becoming one of Scotland's fastest-growing crimes. The phenomenon has led to a dramatic increase in criminal cases of threatening behaviour and harassment as phone operators are obliged to pass on any complaints to the police, but serious criminals are also taking advantage of the technology with an increase in the number of incidents where text messages are used to apply pressure to extort money. The problem is a national one but most acute in Scotland where figures released by Lothian and Borders police last week showed there had been a 70 per cent increase in such crimes over the past year. More than half the cases recorded involved mobile text messages and detectives are receiving one new case a day. Deputy Chief Constable Tom Wood of Lothian and Borders police has pledged to take action to tackle the growing trend which he says has proved attractive to criminals because they can be anonymous, remote and do not have to face their victim until they are ready. Last month Belfast shop worker David Barnes was shot dead as he slept alongside his girlfriend. He had received a chilling series of threatening, anonymous text messages on his mobile in the weeks before his death. The messages could not be traced because they had been sent using an unregistered 'pay-as-you-go' phone and police are investigating the theory that he was the victim of a personal vendetta. The use of threatening text messages is increasingly becoming a feature of cases involving more violent crime. The Metropolitan Police are hunting a dangerous text stalker who is alleged to have murdered his last victim after bombarding her with hundreds of messages. Abdul Salam, also known as Rouf Uddin and Mohammed Ahad Kahn, was named as one of the Met's ten most wanted fugitives earlier this month. He is wanted in connection with the death of 28-year-old Malika Sousse, a mother-of-two who was found with her throat cut in her Brussels apartment last November. She had complained to local police about being sent messages from Salam but before he could be arrested, he fled to England posing as an asylum seeker. He is now on the run, believed to be hiding out in the Manchester area, and police fear that unless he is caught soon other women could be at risk. Although some text threats are sent on the spur of the moment and unlikely to be acted on in the long term, they can still constitute a criminal offence. Sending such messages contravenes both the Malicious Communications Act and newly introduced anti-stalking legislation.• This article was amended on 4 July 2012 to remove the name of a person cleared of an alleged offence.