Tony Blair's 10-year crime plan was criticised by the police and libertarians last night, within hours of its launch, for its proposals to put private security patrols on the streets and disclose previous convictions to juries in some criminal trials. But normally critical penal reform groups gave a warm welcome to the "tough but tender" plan.When he announced the proposals, the prime minister renewed his pledge to tackle crime and its causes while breaking the "cycle of reoffending" which makes the 100,000 most persistent of fenders responsible for about half of all crime. In parliament, the home secretary, Jack Straw, gave the details of the package, which is designed to end the long term decline in detection and conviction rates: they have halved in the past 20 years. A key proposal is the introduction of a "custody plus" sentence to replace sentences of 12 months or less passed on 46,000 people each year. Those released would be subjected to intensive supervision, treatment and training, under threat of returning to prison if they failed to comply or offended again. But it is unclear whether sentencing would be tougher or more lenient under the proposal, which would affect half the people jailed each year. Mr Straw said it had not yet been decided whether they would serve shorter or longer periods before their release under supervision. The package was less of a root and branch shake-up of the courts and sentencing laws than had been trailed, because ministers have been forced to wait until later in the year for two reports, from Lord Justice Auld and a Home Office civil servant, John Halliday, which are expected to propose more fundamental changes. Two key proposals immediately ran into trouble. The scheme to introduce police-accredited private security patrols to supplement the police outside schools, busy commuter stations and similar places was criticised by the Police Federation. It said the plan was simply trying to provide "a substitute for properly trained police officers". The last attempt to introduce such a measure was made by Michael Howard when he was home secretary. The police were so opposed that they would not let him call it patrolling, so he had to say it was "walking with a purpose". Labour's document avoids the word "patrolling" too, but makes clear its intention. Civil liberties groups criticised the package too, for the proposal to give the prosecution more powers in court, in an attempt to increase the conviction rate. Liberty called the limited disclosure of previous convictions to juries "a serious erosion of a key principle of the criminal justice system". But penal reform groups, such as the Howard League, welcomed the package, describing it as "the most constructive of this, or the last century". They particularly liked Mr Blair's recognition that the causes of crime are woven into the fabric of society. In a speech that lacked the usual politician's rhetoric about a "war on crime," Mr Blair said: "Family breakdown leaving kids without a stable framework from which to grow up; unemployment leaving families without hope for the future; kids dropping out of school; hard drugs; teenage pregnancies; a lack of respect for the law becoming breaking the law: common sense tells us that these are long-term problems that require long-term solutions."