Victim support groups today welcomed government measures to persuade more rape victims to take their attackers to court.Harriet Harman, the solicitor general, published proposals to create more specialist rape prosecutors, in a bid to boost convictions - which have dropped from one in three to one in 13 within a generation.In a speech to rape prosecutors in London, Ms Harman also pledged to fight any moves to give anonymity to people accused of sex crimes.Following last year's Sex Offences Act - which came into force last month and redefined "consent" to put the burden of proof back on the offender - the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) today published a policy pamphlet aimed at reassuring sex crime victims that trials will be less traumatic experiences.It suggests more specialised rape prosecutors, who would stay with a trial to its conclusion, and a safety net referral back to other specialist rape prosecutors before charges are dropped or downgraded.Ms Harman also announced an expansion of the current rape crisis centres from 11 to 15, saying: "Our focus on rape is not political correctness - it's a criminal justice imperative."Victim Support, which campaigns for and counsels the victims of crime, said: "We support these measures - especially the specialist prosecutors, who can challenge defence lawyers, particularly over victims' sexual histories, which should not come up, but often does."The extra crisis centres will also help a lot." However, they added: "There's not much new here, but it strengthens what already exists."In her speech, Ms Harman took a swipe at the media for giving too much prominence to cases of women making false rape allegations.She said: "Those who believe the myths about rape don't see what all of you here do, and as I do in my work as solicitor general: the awful cases of rape often accompanied by sickening levels of violence and which traumatises the victim and often the friends and family."Speaking after the conference, Ms Harman rejected growing calls for alleged perpetrators of rape to be given anonymity until or unless found guilty. She said such a move would have to mean granting anonymity to all suspected criminals as withholding the names of those suspected of sex offences but not other crimes would make it appear that sex attack victims were more likely to lie.Ms Harman, said: "The home secretary has said he's looking at whether there should be greater anonymity. "It will either be for everybody or nobody. I think that if there's going to be anonymity for defendants, it needs to be for all defendants and not just rape defendants. "You can't have a situation where the system says that if it's a rape complaint, it's more likely to be false. There is no evidence to support that." Last July the Commons home affairs select committee recommended that anonymity should be reintroduced. But the Home Office said at the time that it was "not minded" to implement such a change, on the grounds that people accused of sexual offences should not be "singled out for special protection". The director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald QC, and Ms Harman unveiled the policy statement at a London conference this morning.Ms Harman warned the conference of CPS rape prosecutors that a prosecution "is always going to be an ordeal for a rape victim", but that the statement was designed to explain to members of the public, and particularly victims and witnesses of rape offences, how rape prosecutions are carried out. Mr Macdonald said: "Rape is still less likely to be reported, less likely to result in a charge and less likely to be prosecuted than other serious crimes. That's why this policy is so important. "In showing how seriously the CPS takes rape allegations, it will encourage victims to come forward and get the support they need." According to the British Crime Survey about one in 20 women (4.9%) said they had been raped since the age of 16, an estimated 754,000 victims.About one in 10 women (9.7%) said they had experienced some form of sexual victimisation. Figures from the Rape Crisis Network found that 91% of rape victims never reported their ordeal.But the more radical campaigning group Women Against Rape dismissed the today's launch as "little more than a public relations exercise".Spokeswoman Ruth Hall said: "We're worried that with 'specialist' barristers, more is less. All CPS prosecutors should be schooled in rape and able to prosecute, not just handing cases over to specialists."The CPS is fundamentally sexist and a bias against women still exists. The CPS looks for problems, not solutions."Frankly, we've heard it all before."