Plans for a UK equivalent of the FBI, for phone and email tapping to become admissible evidence and for "grasses" to be granted plea bargaining were being unveiled by the government today.In a white paper to be published this afternoon, the home secretary makes it clear he wants to replace the National Crime Squad, the National Criminal Intelligence Service and the investigative arms of customs and excise and the immigration service with a new, 5,000 strong Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca).More controversially, the proposed measures could also force professionals such as lawyers, bankers and accountants, who are normally bound by confidentiality rules, to disclose information about gangster clients or face jail themselves. David Blunkett yesterday confirmed it would include measures to make the use of phone tap evidence admissible in court cases. He said: "A year ago, if you had asked me, I would have been very sceptical. I am much more convinced that, in a limited range of cases, intercept evidence would make sense." The plans will be revealed this afternoon in the Commons in a white paper entitled One Step Ahead: A 21st Century Strategy to Defeat Organised Criminals, presented by home office minister Caroline Flint.The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, cautioned: "The home secretary will have to tread a tightrope between sensible measures to tackle terrorism without breaking long-held principles that underpin our liberty. "As liberals in today's world we have to accept greater use of intercept communication, surveillance and plea bargaining. "But the threat of terrorism should not be used as an excuse to fundamentally change our society with ID cards or with changes to the burden of proof." But Mr Blunkett insisted: "Those who describe themselves as liberal with a small 'l' seem to think that any move you make that addresses the reality of the moment is a betrayal of human rights. It is beholden on us [to act]. If we didn't we would be culpable." In February, the prime minister suggested that the standard of proof may be lowered in organised crime prosecutions to snare more of Britain's gangsters. "To require everything beyond reasonable doubt in these cases is very difficult," he said during a visit to the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit in London's Docklands. "I think people would accept that within certain categories of case, provided it's big enough, you don't take the normal burden [of proof]." Mr Blair has also suggested prosecutors should be allowed to present evidence from telephone taps and email and internet monitoring. Such material is usually banned from British courtrooms, and the security services MI5, MI6 and government listening post GCHQ are said to have reservations about use of surveillance material, fearing it will expose their techniques. The government was also known to be considering the use of plea bargaining to persuade members of gangs to give evidence against bosses in return for reduced sentences. That has attracted the ire of the Police Federation, which represents rank and file police officers. Their chair, Jan Berry, said: "There could be some mixed message. "In one voice you say the victim is most important in the middle of the criminal justice system and then the next you're seen to be appeasing criminals in order to get convictions."Ms Berry also worried that the new agency will "cream off" the best of local officers. She said: "Elitism has no place in British policing. I am worried that we will see a skills loss across the 43 police forces in England and Wales, with the cream of the crop being taken to fill places in this new agency. "We must not get carried away with the glamorised movie image of an FBI offering a total solution to crime - the reality is often quite different. " Soca is being billed as an "elite" new law enforcement agency with about 5,000 investigators specialising in drug trafficking, people smuggling and fraud cases. Ms Flint told GMTV: "It is to bring together good working practices under one organisation so we can have a better impact on the ground."Its creation will be the biggest shake-up of the way British policing is organised since force boundaries in England and Wales were redrawn 40 years ago. Soca will require legislation following today's white paper and was expected to be operational by 2006. Mr Blunkett said that the cost of organised crime is estimated at £40bn a year. "We are talking here about sophisticated, organised criminality on a massive scale," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "We have got a major problem on our hands, as have other countries, and we really have got to deal with it."