"She is a very bright kid," her headteacher said. "I don't think I would have ever said that she could have passed for 19. Afterwards, she just walked back into school as if nothing had happened." The girl had told police she had been telling Studabaker about things at school which had been upsetting. "She said one of the reasons she talked to the defendant was because she could tell him." David Spellman, a child and family clinical psychologist, said: "My own experience is that kids love paedophiles - they are great with children. I know it is an awful thing to say, but they know what to do and they are very skilled. "The intimacy of a chatroom and email is seen as a relatively safe place without the interference of adults. The internet is a bit like a parallel world." He would look at the relationships the girl had in school and with her family. A vulnerable child who was troubled in some way would be at risk of forming a romantic attachment. He said officers and psychologists would avoid a confrontational approach. "The most helpful approach would not be trying to stop her, but to try and understand how she arrived at this point." David Wilson, a criminol ogist at the University of Central England, said paedophiles went for children because it gave them a sense of power. "We have got to stop looking at it as a policing solution and look at it more broadly," he said. "One of the reasons these kids do what they do, even though the risk is enormous, is they develop a relationship online which provides them with something missing normally. "If they have to choose between their life online - where they have status and power - and their reality, where they have no status and they are denigrated, then they are going to choose the latter." John Carr, of the charity NCH, said: "The Studabaker case illustrates how the internet has become a global medium and bad guys can travel. "The victim was the absolute classic age range. Adolescents are interested in exploring love and relationships." He says it is crucial for parents to make sure they are aware such people exist when their children enter chatrooms. "People behave badly if they think there is little or no chance of being held to account for their own actions." He was in "no doubt" that such cases are under-reported. "We know of about 30 cases which have been to trial where the guys have been sentenced to jail."