Prison bosses have sent an emergency hit squad into a Manchester prison where five women have taken their lives in recent months, amid fears of an epidemic of self-harm and attempted suicides in Britain's female jails.Women's prisons chief Niall Clifford took the unprecedented step of sending a specialist team into Styal prison, Cheshire, where four women had died since August. The fifth woman died as it began its work this month. Clifford told The Observer that a lethal cocktail of mental illness, drug addiction and overcrowding was making women's prisons increasingly difficult to govern. Nine women have taken their own lives in prison so far this year, compared with nine for the whole of last year and six in 2001. Incidents of self-harm almost doubled to 4,344 from 2,355 in 2001. Although the rise is partly due to improved monitoring, Clifford said it was 'completely unacceptable'. One in three women attempt suicide in prison and 37 per cent had previously attempted to take their own lives. A report from the Prison Reform Trust this month will call on the Government and the courts to stop sending women with serious mental health problems to prison. The study, Troubled Inside, argues that most women prisoners should not be in jail at all and calls for an overhaul of the remand system. A fifth of all women on remand are acquitted and only 40 per cent go on to get custodial sen tences. Events at Styal, where four of the women treated were on remand and four were drug addicts, have forced a rethink of the way women are treated while awaiting trial. 'We recognise that Styal has had a particularly bad period in the last year. This is a tragic failure and one that we cannot sit back and do nothing about,' said Clifford. But parents and campaigners have called for a full independent inquiry into the deaths at Styal and into levels of self-harm and suicide in women's prisons. The campaign is led by Pauline Campbell from Cheshire, whose daughter, Sarah, 18, took an overdose of anti-depressants at Styal in January and died in hospital. 'Since my daughter died I have been calling for a full public inquiry into Styal prison,' she said last night. 'Since then, there have been two more tragic deaths. I welcome any action being taken by the Prison Service, but it's too little, too late for the families who have lost their loved ones.' Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said prisons were often used as surrogate psychiatric hospitals for women with mental health problems. 'Why do vulnerable women need to die in such tragic circumstances before the Government responds to the mental health needs of women who offend?' she said. The new Prisons Minister, Paul Goggins, wants to make dealing with suicide and self-harm a priority and will meet the Prison Service this month to discuss the crisis.