One of the unusual things about a boy with an Anti-Social Behaviour Order is that everybody knows where to find him. When a child is convicted of a criminal offence, the anonymity to which young offenders are ordinarily entitled prevents you and me from discovering his name, what he looks like, or where he lives. This protection has a long legal tradition. Had Michael Talbot therefore been prosecuted for, say, burning down a house, I would never have found him. But as the subject of an Anti-Social Behaviour Order (Asbo), the 13-year-old's name had been made public property. It was simply a question of knocking on his door. His mother opened it. Susan Ashton is a small, fiery Mancunian with bright, indignant eyes and a great deal to say. She was so angry that the words came tumbling out in a chaotic fury - and to anyone with misgivings about the justice of Asbos, it was precisely the kind of story that will worry them.Early last year, the council applied for an Asbo against Michael. He had been accused by neighbours of trespassing in gardens, tormenting residents, vandalising property and shouting abuse. A court heard the complaints - some submitted anonymously - and granted an Asbo banning Michael for two years from areas of the north Manchester estate where he lives. Asbo cases are heard in civil courts, so the complaints against Michael did not have to be proven beyond reasonable doubt, but merely judged on the balance of probability. Yet now, if Michael - who has never been convicted of, or even charged with, a single crime - is caught simply standing in a forbidden street, he will be committing a criminal offence that can carry a sentence of up to five years. "And all that for knocking on doors and running through gardens! Isn't that what kids do? That's not anti-social behaviour." Susan Ashton stabbed a finger. "The courts are full of shit. Put that down. I mean, it's not as though he comes from a bad home! We've worked all our life. You name it, he's got it." She pointed around the immaculate lounge, at its plump sofas and faux-marble fireplace. "But they can be telling a pack of lies about you once these allegations have been made, and you've got no say in the matter." Michael came down from his bedroom. He is a slight, dark-haired boy, handsome but awkward, poised between childhood and adolescence. "I probably shouldn't have done some of the stuff I did," he mumbled. "But you know, they were, like, childish things, like knock-a-door run or ghost knock, where you tie a bit of string. Really childish things." Michael's cousin was being threatened with an Asbo as well. The courts were handing them out "like hot dinners", his mother claimed. "These neighbours, they're all people who are old and they want children to be seen and not heard - but you can't bring them up like that. This is just a kid growing up and getting a little bit giddy and learning by his mistakes. They aren't naughty. They're just little boys growing up." Susan Ashton works as a cleaner for the council. She is not a student of jurisprudence, but she has a powerful instinct for the legal anomaly of her son's situation, so her fury is sustained by bewilderment. How can it be that her son has never been charged with a crime, yet faces the threat of prison for doing something not even illegal? "I've lived here all my life. I've voted Labour all my life. What's going on?" Labour runs Manchester City Council. Since Asbos were introduced five years ago, Manchester has issued more than 300 orders - almost twice as many as any other city in the country - and has led the field not only in numbers, but in the imaginative audacity of its Asbos. Some orders have included a ban on riding a bicycle in the city centre, on meeting more than three non-family members in public, on wearing a balaclava in the street, on wearing a single golf glove. One Asbo received nationwide coverage in January for its ban on a 14-year-old boy saying the word "grass" anywhere in England or Wales until 2010, and in April a city magistrate served what was believed to be a first, banning a 16-year-old boy from misbehaving in school. If he disrupts a class, he can now be sent to prison. These restrictions are difficult to enforce unless the local community is made aware of them, so Manchester has printed almost 200,000 leaflets, delivered through neighbours' doors, each one listing an Asbo's prohibitions and urging residents to report any transgression. "Not Wanted" posters have been put up on some streets and the Manchester Evening News has assisted by publishing on its front page the names and photographs of the "yobs". The police are delighted, and the naming and shaming is hugely popular with residents, who sense that their quality of life is finally being taken seriously. The man responsible for stretching Asbos to their legislative limits is Basil Curley, Manchester's executive member for housing. A gruff, lifelong Labour man, he is proud of his record as the Asbo pioneer and tired of "people who live in Surrey" talking to him about civil liberties. Curley has no patience with the suggestion that Manchester is instituting a kind of authorised vigilante justice, or effectively writing its own laws, jailing people for offences that no parliament would make punishable by prison. "We could prosecute all these yobbos in a criminal court if we liked," he told me. "But because we're a caring council, we want to give everyone an opportunity to change. We're not about criminalising people, we're about getting them to change their behaviour, and this is a warning system." Was he worried about putting 10-year-olds' faces on the front page of newspapers? "If kids are capable of going out and robbing someone in their 80s, they've made a decision about that, haven't they? It's about decisions and free will. You know," he sighed, "it's not about middle-class people setting rules or standards for working-class people. A lot of us came from poor backgrounds; I know lots of people whose parents split up, and they didn't go round putting fireworks through people's doors or wrecking people's cars. Deprivation isn't an argument. The people who come to us to demand improved standards are working-class people." Deep inside Manchester town hall, a gothic cathedral to municipal socialism, Curley and his team believe they are fighting for the left, and winning. "Do you understand what we're doing?" his deputy appealed. "We're dealing with Mrs Thatcher's grandchildren. We're dealing with the children of the people who grew up under Mrs Thatcher, and were brutalised. We're recreating society. Putting back some of the social glue. We have nothing - nothing - to be ashamed of as socialists. If you're rich, you can buy yourself out of it, but these things take place among deprived communities. They want social glue and that's what we're trying to give back to them." Very few issues can be more intimately sprung to the dynamics of New Labour than anti-social behaviour, for it captures the confusion of what it means to be progressive. Anti-social behaviour has manoeuvred socialists into positions they remember sounding rightwing 20 years ago, and induced the zealotry some need to steady their nerves. Fighting the behaviour with Asbos has given many on the left their first authentic sense of victory - of yielding power on behalf of the vulnerable - and the fight has the pleasing ring of populism. It communicates the party's transfer of faith from the delicacies of moral idealism to the dogma of what works. It is probably because of this that Asbos tend to be discussed in black-and-white terms. Do they work or not? Are they right or wrong? Does Michael Talbot's Asbo help glue society back together, or betray socialism and civil liberties? Yes or no? The political debate has such appealingly sharp edges that it is tempting to hope the same definition can be found in the actual lives of people who behave in an anti-social fashion. My experience of three families with Asbos was that all of these questions were simpler to answer the less time one spent with them. Proximity to their lives blurred the edges so quickly that any hope of answers vanished, and even the questions became almost meaningless, lost in the drama of domestic turmoil. Just south of Hyde Road in Gorton, east Manchester, a lattice of Coronation Street back-to-backs limps into this century, scarred by boarded-up windows and broken-down doors. The Ward family lives on one of these streets - almost literally, in fact, for their house spills on to the pavement in a trail of broken toys, a one-wheeled bicycle and a dismembered shopping trolley. The windows of the house have been haphazardly patched with Perspex; the front door, re-hung back to front, hangs crooked and is slightly ajar. As I pushed it open, I thought I might have stumbled upon a burglary. Then a quilt on a sofa stirred and Eileen Ward sat up, rubbing her eyes. Eileen, 17, and her sister Kathleen, 15, achieved local notoriety last August when they became the first sisters to receive Asbos. The pair were accused of threatening behaviour, of using foul, racist language and of stealing, and were banned from a large area of Gorton. Their family had to leave its three-bedroom council house because of the Asbos and had moved into this privately rented address, where exposed cables hung from the ceiling like vines, every single kitchen drawer and door dangled from its hinges, jumble piled up in heaps and the floor was a jigsaw of broken lino, bare boards and worn carpet. By the time Eileen was fully awake, the room had filled with children. There are seven; after Eileen and Kathleen come Barbara, 13, Tommy, 11, Lizzie, nine, Jimmy, five, and Douggie, four. Kathleen was no longer living with the family, but the house still overflowed, for none of the children had been to school since they had moved. They appeared to be unravelling dangerously, the little ones tearing through the house, randomly violent, toothless, in tatters and filth. With her wide, blue eyes, creamy cheekbones and full lips, Eileen is startlingly beautiful; in another life, she would look like Kate Moss. But in this one, worn down by a bad reputation, her youth has already begun to fade. "I'm a nice person," she protested, between scolding and soothing her baby brothers. "I'm not a proper thug, I don't think I'm hard. But having an Asbo, it's not nice, it's disgusting. People stare at you when you're on the bus. It's shameful." She sagged and shrugged. "People won't give me a second chance. It's hard to get a job. They say, 'We'll get back to you, Miss Ward.' Only they never do." Why not come back later and meet her mum, she suggested. She had been dying to tell her side of the story, only nobody would listen. "Mind you," Eileen grinned, "you'd better bring a bigger notepad." Zach Tutin is the infamous teenage boy whose Asbo bans him from saying "grass" until 2010. The order also outlaws the words "slag", "cripple" and "Paki", and bans Zach from using the main thoroughfare of Moston, east Manchester, where he lives with his mother. Outside the house, an aborted "Zac" had been sprayed in shaving foam on the pavement, beside a pool of vomit and a crumpled lager can. The door was answered by a small, olive-skinned boy. Zach finds it difficult to talk about himself. A presumption of non-cooperation competes with an impulse to boast, and the challenge of chronological order only makes matters worse. The biggest challenge, though, is concentration. "I can't sit here for 20 minutes and just talk," he said, and it was true. "I've got a short attention span." A psychologist had told him this when he was 11 years old. His parents had separated when he was eight. His father, who is Asian, stayed in touch, but his mother disappeared completely, so Zach and his younger sisters lived with their grandmother. By 11, Zach was in serious trouble. "I got done for battering someone. I had to go to court but then, before that, I battered him again. And then I got done for arson. And it just carried on from there. I've been hit for loads of things. Lost count, me." His mother unexpectedly returned when he was 13. "It made me feel a bit better," Zach conceded, "her coming back. It felt good." He and his younger sisters moved back in with her. "But I was angry as well." He got expelled that year, for "slicing someone's legs. 'Cause he called me a - " Zach isn't allowed to say the word, but it was "Paki". Did people often call him a Paki? "Sometimes." Was it fair for the school to expel him? "I suppose so." His eyes gently closed, overwhelmed by a veil of boredom. Then, as if suddenly worried I might not think to ask, he volunteered: "I've been locked up before." Interest secured, he could retreat again, and the awkward dance of information resumed. We met several times. Sometimes Zach would appear stoned, and the tattered terraced house was usually full of teenagers. His father collected him most mornings to go to a special school for excluded pupils, but the days passed in shapeless boredom and distraction. Zach's mum, only 33 herself, would come and go, by turns cheerful and harried, yelling about the mess. Her moods were voluble and transparent, whereas Zach's were unreadable, hidden behind small black eyes. Zach was the least indignant person I met in Manchester. He has travelled beyond defiance to a place so closed down that he can reflect on his circumstances with anaesthetised indifference, sounding almost philosophical. Lacking the hope that defensiveness would require, he has arrived at more or less absolute fatalism. "You always think it won't happen again," he mumbled. "But it always does." The local press have called Zach a thug. His father said he's just a boy whose short life had been very, very hard. I asked how Zach would describe himself - and for the only time the anaesthetic lifted. "I can't describe myself!" Surprised, without a script, he looked lost. Pressed again, he shouted to his friends in the lounge for help. "Pain in the arse!" one shouted. "Funny!" Zach relaxed. When I tried again, he made as if the question was stupid. "I don't know. Cheeky. That's it." What else? "Just ask the questions!" His face burned with anger. "Ask another question." Coaxed once more, he folded up with confusion. "I can't describe myself. 'Cause you don't know how you act sometimes, do you? I just do things. I don't know." · Read part two of When home's a prison here