Lord Falconer has the look of a battered cherub. He is one of the friendlier and kinder cabinet ministers, but appears to be hand picked for jobs by his great friend Tony Blair in which bucket-loads of opprobrium quickly descend on him.This week he faces the wrath of judges and democrats when he publishes two bills, one on Wednesday abolishing his own post of lord chancellor and establishing a supreme court, and a second on Friday finally removing the hereditary peers from parliament. For good measure in between, he will have to explain to the Lords Britain's tarnished approach to justice and terrorism, not just here but in Guantanamo Bay. "It is going to a big constitutional reform week, and there will be some big battles," Lord Falconer predicts cheerfully in his central London office. In less than a year since reaching the cabinet, Charlie Falconer has overseen the transformation of the lord chancellor's department into the Department of Constitutional Affairs, one of the high profile departments at the centre of Whitehall. However, any hopes that the smooth modernisation of his own department will be mirrored by a smooth reform of the Lords or the judiciary are proving optimistic. He is already facing charges from Tories of trickery over the short bill removing the remaining 82 hereditary peers and setting up a statutory appointments commission to screen new peers. Tories are claiming that he has framed the bill so that it cannot be amended by MPs to reintroduce a large directly elected element - plans narrowly rejected by MPs in a multi-option free vote a year ago. Lord Strathclyde, the Tory leader in the Lords, has threatened to disrupt the whole of the government's legislative programme, accusing it of breaking its word. As Robin Cook, the former leader of the Commons, warned the prime minister 13 months ago, the passage of a short bill simply removing the hereditaries, far from being easy, would prove a nightmare and is widely regarded as a backdoor route to an entrenched wholly appointed second chamber. Lord Falconer denies such trickery. "I have not deliberately framed the bill so amendments on elections cannot be debated. It deals with the removal of the hereditaries, a statutory appointments commission, and it will be for the parliamentary clerks to decide what amendments can be accepted. So far as I know they have not come to a view."But to avert Mr Cook's parliamentary nightmare, Lord Falconer is rapidly shifting ground by holding out the serious prospect of another round of Lords reform. He insisted: "I am genuinely, personally very committed to seeing real progress on the Lords made beyond this bill and there is a widespread support in government for that. This is not the fundamental reform. "I do not exclude any option, but the one that needs particular examination is indirect elections." This was an idea advanced in the Wakeham commission of January 2000, but subsequently rejected. He continued: "Assume that you broke the country down into the regions, you would also be able to get a direct relationship between people in the Lords and a particular part of the country because people would broadly agree the Lords is much too south-eastern at present." The link between the party's proportions in the Lords and the result of the general election could only be aspirational, he conceded. "It cannot be a direct mathematical relationship. If one party has a landslide at an election and then at the next election another party does, you could never switch round the proportions in the Lords quickly enough." He is alert to the charge that this might be seen as party patronage. Each party, he suggests, "might be free to decide how to put forward their list of nominees, but different solutions might be used in different regions. It is one of the issues that needs further discussion". He continually insists the indirect election plan - never offered to MPs in their vote a year ago - is not a fig leaf to tide him through this bill. A reconstituted joint committee of both houses is his favoured vehicle to look at indirect elections and the balance of power between the two houses. "If we cannot make progress through a joint committee - the Conservatives are currently opposed - we will look at other ways. We want to make real progress and think indirect elections, not yet government policy, is an idea that could fly." Courteously, as ever, he rejects Lord Strathclyde's claim that he is breaking a promise given by Lord Irvine, his predecessor, that the remaining hereditaries would be removed only as part of a final democratic reform. "I am not welching on any deal. Derry [Lord Irvine] made it clear at the time that the retention of some hereditaries was a spur to getting further reform, but he also made it clear that they would be there for a very short time." The bill, he argues, should be looked on for its merits. It gets rid of fundamental anomalies, and he insists has majority support in the Lords."The critical change is the new statutory appointments commission, answerable to the Lords, that will check the propriety of political peers and appoint cross-benchers. Most significantly it will decide which party is entitled to what number of peers. Currently the prime minister determines the numbers entirely without reference to the non-statutory appointments commission." But with the Tories in bellicose mood, the prospect looms of a stand-off between the two houses in the run-up to the election, the hereditaries casting themselves as an implausible last line of defence against a wholly appointed house. Lord Falconer warns the Tories not to press this disruption. "Lord Strathclyde will be breaking with convention if he says in effect that the unelected House of Lords can deny the business that the elected government wants."He is equally willing to give some unpalatable messages to the judiciary, including a robust response to the recent bid by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, for £50m for the courts in return for the judiciary's support for a supreme court. "What the lord chief justice is saying is you should put first providing for the lower courts in England and Wales before you spend any money on a supreme court. If the lord chief justice's view prevailed you would never, ever, ever have a supreme court." Only five of the 12 law lords who will sit in the new top court have come out in favour of the change. Five want to stay in the Lords and two are undeclared. But Lord Falconer makes it clear that their views are irrelevant. "We think ultimately a government has to decide where its priorities are. Our priorities are that there should be a supreme court." Nor will he give an assurance that the supreme court justices in waiting will get the final say on the building that will ultimately house them. It must be an "appropriate" building, but does that mean it has to be acceptable to the judges? "There must be a sensible give or take between the executive and the judges in relation to the building, but it's got to be one that reasonable people would regard as an acceptable building for a supreme court." And, far from injecting £50m into the court system, he envisages that much of the supreme court's annual budget will come from fees paid by ordinary litigants in court cases across Britain. The suggestion will infuriate the senior judges, who have revolted before over proposals to make the courts self-financing. The plan has also been criticised because he has been unable to negotiate a new building to house the supreme court. He said he was involved in sensitive negotiations, and it was important that he was able to plump for a building by early summer. But he insisted that the bill must be passed even if no site had been agreed with the judiciary. The supreme court, rather than being homeless, could remain in the Lords for a short while, he said. There is one other prestigious government building vacant that might yet meet the specification, even if it is not in central London. It is of course the Millennium Dome but even the cherubic smile of Lord Falconer - the former minister for the dome - might fade at the thought.