A jury took just 20 minutes to clear a businessman who was charged with grievous bodily harm after he tackled two thieves, leaving one with two broken legs and a fractured arm.Andrew Woodhouse, 44, could have faced a lengthy jail term if convicted, but walked free from court when the panel ruled he had not broken the law by chasing and apprehending the pair.Speaking outside Cardiff crown court, he said: "The verdicts show we have a criminal justice that works. When people act to defend themselves and their property it will not be considered unlawful."Woodhouse's landscape gardening business near Abergavenny, in south-east Wales, had frequently been targeted by thieves in the five years before the incident. He was woken after midnight when an alarm rang in his home indicating that his premises were being raided again.When he got there he found that two thieves were stealing diesel. He grabbed a fence post one of them was carrying as a weapon and used it to fight back. One was left with broken bones and he rugby-tackled the other and lay on him until the police arrived.He said: "I have striven to build businesses to provide a living for me and my family and to provide employment to others. I acted to retrieve property stolen from my business and to detain the two people and in the course of the struggle it was unfortunate one of them got injured. It was never my intention to injure anyone that night."But it might serve as a reminder to other burglars and thieves that there are sometimes unintended consequences to entering property in the dead of night."Woodhouse's lawyer, Andrew Taylor, told the jury that many people would simply have claimed the insurance. But Taylor said: "Mr Woodhouse is made of sterner stuff. He showed stoicism, courage and fitness to chase them."He agrees the red mist came down, which you can understand when his business has almost been wiped out by crime. If it hadn't been for him, these men would not have been caught. Where are we in society when a person cannot act in self-defence to protect his property? That is what Mr Woodhouse was doing."James Wilson, prosecuting, described Woodhouse's actions as an "unreasonable and unlawful assault". He said: "It was not reasonable self-defence. Mr Woodhouse lost his temper and went over the top. He is a hard-working businessman but he has let his frustration get the better of him. He lost it."The two men apprehended by Woodhouse, Kevin Green, 53, and Timothy Cross, 32, were charged with theft and fined £75 each.