Up to 3m people will be forced to undergo DNA tests after Tony Blair unveiled plans yesterday to record the personal details of every person arrested in Britain.In a move criticised by civil rights campaigners, the prime minister announced an extra £109m to ensure that DNA samples from "virtually the entire criminally active population" are stored on Britain's DNA database. Speaking to police officers in Kent, the prime minister swept aside civil rights concerns as he outlined plans to add an extra 3m samples to the existing 940,000 samples held on the police DNA database by 2004. "I believe that the civil liberties argument is completely misplaced," Mr Blair said. "This is using technology to catch criminals." The prime minister's plan will allow police officers to take DNA samples from any person arrested for a "recordable" offence, ranging from shoplifting to murder. Police already have the powers to carry out such tests but the high costs involved - each test costs £40 - means that officers only tend to take DNA samples from people arrested for the most serious offences. One home office source said: "The extra money will allow the police to take DNA samples from suspects at the lower end of the scale - the average burglar may leave DNA samples at several properties." Ministers believe that civil rights campaigners are wrong to object because DNA samples will be destroyed if a suspect is released without charge or is acquitted. However, DNA records of suspects who are cautioned will be kept. The civil liberties group, Liberty, said last night that Mr Blair's plan would increase the number of DNA samples which are allegedly held illegally by the police. Mary Cunneen, the group's associate director, said: "The forensic science laboratory currently holds 50,000 DNA samples unlawfully. This is a clear breach of privacy for the individuals concerned and Liberty would be very interested in pursuing a judicial review." The prime minister's announcement - his first major policy initiative since returning from his summer holiday on Tuesday - was one of the highlights of the government's "law and order week" as ministers attempt to regain the initiative over crime. The home secretary, Jack Straw, launched the fightback on Wednesday when he unveiled the first national police recruitment campaign. Mr Blair will attempt to maintain the momentum in Glasgow today when he declares that all drug offenders will be forced to undergo special treatment. Downing Street decided to make crime the theme of the week after Labour's private polling showed that the Tories had pulled ahead on law and order in the wake William Hague's controversial interventions on asylum and the jailing of the Norfolk farmer, Tony Martin. One Downing Street source said ministers hoped to undermine the Tories by pointing out that expensive anti-crime initiatives, such as the new DNA tests, would be in jeopardy under the Tories because of Mr Hague's plans to impose £16bn spending cuts. Mr Blair will attempt to reinforce his "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" image today when he unveils plans to force all drug offenders to undergo treatment. In a speech in Glasgow, the prime minister will say that a series of pilot projects of new drug and treatment orders show that they drastically reduce the re-offending rate. Offenders who escaped the treatment committed 107 offences a month. This contrasted with 10 offences from those who underwent treatment. "Treatment orders help to break the link between drugs and crime," Mr Blair will say. The prime minister believes that extra resources can transform the fight against crime. However, he made clear yesterday that the criminal justice system would have to embrace reform. "I think we have effec tively got a 19th century justice system in a 21st century world," he said. He criticised the court system in particular. "It is run far too much for the convenience of the individual court," he said. However, the prime minister faced mild embarrassment when the chief constable of Kent, his host yesterday, questioned the government's police recruitment campaign. Sir David Phillips said successful policing was not just down to "the decorative presence of a few patrolling officers".