Neighbours told yesterday how they tried to save a blood-soaked mother of five, pregnant with twins, who was stabbed in the back shortly after visiting an antenatal clinic.She was named by detectives in Hull as Tina Stevenson, 31, who died after staggering to a nearby house for help, gasping "I'm 33 weeks pregnant". Paramedics tried but failed to save the unborn twins. Police are questioning a man in his 20s about the daytime attack and examining closed circuit TV footage of a tall white man running from the scene. Officers wearing body armour stormed Ms Stevenson's rented flat after the incident on Wednesday but found no one present. Detective Superintendent Ray Higgins said officers were uncertain about a motive but the man being questioned is known to have had a relationship with Ms Stevenson. Mr Higgins did not discount the possibility of a random attack. He said that his team hoped that it was a "one-off, isolated incident". Det Supt Higgins said that Ms Stevenson had been married at some stage but officers were struggling to sort out her more recent history and lifestyle. "Somebody must have seen the person responsible in the area and I appeal for anyone who thinks they saw him to call us." The savagery of the stabbing in Hessle Road shocked residents. Ms Stevenson was one of a largely transitory population who rent flats in multi-occupation houses and none of her children lived with her. Her two sons aged 10 and nine and an eight-year-old daughter live at different addresses in Hull; two teenage girls live elsewhere in the country. Detectives have contacted relatives in Derbyshire and Fife but have not yet pieced together the muddled bits of the her life. Shantelle Guymer, a neighbour who opened her door to find Ms Stevenson standing in a daze, cared for her as she lay dying on a sofa. She said that she had thought Ms Stevenson would survive. "She'd been talking to a man who was asking her questions relayed to him over his phone by paramedics. All she said was: 'I'm Tina. I'm 33 weeks' pregnant with twins. I'm 31.' She was bleeding heavily and we brought her in and I think we did everything we could. "She sat on the settee saying 'My babies, my babies, my babies.' We tried to keep her awake but eventually she just passed out." Film from a CCTV camera on the corner of Gee Street, where Ms Stevenson lived, shows her returning from the clinic and then setting out again from her flat. The attack moments later was not caught on film but the suspect is then seen from behind running away down Gee Street.