Tony Blair said yesterday that the clutch of bills to deal with crime and antisocial disorder at the heart of the Queen's Speech was designed to create a "victim justice system" rather than the present "criminal justice system" and aimed to tackle poor detection, conviction and reoffending rates.Their introduction brings the number of anti-crime bills introduced since the 1997 general election to 14 but they also represent the most sustained attempt yet to redeem Labour's pledge to be "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime". The announcement last night of a white paper next spring on measures to tackle domestic violence shows they will not form part of next week's criminal justice bill. Criminal justice bill This promises to "rebalance the system in favour of victims, witnesses and communities and deliver justice for all, by building greater trust and credibility while protecting the rights of the innocent". Amongst its proposals are: · Bail reforms, including the presumption that those who test positive for heroin and cocaine and refuse treatment will be remanded in custody. · Improving the preparation of prosecution cases and increasing magistrates' sentencing powers from six months to 12 months, with an option of up to 18 months, so that fewer cases go to crown court. Right to jury trial remains. · Judge only trials in cases involving complex fraud or where there is a threat or evidence of jury tampering. Other measures aim to end the "middle class boycott" of jury service. · Changes in rules of evidence: earlier disclosure of evidence, use of previous convictions where relevant; allow use of reported or hearsay evidence when witness cannot be present or at discretion of judge. Restriction of "double-jeopardy" rule in very serious cases to enable re-trial if new and compelling evidence, eg DNA evidence, emerges. · Overhaul of criminal sentencing including custody "plus" and custody "minus" sentences involving community penalties; new sentence to ensure that dangerous offenders remain in custody as they are a threat to the community. A sentencing guidelines council to be set up.Courts Plans to merge the magistrates and crown courts have been dropped. Instead their administration is to merge with a new inspectorate to review their performance. Improvements in court security and a safer environment for victims and witnesses are promised. Courts to pay more attention to a defendants' ability to pay fines with alternatives available, such as seizing their cars. Changes in payment of damages for personal injury and improved procedures in family dispute cases over custody and maintenance payments. Antisocial behaviour A white paper is to be published in the new year on tackling antisocial behaviour which will be swiftly followed by a single bill. Ministers also intend to publish a green paper dealing with children at risk. The bill will tackle vandalism including graffiti, spray painting and fly-tipping. It will also tackle the dangerous use of airguns and fireworks. There will be a massive extension in the use fixed penalty fines with up to 50 different low level nuisance and antisocial offences, such as littering, under consideration. Powers will extend the number of people who can enforce them. It will also deal with nuisance neighbours and the parents of persistent truants who refuse to cooperate with schools. It will be much easier to evict antisocial tenants and some "neighbours from hell" may face penalties including loss of housing benefit. The parents of persistent truants could also face having their child benefit docked but there will also be more parenting orders. The stick is also intended to be accompanied by the carrot with the introduction of individual support orders.