Children are still being taken into care on dubious evidence of sexual abuse 20 years after the Cleveland childcare scandal, a senior high court judge has warned.Mr Justice Holman questioned whether, two decades later, the lessons of Cleveland had been learned, as he ruled that a 10-year-old girl removed from home for 11 months had never been abused at all and "completely exonerated" her parents.The judge described the case, heard in private, as "every parent's nightmare". His judgment, delivered six weeks ago, has now been published so lessons can be learned by doctors, social workers, lawyers and judges. The girl, named only as A, was taken to hospital by her parents after her mother discovered a small blood stain on her underpants. Small amounts of blood were found several times and A was subjected to eight genital examinations. She and her brother B, a year older, were taken from their parents, who are in their early 30s and live in Leeds, and placed with their grandparents for nearly a year. As in Cleveland, where 121 children were taken into care within five months in 1987 on suspicion of abuse, the case rested on doctors' opinions that the condition of the girl's genitals and anus was abnormal and suggested abuse. Fortunately for the parents, a new guide to the physical signs of sex abuse from the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health was about to be published. The first to be based on evidence from research studies, it came out last month. Having seen a draft of the guide, two of the doctors were less certain that the physical signs they had seen indicated abuse.The parents got permission from the court to bring in an American expert on child sex abuse, Professor Astrid Heger from California. She said the physical signs were entirely normal. As a result of her evidence, a dermatologist was consulted, who suggested that the bleeding could have been caused by eczema. The girl was adamant throughout the case that she had never been abused and all the evidence indicated a close and stable family. "There was nothing at all about this family to attract the slightest attention, worry or concern," said the judge. "All the indications were, and are, that the parents and children were a well functioning, happy and close-knit family, in which the children thrived and performed well at school." After the suspicions of sexual abuse were raised, the children were closely watched by their parents, so no outsider had any opportunity to abuse them."Being caring and attentive parents, they took their child to the hospital or doctor at the slightest worrying sign. A became subjected to no less than eight invasive, intimate examinations of her private parts. The children were removed from home for 11 months, and only permitted highly supervised contact with their parents. Both children must inevitably have been emotionally damaged by the experiences." The judge stressed the importance of listening to the child's story - "an express denial is no less an account than is a positive account of abuse" - and considering the parents' account, the whole of the family circumstances and the quality of parenting, rather than placing too much emphasis on physical examinations. "The medical assessment of physical signs of sexual abuse has a considerably subjective element, and unless there is clearly diagnostic evidence of abuse (eg the presence of semen or a foreign body internally) purely medical assessments and opinions should not be allowed to predominate," he added. "Even 20 years after the Cleveland inquiry, I wonder whether its lessons have fully been learned."