New Labour's arrogant disdain for the niceties of parliamentary government has often been evident. Protected by the usual rules of Whitehall secrecy, Home Secretary David Blunkett is currently taking this approach to a new and dangerous level. Instead of waiting for the most controversial parts of his Police Reform Bill to become law, he is already taking steps to enact them. For decades, responsibility for policing has rested on a 'tripartite' system of checks and balances, with the Home Office, chief officers and local police authorities supposedly playing equal roles.British policing depends on the idea of consent from and partnership with local communities, not the imposition of centralised state power. Poor as it has often been in responding to minorities, the British police service looks a lot more democratic and accountable than forces in countries which follow the centralised model, such as, for example, France.When Blunkett introduced his Police Reform Bill in the Lords earlier this year, these were the principles which persuaded the peers to do away with his most deeply cherished measures, those which would give him and his successors unprecedented central control. By an almost two to one majority, the Lords rejected them. As the Liberal Democrat spokesman Lord Dholakia put it: 'We are saying "no", you cannot change the essentially local nature of policing in this country.' If all the Bill were enacted, he said, it would open the way for 'the politicisation of the police'.Blunkett greeted his defeat with characteristic intransigence. He needed these powers to make the police effective, he insisted, and now, as the Bill begins to make its way through the Commons, all the centralising clauses thrown out by the Lords have been reinstated. So far, so politically normal. Blunkett, however, has not merely vowed to reverse his reversal. He is behaving as if it had never happened. The principal instrument of his New Model Police is a central 'Standards Unit'. This, the Bill says, would have powers to monitor police performance closely, down to the level of every local division (or 'Basic Command Units' as they are now known); to intervene with Whitehall-appointed 'hit-squads' in these BCUs which were 'failing' and consequently 'named and shamed'; to demand detailed 'action plans' from both BCUs and entire forces where the unit finds them necessary; and to sack local senior officers and chief constables. Students of Blunkett's record as Education Secretary will note a familiar template. The fate of the Bill still hangs in the balance, but that hasn't stopped Blunkett getting the Standards Unit up and running. It is already employing at least 100 staff and subjecting local police chiefs to intense operational scrutiny. Concerned that the public should not be alarmed by short-term trends, Blunkett has told chief constables not to publish their crime figures more frequently than every six months. The Standards Unit is demanding and getting them from every BCU each month. Every temporary dip and blip is pored over and analysed and already some chiefs know that they lie near the bottom of the unit's 'league tables'. Their voluble, private resentment at the unit's boss, Dr Kevin Bond, late of Yorkshire Water, is perhaps understandable. His firsthand knowledge of policing ended 10 years ago, when he tried and failed to become an assistant chief constable. His salary of £200,000 for a four-day week is about double that of most chief constables. Despite all this activity, it is becoming increasingly unlikely that the relevant clauses in the Bill will become law. By introducing the measure in the Lords, Blunkett deprived himself of the ability to use the Parliament Act to impose the will of the Commons, should the peers reject these clauses a second time, as Home Office sources admit is highly likely. With a second Lords defeat, they would fall permanently, leaving Bond's unit as an extremely expensive white elephant. Monitor he may, but if the law is not passed, he can ask chief constables for action plans all he likes - and they can simply refuse. At the same time, the unit is part of a bizarre mosaic of duplicated effort, all absorbing countless hours of police time in filling in forms and supplying statistics instead of fighting crime. The 10 forces which Tony Blair has designated priority areas for tackling muggings are supplying not monthly but weekly crime figures to Scat, the Street Crime Action Team, another new civil service sub-department a floor down from the Standards Unit. Chief constables say a small rise in thefts in a place such as, for example, Handsworth, will provoke a series of lengthy phone calls, and perhaps a severe grilling at the regular robbery meetings chaired in person by Blair.Meanwhile, the Inspectorate of Constabulary, which used merely to visit forces and report on their efficiency, now demands co-operation in a bewildering array of examinations, including 'best-value reviews', 'efficiency plans' and 'risk-assessment reviews'. 'When Blunkett started, he promised he would reduce the number of statistics and performance indicators,' one police chief said last week. 'What we have got is more than ever.' This maniacal focus on numerical measurement comes at a time when the police service is probably more prepared to accept the need for improvements in performance than at any time in its history. Last year, in a paper for the Institute of Public Policy Research, Peter Neyroud, chief constable of Thames Valley, a leading member of the Association of Chief Police Officers' inner 'cabinet', made an eloquent case for more effective locally based accountability: BCU chiefs should be answerable to local police 'boards', drawn from a variety of elected and nominated organisations, which would set strategic objectives in tune with local needs, and hold commanders to account for their delivery. In one force, West Mercia, where Neyroud formerly served as deputy chief, prototypes are already in place. Pouring resources into fighting robbery to fulfil political pledges will merely divert attention from something else, storing up a new crime problem for the future. As an old policing adage has it, 'what gets measured gets done', whatever the cost for a police service genuinely in touch with the community it serves. Lord Lester, the Liberal Democrat peer, once commented: 'Power is delightful. Absolute power is absolutely delightful.' Pursuing more of it, David Blunkett seems unaware not only of the long-term consequences, but of basic respect for constitutional norms. Nick Cohen is away