A man has been jailed for four-and-a-half years after killing a pedestrian with a punch to the head following a row with a cyclist about riding on the pavement.Footage was released of the moment when Lewis Gill, 20, struck Andrew Young, who had become embroiled moments earlier in an argument with one of Gill's friends, Victor Ibitoye.After Young argued with Ibitoye, telling him that cycling on the pavement was dangerous, Gill approached the pedestrian in broad daylight in a busy shopping area of Bournemouth and punched him in the face.The CCTV footage showed Young, who was 40 years old, falling backwards following the sudden blow and striking his head on the road surface.A number of passersby rushed to the aid of Young, who was rushed to hospital. He died the following day from his head injuries.Gill was jailed at Salisbury crown court last Friday after he pleaded guilty to a charge of manslaughter, prompting Young's grieving mother, Pamela, to describe the sentence handed down as a "joke"."I saw the CCTV footage in court and you can see that Andrew didn't cause Lewis Gill any harm," she said. "I sat with him when he died. I wish that awful man who took my son away had pleaded not guilty so he would have got a longer sentence."The sentence is an absolute joke. I'm a committed Christian, but I think that if someone takes a life, they should be prepared to forfeit their own."There have been many people who have committed manslaughter or murder in this country and they never even serve a full sentence."The incident happened at 4.25pm on 6 November last year outside a Tesco Express in Charminster, Bournemouth. Young, who had Asperger's syndrome, was said to be able to speak several languages, but had the social skills of a 14-year-old.The court heard he told Ibitoye during the argument that riding his bike on the pavement was a "dangerous activity". After the brief argument, Ibitoye cycled away from Young and apparently had no idea what Gill was about to do.Kerry Maylin, prosecuting, said: "The defendant claims he was worried about Andrew Young because he thought he was being menacing. He said Andrew Young put his hand to his pocket and he thought he was going to pull out a knife or a gun."A postmortem examination found that Young had no injuries to indicate that he had tried to defend himself.The court was told that Gill punched Young after the victim allegedly made a racist remark.Steven Perian, defending, added: "He wishes he could turn back the clock and not react in the way he did."Jailing Gill, from Sutton, Surrey, judge Keith Cutler said that Young did not represent a threat to him, adding: "You are a powerfully built young man."You must have known that it was going to cause a significant injury and, very sadly, it did."Gill was also sentenced to two three-month prison terms to run consecutively after committing the crime while on a suspended sentence for robbery and for handling stolen goods.• This article was amended on 26 February 2014. The original mistakenly referred to the mother of the victim as "Gill's mother". She is actually Young's mother.