The Plymouth Argyle goalkeeper, Luke McCormick, appeared in court today charged with killing two young brothers by dangerous driving in a crash on the M6 in Staffordshire.McCormick is also charged with driving with excess alcohol in his blood and without insurance.He appeared at Fenton magistrates court in Stoke-on-Trent and was released on conditional bail to appear at Stoke crown court on June 16.Arron Peak, 10, and his brother Ben, eight, were killed in the crash early on Saturday near the Keele services, Their father was badly injured. The boys' mother, Amanda Peak, 30, was in court today holding a teddy bear and a framed photograph of her sons.Three other passengers in the Toyota Previa van - a 49-year-old man and his sons, aged eight and 15 - were treated in hospital for minor injuries after the collision with McCormick's vehicle.The group, all from Manchester, had been travelling to Silverstone, Northamptonshire. The dead boys' father, Philip Peak, 37, remained seriously ill in intensive care at the North Staffordshire University hospital yesterday. Police said he had a suspected broken neck and back.The boy's parents said in a statement: "Nothing will ever compensate us for the loss we are feeling." Their mother added: "Phil and I are devastated by the sudden and tragic death of our two beautiful boys, Arron and Ben. No parent should have to go through the nightmare we have gone through."Arron was my eldest son, loved life and especially football, at which he excelled. Ben was a happy, loving son and brother."Mrs Peak said she had to break the news to her husband at his hospital bedside.McCormick, 24, who comes from Coventry, is a former England youth international and was twice voted Argyle's young player of the season. He was in a black Range Rover that collided with the Toyota, sending it off the southbound carriageway and into trees.Police said they were building up a "clear view" of the case and had taken statements from witnesses. They urged motorists who may have seen the Range Rover before the crash to come forward.Plymouth Argyle said in a statement: "The club is aware of an incident involving one of our players that occurred on Saturday morning on the M6. As the incident is subject to police inquiries, the club feels it would be inappropriate to make any comment at this stage."In a further statement, the club said it wanted to send its condolences to the family and friends of the two boys. "They are very much in our thoughts and prayers at this sad time."McCormick had helped police in Plymouth, Devon, launch a campaign about careless driving this year. A video showed the footballer trying to save teammates' penalties with one hand while talking into a mobile phone held in the other.