In an article for the radical American magazine, Ramparts, more than 30 years ago, Susan Griffin wrote: 'I have never asked why men raped; I simply thought it one of the many mysteries of human nature.'Unless that mystery is unravelled fast, no matter how radical the overhaul of the legal system, no matter how improved investigations become, rapists will go on attacking with impunity.They will do so protected by society's ignorance of what kinds of men rape and why, and its lack of awareness of the mental destruction rape can exact on those - female and male - attacked.For too long, the focus has been on the women's behaviour. In 1982 a judge fined a rapist £2,000 because of the woman's 'contributory negligence'. She had been hitch-hiking. Once, a mini-skirt was seen as a 'come on'; now it's six tequila slammers. What links both is the myth that a woman means 'yes' when all else about her is saying 'no'.The difficulty is that the myth, like them all, contains a sliver of truth. Even in these sexually saturated times, shame casts a long shadow over some women's actions, however innocuous.For the few who cry rape out of vindictiveness or because they have behaved as they wish they hadn't, thousands find they have no defence because their attackers say: 'She wanted it, she just won't admit it.'The issue of consent has become very much nastier. Ironically, because society acknowledges that even 'nice' girls have sex with someone they've known for five hours, it becomes easier to convince a jury that nice girls will also consent to having sex with six men.In the Seventies and Eighties, Home Office research found a false perception of the 'average rapist'. In one study, an advertisement in California asked men who had committed rape without having been convicted to volunteer for interview. Most convicted rapists were poor, ill-educated and often black. Yet those who responded to the adverts were mostly white, had higher education qualifications and two-fifths were white-collar workers.A Home Office report said: 'Men who admit rape may be more evenly distributed through the male population than previously imagined.' It sought 'a fuller understanding ... of why rape occurs'. We're still waiting for that fuller understanding while the techniques for tackling the crime appear crude. Rape is, of course, about power. It is a weapon of war. It also seems to have become an ugly rite of male bonding for groups of young men. It is a game for adrenalin junkies with an empathy bypass.We need more imaginative ways to tackle rape. We must question the double standard that still prevails. In 2000 a man falsely accused of rape was awarded £400,000 damages. Five years earlier Linda Griffiths brought a private prosecution for rape when the Crown Prosecution Service refused to act. She got £50,000. One aspect of the mystery of why some men rape is no mystery at all. They rape, without punishment, because they can.