 David Handley, founder of Farmers For Action and leader of 2000 fuel protests When used in a responsible manner, direct action is a good way of making the government or the public think for the first time about a subject or think in a different way about an issue. But ... it should only be used as a last resort, when all other avenues have been tried and failed. We took action because we believed the government wasn't listening to the farmers. We made them listen. Doing a stunt just for its own sake achieves nothing and you have to make sure people's egos don't get in the way. Good luck to this Batman guy. He's certainly got his message across.   The Rev Malcolm Carroll, long-standing Greenpeace activist  Of course direct action works. Greenpeace would not invest so much time and effort in such campaigns if it did not. There are pitfalls - if it is a stunt rather than an action then the message is lost. I think direct action is most effective when, for instance, you are heading out in a dinghy to try to save a whale. It is a symbolic act but it is also practical - at least one or two might be saved. The Fathers4Justice action was clearly successful and gave them huge exposure. But it is very difficult to control the message when the media gets hold of a story.   Brenda Boughton, 79-year-old peace campaigner who refuses to pay her taxes in full because of defence policies  As far as I'm concerned direct action is essential. I don't believe in paying that part of my taxes which I calculate goes on defence spending, so I simply refuse to pay. They take me to court and in the end the Inland Revenue takes the money directly from my bank. I think it's important that more people realise that what I am doing is not an extraordinary thing. If they did follow their consciences more, many other people would do what I do. I think the man who dressed up as Batman and risked his life must have felt he had no choice.   Andrew Rigby, professor of peace studies at Coventry University  Those who take part in direct action have [to ask themselves] how they can justify it in a liberal democracy. What gives them the right when there are legitimate ways to get themselves heard? The answer, of course, is that they have lost faith in the legal process. However, I think the Fathers4Justice campaign was particularly effective because of the Batman outfit. You couldn't help but laugh - and think all was well with the world after all.   Mark Borkowski, head of PR firm that specialises in celebrity stunts  The history of direct action is a proud one, taking in the likes of Peter Tatchell, Greenpeace and Swampy. Many feature very brave individuals - think of those campaigners on a tiny inflatable heading out to tackle a huge tanker or whaler. It does work. The bottom line is that we are talking about the Fathers4Justice stunt. I think fathers' rights is an issue the media hasn't taken seriously enough and what these people have done is get it on the agenda. What you have to do is make sure you have a strong brand and a clear message - and then find something really eyecatching to do, as Batman has done. The catch then is to hang on to the "Daily Mail vote". Some, like Swampy and the Greenham Common women, couldn't do that. Keeping direct action going is more difficult.   Richard Dodd, a regional director of the Countryside Alliance  Last week around 300 of us turned up outside Tony Blair's home in Trimdon Colliery, County Durham. We were shouting and blowing hunting horns ... Word came back that a few of us would be allowed in to speak to him and we had 20 minutes with him, talking about hunting over a cup of tea. If we had written to him asking for a meeting we would have had no chance. Direct action clearly works and I think we will be doing more of it. · Interviews by Steven Morris