Aware of the shrinking public purse and the £4bn prison-building programme, prison governors are calling on the government to invest in community orders as a way of saving money and cutting reoffending. The demand is backed by a growing number of MPs and probation officers. According to the Guardian, new research shows a reoffending rate above 74% of the 55,000 short-term prisoners jailed each year for up to six months. Napo, the probation union, says the £350m cost of imprisoning them would be better and more effectively spent on intensive community orders with a reconviction rate of 34%.As happens too often, any discussion around penal reform acts as if it's gender neutral, while actually focusing on the male prison estate and overlooking what happens to women. Three years ago, a government-commissioned review on female offenders – the Corston report – tried to rectify this. It bravely suggested that prison should be abolished for all but a tiny minority of female prisoners who present a threat to the public or who have committed exceptionally serious crimes.Corston made over 40 recommendations underlining the need for a greater awareness of the differences in the way men and women offend and the causes; community-based punishments outside of jail; geographically dispersed, small, multifunctional custodial centres phased in over 10 years and – crucially – much more intensive holistic support to put a break on female recidivism. "Vulnerable women who are not a danger to society should not be going to prison," Home Office minister Baroness Scotland said at the time. But in spite of Corston, too many women continue to go to prison, often for crimes against property and drug offences, precisely because there aren't sufficient community-based measures in existence.In 2009, the Ministry of Justice allocated over £15m to develop a range of services to divert women from custody – that is welcome (if funding is sustained) but it is loose change compared with the cost of keeping a growing number incarcerated at a price of £41,000 per year, per prisoner. If community-based punishment and a reduction in recidivism is to be achieved, that requires a proper investment with a view to the long-term savings not a cheap-rate move driven by cuts. Reducing the prison-building programme while offering inadequate community punishments and insufficient support to step through a door to a different life may put the public at risk, while exacerbating reoffending and setting penal reform back even further.The charity, Women in Prison, of which I am a trustee, helps to run some of these holistic services – and they can and do make a difference, helping women when they come out of prison; working to reunite mothers and children; assisting with housing, training, employment, health, addiction and other issues. It's costly but worthwhile – for women, children and society. But it's barely reaching those who need the help most for as long as is necessary.In 1993, 1,560 women were in prison. The population rose to a high of 4,672 in May 2004, and it has dropped since, but it is still at almost triple the female prison population in the 1990s. Magistrates lock up women because there are too few alternatives. Around 55% of women in prison have a child under 16, 33% a child under five and 20% are lone parents.One in five of the female prison population is on remand – most won't serve a prison sentence but being locked up awaiting trial can have the same impact as serving a short jail sentence. It can mean women lose children who are taken into care and forfeit their homes and jobs. There has been a 27% increase in the number of women entering prison on remand awaiting trial between 1998 and 2008 (compared to a 14% decrease for men in the same period). Remand to a non-secure local authority accommodation has declined by 43% in the last four years. A woman coming out of prison after months on remand, often not guilty of a crime, but with her personal circumstances in a mess, isn't eligible for any practical support – so that's another life wasted, another family of children placed in care.The majority of women in prison (and men) are graduates of rubbish childhoods. In England and Wales we lock these people up with gusto – much more so than France and Germany. Women and men on parole can be recalled for a breach of their sentence. In the five years to 2005, there was a 350% increase in prisoners recalled, and they now account for a significant slice of the prison population.Recall at times has a valid reason; often, however, if a woman, for instance is homeless, has mental health issues and is moving from one friend's sofa to another, she frequently never receives the letter from her probation officer summoning her to a meeting. So, she fails to turn up and may then technically be in breach of her conditions. As a result, she can spend longer in prison for this breach, than for the original offence. It's not much of a second chance.The call to punishment in the community is welcome – but it would be more reassuring if it was driven by knowledge of what works most effectively; a clear idea of the resources required and an understanding of the scale of the savings made but often only in the very long term. Saving pennies in the short term does not turn lives around.• This article was amended on 22 June 2010, correcting the spelling of the Corston report