The parents of a five-month-old baby who died after being savaged by dogs have spoken for the first time of their grief at the loss of their "beautiful" daughter.The family's statement was released through Leicestershire police after it emerged that the girl's grandfather was seriously injured in a separate attack at the weekend.Cadey-Lee Deacon's mother, Amy, and her partner, Lee Burchell, said: "Words cannot express our devastation at what has happened."We just cannot believe that Cadey-Lee is gone. She was such a beautiful little girl. We loved her so much and we just can't accept that something like this could have happened."They said they now needed time to grieve and asked for the media to respect their privacy.Earlier, the family and police revealed that the girl's grandfather John Brightwell suffered serious stab wounds and his partner, Debra Larn, was killed in a separate attack.Chief Superintendent Steve Pitts said Cadey-Lee's death was not linked to the incident at the couple's home in Beaumont Leys on Sunday, just hours later."The two investigations are entirely separate," he said. A 26-year-old man has been charged with murder and grevious bodily harm and will appear at Leicester magistrates court tomorrow.Cadey-Lee died on Saturday afternoon while she was in her family's living quarters above the Rocket pub in New Parks, another part of Leicester.Police said she had been "dragged for a distance", possibly on to a balcony. The baby was taken at about 4pm to Leicester royal infirmary, where she died. Neighbours yesterday described the rottweilers as "very aggressive".Police said the chronology of the attack remained unclear because the family's distress prevented them from giving details of what had happened. A Leicestershire police spokeswoman said: "As you can imagine, they're in a terribly distressed state. The dogs were in the premises at the time. They grabbed the baby and dragged her a distance. I think there's a balcony area and they may have ended up there. It was just really, really fast. The girl was immediately whisked away to hospital but she tragically died." The dogs were put down on Sunday afternoon, a police statement said.A neighbour, who declined to be named, said the dogs attacked the baby with such ferocity her features were destroyed. "They went for the face, completely ripped her apart," the woman said.Residents said the rottweilers belonged to the landlord, who is believed to be away on holiday. Flowers and teddy bears were left in the doorway of the pub, which was closed yesterday. The Dangerous Dogs Act 1991, introduced after a spate of attacks gained widespread publicity, stipulated that pit bull terriers must be muzzled in public, as well as targeting the owners of any dog that is dangerously out of control. Last year, a one-year-old boy died at Leeds infirmary after being savaged by the family's American bulldog in their garden. The RSPCA warns that any dog has the potential to attack if provoked.