A 19-year-old terrorist suspect was being questioned by Avon and Somerset police yesterday after an army bomb disposal team carried out a controlled explosion at his home.About 30 people were evacuated from houses in Comb Paddock, a cul-de-sac in Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol. The raid, carried out in coordination with the Metropolitan police, was the result of a rapidly executed "covert" intelligence operation.Neighbours said the suspect, who had moved into the street recently, was often seen in Muslim dress. He was described as heavily built and polite. He had been arrested elsewhere in Bristol on Thursday afternoon under the Terrorism Act 2000. A search of his modern redbrick terrace house in the evening found what was believed to be an explosive device.Neighbours were evacuated and a blast was heard at around 2am as a charge was detonated on the suspect object.The families from 14 homes were initially taken to a nearby school, Badock's Wood primary, but later sent to a hotel in the city centre. A forensic search of the property is expected to last several days.Assistant chief constable Rod Hansen said a "container" was taken from the house and covered in sandbags before the controlled explosion. Last night bomb disposal officers were preparing to carry out a second explosion at the house after they discovered more "suspect" material."We are not prepared to confirm [the suspect's] identity or ethnicity," Hansen said. "However, we can confirm he did not own the property, and that he has previously come into contact with the police. We are liaising with sections of the community, including worshippers at mosques and community leaders. We are also attending prayer meetings to ensure worshippers are aware of the police activity and our role during this incident."The man was said by local papers to be Andrew Ibrahim, a recent convert. He is at an undisclosed police station. Officers have been granted a further seven days to question him. Police declined to reveal what type of materials were blown up, but said they had been sent off for analysis. Farooq Siddique, of the Bristol Muslim Cultural Society, said: "We have a long history of very good community relations here and people have worked very hard to keep it that way. The Muslim community supports the work of the police. Terrorism affects all of society and we all have to work against it."