The mystery surrounding the doorstep murder of an elderly colonel took a bizarre twist yesterday when it emerged that for three hours police officers and ambulance staff did not notice that the victim had been blasted by a shotgun.The revelation that forensic clues at the scene might have inadvertently been destroyed came as Hertfordshire police released the recording of a 999 call belatedly directing the ambulance service to the body of Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Workman, 83. The taped voice of what sounded like an elderly man was played by detectives yesterday in the hope that someone might recognise the caller. In a brief exchange, at 4.57am last Thursday and lasting no more than 20 seconds, the caller - speaking from a telephone box in a neighbouring village - gave the address to which an ambulance should be sent. It initially sounded like "Holly Hock Cottage, the Causeway, Furneux Pelham". The caller subsequently spelt the name of the house as "Holly Cock" and Furneux as "Furneaux". No reason for requesting the ambulance was given. Col Workman had lived at the house - real name Cock House - for 27 years. Only one sign in the east Hertfordshire village spells Furneux with an "a". The officer leading the investigation, Detective Superintendent Richard Mann, hopes the call may lead police to the killer, possibly someone from the past who bore a grudge against the colonel. The detective revealed that in about 1980 Col Workman's wife called the house Holly Hock Cottage after her favourite flower, but the name did not stick. Officers believe the caller's accent is local, probably someone who lives in rural Hertfordshire. He pronounced the village as "Furnix Pelham", as locals do. When the ambulance arrived in the village its staff could not find anything amiss and departed. It was 7am before Col Workman's body was discovered by his daily carer. She found him sprawled across the doorstep. She summoned the police and ambulance service. In the meantime a number of other local people arrived, including a GP. The body was covered by a duvet and the doctor certified the death at 8.15am. "It was not until 10 past 10, when the undertakers decided to move the body," Mr Mann told a press conference yesterday at Hertfordshire police headquarters, "that the wound was discovered and the death treated as suspicious. "The ambulance service and the health authority have instituted an investigation, and we are reviewing how we deal with reports of sudden death. "Obviously I was not impressed - but it has happened. I can't say whether evidence was lost or not." He conceded that the chest wound was relatively small. The fatal blast came from a 12-bore shotgun fired from a distance of one or two feet. The colonel died almost instantly. "We are still trying to find what any possible motive might have been," Mr Mann said. "We are pursuing a number of lines of inquiry." Two family liaison officers are flying out today to Australia to interview the colonel's brother, in the hope that something significant may emerge. His military record - he served in Cyprus, and was ADC to Field Marshall Slim - is also being examined. After he retired the colonel was in the antiques business for a long time. Complicating the inquiry is the fact that the old name of the house and the alternative spelling of the village are both still listed in phone books. Records of calls to all British directory inquiry companies for the colonel's number and address are to be examined. Forensic tests on the telephone box in the neighbouring village of Braughing from which the 999 call was made have yet to provide any clues. Last night officers carried out controlled stops on people moving around the village exactly a week after the killing in the hope of obtaining evidence. "I do realise that it may be difficult for people to pick up the phone - but, if anyone does recognise the voice, please contact our incident room on 01992 533174," Mr Mann said. "The voice is mature, it's of someone over 50, perhaps over 60. "There could be quite a legitimate reason why someone made that call. "But if the caller is connected to the shooting, it may be that the shooting was a mistake, or it may suggest belated feelings of compassion. We may be trying to apply logic to something that is not a logical situation." Officers have been considering calling in shotguns held legally but there are more than 4,000 licensed firearms holders in east Hertfordshire. "We are also looking at previous calls made from the box where the 999 call was made," Mr Mann added. "We are awaiting records from the directory inquiry companies." The transcript This is a transcript of the 999 call made from a telephone box in Braughing nearly nine hours after the murder of Lieutenant-Colonel Workman at his home three miles away   Ambulance operator Hello caller, hello  Caller Hello  Operator The ambulance service - what's the address you want the ambulance to come to?  Caller Ambulance - it's Holly Hock Cottage  Operator Holly  Caller Holly Hock Cottage  Operator Can you spell that for me?  Caller H-O-L-L-Y-C-O-C-K  Operator And what road is it on?  Caller It's the Causeway  Operator The Causeway?  Caller Yes.  Operator In what town?  Caller It's Furneux Pelham  Operator Can you spell that for me?  Caller F-U-R-N-E-A-U-X, P-E _  Operator Is that S for Sierra?  Caller Furneux Pelham, Pelham  Operator Bear with me a moment  Caller That's near Buntingford ·  A tape recording of the 999 call can be heard at www.herts.police.uk