Three leading chief constables yesterday called for the most radical shake-up of the police in England and Wales for 40 years. They argued that the number of forces should be cut from 43 to 20 and a powerful new FBI-style national agency set up to tackle the most serious crime.The proposals for a three-tier policing structure include partly-elected Northern Ireland-style local policing boards to oversee the work of neighbourhood police chiefs dealing with low-level crime, noisy neighbours, and anti-social behaviour. The call from the three "modernising" chief police officers - Sir Ian Blair, the deputy Metropolitan police commissioner; Peter Neyroud, the Thames Valley chief constable; and Dennis O'Connor, the chief constable of Surrey - represents the first time in 40 years that any senior police officer has argued that some forces should be merged. It could spell the end of traditional shire county police forces. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has already made clear that when it comes to his "new localist" police reform plans, "you ain't seen nothing yet". The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, outlined plans earlier this week for directly elected sheriffs, and other wide-ranging changes. Major structural reform of the police in England and Wales now seems firmly on the agenda after the next election. "We three are not alone," said Sir Ian. "Ours is not yet an official position of the Association of Chief Police Officers - but to take but one example, in past decades chief constables have universally resisted any suggestion of amalgamation of their forces. Today, Acpo is rapidly moving to a position where it is suggesting consideration of that process to government, rather than the other way round."The Met deputy commissioner said that in 10 years, the police service should be operating on three levels - national, regional and local - and dealing with everything from counter-terrorism to the cohesion of communities. Sir Ian foresaw most police services being delivered after negotiations between local commanders and the community. They would be backed up with specialist resources from the strategic police authorities. "These authorities are likely to look over the work of a much smaller number of much larger forces," he said. "A border police and a national agency to counter organised crime will have come into existence." The senior police officers envisage new regional forces covering areas such as the north-east or East Anglia, or collaboration between forces in the same region to tackle "middle-ranking" criminals who commit crimes in different areas. The plans for a national agency to tackle the most serious crime, including drug trafficking and gun crime, are backed by all chief constables. An Acpo policy paper has been submitted to the government review considering merging the National Crime Squad, the National Criminal Intelligence Service, and the customs service.But Mr Neyroud made clear yesterday that the police now want to go further and set up an agency with 10,000 to 15,000 directly recruited staff. It would take over investigative work from the Inland Revenue, the immigration service, and social security fraud investigators. Its specialist detective teams, sometimes organised into multi-agency taskforces, would use surveillance technology to take on drugs barons and other organised criminals.