Crime The borough has been given £500,000 from the government for a series of anti-crime initiatives, including the development of an automatic number plate recognition system for tracking vehicles on CCTV cameras. The cash has come from the office of the deputy prime minister, which invited boroughs to bid for "electronic government" projects that would complement the work of police on the ground. Other proposals include launching a crime website and creating databases of information about criminal activity. Detectives from Enfield's rape investigation unit, Operation Sapphire, were behind the prosecution of a teenager who was jailed for life this month for a series of attacks in north London and Hertfordshire. Michael Nash, 19, pleaded guilty to raping a teenager, sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl and indecently assaulting and robbing a 23-year-old woman. Two of the attacks were at knifepoint. Described by officers as "a predatory sex offender", Nash was jailed for 21 years. The Metropolitan police authority has announced that the number of officers in Enfield is to rise from 491 to 535 next year, as the force increases from 27,000 to 35,000 over the next five years. The number of community support officers is also expected to rise. The first four such officers assigned to Enfield started work in April and a further 21 will be on duty by this time next year. Health Three private-sector consortiums are bidding for a 25-year contract giving exclusive rights to build and maintain premises for GPs in Enfield and the neighbouring boroughs of Haringey and Barnet. The scheme, known as NHS Lift, is a primary care version of the private finance initiative, the government's preferred approach to building hospitals. It will include purpose-built health complexes at Forest Road in Edmonton and Moorfield Road in Enfield Highway. They will provide about 38,000 Enfield patients with a wider range of services, including counselling and social care. The shortlisted consortiums - Group 4 Falck, Galliford Try & BHE, and Building Better Health - have been asked to submit designs to health organisations and local authorities in the three boroughs. They have been told the competition will not be won on design grounds alone. "It is important that we can work with the bidder, that they understand what we are trying to achieve in improving services, and see their contribution to the regeneration of the three boroughs," said a spokeswoman for the Enfield primary care trust. Meanwhile the trust continues to struggle to meet the government's target of ensuring that at least 90% of patients are able to see a GP within 48 hours. In Enfield the proportion increased from 81% in April to 84% in May. But 100% could see a practice nurse or other primary care professional within 24 hours.