Saifullah Siddiqi 18, of Forest Gate, E12, is being sought in connection with the murder of Bashir Estor. Two people are currently awaiting trial in connection with this offence.James Francis Hurley  42 years old, a convicted murderer and armed robber, who escaped while being transferred between prisons on February 16 1994. Has been identified as the only convicted murderer of a police officer in the UK who is on the run. A reward of up to £10,000 is offered for information leading to the arrest and re-imprisonment of Hurley. Luan Goci  28, is wanted in connection with the murder of Pierre Carnus, who was stabbed on October 15 2002 after an argument with Goci over rent. Goci, who is Kosovan, was last seen in the UK in February 2003. Allen Stephen Johnson  Wanted for questioning in connection with more than 20 offences of burglary and deception. Absconded from Leyhill open prison in March 2000. Uses a number of aliases including Brian Mayhew, Peter Gold, Peter Manard and Adrian Cattley. He has numerous tattoos on his arms, including 'Mum' and 'Rita'. Ray Burraway  62, property developer from Richmond, sought in connection with a £3m fraud on a foreign bank trading in London, stolen from the bank's accounts in September 1999. Police believe that he is now living somewhere in mainland Europe, possibly in Belgium. Roman Zigmund  Police in north London want to interview him in connection with the rape of a Slovakian au pair. Zigmund, age 33, is a Slovakian who lives in the Penge and Croydon area.. He drives a Black BMW VRM ? registration J461HHU. Police also want to speak to him about an armed robbery and would urge members of the public not to approach him. Haydon Grant  Nicknamed "Teeth", 32, is being sought by child protection detectives in north London in connection with the rape of a young girl in 1999. He was arrested by police in Whetstone shortly after the attack but later failed to answer bail. Officers believe Haydon Grant may have fled to Jamaica.  Clifford Michael Hobbs and Noel Francis Cunningham Escaped from a prison transport van on June 10 last year while being taken from Brixton prison to the inner London crown court, where they were due to face charges in connection with the theft of £1.25m from a security van. Securicor are offering a £50,000 reward for their recovery. Reginald Roy Blythin  55, originally from Chester, wanted by Danish police in connection with the violent murder of a Columbian, Arturo Miranda, 54. He is thought to be in either the UK or Spain and has contacts in Chester and Hampshire but also travels extensively throughout Europe. Terry Finbar McCann  58, wanted by police in Erith, south London in connection with a serious sexual assaults on two young girls. Was due to appear at Woolwich magistrates court on 26 July 2001 but failed to appear. Kenneth Dundon  44, of Bethnal Green, E2, is being sought in connection with the murder of Christopher Jacobs on October 8 2003. Mithat Bars  37, from Harringay, N4, is being sought for failing to appear at the central criminal court (Old Bailey) on July 18 2003, to receive sentence for unlawful imprisonment and assault occasioning actual bodily harm. Anthony Carl Prestidge  Police in Australia want to speak to him in connection with a murder inquiry. On September 10 2002 Prestidge's brother in law, Andy Ball, was murdered in Perth, Australia, Prestidge, 42 from Kensington, flew out of Perth that evening and returned to the UK. Prestidge originates from Edinburgh. Ibrahim Bangura  21, last lived in Mellish Street on the Isle of Dogs. Wanted for questioning by detectives investigating the murder of Darren Sherman, 22, who was stabbed in E14 in March. Police believe he may have information about the attack and are eager to speak to anyone who has information as to his whereabouts. Hayman Mustafa  Police wish to trace him in connection with a murder enquiry. Ahmed El-Hamid, of the Hounslow area, suffered stab wounds in Stanley Road, Teddington and was confirmed dead at the scene. Mustafa is of Arabic appearance, about 168cm-175cm (5ft6in-5ft8in) tall and of stocky build. Abdul Salam  29, is wanted by the Belgian police in connection with the murder of young mother Malika Sousse, 28, in Brussels last November. He is known to have fled to the UK. Salam entered the UK at the port of Dover on December 30 claiming asylum and using the alias Mohammed Ahad Khan. He is also known to have used the alias Rouf Uddin while in Belgium. He travelled to Bow in East London and then visited other relatives in Plaistow, Stepney and Southwark but has since disappeared. Peter Bellwood  50, wanted for questioning by both Danish and Welsh police following thousands of thefts of high-value maps from libraries throughout Europe. His modus operandi is to visit the libraries and cut out prints and maps from rare antique books dating from the 16th and 17th centuries. These rare pieces of history belonging to some of Europe's oldest establishments are left permanently destroyed but the maps stolen can be sold for between £500 and £10,000 to markets across the world. Iqbal Zafar  Aka Zafar Sarwar, 42, wanted following the murder of his estranged wife Naziay Khan at her home in Streatham, London. A postmortem examination found she had been strangled. It is thought he has resided at various addresses in the London area and is described as Asian, 5 ft 10ins and has been known to wear a moustache. He was born in Pakistan.