A car pulls up by the kerbside and the woman, dressed in a short skirt, strolls over as the driver rolls down his window. Both of them know what they are doing is illegal, but there are no furtive glances. Police officers turn a blind eye to the punters; they keep a lookout for the working women. At Aberdeen's docks, prostitution is tolerated. Across five streets prostitutes have nothing to fear from the police. After 5pm, they can solicit at the harbour - they have to have sex somewhere else - and know they will not be arrested. The scheme has been working for two years. No one claims it is perfect: the women say the tolerance zone is small and dimly lit, some campaigners say it is the thin end of the wedge and should not be there at all. The zone has brought results though: the number of attacks on women is down. Graham McLeod, the police sergeant who oversees the tolerance zone, says: "The personal safety of the sex industry workers has to be considered. Most of these women are involved because they feel they have no choice and are desperate for money. The majority are addicted to drugs." The tolerance zone, however, has no legal status: what Aberdeen's prostitutes do by the harbour is as illegal as it is in any other city in Britain. But a private member's bill before the Scottish parliament could change that. Consultation on Margo MacDonald's prostitution tolerance zones (Scotland) bill has just finished. If it is passed councils and police forces across Scotland will be able to set up zones where it is no longer illegal for prostitutes to solicit. Ms MacDonald says she has cross-party support for the bill; the executive is broadly sympathetic, but it wants to take a closer look at the opinions expressed during the consultation process. There is opposition from some councils and the Police Federation. "My bill would be an enabling bill. No one is going to force anyone to set up a tolerance zone. " said Ms MacDonald. "But where the police and councils want it this would really help. We can't just pretend these women don't exist." Aberdeen's prostitution tolerance zone is not a new phenomenon in Scotland. For 20 years, Edinburgh's street prostitutes were allowed to work on Coburg Street, by Leith docks. When the developers moved in the tolerance zone broke down. Leith's warehouses were converted into penthouses and duplex flats. Prostitution did not fit with this new gentrified Leith. The women were asked to move a few hundred yards to Salamander Street, a bleak street that runs from residential at one end to warehouses and faded industry at the other. It was a disaster. Campaigns A local newspaper got wind of the move before the police had time to consult residents. Campaigns were mounted against it. Last December, Edinburgh's tolerance for street prostitutes ran out and the zone was closed. Since then, the number of prostitutes working Edinburgh's streets has not gone down, but the number of attacks on them has risen. The women have dispersed across the city with unhappy results. "In the previous two years, when there was a tolerance zone, we had not one under 16-year-old involved in street prostitution. The older women wouldn't let them: they didn't want the young girls to end up like them _ but for the first time this year we have had a 14-year-old," said Ruth Morgan Thomas, of the prostitute support group Scottish Prostitutes Education Project. "The women no longer work collectively and we are now seeing at least one attack a week compared to less than one a month when we had the tolerance zone. But the biggest impact is the women's belief in themselves, it has taken a hammering - most of them feel society is turning its back on them." Edinburgh has a surprisingly low number of street prostitutes: 75% work indoors in saunas and massage parlours, only around 240 work the streets. Across the country in Glasgow, however, it is a different story. Glasgow has around 1,000 street prostitutes.The official line from Edinburgh is that there are no plans to reintroduce a tolerance zone, but, if Ms MacDonald's bill makes it through parliament, it is all but certain that a tolerance zone will be up and running in Edinburgh again before long. In Glasgow, though, there is little chance of this happening.  Murders  Prostitution in Glasgow is linked to drugs: an estimated 95% of the city's prostitutes are intravenous drug users. And it is also perilous. Eight prostitutes have been murdered on the city's streets in recent years. In contrast, over the same period there has been only handful of serious assaults in Edinburgh. Despite this, even if Ms MacDonald's bill is passed, there is little chance of a tolerance zone in Glasgow. The city council is opposed; Strathclyde police says it has no plans to implement one. On the streets, though, there appears to be a desire for one. "I started doing this a couple of years ago to feed my habit," said Joanne, 25, a heroin addict. "The police tell you they want you to be safe and then they lift you. I don't want to do this, but I need to do it until I kick my habit and I'd rather not be lifted for doing it." Ms MacDonald said: "The market for prostitution has always been with us, no one is going to destroy that market and so long as it is there we have a duty of care to the people involved."