A man who snatched a six-year-old girl from her bath, then kidnapped and raped her before dumping the naked and terrified child in a freezing back alley, had written "Phew, it's over, chill now" in his diary for that day, a court heard yesterday.Peter Voisey, 37, from Blyth, Northumberland, denies abducting, raping and sexually assaulting the child in December last year, while her mother was in the house. The youngster, who is now seven, cannot be identified for legal reasons, but was described as a "happy, well-behaved and talkative" child.Newcastle crown court was told that the girl was taken from her family home - a ground floor flat in North Tyneside - on December 27 last year while she was in the bath. When police searched Voisey's home, they found a desk diary with "Phew, it's over, chill now" written the same day. He claimed it was a reference to Christmas being over.James Goss, prosecuting, told the court: "At about 6.50pm a man entered the bathroom, told her to be quiet or he would hurt her, lifted her out of the bath, put his hand over her mouth, carried her to a car outside and drove off. After a short time, he stopped and sexually assaulted her. He did this twice."Having done what he wanted to do to her, he drove her to a back lane about 300 metres from her home, where he left her, still naked, telling her to face the wall."Her mother, who was in the living room, heard her talking to her bath toys. She heard her daughter say: "What are you doing here?" but there was no distress in her voice. Minutes later, she heard a screech, which sounded like a car, from outside. She called out to her daughter and, receiving no reply, went into the bathroom and found her missing. After a frantic search of the flat, she dialled 999.Mr Goss said Geoffrey Brown, who lived nearby, heard the child's cries and found her in the unlit lane. He carried her home. The girl told him and his wife what had happened and repeatedly asked for her mother. The couple dialled 999.The prosecution said no one saw the girl being taken, where she was driven to, or what happened to her during the 20 minutes. "Only she and her kidnapper know that," Mr Goss added. He said the prosecution alleges that the combination of circumstantial and scientific evidence points "surely and conclusively to Peter Voisey".He urged the jury to guard against emotion, to be fair and dispassionate based on a calm and rational analysis of all the evidence. "Cases of this kind inevitably provoke horror and disgust," he told jurors.The girl told police that her kidnapper was wearing gloves and a hat and that his car was dirty and had dog hairs in it.Voisey had borrowed a dark Vauxhall Astra from a friend, which was scrapped soon after the abduction when it was involved in a minor collision. Police estimate the girl was driven around for less than 20 minutes and subjected to two serious sexual assaults.The trial continues.