The sister of a 16-year-old boy stabbed to death following a violent street brawl today described him as her "true angel".Brooke Kinsella, a former EastEnders actor, broke down as she told how her brother Ben Kinsella was "one of the gentlest boys God created".He died early yesterday after being repeatedly knifed by a gang of youths who had chased him from a nearby pub. Friends said they believed his murder was a case of mistaken identity and revenge for a bottle attack on another youth.His 24-year-old sister, who played Kelly Taylor in the BBC soap, said: "Yesterday, we tragically lost not only a beautiful son and brother, but a true angel. He was one of the kindest and gentlest boys God created."Please, boys and girls, put down your knives and weapons and think about the pain and suffering they will cause." Kinsella was attacked in York Way, north London, after being caught up in a fight at the nearby Shillibeers pub.His death puts the number of teenagers to die violently in the capital this year at 17. Twelve died from stab wounds. Yesterday, one of Kinsella's friends said he had phoned him as he was chased by his attackers.David Dugdale, 17, said his mobile phone rang just after 2am. He said: "He was panting hard and sounded like he was running away from people. He was just screaming 'help me, help me' and then the line went dead. It was horrific."Kinsella's sister said his family was "determined to fight in his memory to make the streets safe for our children"."Please can we waste no more time and come together as a country to ensure that no other lives are wasted," she said. "Now it truly is the time to stand up and put an end to this." Witnesses have told how up to 50 people were involved in a mass brawl near the Shillibeers pub late on Saturday night.Police believe Kinsella was innocently caught up in the dispute between revellers leaving the pub and a group of youths outside. Two 16-year-old youths were arrested shortly after the attack and have been released on police bail.Today, detective superintendent Vic Rae, of the Metropolitan police's homicide and serious crime command, appealed for witnesses to come forward. "At this moment in time we believe there were four black males involved in the stabbing," he said. "They were about the same age as Ben or slightly older." The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, condemned the murder, saying: "I deeply regret that another young person has lost their life to violence, and my thoughts are with the family of this young man."