Mitchell, Tony, Jack, Luke, Joe and Craig admit they have created problems - for themselves, their families and everyone around them. They are all unemployed and uneducated, and have been in trouble with the police for a whole range of antisocial antics: violence, theft, vandalism and destruction. Craig's mother says life with him was "a living hell" where she simply waited for the inevitable conclusion - the clang of a prison door.All that changed when they became part of a controversial experiment to tackle youth reoffending and antisocial behaviour, backed by former Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith, which incorporates therapies used to treat mental illness. The scheme's unorthodox methods demonstrate impressive results, but these have been questioned by the local police force.We are sitting in a nondescript school hall in Harlow, Essex. While not exactly effervescent, the boys muster all the enthusiasm a group of slightly embarrassed teenagers can to assure me that they are changed.Mitchell, Tony and Joe are doing work experience as labourers, and Tony wants to go back to college to learn carpentry. Luke echoes everyone else when he says he thinks about the consequences before he does anything. Joe wants to study sport and blushes when his mates mention that he has aspirations to join the Team GB kayak squad for the 2012 Olympics.Craig, 19, the oldest and longest out of therapy (and offending) is emphatic when asked what he is doing. "Roofer, mate."The rules of acceptabilityAll six pay tribute to Emma Morris, a young Liza Minnelli lookalike who is the brains behind Chance 2 Change. She launched the scheme in October 2004, aimed at young people already in the criminal justice system. It uses cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) - the psychological flavour of the month in treating anything from anxiety, depression, obsessions and even schizophrenia.The Royal College of Psychiatrists defines CBT as helping to change the way we think and what actions stem from those thoughts. "It's a way of making sense of seemingly overwhelming problems by breaking them down into smaller parts that can be thought of in either negative or positive ways," it says. The project aims to reduce reoffending and antisocial behaviour by using CBT to encourage forward thinking and understand the triggers for unacceptable behaviour. Group members establish a "miniature society" and sense of family with their own rules on what is acceptable. They study their own behaviour and its effects on those around them and why this may be inappropriate.Chance 2 Change takes referrals from police, social services and youth workers, and Morris says the results in terms of reoffending rates speak for themselves. Of 137 young people who have been on the course, just 19 (13.9%) have reoffended within 12 months of completing the course, against an expected average of 60%.Morris is a torrent of words and gestures as she explains clients' problems and their solutions. She confesses to using an element of deception, with her clients given the tricky task of trying to explain the concept of CBT to semi-wild teenagers. "They don't know that it's a 'therapy'. Nobody wants to admit that they need psychological or psychiatric help, particularly at that stage of their lives."She says young people in general and her clients in particular feel lost in a society where they are bombarded with messages of instant gratification: "The new trainers, the new phone, all that instant celebrity." Some people, she argues, struggle to find satisfaction or achievement in everyday life and, predictably, turn to violence and offending to satisfy their egos."The course aims to help them see that in order to function in our society we need to learn to take the role of another. We also need to learn that things need to be earned, so we set goals, you need to meet these goals to earn things. There is no instant gratification."The initial course offers an intensive eight-week programme that runs for two hours per week with a maximum of eight young people aged between 14 and 16.Morris sold her house and used her savings to finance the project. She is eager to market the scheme, either selling packages of sessions for up to 10 clients for around £9,000 or creating a franchise system where other youth or crime related organisations could be trained to deliver the package themselves. She says this represents good value over the average £42,000 cost of a year in a young offenders institute.Organisations including the Prince's Trust, Essex-based Chelmer Housing Partnership and Nacro have funded Chance 2 Change. The Prince's Trust said it was "very impressed" with the scheme, but its funding stream ran out so it was unable to continue its financial support. Other agencies including the police, social services and probation are all trying to reduce reoffending rates and not everyone is convinced that Morris is the solution.Essex police says it "found value" in participating in the scheme in Tilbury and feedback from the young people was "positive". But it questions Morris's claims of success. "We await a formal evaluation of the youth offending rates and will continue to monitor partipants in the longer term to accurately gauge recidivist rates," it said it a statement.Unconventional methodsDom Bergonzi, a youth worker for 20 years who volunteers for Morris, says she may have put noses out of joint by her seeming success using unconventional methods. "Most of the kids who come to us have been let down in one way or another. Chance 2 Change is about stability and consistency."But stability and consistency means that the courses are labour intensive and expensive in terms of up-front costs.That is one of the reasons for reluctance among commissioners, according to Tracy Trimmer, a therapist and counsellor and head of policy at Clubs for Young People. She would like to see organisations like her own, which represents 3,500 UK youth clubs, taking up the franchise idea. Duncan Smith, who founded the Conservative's Centre for Social Justice thinktank, believes that local authorities are reluctant to adopt radical solutions to tackle youth crime and antisocial behaviour, or simply don't know they exist. "There is a vast amount of evidence from America that these sort of cognitive therapies work - even for children in early years - and they are urgently needed. The US is years ahead on this and local authorities here should have the courage to commission them." He thinks this requires consensus from the leaders of all three main parties to a set up a "Golden List" of approved therapies to encourage local authorities to use them.The mothers of the boys who have been on Chance 2 Change say it is nothing short of a miracle. "I thought I was going out of my mind. I honestly didn't think he would make the eight sessions, but he did and I can see a change," says Mitchell's mother.Joe's mum says that previously he would rebel against most things. "He's more positive now and doesn't rush and make wrong decisions."Craig, who was referred by the police youth offending team, admits: "I was a little shit. If it wasn't for Emma I would be in prison."• SocietyGuardian.co.uk/youthjustice 