A law student whose hobbies include shopping for shoes, watching television and reading has become Britain's youngest magistrate at the age of 19.Lucy Tate's appointment to the bench in Pontefract, West Yorkshire, has been controversial among those who believe her age makes her ill-equipped for the role. However, she was praised for coming through a rigorous recruitment process.On the Friends Reunited website, her profile contains a photograph of her favourite pink sequinned shoes and matching handbag. She lists her favourite films as Notting Hill, The Da Vinci Code, Pretty Woman and Dirty Dancing.Ms Tate was recruited after a £4m government advertising campaign to attract more young people and those from ethnic minority backgrounds to the bench. Magistrates without legal qualifications usually deal with minor criminal offences and some family cases. The minimum age was reduced from 27 to 18 in 2004. Previously, the youngest magistrate had been a 20-year-old man from Sussex, who was appointed last year.Sue Vogan, chair of the committee responsible for recruiting magistrates in Pontefract, defended her appointment. "The committee was very impressed with her personal maturity and judgment," Ms Vogan said. "The magistracy should reflect the community it serves and we can only emphasise Lucy's appointment was based solely on merit."One of her fellow JPs in Pontefract described it as "an absolute folly" to have someone so young making such important decisions. "Some of the magistrates in Pontefract feel very disillusioned about what has happened ... It was all hushed up when she was sworn in because it was felt there might be bad publicity. There probably will be - what life experience does she have at 19?"In a statement, Ms Tate said: "I have had my first sitting, which was fascinating, and am grateful for the training and support I have received, as all new magistrates do. I don't see myself as a role model, but rather someone who wants to serve the local community in a useful and positive way."Ms Tate will sit on a panel with two other magistrates.