Portuguese police yesterday questioned a British man whose villa is 150 yards from the holiday apartment where four-year-old Madeleine McCann was abducted 12 days ago.Forensic police in white suits and wearing face masks entered the one-storey villa, Casa Liliana, at 7am yesterday. A swimming pool was said to have been drained as part of the operation.The man leading the hunt for Madeleine last night confirmed that three people had been interviewed as witnesses in Portimao, a town close to the village Praia da Luz where Madeleine disappeared.Chief Inspector Olegario Sousa declined to identify those interviewed, however, or state whether they were considered suspects in the case. "There has been no arrest," he said.The British man interviewed was named locally as Robert Murat, 32. Last night it was reported that he and two others would be released, and a man was seen being driven away from the police station in Portimao. Portuguese TV reported that the two others being questioned were a German woman and a Portuguese man.Mr Murat's mother, Jenny, is believed to own Casa Liliana, and has been running a stall on the seafront in Praia da Luz, appealing for information about the missing girl. Mrs Murat had explained to the BBC: "I've set it up because I think that I know the way the Portuguese think to a certain extent; there are lots of people who wouldn't want to go to the police for one reason or another."It was by no means clear last night, however, whether the search of the villa - one of many by police over the past 12 days - was a significant step forward in the investigation, or just another blind lead.Four police cars left Casa Liliana last night with a person whose face was covered in the back of one car. Local media reported the villa search had ended and Mr Murat had only ever been a witness.He formerly had lived in the village of Hockering in Norfolk with his former wife, Dawn, before returning to Portugal, where he spent much of his childhood.Two women, each carrying a child in a blanket, emerged from the house in Hockering yesterday. A spokesman for Norfolk police said no one had been arrested at the address, and no one in the village was being questioned.Earlier the McCanns said they believed their daughter was still alive and that they intended to stay indefinitely at Praia da Luz. "Until there is concrete evidence to the contrary, we believe that Madeleine is safe and being looked after. That's how we can continue in our efforts," her father, Gerry, told reporters yesterday."I can't even consider going home at the moment, absolutely can't even let it enter my head," said her mother, Kate, as the couple held a short press conference just up the road from the villa which was later searched.The McCann family confirmed they were seeking help from around Europe in the search, and would set up a fund to help the investigation. "It's so difficult knowing where Madeleine is now. We're unsure," said Mr McCann's sister, Philomena. "There is nothing to stop her abductor taking her anywhere. We need to know that it is as big a priority in Europe as it is in this country finding her."Mr McCann said the family was concentrating on gathering strength and had handed organisation of the pledged £2.6m to two lawyers who had flown in from Britain.: "It is one less thing we now have to immediately think about."Yesterday morning was the first time the couple answered questions from journalists since the girl was found to be missing 12 days ago. Though distraught, they seemed determined to continue fighting for further publicity to push the investigation along.Mr McCann said they were concentrating on their "own physical and mental well-being" and trying to banish speculation over their daughter's fate from their minds by "turning thoughts into actions", and encouraging others to do the same. A family friend, Nicky Gill, who flew to Portugal to help the family immediately after the kidnap, described yesterday how the McCanns and their two-year-old twins, Amelie and Sean, had blown kisses at the TV screen every time Madeleine's face appeared."I have been staying with Kate and Gerry, doing whatever they need me to do; just being there and helping with children, giving hugs, reassurance and being positive," Ms Gill, a schoolfriend of Mrs McCann, told the Liverpool Post."Kate and Gerry are doing their best to keep the spirits of the twins up," she said. "They have been amazing - it makes me proud to be their friend," she added.