The family of a 55-year-old woman found murdered in the village of Bosham, West Sussex, have paid tribute "to a free spirit who enjoyed her life".Valerie Graves who was house-sitting with three other members of her family, died in a property in Smugglers Lane, which backs on to a creek in the popular sailing centre near Chichester.Police, some in wetsuits, are continuing to search for evidence in and around a house in the village.A postmortem on Wednesday revealed Graves died from head and facial injuries. Detectives say they are keeping an open mind about the motive for the killing.In a statement issued by Sussex police, her family said: "Val was a much-loved daughter, sister, mum and nan, who will be sorely missed by the whole family."Val was a free spirit who enjoyed her life and was a talented artist, about to embark on a new path involving ceramics."The family added: "She was an eternal student, who was always hungry for a new challenge. She had recently moved back to Sussex from Scotland to be closer to her family and we were lucky enough to spend a family Christmas together."This has been a complete shock to the family and we appeal to anyone who has any information, no matter how trivial, to contact Sussex police."Police are appealing for witnesses who may have seen anyone acting suspiciously or anything unusual in the area from late afternoon on Sunday to around 10am on Monday. They have removed a silver Lexus SUV from the property. Graves, who had two adult children, had run a craft studio and gallery in Roxburghshire, Scotland, but recently moved to Bracklesham Bay, also in West Sussex, to look after her 87-year-old mother Eileen.The two women, along with Graves's sister, Janet, 60, and her partner, Nigel Acres, were staying at the six-bedroomed house. They have talked to police, who have reportedly taken their mobile phones.Ernie Mears, 80, a friend of Graves's mother, said the owners of the house, Malcolm and Jane Chamberlain, were on holiday abroad.Mears was interviewed for five hours by police about a visit he made to the house-sitters on Boxing Day. He said they took fingerprints and DNA samples from him as well as an eight-page statement."I still feel in the dark about what's happened and didn't learn much from them," he said. "What they did say was that it was going to be a very long job and that the Chamberlains wouldn't be able to go back home."I've been very worried about Valerie's mum as I haven't been able to get hold of her since this happened to find out if she is OK. I eventually spoke to Nigel on New Year's Day. He told me the detectives had taken their mobiles and things away. They had finally got back to their home with Eileen."Graves's sister and her partner are said to be friends of the Chamberlains and bought their former home.The Chamberlains are directors of an electronic component company. Malcolm, 66, is also listed as a director of the upmarket health and fitness centre Xpect.The older part of the village, which has appeared in an episode of the Midsomer Murders TV drama, dates back to at least Roman times. It also features on the Bayeux tapestry.