Experimental night courts to tackle night crime will be piloted in London and Manchester from this week - but on a more modest scale than the government originally planned.Downing Street wanted the pilot courts, based on those in New York, to sit six days a week from 10am to 10pm or midnight. But the plans were scaled down after Home Office warnings of difficulties. Yesterday Manchester city magistrates court began at 9am, an hour earlier than normal, from Monday to Friday to handle remand cases and help clear the "overnighters". Two nights a week the court will sit until 8pm instead of the usual 4pm. From Friday, Bow Street magistrates court in London will operate a late session from 6pm to midnight on Fridays and Saturdays to tackle cases building up over the weekend and ease pressure on Mondays.Announcing the four-month pilot scheme at Bow Street, the courts minister, Michael Wills, said: "These schemes are aimed at ensuring criminal justice is able to deal swiftly and effectively with night offenders, deter criminals and make the courts more responsive to the needs of victims and witnesses - above all to reassure local communities that it is the public rather than criminals who benefit from the criminal justice system." "If courts are able to deal with defendants straight after their arrest then it should reduce the weekend and overnight backlog, thus reducing the impact on the scheduled day to day work of the courts and the criminal justice system." Steve House, deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police, said the scheme would help deter street robberies. "It will start to tell defendants that justice can be very immediate." The scheme would especially help the police to target robberies and other street disturbances in central London over the weekend. The scheme will be evaluated in September. A leaked Whitehall paper last year made clear that Downing Street embraced the idea of extended-hours courts after being impressed by American "zero tolerance" initiatives.