The teenager who is the key witness in the Damilola Taylor murder trial yesterday strongly denied that she had concocted the story about seeing the stabbing because she wanted a £50,000 reward that was on offer at the time.Asked why she had repeatedly raised the issue of money during her interviews with the police, the 14-year-old girl said she was "only joking and mucking around". "It's not important. I don't want the money, anyway," the girl told the Old Bailey. "If they offered me the money, I would not take it." Cross-examining her, Courtenay Griffiths QC, said: "You could buy a lot of trainers for £50,000." She replied: "But I would not end up wearing half of them." The teenager said she first heard about the reward after she had contacted the police. Four youths are accused of murdering Damilola in Peckham, south London, on November 27 2000. They have also been accused jointly of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The teenagers, one aged 14, two brothers aged 16, and one aged 17, have pleaded not guilty. The 14-year-old girl is the only person to have told police that she witnessed the attack. Yesterday afternoon's exchanges in court were even tempered compared with the hearings earlier in the week when the girl walked out of the witness box, complaining that Mr Griffiths was deliberately trying to "wind me up". Back in court for the first time since Tuesday afternoon, the teenager was asked about the nine hours of taped interviews with the police that had just been played to the jury. At one point on the tapes, the teenager was seen to sing "I'm in the money" when officers were out of the room, and started giggling. In her early interviews with detectives, the girl told police that one of the four defendants had called her and confessed to being involved in the killing of 10-year-old Damilola. She said that she had also spoken to another of the boys, known as boy D, who told her that he had wanted to call an ambulance for the schoolboy, but had been prevented by the others. Later, the teenager told detectives that the early stories were all lies, and that she had been at the scene and watched the four youths surround Damilola then stab him with a broken beer bottle. Mr Griffiths asked whether the lure of the money, which had been offered by a tabloid newspaper, or the chance to help her friend, boy D, had persuaded her to claim that she was there. She denied that either played any part in the decision "to tell the truth". The girl conceded that she "had lied her way through" the early interviews with the police because she did not want to get into trouble. "Did anyone say anything to you along the lines of: 'If you can give us the evidence, we can get you the money'," asked Mr Griffiths. "I don't think so," she replied. The teenager said that she had not changed her story to help boy D, even though an officer had told her that her testimony could "save him". The girl said she thought the officer was lying. "I'm not that dumb," she told the court. "It's not like ... I can stop someone from being arrested." She admitted that she had not taken her early interviews with police seriously. But she told the court that she was a different person now from the one who had lied to detectives when they first questioned her. The hearing continues on Monday