A couple shot dead by a gangland hit squad in their Lincolnshire bungalow were failed by a police force's mishandling of criminal intelligence, an inquest ruled today.John and Joan Stirland were found at their home in the village of Trusthorpe on 8 August 2004, where they had been killed in a revenge attack by gunmen working for Nottingham crime boss Colin Gunn.The inquest at Lincoln crown court heard that officers investigating Gunn's organised crime cartel as part of a secret investigation, codenamed Operation Utah, did not pass on relevant information to the Stirlands' family liaison officer about the threat they faced.The double shooting was a revenge attack after Mrs Stirland's son, Michael O'Brien, shot 22-year-old Marvyn Bradshaw dead outside a Nottingham pub in August 2003. Criminals in Nottingham believed the bullet was meant for Bradshaw's friend and Colin Gunn's nephew, Jamie.Gunn, who had persuaded police officers to provide him with information, and two other men were convicted of conspiring to murder the couple in 2006.After 11 hours of deliberation and an inquest lasting more than three weeks, a jury today found that Nottinghamshire police failed to share intelligence about the threat posed to the couple by Gunn's gang.The unanimous verdict also found that BT operators contributed to the couple's death by passing on information about them to Gunn and his associates.But the jury cleared Lincolnshire police of failing to protect Stirland, 55, and his 51-year-old wife after they were asked by Nottinghamshire police to call in on the couple hours before they were found murdered. The jury recorded two verdicts of unlawful killing.The coroner, Karon Monaghan QC, said she would consider whether to make a further report following the jury's findings. "I offer my sincere condolences to the family of Mr and Mrs Stirland," she said.The inquest was watched by Michael O'Brien via a video link from prison. It heard that, despite Mrs Stirland speaking to her family liaison officer shortly before 2pm on 8 August to report a stalker, the couple did not receive a visit from Lincolnshire police until 9.30pm.By that time the couple were both dead. Mr Stirland had been shot six times in the chest. His wife, a nurse, suffered four gunshot wounds. The bullet to her neck was fatal.The inquest was also told that detectives failed to hand over intelligence about a shooting involving one of Gunn's associates in Sutton on Sea, near Trusthorpe, to officers in charge of protecting the Stirlands.Detectives working on the murder of Bradshaw and dealing regularly with the Stirlands did not even know about Operation Utah because it was so secret, it was said. They did not therefore ask whether Gunn had any links to the Trusthorpe area when they moved there in December 2003.The couple came under threat from Gunn after O'Brien shot Bradshaw dead outside the Sporting Chance pub in Bulwell, Nottingham, in August 2003. Jamie Gunn was in the same car as Bradshaw at the time and held his friend as he died.Following the death, Jamie Gunn turned to drink and drugs to help him cope. But he never recovered and on 2 August 2004, he died at the age of 19 from pneumonia, just days after 23-year-old O'Brien was jailed for a minimum of 24 years for murdering his friend.Colin Gunn believed the bullet was meant for his nephew and blamed O'Brien for Jamie Gunn's subsequent death.