There are two wrong responses to the conviction of Dr Harold Shipman, found guilty yesterday of the almost unbelievable murder of 15 patients - with many further possible charges to come. The first is to regard it complacently as a one-off event that could never happen again. Like the last time when a doctor was suspected of multiple murders - Bodkin Adams in the early 1960s - the British Medical Association is far from relaxed about the danger of concealed medical homicides. Yet a public inquiry which followed Bodkin Adams's case lamely concluded that "secret homicide" was not a significant danger. An already suspect death certification procedure was left in place, unreformed and unchanged. An equally wrong response would be to over-react, introducing checks and bureacratic death certification procedures that regarded every doctor as a potential killer.Here is a challenge for joined-up government. The reform of death certificate procedures will require both health and home officials to get involved. Talk to any informed medical people and they will testify to the inaccuracy of death certificates. About three-quarters of the 580,000 deaths a year are certified by doctors and the rest by coroners. Forensic pathologists regularly find discrepancies in up to 50% of certificates. Researchers have always been aware of these inaccuracies, but the Shipman trial has shown it is not only research that is threatened by such lax procedures. Burials require only one doctor's say so. The body does not need to have been even examined. Cremation, at least, introduced more safeguards, but the second doctor involved usually gives only the most cursory examination, within a legal framework which is now over 100 years old. It is time both were overhauled. To her credit, a local GP asked to countersign the cremation certificates went to the coroner, but tragically for three of the victims, the initial police investigation was called off for lack of evidence A second reform would be yet more effort to end single-handed practices. Shipman would have faced much more scrutiny in a group practice. Five of his patients died on his own premises, an unheard of number. A group practice would have made it harder to falsify prescriptions to stockpile his killer drug. Stricter monitoring of medics is already in the pipeline, but group practices provide the best patient protection.