Detectives are investigating the fatal stabbing of a "passionate and caring" hospital worker who died after being attacked in a mental health unit.The woman, a grandmother, is believed to have been finishing her night shift at Wotton Lawn hospital in Gloucester when she was assaulted. A man in his 60s, understood to be a patient, has been arrested on suspicion of murder.She was named by police as Sharon Wall, 53. Local people said she lived alone in a suburb of Gloucester, about three miles from the unit. Neighbours said she was devoted to her job. One, who did not want to be named, said: "She was a passionate and caring person. Things like this shouldn't happen to people at work."A former colleague said: "She was truly amazing. She was a lovely lady to work with and all the patients loved her, which is why it's even more shocking."It's such a good hospital and trust. It shows how good the teams are because it didn't escalate to other people and it was dealt with straight away."The health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said: "The events in Gloucestershire are devastating and our thoughts are with the family, friends and colleagues of the staff member involved."Wall suffered her injuries at the inpatient unit of the hospital about 7.30am on Wednesday. Her colleagues tried desperately to save her life but she died about an hour later.Hospital officials will examine safety arrangements at Wotton Hall.A spokesman for 2gether NHS foundation trust said: "During the incident a colleague was stabbed and after being attended by fellow clinicians was taken to Gloucestershire Royal hospital."It is with deep sadness that we confirm that our colleague died a short time later. Our thoughts remain with family and friends at this extremely difficult time."The 2gether website says Wotton Lawn is an 88-bed acute mental health hospital that provides inpatient services for Gloucestershire. The hospital has four admission wards, a nurse-led psychiatric intensive care unit and a low secure unit.The spokesman would not confirm the role of the staff member, but it is understood the woman was not a nurse. Wotton Lawn is listed as having staff ranging from nurses, doctors and psychologists to art therapists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists and sports exercise therapists.Friends and relatives paid tribute to Wall. One friend wrote on Facebook: "I'm in shock. My thoughts are with your family. RIP lovely lady. I'll remember the times you came to my house years ago we had some good laughs and chinwags."Another wrote: "She was an amazing lady. It's a real tragedy."Hayley Robertson added: "Awful to happen to a member of the NHS, so sad. Heard all the sirens on the way to work this morning. Can't believe this has happened right outside where I work – such a tragedy. My thoughts and prayers are with the family."Workers at Gloucestershire Royal hospital, on the same site as Wotton Lawn, spoke of their shock. Denise Luckman, 44, an administrative assistant, said: "You don't expect to go to work, to care for patients, and to have that happen. It has affected the hospital all the way through. It is on our own doorstep; it has come as a complete shock."A spokesman for Gloucestershire police said: "Emergency services were called at around 7.30am to Wotton Lawn Hospital in Gloucester following reports that a woman had been stabbed. The victim was taken to Gloucestershire Royal hospital but sadly died of her injuries at around 8.30am. A man in his 60s was arrested on suspicion of murder and is currently in custody."