A catalogue of errors was made by probation staff and an electronic tagging firm in their supervision of a teenager who was convicted of murdering a jeweller at her family shop. None acted quickly enough when the behaviour of Peter Williams became erratic in the weeks leading up to the murder of 64-year-old Marian Bates, in Nottingham, an official report finds.The report, by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Probation, published today, found that Williams repeatedly breached his curfew order and removed the electronic tag designed to restrict his movements. Little was done to control him.Mrs Bates's husband, Victor, 66, said the report exposed the incompetence of those in charge of the case and demonstrated that tagging young offenders was a "complete waste of time".Williams, a cocaine addict who had been in trouble with the police since the age of 11 for burglary and indecent assault, had been released from a young offenders' institution on licence only 20 days before Mrs Bates was killed. He was jailed for life earlier this year for his role in the jeweller's murder. The gunman in the crime has never been caught. Williams helped the gunman escape by brutally attacking Mrs Bates's husband with a crowbar in the moments after the shooting.The report found that in the days after his release from the young offenders' institution, Williams, now 19, failed to attend meetings with youth offending and drug workers, education staff and the police. These were breaches of his licence that could have seen him back in custody.On at least six occasions Williams also breached a curfew order. However, the private monitoring firm Premier failed to inform the youth offending team [YOT] working with Williams, of the breaches until the morning of Mrs Bates's murder, by which time he had removed the tag completely. The inspectors also discovered that his case manager was inexperienced and had no formal qualifications in youth work, social work or probation. She had only worked with disadvantaged children and had done voluntary work for the Probation Service.The report said the youth offending team, which is not part of the probation service, and case manager should have acted sooner when it became obvious Williams had breached the terms of his licence.However, the inspectors said that even if they had taken action it might not have been soon enough to have seen Williams back in custody before the killing.Andrew Bridges, chief inspector of probation, said: "The YOT would have done their job properly if the case manager had identified when Williams was in breach and had acted on it in time. Furthermore, her managers did not supervise her work effectively enough. Finally, the fact that Premier failed to notify the YOT of Williams's curfew breaches clearly shows that they had an inadequate understanding of their responsibilities."He described the murder of Mrs Bates as a "tragic loss to her family, friends and the community", concluding that the case findings revealed the challenging nature of the responsibilities of those supervising difficult offenders in the community.But her widower said: "Everybody is incompetent, but nobody is to blame. How can that be? He [Williams] was a serial breaker of every condition that they put on him, yet they kept letting him out. It shows that tagging does no good ... he should never have been out of custody."The Home Office minister Lady Scotland said the Home Office had already issued guidance on electronic monitoring to ensure curfew violations were responded to with contractual obligations and the expectations of the criminal justice agencies.A spokesman for Premier insisted the Williams case had been an isolated one. He added: "We accept the report as being accurate and thorough and have already acted on its findings."