The high court has rejected an application for a reduction in the 12-year minimum jail term for one of the killers of Garry Newlove, who was kicked to death outside his home after confronting vandals.Newlove, a 47-year-old salesman who had overcome stomach cancer, was attacked outside his home in Warrington, Cheshire, in 2007. He sustained massive head injuries in the assault, which was witnessed by his three daughters. He died two days later in hospital.Jordan Cunliffe was one of three teenagers found guilty of murder in January 2008. He was 16 at the time of conviction and is now in his early 20s. His lawyers applied for a review of his minimum term because they argued there had been exceptional and unforeseen progress while in custody.On Tuesday, Mr Justice Mitting said he did not recommend a reduction in the tariff.Giving the background to the case, Mitting described Newlove as a “brave and upright man”. He said Cunliffe had maintained he was not guilty of the offence and denied being at the scene of the attack. Cunliffe had been sentenced on the basis that he did not start the violence but, according to a witness, “kicked him, unshod, during the attack”.The judge said: “Nothing in any subsequently produced material casts doubt on that conclusion. He was convicted and sentenced on the basis that he did participate in the fatal attack, even though he personally did not deliver the lethal kick.” He continued: “Given his attitude to the offence, it is unsurprising that the applicant has never expressed remorse for his part in it. This does not, of course, mean that he must be detained until he does, but it is a factor of high significance when assessing whether or not the progress which he has made in custody has been exceptional and unforeseen.”Mitting said exceptional and unforeseen progress was a high threshold. He concluded: “The reports demonstrate that the applicant has made good progress in custody, which could not have been foreseen with certainty at the time when he was sentenced, but it would be a misuse of language to describe that progress as exceptional, either by reference to the standard of conduct to be expected of prisoners generally or to what might have been expected of him when sentenced.“Accordingly, I do not recommend that the minimum term … be reduced.”Earlier, Mitting read a five-page statement from Newlove’s widow, Helen, which he said “describes the impact which her husband’s murder has had upon her family, with particular emphasis on the impact on her three daughters”.The judge continued: “She has asked that this statement is not made public or disclosed to the applicant, for particular reasons, which have been notified to me by the Ministry of Justice. “I accede to that request. What it does is to demonstrate, graphically, how deep and lasting the affect of the dreadful crime committed by the applicant and his associates has been; and, inevitably, how unwelcome to his widow and daughters has been the need to prepare themselves for the outcome of my decision on this application.”