The law on stalking has not been working. First of all, there isn't one. The only law that can be used against stalkers is the 1997 Protection from Harassment Act – but stalking and harassment are not the same. People accused of harassment, not suprisingly, have argued that the current law is actually about stalkers (hoping that this argument will get them off the hook). For example, in 1998 a man called Michael Williams, who put his hand into a bathroom where a woman was showering and then climbed onto a roof to look at two women through a bedroom window, argued strongly that stalking was illegal. It was stalking that the 1997 Act criminalised, Williams argued, and because he was not a "stalker" (but just a one-off creep?), what he had done was not illegal. The law became known by employers as the "stalking laws", after Guy's and St Thomas NHS Trust in London were found vicariously liable for the bullying of one of their employees, a clinical auditor named William Majrowski. Majrowski, who was gay, said he was subject to rude, abusive and homophobic behaviour by his manager. The trust was found liable, despite having argued that the law was "primarily a legislative response to the public order problem of stalking."Prosecutors, on the other hand, say the opposite - that they interpreted the law as being about harassment. One of the main differences between stalking and harassment, on their own admission, is that only the latter was likely to be taken seriously by the CPS and the police. But the problem with stalking runs much deeper. There is no legal definition. This is understandable – there are as many types of stalking as there are individual stalkers. Leaving flowers can become stalking if it is done persistently enough. Sending dozens of pizzas to a person's home – as one woman has recently experienced from her stalker – definitely can. But these difficulties can be overcome – one expert Emily Finch has suggested that rather than defining stalking, it could be categorised by its three essential components: firstly the ongoing nature and the intransigence of the stalker, secondly the fact that conduct involved is unwanted by the recipient, and thirdly the recipient's adverse reaction. And when stalking becomes really serious, the current law is utterly useless. The maximum sentences for any stalking offences, where there is no actual threat of violence, is six months' imprisonment. In a court of appeal case in 2000, three people had suffered at the hands of one stalker, but one victim had sustained such serious psychological injury that it was clear six months would not be an appropriate sentence. Prosecutors resorted to the nineteenth century criminal law of ABH, on the basis of psychological harm to the victim – a clear confirmation of the inadequacy of the Protection from Harassment Act in cases of serious, but non-violent, stalking.Then there is the other side of the coin. The police and prosecutors are right to, belatedly, start taking stalking seriously, not least because it affects such a massive proportion of the population – 9% of men and 19% of women at last count. But one man's online campaign is another's online stalking. There were jokes at the CPS press conference today about whether an online "I hate the Daily Mail" campaign would count - which was funny, except that I have written something along those lines more times than I care to count. The new guidelines specifically encourage prosecutors to take stalking targeted at organisations or groups of people seriously. Yikes!Obviously I don't seriously regard myself as a stalker, but another problem with the current law is that what I think about my own conduct doesn't actually matter. You can be convicted of stalking regardless of whether you intended to harm the victim. The only test is an objective one, which is essentially that the conduct seems like stalking to the "reasonable person." The "reasonable person" is, famously, what judges think it should be – unlikely to be a web-savvy, social networking netsurfer (I'll take that back if any judges prove me wrong by appearing on this thread!). The chances of the law being properly reformed to accommodate the realities of online stalking, protecting its victims and alleged perpetrators, looks pretty unlikely too.