Many valuable lessons can be drawn from Nick Davies's important three-part series on crime that concludes today. Some of them will be familiar to readers, though not, it seems, to the Conservative party, which is committed to expanding the current 132,000 police officers by a further 40,000 if they win the next election. It is not the numbers that count as much as how they are deployed. As the first part of the series documented, it is not possible to confront a problem of such infinite complexity with simplistic solutions like putting more officers on the beat. It is now 30 years since a Home Office researcher showed that a police officer would have to walk the beat for 30 years before catching a burglar coming out of a house. The police have become much more sophisticated since then and have recognised the importance of intelligence-led policing, even if this sometimes falls foul of populist solutions.But at the heart of the series - particularly yesterday's report on the struggle between chief constables and the home secretary over operational control - is the degree of devolution that effective policing requires. The itch for reform-minded home secretaries to ensure there are strong reins at the centre is under standable. The police were the last public service to be subjected to efficiency scrutinies. Inefficiencies within the service have been documented by a series of audit commission reports: huge variations in response times, detection rates, patrolling. An antiquated pay system pushes the incompetent to the top of their rank pay structures. The number of ranks remains absurdly long. A steady decline in detection has gone from 40% in 1980 to below 20% now. The current home secretary has always been a centraliser. No doubt he will want to contest yesterday's account, but he cannot disown the detailed prescriptions in the current policing plan: layer upon layer of key performance indicators, strategic priorities, local action plans. Mr Blunkett should look across Whitehall at the health department, which belatedly concluded it is impossible to run local services from a Whitehall desk. Elephants cannot tie their own shoelaces. The distance is too great. The conditions between even localities that look alike, are too variable. There are several similarities between the two departments. Health has 300 primary care trusts, the Home Office some 300 basic command units. Mr Blunkett should follow suit.