The government will "very vigorously" appeal against an immigration tribunal decision to allow the killer of the London headteacher Philip Lawrence to remain in the UK after he is released from prison, the justice secretary, Jack Straw, said today.Mr Straw denied that ministers had misled Lawrence's widow, Frances, who said this morning she had "always been given the impression" Learco Chindamo would be deported to Italy after he had been freed. Mrs Lawrence said she understood the tribunal's decision to allow Chindamo's appeal against deportation, given the terms of human rights legislation, but she added that the move had left her "utterly devastated". "What I don't understand, and what makes me so depressed, is how the Human Rights Act, which I've always been a staunch advocate of ... [has] allowed someone who destroyed a life to pick and choose how he wants to live his," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. The Conservative leader, David Cameron, called for the Human Rights Act, introduced into British law in 1998, to be repealed, saying the tribunal's decision "flies in the face of common sense". "It is a shining example of what is going wrong in our country," Mr Cameron told the BBC. "He is someone who has been found guilty of murder and should be deported back to his country ... What about the rights of Mrs Lawrence or the victim?" Chindamo, now 26, who came to Britain from Italy with his family at the age of six, is serving a life sentence for stabbing Lawrence to death outside the headteacher's school in Maida Vale, north London, in 1995. His 12-year minimum prison term is due to end next year. Lawrence, 48, was killed as he tried to defend a 13-year-old pupil whom Chindamo and several other boys were attacking outside St George's Roman Catholic comprehensive. Chindamo - whose mother is Filipino and father Italian and who remains an Italian national - was part of a gang whose members were linked to other crimes, including a near-fatal stabbing and a rape.A summary of the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal's ruling from Chindamo's hearing on March 17, not yet formally released, reveals his appeal was upheld both under the Human Rights Act and also other EU laws on the rights of foreign nationals.The 33-page document, heavy with complex legal argument, shows the tribunal ruled that the home secretary's decision to deport Chindamo was not "proportionate" with regulations on deporting EU nationals within the bloc which state, among other factors, that those sent home must represent a "genuine, present and sufficiently serious threat" to society.The tribunal also decided that sending Chindamo to a country where he has no ties or support and does not speak the language would breach article 8 of the Human Rights Act, connected to the right to a family life.A leading human rights lawyer said it seemed "unlikely" the government's appeal would succeed."There are some ground for appeal, but equally, Chindamo's lawyers can appeal against other grounds against his deportation that weren't allowed," he said, asking not to be named.Mrs Lawrence said today she was most upset by the "wider picture" implied by the fact that the judges appeared simply to be following the law in refusing Chindamo's deportation. "I totally understand that, and I think possibly, if I was one of three judges, I would have come to the same decision," she said. "I think it's the fact that, again and again, this highlights that the voices of ordinary people don't become part of the equation when these laws are considered." The decision had come as a complete shock, she said. "We have always been given the impression that he would be deported. That was part of the whole justice system for me." Mr Straw, who was shadow home secretary at the time of the crime and home secretary for four years from 1997, denied Mrs Lawrence had been misled and said he had offered to meet her later today. "She was entirely right to say that was her expectation," he told Today. "It was mine, too." The government would be "very vigorously appealing", he said, adding: "This was not our expectation, that this man would be open to live in this country when he was released. "We are absolutely on Mrs Lawrence's side. We have to, however, await the process of the law. "I want to talk to her about her feelings in this case. I want to assure her of the government's full backing." Chindamo's solicitor, Nigel Leskin, said yesterday it would be "disproportionate" to deport his client because he had no connections with Italy and did not even speak the language. He said Chindamo was a reformed character who was unlikely to offend again. "He was involved in a gang when he was young. He was a kid trying to act up big. He was out of control and he thought he knew everything. He now realises how wrong he was. "He has spent time in prison speaking to other people who have come in - younger people, quite often, who he sees have committed offences of violence, trying to tell them how stupid they are, they shouldn't throw their lives away like he has thrown his away."