The credibility of Scotland's criminal justice system was in tatters last night after the country's most senior law officer effectively dismissed fingerprint evidence as junk science.Colin Boyd QC, the Lord Advocate, took the unprecedented step of explaining his decisions in the case of former police officer Shirley McKie, who was wrongly accused of leaving her fingerprint at a murder scene in 1997. His intervention, rather than defusing the issue, led to repeated calls for an independent public inquiry.McKie, a former Strathclyde detective, who was never at the scene, has fought a nine-year battle to clear her name. Last week she was awarded £750,000 compensation by the Scottish Executive in an out-of-court settlement after Jack McConnell, the First Minister, told parliament that fingerprint experts had made an 'honest mistake'.But ministers and justice officials were warned five years ago by Tayside Police of 'cover-up and criminality' within the Scottish Criminal Records Office. McKie wanted criminal proceedings brought against officials.On Friday, the Lord Advocate said 'there have always been, and there remain, conflicting expert views on the issue of identification of the relevant fingerprints'. He had concluded in 2001, after Tayside Police reported, 'that the conflict in expert evidence was such that there could be no question of criminal proceedings'.McKie's supporters said his comments meant fingerprint evidence could never again be relied upon in a Scottish court. Iain McKie, Shirley's father and also a former police officer, said: 'The Lord Advocate is ... saying it is perfectly reasonable to have a difference of opinion between experts, with one saying it is an identification and another saying it is not - and that they can equally be correct. This means there is nothing to stop every person in Scotland convicted on fingerprint evidence from appealing on the basis that the fingerprint evidence used against them was only an opinion.Pat Wertheim, a world-leading fingerprint expert, said: 'A mistake was made at the SCRO, but because of the culture, no-one is prepared to admit that.'Allan Bayle, a UK fingerprinting expert, said the disputed dab had been analysed by more than 170 experts in 18 countries. 'Every single person said there is no question, it was not Shirley McKie's.... Fingerprinting is now finished in Scotland.'A Scottish Executive spokeswoman said it was 'absolute nonsense' to suggest that fingerprint evidence in Scotland was unreliable.