An innovative bylaw aimed at reducing drunken assaults has been hailed such a success it will be used as a blueprint for countrywide legislation.Police in Manchester said the bylaw, which allows them to seize bottles and glasses of alcohol from people drinking in public places, has led to a reduction in assaults over Christmas and new year and contributed to a 10% drop in crime in the city centre. On New Year's Eve, police took alcohol from 56 people. It was the first time the bylaw, introduced in September, was tested in Manchester at a big event. There were 16 arrests, mostly for minor offences and at least 20,000 people were on the streets. All 56 people who were challenged gave up their drinks without protest. If they had refused, they could have been prosecuted and fined up to £1,000. A Home Office spokeswoman said legislation would be introduced in the police and criminal justice bill, which has yet to be published, which will replace the bylaws by banning the consumption of alcohol in specific public places. She said the aim was to simplify the bylaws introduced by local authorities, which would make it easier to enforce. The police would also be given powers to arrest people consuming alcohol in public places who refused to hand it over. The bylaws have been more successful than other law and order initiatives introduced over the past 18 months, such as anti-social behaviour orders and child curfew orders. Chief Inspector Garry Shewan, of Greater Manchester police, said: "It definitely made a big difference on New Year's Eve. The bylaw was incredibly well observed ... We feel it was a tremendous success." "Nobody refused to hand over their drink when they were challenged by the police. People understood the relevance of the bylaw." He said in previous years in Albert Square, where 8,500 people gathered, there had been problems with broken glass as a result of drinking in public. This year he said there was less drunken loutish behaviour and no one used bottles as offensive weapons. He said there were 47 assaults reported this year compared with 52 assaults during the same period, December 22 to January 2, last year. "In the last three or four months we have seen a tremendous change and we do not see gangs of young people roaming round from bar to bar with bottles in their hands," he added. He was encouraged that the Home Office was planning to introduce similar legislation across the country. Pat Karney, Manchester city councillor, said the message was getting through to the minority of trouble makers - that they would not be tolerated. "For the first time, I could detect a growing maturity of young people who were celebrating the new year," he said. "Although we want to encourage people to celebrate, we don't want Manchester to become an urban Ibiza. "We are prepared to go further and to ban people from the city for life if they cause problems such as drinking and fighting." He said the city centre felt less threatening at midnight on New Year's Eve because of the bylaw. "Jack Straw has lavished praise on this effort to try to stamp out the yob culture. He knows our approach is working," he added. Liverpool city council was the first local authority to give police the powers to seize open bottles, cans and glasses of alcohol in specific public places. The bylaw was introduced in July last year and hailed a success by police.