The Government was forced into a humiliating retreat yesterday when an injunction banning the publication of leaked extracts of the Stephen Lawrence report was effectively lifted less than 24 hours after an intervention by Jack Straw. Sir William Macpherson's report is a savage critique of the Metropolitan police. The force, he says, is riven by 'pernicious and institutionalised racism'. He makes stinging criticisms of Sir Paul Condon, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, who may not be able to resist the pressure to resign. The report challenges him and other senior officers to accept its findings. 'There must be an unequivocal acceptance of the problem of institutionalised racism and its nature before it can be addressed,' it says. 'Any chief police officer who feels unable to respond will find it extremely difficult to work in harmony and co-operate with the community in the way that policing by consent demands.' Sir William makes 70 recommendations, including changing the law so that suspects can be re-tried if powerful new evidence emerges, and amendments to the national curriculum in schools to emphasise cultural diversity. Police officers would be liable to compensation claims of up to £500,000 if found guilty of discrimination. At the moment they are exempt under race relations legislation. Sir William recommends that expressing racist language should be a crime, and that the Commission for Racial Equality should be given statutory powers to investigate the police. The Home Secretary's decision to gag the Sunday Telegraph, which had printed extracts of Sir William's inquiry in its first edition, looked increasingly misguided yesterday as criticism mounted in the media and opposition parties, describing Mr Straw as heavy handed and bullying. Mr Straw's capitulation was his worst setback since taking office, as he opened himself up to accusations of attempting to muzzle a free press. The issue, he argued, was not one of security, the usual justification for seeking a gagging order. He said he was attempting to defend the principle that judicial inquiries should not be leaked and that Stephen Lawrence's parents and the police should see the report first. Mr Straw said he also wanted to uphold the principle that Parliament should be told first. However, the decision to seek the injunction, taken within minutes of hearing about the Sunday Telegraph's scoop on Saturday evening and without reference to the Prime Minister, appeared clumsy and eventually it became untenable. By lunchtime, the media, opposition politicians and civil liberties groups were calling for the injunction to be lifted. Initially Mr Straw stood firm. Speaking on Radio 4's the World This Weekend, he said: 'This is a very unusual situation. This is a full judicial inquiry chaired by a High Court judge into the death of a young black teenager and it's of extreme importance to the family but also to quite a number of police officers against whom allegations have been made. I took the view that it [early publication] was profoundly unfair to the family and to the police officers involved, but also very unfair to Parliament itself.' He said he had made the decision on 'the basis of less than full information' but intended to stand by it. Within three hours, Mr Straw conceded defeat. Under pressure from lawyers acting for newspapers, including the Guardian, the Home Office agreed to change the wording of the injunction to allow the media to publish and comment on any part of the Macpherson report already in the public domain. Mr Justice Rix, who was at a wedding reception at the Dorchester Hotel in London, approved the amendment in a private room before rejoining the party. A Home Office source admitted the change of heart on the injunction was forced on Mr Straw by practicalities. First editions of the Sunday Telegraph, with extracts of the report, had been distributed throughout Scotland and the north of England. 'We were too late and the damage was done,' he said. The Conservatives will press for an emergency Commons statement today and also ask for official publication of Sir William's report to be brought forward from Wednesday. Sir Norman Fowler, the shadow home secretary, seized on the U-turn. 'It is a humiliating defeat for the Government. They acted in an arbitrary and a high-handed manner and they came a cropper and they deserved to have done so.' Mr Straw received little support from the Lawrences. A source close to the family said that no one from the Home Office had contacted them before the injunction was issued. The source said: 'The family don't support the Government on this. Mr Straw did not consult the Lawrences or anyone close to them. It doesn't really make any difference to us whether it comes out on Tuesday or Wednesday or whenever. We just think, what a palaver.' Sir William was sanguine. He told friends he was disappointed with the early and partial leaks, but said he was always resigned to the fact that they might occur. Chief Superintendent Des Parkinson, national secretary of the Police Superintendents' Association for England, welcomed the lifting of the ban. He said, however: 'We are not happy about the criticisms of Sir Paul. We don't believe that there is institutionalised racism in the Metropolitan police force or in the police service in general.