"I was first convicted when I was 14," says Billy. "I've been in and out of jail 15 times." He then goes on to recount the joys of life in a gang - "a team of blokes you can really, really trust."That was Billy Hill, writing in 1955 in his autobiography, Boss of Britain's Underworld. He and his team in those days were armed with "choppers, hammers, pick-axes, knives and razors." But not, crucially, guns.In the big cities of Britain, most notably, as we learn from the inquest into the death of Jessie James in Manchester this week, young men have long since moved on to guns, even if many of the weapons are converted replicas. And they have also taken to referring to those killed as "fallen soldiers".At the Old Bailey earlier this year I watched a teenager being convicted of a pointless shooting death in Canning Town. As the judge told him he would spend at least the next 25 years in prison, his lower lip started to tremble and he looked like a little boy who had been ticked off by his granny. Had he had any conception of what he was doing when he pulled the trigger?In Manchester last week, I met Erinma Bell of Carisma, the Moss Side community group, who has seen a friend shot - though not fatally - in front of her and asked her about the recent shootings and whether the people carrying them out had any concept of what they were doing."People can become desensitised to the damage guns can do," she said. "Do they think the people they shoot are going to get back up again? As for the 'fallen soldier', I wonder if they like that as an accolade - do they realise that to get that title, they have to go six foot under?"The police in Manchester are offering a big reward for information that will lead them to Jessie James's killers and they promise any would-be informant that "no one will ever know who you are." Lots of reasons are offered as to why young men go around killing each other. One reason, of course, is that it's easier than it was. When Billy Hill and his friends were carving lumps out of each other in the 30s, one big difference was that guns were not around much.Drugs, boredom, unemployment, desensitisation, territory, lack of opportunity or love, deprivation, violent computer games, fast food, alienation, the end of national service: all are currently being offered up as possible explanations as to why young men open fire on each other and strangers. Even, perhaps, a subconscious fear that, if you don't hang out with the people who have the money and the power then, indeed, "no one will ever know who you are."