A city council has been accused of "significant failures" over its handling of the case of a seven-year-old girl who died after being found seriously ill at her home. Two people were charged with child neglect and remanded in custody after the death of Khyra Ishaq at the weekend. Ambulances were called to Khyra's home in Leyton Road, Birmingham after she suffered breathing difficulties.The Labour MP for Birmingham Perry Barr, Khalid Mahmood, said he had written to the council's chief executive to express his concerns. The MP said he had been told that a social worker had been unable to contact the family."I believe that person [the social worker] went to the house and no one answered the door and there was no repeat visit," the MP said. "Clearly there were significant failures and there have been systematic failures by the local authority throughout this case."Khyra's five siblings, two girls and three boys, were taken into local authority foster care after her death. Their condition is not thought to be life threatening.Khyra's mother, Angela Gordon, 33, and her partner, Jermaid Abuhamza, 29, have been charged with child neglect and were remanded in custody. In a statement yesterday, the council said: "Birmingham safeguarding children board will review this case, as they do with every child death, and is meeting tomorrow to discuss this case. Birmingham city council was granted an emergency protection order for the five siblings of Khyra Ishaq as soon as we were made aware of her death. The care and welfare of the siblings remains our priority and the children have now been placed in foster care."Eight bouquets of flowers sat on a brick wall in front of the boarded-up house yesterday. A tribute from a local resident read: "RIP little angel." Another said: "You're safe now in God's hands."In the family's overgrown rear garden, there was a faded old blue single mattress, a fridge and pieces of carpet.A next door neighbour, the mother of a two-year-old child, expressed her sorrow at what had happened. "When I heard this little girl had died I had to sit down - it was such a big shock," she said. Parents dropping off children at the nearby Grove School, where Khyra was a pupil, also spoke of their sorrow and concern. Renata Palczewska, 26, said: "I was in shock when the teacher told me what had happened. The teacher was almost in tears. She was very upset." West Midlands police said: "We can confirm that a seven-year-old girl was taken to hospital on Saturday May 17, where she was pronounced dead. Police are conducting inquiries and a man aged 29 and a woman aged 33 have been charged with neglect and appeared before Birmingham magistrates on May 19. As proceedings are active, we cannot comment further."A spokesman for the Birmingham coroner's office said that an inquest was some days away.