We had arrived in Liverpool. I was just ensconced in the hotel, when Neil, my tour manager, came by and told me that the crew tour bus had been stolen from outside the Philharmonic, the venue for that night’s show. I was shocked – frozen, mid-peel of my satsuma.Apparently, two blokes had got into the building through a wedged-open side door, found their way to the production office – which was unoccupied as the crew were on a break – and taken a production laptop (plus the power cable – the nerve!) and two sets of keys. One was for the Mercedes Sprinter splitter van, the other for my production manager’s car. The “splitter” van is a stalwart of touring bands, as the inside is “split” between seating and a luggage area. Bands use them for their gear and merchandise. In our case, it was all the crew’s bags, personal possessions, phones and laptops, plus a stack of my tour merch.Bill Bailey enlists public's help after tour bus stolen in Liverpool Police were called, CCTV footage was scrutinised, and it seems the two scrofulous nerks were clearly visible, brazenly checking out the camera as they passed. The car, which had not been stolen, had to be removed by the AA for safekeeping.By the time someone realised, the thieves were long gone. Who knows if we’ll get any of it back? Probably not. I feel bad for the crew – laptops, phones, vans can be replaced, but not the personal stuff.I tweeted about the incident, and was soon getting requests to speak to the local and national press, demonstrating to me the power and extraordinary reach of social media. I received many messages of support from Liverpudlians – embarrassed by this unfortunate incident – that sadly then attracted a fair bit of “banter”, which in this case meant lazy stereotyping. We don’t know who the perpetrators were or what nationality, only that they were white and tracksuited, and had the cold, black hearts of habitual thieving rogues.It seems to me, however, that there must have been more than two perps involved. This wasn’t some vehicle-window smash and a phone getting lifted. Someone was watching to check if the crew were on a break, where to get in, and had to navigate the warren of corridors backstage to the as-yet unmarked production office (the Philharmonic is still undergoing a major refurb).Ach, no one got hurt, thankfully, there was no fracas, but in the ups and downs of touring, this was definitely a bit of a downer. So, I say to all bands, theatre companies, dance troupes, orchestras, ventriloquists, mind-readers, troubadours and other comics ... be vigilant on your travels.