Jonathan Freedland is right to compare the lack of response to the institutionalised criminality of the bankers with the punitive sentences handed out after last August's riots (Comment, 30 June). However, the comparison is even more stark looking at punishment in general. The behaviour of the poor continues to be relentlessly punished with prisons warehousing the unemployed, the homeless, the mentally ill, the sexually abused and socially excluded. According to the Prison Reform Trust, in 2010, in Northern Ireland, over half the women imprisoned were there for fine default, while in 2009, 1,394 people were imprisoned for failing to pay fines.Politicians, and commentators tie themselves in knots over how the state should respond. It could be that for many of those in power, their hope is that this crisis will blow over and the hypocritical, mendacious, "light touch" status quo will resume. The bankers may be, to paraphrase Marx, "geniuses in the way of bourgeois stupidity", despite their expensive private education, but unless the state is serious about criminalising their behaviour, they are not stupid enough to ditch a lucrative cash cow, irrespective of the harm done to millions of others.Professor Joe SimLiverpool John Moores University• Isn't it time to deal with the cause of the problem, rather than just be outraged by its symptoms? Whether a few individuals give up their obscene bonuses, whether they resign, whether banks are fined, or even whether someone goes to jail, the heart of the problem will remain.Banks helped to create the financial and economic meltdown that ordinary people are now told we have to pay for. The government gave them £1.3tn of our money to bail them out. The very next year, the banks made £90bn in profits and bonuses. They, together with the big monopoly companies, are sitting on £750bn of uninvested cash, while the spectre of unemployment haunts working people. Now we have new scandals of market rate-fixing and mis-selling of deliberately obscure financial products.The culture of corruption is not an aberration, it is a direct result of the enormous power of the banks being in the hands of a tiny class of people who have only their own ever-expanding wealth and profit at heart. The solution is obvious. The entire banking and finance industry should be taken into public ownership and used for the common good, investing in industry, skills, infrastructure and public services – instead of financial speculation. Don't expect the coalition, with its 18 multi-millionaires in the cabinet, to do it. It is up to us – ordinary men and women – to demand and organise for real change. Bill GreenshieldsThe People's Charter• The greed revealed by the latest banking scandal now pervades most business sectors, as shown by the pay rises and bonuses for all directors of FTSE top companies, while the wages of ordinary workers are held down. Governments over the past 30 years have promoted the myth of "private good, public bad" and have steadily given away much of our public sector to private companies. We have seen the results in the MRSA scandal in the hospitals, where private companies provided inadequate cleaning, the gas, electric and water industries, where we have all seen huge rises in our bills, and the PFI debacles. The coalition had a chance to nationalise RBS, which would have provided a conduit for taxpayers' cash for small industries. This could also have given the public a safe banking alternative to the major banks. David WalkerDudley• There's no point whingeing that the bankers won't exercise restraint themselves. There was an opportunity for the government to restrain them at the time of the bailout – either we could have let them bear the consequences of their actions, or insisted upon proper governance controls. Instead the banks were excused both the consequences of their own actions and any conditions to bring them into line with the public's expectations. Too big to fail is simply too big.Bill StothartChester• It looks as though the big banks are going to be paying millions in fines and penalties. This should not come from shareholders and customers but from those who have failed in their supervision and management. Let them pay back the bonuses they have greedily taken over the last five years.John WyattBarley, Hertfordshire• Are these the same bankers who will leave the country if we cut their pay? Looks easy to me …Tony HinkinsFrodsham, Cheshire • Anger at the bankers could mean we a miss a more important conclusion, which is that the self-regulated market does not work in society's interest. Have we forgotten Enron, where traders manipulated the energy market and celebrated it, just like Barclays? It's time the invisible hand was handcuffed.Abdul HamedNewcastle upon Tyne• We now know why Barclays could boast that they did not need a bailout when RBS and others came begging.Gerard GordonWest Kirby, Wirral• So why is our economic recovery plan still based on giving banks cheap money?Michael HeatonWarminster, Wiltshire• Suddenly David Cameron flashes up the European referendum card. It nicely obscures the scandal engulfing his wealthy friends in the City. Eileen ClarkCockermouth, Cumbria