A Dutch engineer has admitted killing the landscape architect Joanna Yeates, whose body was found by a roadside verge near the village of Failand, Somerset, on Christmas morning last year.Vincent Tabak, who lived next door to Yeates, pleaded guilty to manslaughter but denied murder during a 15-minute appearance at the Old Bailey in central London .Tabak, 33, goes on trial for murder in October in Bristol.Yeates's parents, David and Teresa, from Ampfield, Hampshire, were in court to see Tabak admit the manslaughter of their 25-year-old daughter. The couple appeared shaken and close to tears as they were led from the court by police officers.Joanna Yeates lived in the Clifton area of Bristol with her boyfriend, Greg Reardon. She went missing on 17 December after drinks with friends at a pub near the city centre. Her body was found eight days later at the side of a road near Failand, about three miles from her home.Tabak was arrested and appeared in court in Bristol on 24 January. He was charged with murdering Yeates between 16 and 26 December last year.For his fourth court appearance, bespectacled Tabak wore a dark suit, shirt and tie. He appeared by video link from Long Lartin prison in Worcestershire. He confirmed his identity and replied "morning" when the judge, Mr Justice Field, greeted him. When asked if he was content to proceed without an interpreter, he said: "I'm OK."He pleaded not guilty to the charge of murder, this time between 16 and 19 December. When the manslaughter charge between the same dates was put to him, he paused briefly before saying guilty in a firm voice.Among the police officers in court was Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, who led the murder hunt.Nigel Lickley QC, prosecuting, asked for the trial to be moved to Winchester crown court because of the publicity in Bristol that had surrounded the case. The judge said he felt the trial could take place in Bristol and it is set to begin on 4 October and last four weeks.While a timetable for legal procedures was set out, Tabak took notes and sipped from a glass of water. A pre-trial review is due to be held in Bristol in July. Tabak was remanded in custody.Afterwards, Geoffrey Morson, a retired legal professional and the father of Tabak's girlfriend, Tanja Morson, described Yeates' death as tragic. Speaking from his home in Cambridge, Morsonsaid he had no knowledge of whether his daughter and Tabak were still in a relationship.He said: "This is a tragic case for everyone, especially the Yeates family and for us and the Tabak family and anyone who knew those involved. It is in the hands of the British judicial system now. I do not know if my daughter Tanja is still with Vincent. She did go and visit Vincent in prison but that was some weeks ago."Outside court, Detective Chief Inspector Jones said: "The not guilty plea to Joanna Yeates' murder, entered by Vincent Tabak today at the Old Bailey, means that there will be a full trial in due course. Tabak has entered a plea to manslaughter, however this has not been accepted by the crown. Until this trial takes place it would be inappropriate and potentially prejudicial for us to comment further."