The government's radical overhaul of sex offences legislation, including a redefinition of rape and the legalisation of cottaging, was strongly attacked in the House of Lords yesterday.But campaigners for reform, led by Lady Gould, who was Labour's national women's officer for 10 years, defended the proposals. "At last it will be possible to challenge such myths as women say no when they mean yes, and men have a point of no return - beliefs that are currently underpinned in law," she said. Under the sexual offences bill a rape defendant can no longer be acquitted on the grounds that he believed consent had been given, regardless of the circumstances. Instead, a new test is to be introduced, of whether a "reasonable man" would believe consent had been given. The proposal is intended to give rape victims greater confidence in the system. Under the existing law conviction rates are at an all-time low of 7%. Lady Gould said: "I firmly believe that the introduction of reasonableness will add great clarity to the law of consent and send out strong signals that sexual intercourse and sexual activity have to be consensual." Critics, led by the Liberal Democrat part-time judge Lord Thomas of Gresford, said it would have the reverse effect. He attacked the idea of asking a jury to assess how a hypothetical person would view the actions of a defendant, rather than only forming an opinion of the state of mind of the defendant. "If one tries to sum up to a jury on the basis of this bill it is so complex that they have no possibility of understanding it and it is inevitable that injustice will follow," he said. Lord Falconer, the Home Office minister, insisted it would not mean wrongful convictions. "To put the matter beyond doubt once and for all, in the light of confusion on this point in the media and elsewhere, the defendant remains innocent until proven guilty beyond reasonable doubt." There will be new protection for the most vulnerable, especially children and people with a mental disorder or learning disability. There will be new offences against children under 13, deemed too young to consent to any sexual activity. Some archaic laws relating to homosexual acts are repealed by the legislation. It will no longer be illegal to have sex in a public lavatory, as long as the door is shut. A Tory peer, Lady Blatch, argued that the bill sent out the wrong message: "The bill will make public lavatories no-go areas for families."