Judges are prone to complain about the volume of change imposed on them by government. But it is the lord chief justice himself who has issued a tough new guideline in R v Saw and others which, while purporting to clarify existing policy, in practice is likely to harden the approach courts take to sentencing people convicted of burglary and add significantly to our record prison population.The new guideline treats burglary as a more serious type of offence by defining it as a crime against the person as well as against property. Its six paragraphs on aggravating features (compared to three on mitigation) stress that in evaluating the seriousness of individual cases, courts should attend much more than before to the impact of the crime on those living in the burgled house, whether intended or not. Courts should also give more weight to any criminal record on the part of the burglar than in other types of case. While non-custodial sentences remain possible for young first-time offenders and those looking to turn their back on crime such a chance should, so the appeal court says, rarely come more than onceOf course, burglary is often serious and for those of us unfortunate enough to have been subject to break-ins, greater attention to the personal rather than economic value of any loss may seem overdue. But whether this should translate into more and longer prison sentences is another matter. This is particularly true in respect of many burglars – including two of the cases whose unsuccessful appeals against severe prison sentences form the basis of the guideline judgment – who are addicted to heroin. Reductions in further offending are more likely to result from encouraging courts and the probation service to identify why it is that desperate people offend to support an addiction and putting in place robust and effective measures to get them off drugs. Other appeals dismissed by the court include cases of a foreign worker who was homeless and hungry; a young adult with well below average intelligence and a young man who had himself been so victimised that a psychiatrist concluded that he would have real difficulty coping with imprisonment. Such factors do not excuse criminal behaviour that in many cases caused real and lasting suffering and for which offenders need to be held seriously to account. They do suggest the need for much better ways than simply increasing terms of imprisonment to bring home to offenders the consequences of their actions – while providing the intensive rehabilitation programmes in the community that can help them turn their lives around. The court of appeal's tough talk and upholding of severe sentences produced predictable tabloid cheers, but unlike the guideline which it replaced, R v Saw says nothing about public attitudes. Research has long found that public calls for tougher punishments reflect a large underestimate of the degree to which imprisonment is actually imposed, and when asked about the appropriate sentence in particular cases (including burglary), people often propose one more lenient than that which is actually handed down. The public seem keen to see a more constructive approach to crime problems. It is unfortunate that the court of appeal has joined the Ministry of Justice in supporting an approach that distorts a laudable wish to support victims of crimes into a more punitive policy towards offenders.