A tier of "supercops", whose salaries would soar with performance-related pay, could be created under a plan being put to police chiefs today. Rewarding officers according to skills and role, irrespective of rank or length of service, is part of a radical blueprint proposed by the Surrey chief constable, Bob Quick.Mr Quick, head of workforce modernisation at the Association of Chief Police Officers, says a complete overhaul of outdated practices is vital if police are to provide the best service. He says that removing existing recruitment and pay restrictions, and allowing chief constables more freedom over the use of resources, would enable detectives to solve 20% more crimes at no extra cost.This could mean a new breed of "supercop", whose pay would increase on performance, despite remaining at a certain rank. For example, a valued neighbourhood constable could get £40,000 a year. "There are many highly competent officers, from the neighbourhood constable to the detective, but there is no opportunity for further reward unless they get promoted out of a job they love," he said.The proposal would also allow private-sector professionals with valuable transferable skills, such as financial institution fraud investigators, direct entry up to superintendent level, skipping the present two-year probation and progression through the ranks. Short-term contracts, which favour modern "portfolio careers", would also enable the police to make best use of outside talent.Mr Quick uses the analogy of a football club which wants to make best use of a combination of promising players from its own youth teams, ie police recruits, and big name transfers, who may come in at a higher level, or leapfrog several ranks. "It's about attracting and rewarding the brightest and the best," he says.Pilot schemes in several forces, including his own, indicate the plan could increase efficiency by a fifth on the same £10bn annual budget. "If we're going to be compared to the private sector then we need a level playing field," he said. "We want the freedom to run the business and be more focused on the outcome. There is compelling evidence that with local flexibility to change working practices and use the best mix of constables, advanced constables and support officers, we could deliver 20% more and better policing."The proposal could encounter opposition from some rank-and-file officers, wary of the dilution of police powers to less qualified community support officers (CSOs), and from certain politicians enthusiastic about large police numbers.There are 142,000 warranted officers in England and Wales, but Mr Quick says many of them are not on operational duties, and routine tasks could be delegated to CSOs and police staff, freeing experienced officers for more complex work.He is presenting his blueprint to Acpo members today, but says it already has the support of many top officers, including the Metropolitan commissioner, Sir Ian Blair. If adopted, police chiefs would then lobby the government for its full implementation, which could take four years.