Labour's announcement of a shared community-safety budget for police, local authorities and other agencies is welcome news (Labour's new crime drive, September 27). While Havering has relatively low crime figures, our residents, like many other people, have expressed a fear of crime. In response, we implemented a neighbourhood warden service. Our wardens are highly visible, patrolling estates and streets where residents live, acting as a deterrent to antisocial behaviour, fly-tipping, vandalism and graffiti. While it is early days, we have already seen that their presence has made it easier to both report and deal with these problems, as well as helping to calm the fear of crime.Mark Wright Director of operations, Homes in HaveringNews that the government has turned to zero-tolerance policing is a sad capitulation from its 1997 promise to be tough on both crime and its causes. Part of the failure - setting performance measures - has already dumbed down policing to the pursuit of offences that make almost zero difference - the creation of crime and easy targets. Crime in New York did not fall because of zero tolerance - it fell for roughly the same reasons it fell across the US. It might also fall in the UK, if the government came up with a coherent drugs policy and encouraged the police to stop treating deprived areas like occupied territory. After 10 years of evidence-based criminal-justice policy, it is a failing of unspeakable magnitude to conclude with zero-tolerance policing. Although it does at least provide justification to the banality of target culture - and Margaret Thatcher will no doubt approve of arrests for dropping litter. Andy Wilson University of SheffieldIt is greatly to be hoped that Jack Straw does not get his way about cannabis. It has been shown that talk of a massive increase in strength is bunkum and that only a small proportion of cannabis smokers suffer serious psychological problems. It is still true to say that cannabis is a safe drug and much less harmful than tobacco or alcohol. Cannabis smoking has declined since decriminalisation and one must surmise that by and large those who have been adversely affected would have smoked it regardless of its legal status. A great deal of police time has been used more productively and the relationship between the police and sections of the community must have benefited. Please let's not go back to criminalising perfectly decent people who, unlike drinkers, do no harm to anyone. Christopher Jordan DerbyI received two letters this week from my MP. One on a 10-point plan for climate change and one on a local drug-abuse survey. I think an election is coming. Tony Myers Birmingham