The number of crimes that the fictional detective Inspector Morse investigated around Oxford University has always seemed improbable. But now the real-life criminal past of Cambridge University – at least in the 16th and 17th centuries – has been exposed by new research.A murder of two children, an attempted murder by smothering and poison, a beating of a woman "blacke and blewe" – her injury estimated at £20 – along with adultery, libel and bribery, are some of the crimes that have emerged from the vice-chancellor's court records. Thousands of pages chronicling the crimes and misdemeanours of staff, students and townspeople connected to the university are being studied and catalogued for the first time.Of about 50 bundles, some with hundreds of legal documents, about half – 4,500 documents dated from 1540 to the 1630s – have been studied so far. They contain allegations, questions for witnesses, personal statements and letters. Archivist Jacky Cox, who has devoted a year to the project, spoke of "litigants' voices rising off the page".Between the 16th and 19th centuries, the university's remit went well beyond its academic responsibilities. Successive monarchs bestowed on it wide-ranging civil, criminal and ecclesiastical powers and its courts tried cases involving university members and other "privileged persons" – townspeople such as stationers, tailors or butchers trading with university members.Court records of 1622 show that Thomas Hobson (of Hobson's choice fame), a carrier, was sued by a disgruntled employee, Rooke, for non-payment of wages. Hobson in turn alleged that Rooke was a thief who had mistreated horses, abandoning them and their load of manure so that they "gott loose" while he sloped off to an ale house. Worse still, Rooke was accused of picking up a girl on the London to Cambridge road who fell from the wagon and died. Although Rooke was condemned as "contumacious" and his arrest was ordered four times, he eluded justice.Other cases seem slight by today's standards, but they were "deathly serious to the status-conscious society of the time", Cox said. People went to court for being badmouthed as a cuckold. Among such defamation actions was a 1603 case. John Dighton of St Catharine's Hall took legal action against the college butler, for injurious words – "a turd in his teeth".One case involved William Covell, fellow of Queens' College, accused in 1595 of having an affair with a married woman, Bridget Edmunds. Servants and neighbours were called as witnesses. Edmunds's maid reported seeing them "naughte together", Covell "blusteringe and bloweing verie much and afterwards… verie redd in the face" and she "bare-legged without anie hosen on and havinge her petticate not laced".The furious husband alleged that Covell was the father of Edmunds's unborn child and Edmunds finally confessed. The court ruled that she must make public acknowledgement of her guilt in St Botolph's church on three successive Sundays, dressed in a white sheet and holding a white staff. Edmunds filed for divorce.The court acted as judge and jury. Sentencing for major offences involved prison or corporal punishment, such as flogging. Adulterous men faced the stocks, while women were driven through the town to the crowd's taunts. In the 1630s, 600 cases a year were being heard.