The lawyer who represents the family of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence clashed with the commissioner designate of the Metropolitan police yesterday over the commitment being shown by the force to tackle racism.Imran Khan said he could not recommend black people to join the Met because of the nature of its problems and challenged John Stevens, who takes over from Sir Paul Condon next January, to say "categorically and unequivocally" that institutional racism existed within the ranks. In his first speech since his appointment was announced, Mr Stevens, the Met's deputy commissioner, described Mr Khan's remarks on ethnic minority recruitment as "very disappointing". He said both he and Sir Paul had accepted Sir William Macpherson's highly critical report into the Stephen Lawrence murder investigation, including his claim that there was institutional racism in the force.Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said Mr Khan was "completely irresponsible". "His remarks on recruitment were wholly inappropriate. It's a bit like me saying black people shouldn't become solicitors." Mr Khan and Mr Stevens were speaking at a one-day conference, The Crooked Blue Line: Accountability for Police Misconduct, which was held at the London School of Economics and co-sponsored by the Guardian. Mr Khan said the Met would never move forward unless Mr Stevens agreed "there is institutionalised racism, corruption and misconduct throughout the Metropolitan police service. Unless he does this he will continue the failures of his predecessor and there will be yet another opportunity lost."Mr Khan accused Mr Stevens of regarding corruption within the police as a problem of a few rotten apples rather than an institutional failure. He said: "I still have trouble with recommending that black people join the police service. "Essentially the difficulty stems from the institutional nature of the problem. While the canteen culture still flourishes and perhaps more importantly is allowed to flourish, the police service is not going to welcome and retain black recruits." Mr Stevens, who has responsibility for complaints and discipline at the Met, said the force accepted five years ago that its anti-corruption policy did not tackle "the tree from which [the rotten apples] were picked". Enormous strides had been taken since then and the Met had developed the best strategy in the world. Mr Stevens said the Met accepted the 37 recommendations contained in the Macpherson report, and it was his task to put them into practice. Nine were in place, eight would be by Christmas and the rest were coming into effect over two years. Mr Stevens added: "I was very disappointed when Mr Khan said he would not encourage ethnic minorities to join the police. "Some 3.3 per cent of the Metropolitan police is represented by ethnic minorities, while 20 per cent of the community as a whole are from minority backgrounds. "I hope he can take a more positive approach because we are doing everything we can to improve the situation."