A man has been charged with a public order offence after a bottle was thrown at the start of the men's Olympic 100m final, Scotland Yard has said.Ashley Gill-Webb, 34, from South Millford, near Leeds, will appear in custody at Stratford magistrates' court on Monday afternoon.A police spokesman said he will be charged with intending to cause intentional harassment, alarm or distress under Section 5 Public Order Act.Gill-Webb was arrested after the incident on Sunday night at the Olympic Stadium. He is reportedly a father-of-two and a member of a local football team in South Millford. A police spokesman said that a man had been heard shouting abuse and was seen throwing a bottle, which landed behind the sprinters just after the starter told them to "set".Dutch world judo champion Edith Bosch intervened after the incident.The 32-year-old was standing close by when a green plastic drink bottle was thrown from the stands behind the start line.She told Dutch television station NOS TV: "I had seen the man walking around earlier and said to people around me that he was a peculiar bloke."Then he threw that bottle and in my emotion I hit him on the back with the flat of my hand."Then he was scooped up by the security. However, he did make me miss the final, and I am very sad about that."I just cannot understand how someone can do something like that."Bosch's involvement was brought to public attention on Twitter, where she wrote: "A drunken spectator threw a bottle onto the track! I HAVE BEATEN HIM... unbelievable."Bill Hobman, chairman of the South Milford parish council, said people in the village near Leeds would be "shocked and disappointed" at what had happened."People will be pretty shocked because it was a pretty alarming thing to see," he said. "South Milford is a quiet village and this sort of thing is completely out of character."Earlier the London 2012 chairman, Lord Coe, said it was "poetic justice" that the man happened to be sitting next to the Dutch judo star.He said: "I'm not suggesting vigilantism but it was actually poetic justice that they happened to be sitting next to a judo player."He added: "Throwing a bottle on to the field of play is unacceptable. It's not just unacceptable at an Olympic Games but at any sporting event and anybody who does that will be removed."Speaking after the race, the US sprinter Justin Gatlin, who won bronze, said: "It was a little distraction and I didn't know what it was. But when you're in those blocks and the whole stadium's quiet you can hear a pin drop."Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt, who won the race, said he had been unaware of the incident.He said: "No, I keep hearing that. I don't know who would have done that."Fellow Jamaican sprinter Yohan Blake said: "I was so focused I didn't see anything. I was so focused on just running to the line."Gatlin agreed that the incident had not affected the race: "You just have to block it out and go out there and do what you got to do."You can't complain about that, the race went on and it was a great race."