The crack house in the heart of Reading, Berkshire, is only yards from the last place Mary-Ann Leneghan, 16, was seen alive and a short walk from Prospect Park, the place where her body was dumped. In the days immediately after her murder the steady stream of customers virtually dried up, but now, barely a week later, it is business as usual.Yesterday a 21-year-old man was remanded in custody by magistrates after being charged with her murder. Jamiale Morally, from Balham, south London, also faces charges relating to the attempted murder of an 18-year-old friend of Mary-Ann's and the rape and kidnap of both girls.Mary-Ann and her friend, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were kidnapped by a gang of up to six men from the car park at the disused Wallingford Arms pub in Reading on the night of 6 May. They were taken to a guest house, sexually abused and dumped at nearby Prospect Park.Mary-Ann died of a stab wound to the neck. Her friend survived, despite being shot in the head and 'left for dead'. The bullet did not penetrate her skull and she has not suffered brain damage. However, she remains in hospital in a serious condition.Despite the charges against Morally, Thames Valley police insist that the investigation is far from over. Six other teenagers, four male and two female, all of whom were arrested in the last week, remain in custody. Police have also renewed their appeals for witnesses to the events on the evening Mary-Ann was last seen to come forward.'We know there are people out there who know things that have not yet come forward,' Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick said after announcing the charges against Morally. 'We urge them to do so. This crime is one of the most horrendous I have seen. It has shocked and stunned all officers who have been involved. We find this offence as difficult to comprehend as the residents of Reading.'On Friday, friends of Mary-Ann place a white school shirt, covered in poignant tributes to the 16-year-old, upon the hundreds of flowers, teddy bears and messages already left at the spot in Prospect Park where her blood-soaked body was discovered. A nearby bench has also been etched with dozens of messages of remembrance. All of the tributes were later taken away by police to be passed on to Mary-Ann's mother, Sue.Two days before Morally was charged, police met more than 150 residents in a church hall in the centre of Reading to reassure local people that they were still safe. It is a notion that many are finding hard to swallow.Even before the shocking events of last week, residents had expressed growing alarm at the levels of violence around them. Gun crime is becoming increasingly common. Last year police found themselves in a shoot-out with gang members racing a stolen car along the M4. Violent crime has jumped by more than 60 per cent in the past five years while drug crime has risen by almost 50 per cent during the same period.There has also been a massive influx of prostitutes, many of them from eastern Europe, trafficked into the town to work in makeshift brothels. Many such women are believed to be virtual sex slaves and under the control of violent pimps.Last week a gang of young robbers who terrorised teenagers across the town were jailed for a total of six years. They stole cars and used them to hunt down their victims, often attacking several in a single day. One 14-year-old boy was punched and threatened with a screwdriver. A 17-year-old was threatened at knifepoint until he handed over his wallet and other valuables.At the residents' meetings police were told time and time again by terrified locals that they simply did not feel safe in many parts of Reading, and neither did their children.The M4 has always been the main drugs corridor for traffickers moving between London and Bristol but, with police enjoying greater success in these two markets, the dealers have been forced to look elsewhere. Positioned almost at the halfway point between the two, Reading became the target.The dealers forced their way into the market using tried and trusted techniques. First, they went after the fast-growing vice industry, undercutting locals to become the chief suppliers of heroin to working girls across the town. These same prostitutes were then provided with 'free' samples of crack cocaine along with their heroin. Within weeks most were hooked on the crack, a far more profitable drug from the dealers' point of view.The market has grown rapidly and the profits that can be made are astonishing. Last year Jamaican-born Brian Brown was jailed for ten years after being caught with the largest haul of crack cocaine ever seized outside London in the kitchen of his Reading home. The 31-year-old, who claimed to have turned to drug production to fund his college studies, had £330,000 worth of high-quality crack as well as nearly £20,000 in cash.Many of the drug dealers have been found to come from Jamaica, most of them having overstayed their visas. In 2003 alone, 83 suspected Jamaican criminals were deported from the Reading area. A similar situation developed five years ago in Bristol.There the Jamaican gangsters found themselves being challenged by local gangsters. The clashes became increasingly violent and ultimately led to a number of shootings, firebombings and murders. People fear that a similar situation might develop in Reading if the problem is not addressed in time.'There have been crack houses in the Oxford Road area for as long as I can remember,' said one resident who asked not to be named for fear of reprisals. 'Every now and then the police close them down, but they reopen a few days later as if nothing has happened. You see people walking around at all hours trying to find dealers.'So long as there's a demand, I guess there will always be a supply.'