Thank you for giving Beth Ellis a voice (One woman's ordeal, January 14). I was raped by someone I trusted. Like Beth, I have experienced panic attacks and horrific flashbacks. I don't have her courage to report the rape and also there seems to be little to be gained from doing so. I often feel isolated and furious with a society that isn't able to talk about rape. It's one of the last taboos. It compounds the feelings that I had when it happened. I wasn't equipped with the language to talk about it and believed that it was hugely shameful. Nancy Raine writes: "Rape has long been considered a crime so unspeakable, so shameful to its victims, that they are rendered mute and cloaked in protective anonymity." She adds: "The victims of rape must carry their memories with them for the rest of their lives. They must not also carry the burden of silence and shame." Thank you Beth for breaking that silence.Name and address suppliedWe welcome your acknowledgement that the low conviction rate for rape is due to "the failure of the police and crown prosecution service" . But how can you then suggest technical fixes, including the dangerous downgrading of "more typical cases" of rape, as the solution? In other jobs, inefficiency and refusal to act would lead to a warning, then dismissal. Why not for police officers, prosecutors and judges whose carelessness, or worse, result in evidence being lost, not gathered, or misrepresented so violent criminals escape conviction?And most will rape again. Unpublished Metropolitan police research found that of 677 rapes in 2005, one-third were not investigated or even recorded as crimes, even though many of the suspects had a history of violence. Why has this research remained unpublished? While the solicitor general, Vera Baird, claims there is a "huge political will behind [changing] this," she seems unwilling to countenance sacking those in the legal system aiding and succouring rapists. On February 16 rape survivors will testify at a public trial against those who denied them justice. How else will we win change? Lisa LongstaffWomen Against RapeVera Baird is right to identify the need for a shift in attitudes to tackle the disgracefully low conviction rate for rape. It's not only CPS prosecutors, but judges, prosecution and defence counsel, jurors, the police, health professionals and the public that need to shift on this. Our 2005 poll of attitudes to rape revealed that on average a third of the public tended to partially blame the woman herself for being raped. The government needs to make rape the subject of public awareness campaigns, as well as devising new discussion topics for schools and ensuring best practice within the health service, the police and judiciary.Kate AllenDirector, Amnesty International