An attempt to trace relatives of more than 80 former patients of the serial killer Harold Shipman began today with an unusual newspaper advertising campaign.The step has been taken by the Shipman inquiry investigating the deaths of at least 466 patients of the former GP from Hyde, Greater Manchester, now serving life for the murders of 15 women patients. Advertisements have been taken in the Daily Telegraph and the Sun, along with the Manchester Evening News, the Tameside Advertiser and the Tameside Reporter. A high court judge, Dame Janet Smith, who is chairing the inquiry, said: "There are a number of cases in which Shipman signed a medical certificate of cause of death, and in which the only information available is a copy of the entry in the register of deaths. "The inquiry has contacted a relative in 70 of such cases, but in another 82 cases we have been unable to trace any relative to inquire whether there is any concern about the death. "I wish the inquiry's investigations to be as thorough as possible. We are therefore taking the unusual step of advertising in the press to seek any relevant information." The advertisement lists the 82 patients, their date of death and their last address. They are men and women from the Hyde area. The advert reads: "Relatives or friends of any of the deceased persons named who have information about the circumstances of that person's death or any question about the inquiry are asked to write to Henry Palin, solicitor to the inquiry." Shipman practised in Hyde and Todmorden, West Yorkshire, from 1974 until the time of his arrest in 1998. One million pages of documents relating to his career have been fed into hi-tech systems installed for the inquiry, which is being held in Manchester town hall. Shipman, who was con victed at Preston crown court in January 2000, will remain in his cell at Frankland prison, Co Durham, while the inquiry takes place. At the end of the first phase, due at the end of the year, Dame Janet will produce an interim report to which Shipman will be invited to respond. The South Manchester coroner, John Pollard, will then be invited to amend death certificates on potential victims without full inquests being held. Press Association