The jury at the inquest into the death of a man who was shot dead by police while carrying a table leg today delivered an open verdict.The family of Harry Stanley immediately announced they would be seeking a judicial review of the decision at the high court and would be making a formal complaint about the coroner, Dr Stephen Chan. Mr Stanley's widow, Irene, announced she would be suing the Metropolitan police.Mrs Stanley said of the inquest: "It's disgusting. We have been denied justice. The jury were not allowed to bring a verdict of unlawful killing even if they wanted to. "It's not right. There has been no police officer charged with the mistakes they made."Her solicitor, Nogah Ofer, said: "We are launching a judicial review in the high court on the basis that the coroner made a blatant error of law. "If there's any evidence that the jury could use to reach a certain verdict - let alone extremely strong evidence, as in this case - then that verdict should be available to them."Family members had earlier in the day walked out of the inquest when the coroner denied the jury the option of a verdict of unlawful killing. In his summing up of the case, Dr Chan told the jury to consider one of two verdicts: lawful killing or an open verdict. Mr Stanley, 46, was killed in September 1999 as he walked home from a pub in Hackney, London, carrying a coffee table leg wrapped in a plastic bag. Police were called after a fellow drinker told them he was sure it was a sawn-off shotgun. Mr Stanley, a painter and decorator, was shot in the head by Inspector Neil Sharman and in the hand by PC Kevin Fagan. The inquest at St Pancras coroner's court in London heard forensic evidence indicating that Mr Stanley was facing away from the officers at the time he was shot. Dr Chan told the jury that they should come to their verdict based on what they thought the police officers believed at the time they shot Mr Stanley.He said: "A person who is attacked or believes that he's about to be attacked then can use such force as is reasonably necessary to defend himself. If that's the situation then his use of force is not unlawful." In their evidence to the inquest, the officers said Mr Stanley had turned around and pointed the plastic bag at them as if it was a sawn-off shotgun. Dr Chan told the jury: "If in your judgment the officer believed or may have believed that he had to defend himself against an armed man and did no more than he honestly and instinctively thought was necessary to do, so you may think that would be strong evidence that the amount of force used by him was reasonable." He said the jury should return an open verdict if they thought there was not enough evidence for them to pass a verdict of lawful killing.