Nicholas van Hoogstraten, the notorious landlord who once described his tenants as "filth", yesterday scored a legal victory in his fight to recover his fortune.In the latest round of a protracted dispute with the family of the man he was once convicted of killing, the high court overturned orders freezing the property tycoon's assets worldwide and imposing punitive fines of more than £1m. A jubilant Mr Van Hoogstraten, 59, whose personal wealth in arts, antiques and property has been estimated to be as much as £500m, yesterday issued a statement condemning the "spurious" actions brought against him and the "vindictive" orders of the previous court. He was sentenced to 10 years in 2002 for the manslaughter of a former business associate, Mohammed Raja, who had been suing him at the time of his death. The conviction was quashed by the court of appeal last year. Mr Van Hoogstraten, who has a series of earlier property-related convictions, swore he would regain control over his fortune. He lives in a partially completed palatial mansion near Uckfield, East Sussex, where he has attempted to stop ramblers using a public footpath crossing his land. Yesterday's hearing was a resumption of the original action brought by Raja in which a high court judge, Mr Justice Peter Smith, imposed severe penalties on Mr Van Hoogstraten after he failed to comply with court orders to disclose his assets. The Van Hoogstraten statement declared: "The decisions of the court of appeal open the door for [him] to recover his very substantial costs, damages and compensation from the Raja family, the sequestrators and others in a series of legal actions to be commenced." The civil case is now due to return to the high court's chancery division for a further hearing into the claim by the Raja family, but with Mr Van Hoogstraten's defence and counter-claim for damages reinstated. Liability for costs will be decided at a later hearing. Mr Raja's son, Amjad, said yesterday: "This is not the end. We are definitely going to be fighting on - otherwise our father would have died in vain. We had a judgment before in our favour and we will get a judgment in the future in our favour." In October 2002 Mr Justice Peter Smith, without the then-jailed Mr Van Hoogstraten present in in court, imposed rolling fines of £200,000 a week, increasing 10% a week, for the failure to disclose assets. When he made it to court Mr Van Hoogstraten asked the judge what had happened to his application to challenge the freezing order. He was told the court appeared to have lost it but the judge said he would not hear it until Mr Van Hoogstraten complied with the freezing order and disclosed his assets. In the appeal court judgment, Lord Justice Chadwick said he found it "startling" that the judge had decided to go ahead with the contempt hearing without Mr Van Hoogstraten present. It had been argued that there was nothing Mr Van Hoogstraten could have said which would have led him to take any other course. "That approach, as it seems to me, suggests that the judge has already closed his mind to the possibility that there is anything to be said by the alleged contemnor in his own defence."