The mother of the murdered police officer Yvonne Fletcher today said she believed her daughter's killer would be apprehended after it was revealed Libyan authorities were cooperating with British detectives investigating her shooting."They have been out several times and we are just crossing our fingers. We are hopeful that someone will be brought to justice," Queenie Fletcher told Guardian Unlimited.Earlier, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, said a team of officers had arrived in Libya, but a suspect had yet to be identified.The current visit is one of a number made in recent years and follows an agreement secured by Tony Blair on Tuesday during talks with the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy.PC Fletcher, 24, was shot on April 17 1984 as she policed an anti-Gadafy protest outside the Libyan embassy in London during an 11-day siege. The unarmed officer suffered a stomach wound and died in hospital.Her death led to diplomatic ties being severed with Libya. The shots, apparently aimed at the protesters, were fired from a first-floor window inside the embassy. The killer was one of 22 Libyans smuggled out of the country the next day claiming diplomatic immunity.Sir Ian confirmed the latest development at a meeting of the Metropolitan Police Authority today.He said: "The Libyan regime are cooperating. We have had teams of officers in Libya. It would not be correct to say we have identified the person responsible yet."A Met spokeswoman said the force remained in "close liaison" with the Libyan authorities "with a view of progressing the inquiry".Mrs Fletcher, 74, of Semley, Dorset, who visited Libya 12 years ago in search of answers about her daughter's killing, said she believed the country's authorities were helping British police."They have been out several times. I believe Libya has probably changed over the years. They seem to have softened up a bit," she said.Diplomatic ties with Tripoli were broken off in 1984, partly as a result of Libya's refusal to cooperate with the British authorities.In 1999, the Libyan government accepted "general responsibility" for Fletcher's killing and agreed to pay compensation to her family. Detectives flew to Libya around that time to interview suspects.Efforts to renew the investigation were stepped up when Mr Blair met Col Gadafy in 2004 after he agreed to dismantle his country's weapons of mass destruction programmes.· This article was amended on Friday June 1 2007. Britain broke off diplomatic ties with Libya in 1984, not 1994 as we stated in the article above. This has been corrected.