The mother of the three-year-old victim of paedophile Craig Sweeney said today she was "gut-wrenchingly sick" over a decision not to refer his sentence to the court of appeal.The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, announced this afternoon that he would not challenge the minimum sentence handed down to Sweeney last month by John Griffith Williams at Cardiff crown court. Sweeney, 24, was sentenced to life and the judge said that while he was unlikely to be released early, he could apply for parole after just five years and 108 days. With hours of the sentencing, the home secretary, John Reid, called it unduly lenient" and called for it to be reconsidered. Today, Lord Goldsmith rejected that call in an embarrassing rebuke for Mr Reid. After the attorney general's announcement, a statement on behalf of the victim's mother was released by her solicitor. She said: "We are gut-wrenchingly sick at today's announcement. This case is too horrific to know the details, but we can tell you that Sweeney was literally found with our child's blood on his hands."She referred to the fact that Sweeney had been jailed for three years in 2003 for indecently assaulting a six-year-old girl and had attacked her child two weeks after his licence period for the earlier attack ran out.The mother of the three-year-old said: "This really started because a convicted paedophile was released too soon from prison. "If the likes of him, who pose such a high risk to children, are let out too soon again, this will happen again and again. "When it does, the politicians and everyone else involved here will also have blood on their hands."Lord Goldsmith defended his decision and Judge Williams, who, he said, was acting within the sentencing guidelines. He said, however, there would be a wide-ranging review of sentencing issues and questioned the discounts given to defendants who plead guilty when they have been "caught red handed" and would be convicted anyway. Sweeney benefited from guidelines to judges that give reductions in sentences for defendants who pleaded guilty, although the judge said it was "unlikely" Sweeney would be paroled early. Lord Goldsmith said: "It is plain that there is a need to re-examine the automatic 50% reduction in fixing the minimum term. "The home secretary, the lord chancellor and I are in complete agreement that we need a criminal justice system which protects the public, particularly vulnerable children, and in which the public has confidence." Commenting this afternoon on Lord Goldsmith's decision, the Conservative home affairs spokesman, David Davis, said: "The government should realise that this sentence was a consequence of their own policy. "John Reid should be addressing that, not seeking to deflect attention by having a row with judges. "The judge was merely following the government's own guidelines. What we need is urgent reform of those guidelines."The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said: "This is what happens when ministers seek to second guess both the decisions of judges and of the attorney general himself."John Reid, by lashing out in a vain attempt to gain a media headline, has now discredited himself, the judiciary, and the attorney general. No wonder the public is despairing of New Labour's dismal record in the vital area of law and order."Last month the court heard that Sweeney abducted the three-year-old from her home in Cardiff, and sexually assaulted her at a "halfway house" for released prisoners in Newport, south Wales. He later took her on a drive over the Severn Bridge and along the M4 into England and she was found by police hours later in Wiltshire after a car chase that began because Sweeney had no lights and ran a red light.Today was the final day that Lord Goldsmith could refer the sentence to the appeal court with a view to seeking a tougher sentence. Lord Goldsmith has referred almost 700 cases for review of undue leniency since he took over the top law officer's job in 2001. In 521 cases, the court agreed, and 414 offenders had their sentences increased.