A woman who "craved attention" falsely claimed she had been attacked by strangers in and around a quiet market town 12 times in two years, a jury has heard.Andrea Chance reported she had been assaulted by men and women at home, in her garden, on the street and as she jogged.Andrew MacFarlane, prosecuting, told Exeter crown court that Chance's fake reports had cost the taxpayer £20,000, with extra detectives being drafted in to investigate the reports of a "series of worrying crime and violence in the lanes around Bideford in north Devon".Had they been true, the reports would have meant the area was being "terrorised" by violent strangers, the jury was told.Chance eventually admitted making up all the attacks apart from the first one, which she claimed the police had not investigated properly, leaving her suffering from trauma and leading to her making the string of false reports.The court was told that Chance, 45, first reported she had been attacked in February 2008 while out training for a charity run. A driver found her lying in the road and dialled 999.She told police a man had grabbed her and beaten her from behind and that she had kicked him three times in the groin before passing out.Just over a month later, she said she had been attacked by two men. A panic alarm and camera were fitted at her home.In May 2008, she again claimed two men had attacked her, leaving her with injuries to her face and arms. This time she was given a personal alarm.On one occasion, she said a masked man armed with part of a screwdriver had attacked her and on another that two men had threatened to cut off her fingers.MacFarlane said Devon and Cornwall police had genuinely investigated Chance's reports and she had "happily" given interviews to local media about the attacks.In the last fake attack, Chance said she was punched on the doorstep of her home, but police checked CCTV footage and found that only the postman had been in the cul-de-sac that day, a discovery that led to her arrest.MacFarlane said the jury had only to try Chance on the first allegedly fake report because she had admitted making up the other 11.He said there was no motive to the first attack. "She never suggested sexual interference, which was ruled out by her as a possible cause. Was it robbery? No. What on earth was this offender up to? That is a matter for you."MacFarlane showed the jury "melodramatic" images of Chance's injuries to her arms, face and body, and claimed makeup was used to make them look worse.Chance denies one count of perverting the course of justice. The trial continues.