The prime suspect in the rape and murder of Jeshma Raithatha is expected to be extradited to Britain within a month after being arrested in Latvia.Viktors Dembovskis, 42, was detained on Thursday evening under a European arrest warrant obtained by British detectives investigating the killing of the A-level student. Jeshma, 17, was attacked on a secluded path as she walked to her home in Greenford, west London. She was raped and stabbed three times through the heart. Mr Dembovskis had been living at an address in London close to where Jeshma's body was found last week. She was reported missing on May 16, eight days before her body was found in dense undergrowth. Mr Dembovskis is said to have left London and travelled by coach to his native Latvia. He was arrested at a flat in Livani, 150 miles east of Riga. Latvian officers had kept his flat under surveillance, and raided it at 8pm. He seemed unaware that anyone was looking for him. He was due to appear in court over the weekend. Two British officers have flown to Riga to assist local police. A Latvian police spokeswoman said she believed that Mr Dembovskis would be returned to Britain within a month. Under the European arrest warrant scheme extradition is supposed to take place within a maximum of 60 days. A Latvian judge must first determine that British police have "reasonable grounds" for believing the suspect committed an extraditable offence. If he then consents to be extradited to Britain to face questioning, arrangements will be made for his return. If he does not consent, the judge still has the power to order his extradition. Mr Dembovskis would have the right to appeal against this decision. He entered Britain last June from Latvia which had joined the European Union in May, giving its citizens freedom of movement throughout member states. In London, he found work as a car-wash attendant and shared a house with other east European men. Scotland Yard praised the Latvian authorities and said they had been "extremely helpful". They had been liaising through Interpol since Monday. Detectives believe that Jeshma had been picked at random by her killer and had been in the wrong place at the wrong time. Her parents were said to be "elated" by the news that a suspect had been arrested. On the day she vanished, she had been dropped off at her school by her mother. She later left the school to go shopping, and was casually dressed in jeans, T-shirt and cardigan. Police are still keen to speak to anyone who attended a sports centre near the murder scene or to anyone who may have seen her walking home on May 16.