The country's senior law lord last night called for a new US-style supreme court which would no longer be part of the House of Lords, axing a legal institution dating back hundreds of years.Lord Bingham is the most influential voice so far to urge the setting up of a separate supreme court - a move opposed by the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, who would lose his right to sit as a judge in the country's final appeal court. Lord Bingham did not mention the lord chancellor's role, but there is growing unease among the law lords at Lord Irvine's insistence on sitting as a judge, despite his role as a powerful party politician. The Human Rights Act, which came into force in October 2000, guarantees the right to a hearing by "an independent and impartial tribunal." In March, another senior law lord, Lord Steyn, accused Lord Irvine of putting the independence of the country's highest court at risk by his insistence on sitting as a judge. He said the lord chancellor's role was the main obstacle to the creation of a supreme court in the UK. Giving the spring lecture of the constitution unit at University College London, Lord Bingham said: "Our object is plain enough: to ensure that our supreme court is so structured and equipped as best to fulfil its functions and to command the confidence of the country in the changed world in which we live." He added: "Inertia, I suggest, is not an option." No other country apart from the UK has its highest court as part of the legislature, apparently defying the doctrine of the separation of powers under which the executive, the legislature and the judiciary are supposed to be separate. The lord chancellor has a role in all three camps. Lord Bingham said it seemed unlikely that anyone had ever consciously decided that the House of Lords should take over from the monarch as the ultimate judicial authority, "but by Tudor or Stuart times it had come to be recognised that this transfer had been effected."One reason why change was now being mooted was the Human Rights Act, which had incorporated the European convention on human rights into UK law. The case law of the European court of human rights had encouraged a stricter view not only of anything which might undermine judicial independence, but anything which might appear to do so. The European convention was "concerned with risks and appearances as well as actualities". He went on: "The public are increasingly sceptical of a judge's ability to lay his or her personal views and opinions to one side when sitting judicially. I myself consider that this scepticism is largely misplaced. But cases can occur, and have occurred, when a statement has been made out of court in terms so outspoken and uncompromising as to throw doubt on the judge's ability to be objective and impartial in court. "The result has been to fortify the tradition, already strong, of judicial reticence and to strengthen the steadily growing reluctance of the law lords to participate in the legislative business of the house. If, however, a habit of reticence makes for good judges, it makes for poor legislators and debaters, and serves to weaken the justification for including the law lords among the members of the house." Lord Bingham said not all the law lords favoured change, and the government was publicly dismissive of the need for reform. "My disagreement is not based on the premise that our highest courts have failed to deliver. It is based on the view that the world has changed and institutions should change with it." Lord Bingham said the court would not strike down legislation and uphold the primacy of the constitution, as the US supreme court does. "I wish to make plain that a supreme court of the United Kingdom could neither claim nor exercise such a power. Under our constitutional dispensation parliament is sovereign."