A 20-year-old woman who was severely beaten during an alleged mob attack died from her injuries yesterday.Sophie Lancaster was walking through the skating area of Stubbylee Park in Bacup, Lancashire, with her boyfriend Robert Maltby, 21, when they were attacked by a gang of youths in the early hours of August 11. The couple, whose injuries were so bad that police were initially unable to determine their sexes, were taken to Rochdale Infirmary.Mr Maltby was transferred to North Manchester general hospital, while Sophie was moved to Fairfield hospital, Bury, then onto the neurology unit of Hope hospital in Salford, Greater Manchester.They were both unconscious and remained in a coma, but when Mr Maltby's condition improved he was transferred to Birch Hill hospital in Rochdale. He recovered from bleeding on the brain and was briefly let out of hospital on Wednesday to visit Miss Lancaster. She died yesterday morning, after attempts to treat her injuries failed.In a statement Miss Lancaster's parents, John and Sylvia, said: "We were proud to know our daughter. She was funny, kind, loving and brave."She was a beautiful girl with a social conscience and values which made her a joy to know. Not being able to see her blossom into her full potential or even to see her smile again is a tragedy beyond words."Five male youths have been charged with causing grievous bodily harm with intent, but police said those charges would now be the subject of a review by detectives and the Crown Prosecution Service.The families of Miss Lancaster and Mr Maltby have confirmed that the couple, who were goths, had encountered trouble before because of their black clothing and multiple piercings.Mr Maltby's uncle, Nigel Lancashire, told a local paper that his nephew was "disorientated and confused" and said the hospital reunion was "heartbreaking".Mr Lancashire said: "Rob was a real mess when we first saw him. His face was swollen and he was in a neck brace. They're both intelligent, sensitive kids. They're not the sort of people to get in trouble, but they have had problems in the past because they stand out."Detective Inspector Dean Holden, who is leading the investigation, said: "It is tragic that this young woman has now died. Our thoughts are obviously with her family." He appealed for witnesses to come forward.Mr Maltby, a former Bacup and Rawtenstall grammar school pupil, had been going out with Miss Lancaster for around three years and was an art student in Manchester. Miss Lancaster is thought to have been on a gap year. Both were left with heavily swollen faces and bleeding from their ears and noses and Miss Lancaster was said to have had a piece of flesh missing from her head where her attackers had pulled out her hair.Acting Assistant Chief Constable Jerry Graham, of Lancashire police, said: "This is a tragic incident which has resulted in the senseless loss of a young and vibrant woman."There are, of course, young people in Lancashire and, as we have seen in recent times, all over the country who are intent on disrupting the lives of law-abiding citizens. In the very worst cases, such as this one, their actions have devastating consequences."A 15-year-old and a 17-year-old have been remanded in custody, while two 15-year-olds and a 17-year-old have been released on bail. They are all due to appear before Burnley youth court on September 27.