A naked man was killed during a street shoot-out with police, an eyewitness said today.Residents in Hanger Green, Ealing, west London, described a "war-like" scene which left a black man in his 50s dead last night.The Independent Police Complaints Commission has launched an inquiry into the incident, which was part of an "intelligence-led" investigation Operation Trident investigation, which looks into gun crime in black communities.London's Evening Standard reported the man was suspected to be a firearms supplier about to take delivery of a pistol.The IPCC revealed that a loaded weapon was recovered from the dead man at the scene. The weapon, along with three police firearms, is currently being forensically examined.The IPCC confirmed that the victim, who was 52, was shot outside Paolo's restaurant, near Park Royal underground station.A spokesman said three officers discharged a "number of shots" during the incident."Our investigators have been at the scene all night. The forensic examination of the scene has begun and house-to-house inquiries are under way," the IPCC commissioner, Deborah Glass, said."The man has not been formally identified yet but members of his family have been informed."Alarmed by the sound of the shooting, resident Andrew Wood looked out to see a naked man on the ground being tended to by paramedics."It was about 10.30pm. I heard what I thought were fireworks outside the back door. I stood out and there were police all over the place," Mr Wood said. "There was a naked man on the ground with paramedics trying to revive him. That went on for about 30 minutes and then we were told to go back in."He was an overweight middle-aged man. It was obviously a shoot-out. The police were all over the place and paramedics were pumping his chest."The street was quickly blocked off and Mr Wood thought he saw at least 30 officers. "The ambulance was already there and I did not even hear sirens - just gunshots," he said.Paula Rabic was sweeping water from her terrace and said she heard five or six shots."There were many, many officers. I was very scared because the sound of the gun was very strong."Scotland Yard said the operation was conducted by officers from Operation Trident supported by specialist firearms officers.A police spokeswoman would not confirm if the dead man had opened fire on police. The force said no police officers were injured in the incident and no other arrests were made. The London ambulance service and a helicopter emergency medical service doctor attended but the man was pronounced dead at the scene.It took the routine measure of referring the incident to the IPCC. The IPCC said it had sent investigators to the scene.It is the first fatal shooting by Met officers this year. There was one in the financial year to April 2007 and two in the previous financial year, which included the killing of the Brazilian electrician Jean Charles de Menezes at Stockwell underground station in 2005.Last week it was revealed that 11 officers involved in that shooting would not face disciplinary hearings.In July 2001, father of four, Derek Bennett, 29, was shot six times by officers in Brixton. They thought his cigarette lighter was a weapon.In September 1999, two Met officers shot dead Harry Stanley, 46, who was carrying a table leg which they mistook for a shotgun. The attorney general ruled in 2005 that neither officer would be prosecuted.