Two men who sent poisoned vodka bottles through the post as part of a campaign for Scottish independence were each jailed for six years today.Wayne Cook, 45, and Steven Robinson, 42, sent two miniature vodka bottles containing lethal concentrations of caustic soda to public figures as part of a campaign by the Scottish National Liberation Army (SNLA) to force the UK government out of Scotland.The pair, who were neighbours in Robert Street, Tyldesley, Greater Manchester, were sentenced at Manchester crown court.Passing sentence, Judge Robert Atherton said: "What you did was very dangerous indeed. There can be in my view - and it is accepted by you both - no sentence other than a substantial period in prison."One of the bottles was accompanied by a note that threatened to kill English people "at random and with no discrimination or compunction" and to poison England's water supply.Cook, an English unemployed father-of-three, was found guilty last week under anti-terror laws of two counts of using noxious substances to cause harm and intimidate. Robinson, a Scot, pleaded guilty to the charges at an earlier hearing.The two packages were sent to the Blackburn councillor John Wright and the former Scottish Daily Express journalist Myra Philp in April last year. Royal Mail workers intercepted the parcel to Wright, but the second made it to Philp.The judge said: "In summary, what you did was to prepare packages into which you placed bottles, miniature vodka bottles, from which the vodka was removed and caustic soda placed. You then sent them through the post. One was sent to a lady, Mrs Myra Philp, a journalist in Scotland, and another to a councillor, John Wright, a councillor with Blackburn with Darwen council. "The reason you did that was in furtherance of a campaign by a group calling themselves the Scottish National Liberation Army, an organisation which works in cells of two, an organisation set with its aim of separating Scotland and England and English interests in Scotland being expelled. "People are entitled to their views - they are not entitled to the sort of actions which that organisation carries out."The judge noted that the worst-case scenario for anyone coming into contact with the contents of the packages would have been death.He said: "You, Mr Robinson, through a letter, have expressed remorse. I am bound to say I query the extent to which that remorse was genuine. You boasted of what you could do, you expressed hatred of the English. I find it hard to believe that you have changed so radically in the last few months."He told Cook he accepted his role in the plot had been less than Robinson's, but said his failure to plead guilty meant he should receive the same sentence. As he was led away, Robinson shouted: "God bless Scotland. We will never surrender."During Cook's trial, the prosecution claimed he had become involved with the plot as part of a campaign for revenge against Blackburn with Darwen council after his son Shane died in their care. A toxicology expert, Dr John Jackson, told the court that the concentration of the caustic soda in the bottles was so high it could have caused blindness, nerve damage or serious burns to the skin, or even death.