In room 31 of Helsinki district courts, Tuomo Tapani-Salo is in trouble. Three years ago, on a ferry trip from Sweden, he was found with a bag full of cigarettes, alcohol and perfume stolen from the ship's duty-free shop. The short, barrel-shaped skinhead insists he was carrying the bag for a friend, Johannes. Johannes cannot be prosecuted because he was under 15 at the time. But he is in court to back up Tuomo's story, wearing two black eyes and army fatigues, courtesy of his national service. Outside you could be in any courthouse in Britain. Anxious parents in their frayed Sunday best, the accused affecting studied nonchalance, bored policemen in uniform and lawyers carrying battered briefcases; all wait, whisper and walk in expectant circles on polished floors that smell of cheap disinfectant. But inside, the room is a bare setting of wooden panelling and fluorescent glare. No emblem, crest or Latin scripture is embossed on the wall laying claim to the higher ideals of truth and justice. Just the sign of a cellphone inside a red circle with a red line through it - a sign of the times in a country where there are more mobiles than people. Tuomo stands to hear the verdict. Not guilty, says the judge, and he and Johannes head out for a smoke with a smile. Next door, in room 32, six people have been tried. Two for possession of drugs, three for violent assault and one on 17 different charges ranging from possession of an illegal firearm to twice driving under the influence of drugs. Only the latter goes to prison, for an eight-month stretch. The rest are fined. Seven cases, six guilty verdicts; one imprisoned, six walk free. Another morning in the Finnish judicial system - a country with the lowest prison population in the European Union. Here they have made it a point of principle to keep criminals out of prison, unless they are believed to pose a risk to society. "I don't believe longer prison sentences help our real safety," says Markku Salminen, general director of the Finnish prison administration. "If you put someone in prison, then it is almost certain that they'll be released and go back again. Prison is like university - the university of crime." This, the Finns believe, is particularly true of the young, who are only incarcerated for the harshest crimes. This liberal approach can produce what looks like very illiberal results. Rapists can sometimes walk out of a Finnish court with a conditional sentence - depending on the circumstances in which the crime was committed, and whether it was a first offence. It wasn't always like this. As recently as the 70s, Finland had one of the highest prison populations in western Europe. But since then the number of prisoners has been falling dramatically, to just below the rest of Scandinavia, even as the rates and patterns of crime have kept in line with its Nordic neighbours.The move to cut the prison population began not with politicians but academics during the late 60s. Inspired by the radicalism of the age, intellectuals insisted that criminal policy should be part of an overall social policy, related to employment and educational opportunities, and proclaimed that there was no evidence of a link between long prison sentences and less crime. "The outcome of all this was a criminal political ideology - humane neo-classicism - which stressed both legal safeguards against coercive care and the objective of less repressive measures in general," says the head of the national research institute of legal policy in Finland, Tappio Lappi-Seppälä. "Instead of direct or simple deterrence, the theory speaks of indirect general prevention or - more often - the moral-creating and value-shaping effect of punishment." Gradually but consistently these abstract principles began to be translated into action by a mixture of decriminalising some offences (such as public drunkenness), relaxing sentencing on others, and reducing the minimum prison sentence from four months in 1976 to just 14 days in 1989. The most dramatic changes were in the sanctions for two specific crimes - drink-driving and theft. During the mid-70s, judges were allowed greater scope to impose conditional sentences and fines instead of imprisonment. In the 90s community service also became a popular punishment for both, leaving only repeat offenders and rare cases ending up behind bars. The results, in terms of prison population, were startling. In 1971, 38% of those sentenced for theft went to jail; in 1991, it was 11%. Similarly, in 1971, 70% of drink-drivers were sentenced to prison; in 1981, it was 12%. There was no commensurate increase in rates of theft or drink-driving. Remarkably, given the high and permanent profile that law and order has attained in British political culture, this ideologically inspired sea-change was introduced without any political comment or interference. So while crime has been extensively theorised, it has not been politicised for electoral advantage. "Finnish criminal policy is exceptionally expert-oriented," says Mr Lappi-Seppälä. "In a small country like this, reforms have been prepared and conducted by a relatively small group of experts. So far, Finnish politicians have been able to resist the temptation of low-level populism on this issue." At a recycling depot in the industrial area of the city, Jarmo Laihonen is savouring his finest hour. Last spring he was kicked out of his house after a drunken row with his wife. He decided to drive the short distance to his girlfriend's house and was stopped by the police for drink-driving. He was sentenced to 170 hours community service, which he serves eight hours a week in two, four-hour stints, hauling old furniture and electrical goods around the shop floor. This is hour 169. When he finishes later today he will be a free man."I was relieved when I was sentenced to community service," he says. "I've been to prison a few times before and it isn't useful for me. Many of my friends think it was too soft a sentence but they don't know what it's like. I think this will be my last time, where crime is concerned." If Jarmo succeeds, it will be against the odds. Whatever community service in Finland does achieve, it does not stop people getting into trouble. Three-quarters of those given community service, which usually involves menial work or helping the disabled or the elderly, reoffend, compared with 80% who are released from prison. Maija Kukkonen, head of the probation service, says the rate is high but does not denote a failure of the system. "So long as the rate is lower than those who are released from prison, or even if it was the same, then I would say it is a success. Because so long as they are on community service, they are still with their family, they can keep their house and job, pay their taxes and they remain in society. When people come out of prison, they often have nothing." Not everyone is convinced. As he begins the Wednesday night police patrol through central Helsinki, Markku Salminen says that without the threat of prison, it is difficult to enforce the law. But five hours into his shift, there does not seem to be that much law to enforce: he has yelled at a jay walker, and dealt with one parking incident, a woman who could not turn off her car alarm, a man who would not pay his restaurant bill, and an elderly couple who have been terrorised by their violent son (who hit his father over the head with his shoe). Finland remains a relatively safe country. Polls show that police are regarded as more trustworthy than priests. And they have earned it. The detection rate for murder is around 96%, compared with 26% in America. It is this, not prison, that prevents crime, says Mr Salminen, who used to be a detective. "People never think about what kind of punishment they are going to receive when they commit a crime. They worry about getting caught." Ronja Siren was dealing in drugs, guns and explosives, in a gang of 50, when she was caught. Sitting in the Hämeenlinna closed prison, where she is serving a nine-year sentence, she says she uses the gym as a physical outlet for the emotional stress of being separated from her two young children and husband, who is also in prison. "The gym is very important to me. I go there every evening that I can. If I am going to get myself out of this situation, it will be down to myself," she says. The regime in Hämeenlinna, just over 60 miles from Helsinki, is strict but not oppressive. Prisoners are locked up from 10 at night to six in the morning, when they must slop out the buckets they use for toilets. Most have televisions and videos in their rooms and, on each wing, there is a communal area where they can eat and relax. But the rest of the time there is a range of work and study activities which they can do if they wish. Siren's offence shows just how crime patterns in the region are changing. With Russia and Estonia now opened up, Finland, like the rest of Scandinavia, has become vulnerable to drugs smuggling and small-scale mafia activity, which has prompted both a rise in foreign prisoners and a more hardened, desperate type of criminal. For with more serious crime comes stiffer sentences, which means the average time spent in prison is growing. Last year, for the first time in a long time, the prison population increased by 8%. Moreover, by adding heroin and amphetamine to the nation's favourite drug, alcohol, a growing number of drug-abusing inmates have created a sub-culture in prison which is demanding a more repressive response from guards. "Prisoners trade drugs, which leads to a debt system where one prisoner owes another money or cigarettes which can then lead to violence," says Anna-Kaarina Grönholm, the governor of Helsinki prison. "So we have to continually have checks, urine tests and raids, which does change the atmosphere within a prison." Those with serious drug or alcohol dependency are also less likely to be suitable for community service, thereby compounding the likelihood of them going to jail. In the nearby open prison of Vanaja, the atmosphere is more relaxed but the sanctions for transgression more severe. Prisoners here are free to come and go as they please, so long as they check in at night, and have access to a sauna, skis and a tennis court. Some work at sewing, weaving or gardening within the grounds. Others commute to colleges in the area. One woman, convicted of white-collar crime, drives the 60 miles to Helsinki every day to a regular job and is monitored with the use of a special kind of mobile phone. They are paid a wage or grant from which they pay taxes. Most are being prepared for release, and any breach of the rules would put them back in the closed prison. Hessu, 70, who killed his wife 10 years ago, came to Vanaja recently after a spell in a closed prison, and works in the library. "It's not hard to get used to here because you can freely come and go so I feel like I'm half-way to civilian life already," says the former merchant seaman. But there is evidence that the consensus that produces this comfort may be showing signs of strain. The expert-led approach to prison policy has partly been able to work because it has been shielded from the popular scrutiny. When it was formulated Finns had just a couple of state television channels and an exclusively broadsheet print media, and were primarily preoccupied with Russian foreign policy. Now the Finns are members of the EU, there are several cable channels and two vibrant tabloids. So perception of crime has increased, even when crime has not; between 1992 and 2000, the purchase of burglar alarms almost trebled, and special windows and door protection rose nine-fold. Moreover, the political consensus that produced it was underpinned by an economic cohesion that no longer exists, with some families already into a second generation which has not known work. The time may be ripe for a populist demagogic attack on perceived leniency. The fragility was shown a few years ago when a paedophile and murderer, Yamu, was up for release. With a culture where tabloids could now set the agenda, the prospect of his release sparked great public interest. On the website of one of the red-top papers were two questions. The first: "Do you think Yamu should be released?" The second: "Do you think our prison sentencing is tough enough?"