Have French newspapers been guilty of failing to treat the story of the Alpine murders with sufficient seriousness? Kim Willsher reports in The Guardian today that Paris-based papers have relegated the story to inside pages, regarding it as a "fait divers", a term used to describe a relatively trivial, miscellaneous news item.On the day the story broke, last Thursday, there was an absence of front page coverage. She notes, for example, that Le Figaro's report was published on page 8 and Liberation's was on page 14.Apparently, too little attention was paid to the killing of Saad al-Hilli, his wife Ikbal, and her mother, Suhaila al-Allaf, whose bodies were found last Wednesday at a beauty spot near the village of Chevaline by Lake Annecy in the Alps.Nor did the fact that the couple's daughters - Zainab, seven, and Zeena, four - survived the murderous attack make any difference. The following day - once a further victim was identified as a local father of three, Sylvain Mollier - France's national tabloid, Aujord'hui, did put the story on the front page, as did local papers.Aujourd'hui, in a piece headlined "The English press goes wild", was critical of British papers for being "sarcastic" about the efforts of the local police, who took eight hours to realise Zeena was alive and hiding in the car.But the paper did concede that such distrust was not entirely misplaced since French police had been responsible for "several legal or administrative fiascos after the murder of British citizens on French soil."By contrast, Willsher says France's broadcast media "have been all over the story." And BFM TV praised the zeal of the British journalists in their "race for information" which turned up the first photos of the dead man, his car and details of his family. Willsher writes: "The French viewed the descent en masse of Her Majesty's press on Chevaline and Annecy with incredulity that, as the days passed, turned into a mix of astonishment and admiration.British journalists' insatiable appetite for detail appeared to perplex public prosecutor Eric Maillaud... 'Why is that important?' he replied, more than once at the daily press conferences.When asked about what witnesses may or may not have seen, he could only reply, with more than a hint of exasperation, 'Maybe some people saw Martians. I really don't know.'"In spite of the tragic circumstances, I find that response rather refreshing. It is surely better than being confronted by the typical British constabulary PR robotically reading from a prepared statement that sounds as if it was composed by a Martian.