Watching Kenny Richey struggling with a mobile phone is watching someone struggling with the modern world. After two decades on death row in Ohio, the slimline Motorola he cradles in his hands, with its baffling jargon and unfamiliar symbols, is utterly alien. It isn't just the unfamiliarity of his first hangover in two decades, or the insomnia that has dogged him since his arrival in Edinburgh 10 days ago; this confusion is profound. By his own admission, he is a man out of time. "It's like taking someone from the stone age and putting them in the 1800s, you know? Or taking someone from the 1800s and putting them in today."Richey is 43 but is facing a crash-course on the 21st century. He is the most celebrated Briton to leave death row alive - a potent symbol of the injustice of American capital punishment and the power of popular protest. His case has been championed by the civil rights lawyer Clive Stafford Smith and taken up by Tony Blair, Amnesty International, celebrities such as Susan Sarandon, and the previous pope, John Paul II.Richey is struggling to cope. He shuffles with care around his mother's kitchenette off the flat's scrupulously clean sitting-room, where an old portrait of Richey in his US marines uniform hangs on the wall. Freshly shaved and with his hair cut, smartly dressed in a carefully pressed shirt, a jumper and trousers, he slowly makes tea - navigating his mother's unfamiliar drawers and cupboards with almost ponderous care, wiping down each surface, cup and spoon."It's the whole experience. Everything is different. Everything has changed. Look at how bloody thin the televisions are these days. Cars have changed. Banks have changed. It's all new to me - smells, new smells."But he does relish his local celebrity. On Wednesday evening, despite medical warnings about mixing alcohol with his heart medication and his diabetes, and his mother's wrath, he hit a pub in nearby Gorgie. He made new friends: "Ten of them buying me pints. It was great. They knew who I was - 'You're Kenny! You're him, aren't you?'"Today, Richey is guest of honour for a local businessman in his executive box for an Edinburgh football derby between Hearts and Hibernian. Yesterday he opened a bank account.Richey seems to see his release as his chance to start over with his ex-wife, Wendy Amerud, 50, hoping against the odds that they can overcome the damage done to him by 21 years living in a 2.5 by 3m cell, his heart attacks, and the unresolved hurt of their separation and divorce, which led, in part, to the events preceding his conviction for murdering a two-year-old girl. His ex-wife is due to arrive in Edinburgh in a few days. Oddly, they never saw each other while he was in prison. "She's supposed to be trying to get over here later next week, and hopefully we can try to see if we can't resolve our relationship. Just see if things work or not. She's going to come over here and spend about 30 days and tell me whether she likes it."Richey's release is his second new beginning. His first was emigrating to the US to join his father in the midwest state of Ohio, then a fresh-faced if wild 18-year-old looking for adventure. He and Wendy met in the bar of a Holiday Inn in Minnesota."Only planned to stay for a year or so," he recalled. "I ended up meeting a lassie and getting engaged, and joining the marines and getting married - all of which happened in about three months." The marines, he decided, was something "I could make a career of ... I actually loved the marines."His discharge in 1985 hurt him deeply. By Richey's account, the marines conspired to get rid of him. Using confidential information from his marriage-counselling sessions, allegedly showing he had threatened Wendy's life, and bizarre allegations that he was wanted by the Scottish police for murder, they threw him out. By his account, it was the first miscarriage of justice he suffered."They thought I was a bit violent. I couldn't see that. I thought it was a bit bloody stupid myself. Marines are supposed to be violent: you go through boot camp and that's what's bludgeoned into your head each day - kill, kill, kill!"After his discharge, he went home, his marriage over, to his father's apartment in Columbus Grove, Ohio. He tumbled into drink and abuse of prescription drugs. "I think I was the leader of the trouble-makers. Rowdiness? I was very rowdy. I was a bit angry at what happened with the marines. I didn't know I could fight the discharge. Nobody told me. I just signed the papers and everything else. If I had known, I would've fought it and still be in the marines."He does relive that night in June 1986 when his life irrevocably changed. He has one regret: not being sober enough to have baby-sat for Cynthia Collins, the two-year-old girl he knew as "Scoot", the daughter of his neighbour Hope. State prosecutors alleged Richey, in a drunken rage, set fire to Collins's apartment after a furious row with Hope, allegedly his ex-girlfriend.It was, from the outset, a deeply troubling case. Backed up by eyewitnesses, new evidence and the discrediting of the prosecution's forensic evidence, there were repeated appeals and tortuous legal battles, eventually leading to last year's acquittal and last month's deal with state prosecutors that let Richey walk free. Rather than wait months for a retrial, Richey pleaded "no contest" to very different charges of failing to babysit Cynthia, thus leaving her to die unprotected in the fire.Given the chance to live that night again, he said, "I wouldn't have gone to that party. If there was one thing I could've done, I would've babysat." Hope "was about to get in the car with her two friends and have a party and have fun, and she said look after Scooty for me, and I said 'uh, uh' [no] because I was too drunk. I don't know if she heard me or not. And the lying bitch said she saw me go all the way up the steps to her apartment... Hope should've been arrested for lying on the stand, for perjury. She wasn't."When they drove off, I was walking across the grass and I was smoking a cigarette and just as I got to the bushes, just passed out, collapsed, because I was so drunk ... I lay there for about 10 minutes, woke up and walked back the way I was going ... " He then swallowed a fistful of sleeping pills and drugged and disorientated went to his father's car to sleep. "That's when I heard the sirens."He could be what a lowland Scot would call "radge" - angry, untameable. He still shows flashes of temper, perhaps heightened and sharpened by two decades on death row. In one tense interview for the BBC last week, irritated by the reporter's style of questioning, that anger became the central theme.And with the fame has come a Richey mythology, including the detail that he was so institutionalised by his decades sleeping on a hard prison cell bed that he could only sleep on the floor of his hotel room. The reality for Richey was far less colourful. "Just fell asleep on the floor that first bloody night, I had been staying up all night, trying to catch the news," he explains with exasperation. "I love the bed: it's as soft as hell. I was in heaven when I went into that bed. I pulled up the duvet." He illustrates with an almost childish cuddling gesture and snuffling noise.The story he delights in demystifying is that he "was only an hour from the electric chair". Richey claims he never said this. In fact, he insisted, "There was no worries about me being executed because I knew my appeals were still pending, so they can't really execute me."But doubts about his ability to readjust to modern life are very real. Paddy Hill, one of the Birmingham Six, told the Guardian he had repeatedly suffered nervous breakdowns and psychotic episodes since his release. Hill fears that Richey's return to his mother's flat and his tours of television studios since his release are potentially critical mistakes. He wants Richey to be given psychiatric help as a priority.Richey is disarmingly candid about the fears and anxieties he has about his ability to cope. "I would like to have a job, but I just don't know what the hell I would be capable of doing ... Everything is different now," he said, his shoulders hunched, his characteristic bullishness gone. "It's like, this isn't the world I left. This is a whole new world and I don't feel like I fit in any more, this isn't for me."