Lord Irvine, the lord chancellor, yesterday gave his backing to a proposal to allow TV cameras to cover high profile court cases such as the Augusto Pinochet extradition hearings or the battle over whether the conjoined twins Jodie and Mary should be separated.He said televising such cases might have "a valuable educative effect" by giving the public a "better understanding about the nature of the judicial system". Lord Irvine said he would await expressions of interest from TV companies and consult the judiciary about running closed pilot schemes. The cameras would be allowed to cover only "appellant" cases, judicial reviews or cases involving legal argument between lawyers and judges in which no witnesses or juries were required. Janet Paraskeva, chief executive of the Law Society, welcomed the proposal as being in the public interest, as long as cases involving witnesses were not included. Giving evidence to the home affairs select committee, Lord Irvine said: "If I was satisfied that there was a demand and that we could set up pilots, I would discuss it with the higher judiciary, and I would not set my face against it." He expressed his "hostile" attitude to televised trials since the case of the British au pair Louise Woodward in the US. "There is a great risk that the behaviour and judgment of lawyers, witnesses and indeed the jury itself might be affected by the knowledge that they were participating in a live media event," he told MPs. He admitted that some judges might fear that limited coverage of appellate cases could be the thin end of the wedge, creating an appetite for the televising of trials. Support for an experiment has also come from Lord Williams, the attorney general. The Lord Chancellor's department said pilots would have to be authorised by the court, on terms defined by it, for the purpose of considering whether the public might be better informed about the proceedings. They would not be broadcast. Lord Irvine told MPs that "fundamental" proposals for a shake-up of security in courts were being considered after a defendant attacked the Old Bailey judge Ann Goddard. He had ordered an urgent inquiry into how three guards had failed to restrain the assailant as he leapt from the dock.