The victim of a fatal stabbing on a north London council estate has been named as 18-year-old Stefan Appleton. Appleton was targeted by two youths on a moped in a vicious attack in Islington on Wednesday evening as he stood with friends next to a children’s playground. He was repeatedly stabbed in the chest and back with what detectives have described as a “large bladed weapon” and collapsed nearby after trying to flee the scene on his bicycle.Scotland Yard has launched a murder investigation. The victim has not yet been formally identified, although officers are satisfied that it is Appleton, who is from the area. Police have distributed a photo of him, provided by his family.Appleton had been with friends in Nightingale Park when two youths pulled up on a moped, the Metropolitan police said. The pillion passenger got off and repeatedly stabbed Appleton in front of startled children. The attackers sped off and Appleton tried to get on his bicycle to ride for help, but fell unconscious 50 yards around the corner, on Caldy Walk. Neighbours tried to give him first aid as they waited for medics to arrive.Paramedics and London’s air ambulance raced to the scene, but Appleton was pronounced dead in hospital at 7.45pm, less than two hours later. Sandra Phillips, 45, told the Evening Standard: “He had collapsed and his bike was next to him. I was trying to put pressure on the wounds to stop the bleeding. He’d been stabbed at least three times, probably more. There was a lot of blood – it was pouring out of him.”A second witness, a 38-year-old who did not wish to be named, told the Mirror: “It was awful. His sister was there. She was just all over the place sobbing. I think there were a couple of stab wounds in Stefan’s back and he was stabbed four or five times altogether. I heard it was a machete, but someone else said it was a samurai sword. It was definitely a big knife of some kind.”DCI Chris Jones, from the Met’s homicide and major crime command, is leading the murder investigation. He said: “I am very keen to hear from everyone who was in the area of Caldy Walk and Nightingale Park on Wednesday 10 June, especially anyone who witnessed the attack on the victim or who has information in relation to the moped.” The area around Caldy Walk and Nightingale Park remained cordoned off on Thursday while officers searched the area. They were seen recovering a large bladed weapon, the Evening Standard reported. Floral tributes have been left at the scene, and friends and acquaintances also paid tribute on Twitter.Ch Supt Catherine Roper, the Islington borough commander, said her officers were supporting detectives investigating Appleton’s murder. “I would like to assure the local community that we are doing all that we can following this tragic incident,” she said. “We have extra officers on the street carrying out targeted patrols and have increased the number of high-visibility reassurance patrols conducted across the borough to ensure all those within the community feel safe.“My officers are actively targeting offenders in the borough and we will arrest and bring to justice those intent on breaking the law in Islington.”This article was amended on 12 June 2015. It originally stated that Stefan Appleton was 16. Police have since said he was 18. Tweets have been removed for reasons of privacy