Police began a murder inquiry yesterday after residents described how a man stabbed two children before going to his local pub for a pint. A four-year-old boy died and his 14-year-old sister was seriously injured in the incident at a house in Slaithwaite, Huddersfield. Officers said they were called to an address at 1pm.The boy was taken to Huddersfield Royal Infirmary but died a short time later. The girl was taken to the same hospital with stab wounds to her chest and stomach. Her condition was described as serious.Police said they were treating the death of the boy as murder and added that two men had been arrested in connection with the incident.The children's great-uncle, George Fellows, said: "We're a close family and we're devastated. We just can't believe it." His daughter-in-law, Tracey Fellows, added: "It's just senseless." Mr Fellows said the children's mother was receiving counselling.Waqar Zaman, 34, the owner of nearby Hill Top Stores, was one of the first people on the scene and described how he tried to help the teenage girl by using his T-shirt to try to stem the blood from her wounds. "She was complaining she couldn't breathe, that she was going to die."Mr Zaman said the girl had gone to pick up her brother from their father's house when the attack happened.Officers searched for the murder weapon at the Silent Woman pub yesterday, at a funeral home on the other side of the road and at a house.Jez Pierce, who was in the Silent Woman, said the man had walked in, ordered his pint and sat down with the other man later arrested by police."I went and sat with them. [The man] looked awful, really pale and washed out, and he and [the other man] were speaking in hushed tones," Mr Pierce said. He said the alleged killer had confessed to the crime and his friend had called the police."The friend later said: 'I think we should go for a wander.' So they supped up and went out, but [the man] didn't know the police were already after him. I have known him since we were kids - we used to work together. It's an absolute shock, I just can't believe what has happened. It's usually a quiet place."He is a sound man, very sociable. I saw him last week and he was fine. We were in the pub having a laugh."Neighbour Paul O'Shea said he saw the man leave the scene of the attack, which was described yesterday as a well-presented mid-terrace property. "I saw it happen, and the guy did a runner. It was inside the house," he said."Police have cordoned off both sides of the road, forensic teams are at work and a helicopter has been circling. This is a quiet little place and the murder has shocked everyone," another neighbour said.Other neighbours were told to stay in their homes as the police investigation gathered pace."We are very shocked," Mr O'Shea said. "It happened right across the road from us. The first we heard about anything was when the police arrived."Last night much of the area was sealed off as forensic officers continued their search for clues.