I wonder whether the police will want to use the Taser stun guns that they're to be issued with. It is true that the guns can be lethal (Amnesty International cited 70 American deaths linked to the weapons), and that they are excruciatingly painful. But they are also bright yellow, and they look ridiculous. This is probably why they are to be rolled out, in 10 British police forces, to officers who have no training in firearms. The trained officers have all said: "The whole point of all that training is that I don't have to carry something that looks like a big yellow toy."The guns work like this: two darts are shot into a suspect, trailing electric cable back to the handset. They release a five-second 50,000-volt charge, causing uncontrollable muscle spasm. The bit missing from that description is how incredibly painful it is: those American fatality figures are really a side-effect of the electric shock itself which, while doing no long-term damage, hurts so profoundly that it can give you a heart attack. The weapon acts as a deterrent; from the evidence of a trial in 2003, it really is the most striking prophylactic. I guess that's why it has to be yellow.While instinctively on their side, I would disagree with the approach of the human rights groups. The negative impact of Taser guns is not that they can be fatal. The fatality figures, in the end, are not very high. There is only one recorded death in the UK, and the coroner did not attribute it to the shock, but to an ensuing heart attack. He did not inquire too searchingly as to the possible connection between the two. I guess his tacit message was: "If you have an underlying heart condition, choose a less arduous crime in which you are unlikely to be chased." Besides, deaths of suspects can happen whenever the police get involved - with or without their yellow accessories.The problem is in designing something to be painful but not lethal, for use by the police on civilians - be they criminals, protesters or accidental bystanders. It is sinister, and it disturbs the relationship between authority and citizenry.Tear gas is the standout example - it isn't lethal. No real harm is going to befall you as a result of it, and when you fetch up scenarios in which you could be harmed - what if I were temporarily blinded and fell down a hole? - you sound dumb. However, just because it can't kill you doesn't mean it isn't profoundly unpleasant, disabling and panic-inducing.So, to look neutrally or happily upon its use to disperse demonstrations and other crowds, the general population has to have decided that, well, they wouldn't be there unless they meant trouble. This is a very troubling leap, from "There is a gathering whose ends I don't agree with" to "There is a gathering that if not illegal, is close enough to being illegal that I don't mind it being treated in an uncivilised manner".To the gathering or the criminal, meanwhile, it is an act of war - you might know it's tear gas and you might not, you might know it's not lethal and you might not - your physical triggers are that you are under attack, and that is a much more urgent influence than, say, the sight of police in riot gear, even mounted police in riot gear chasing you. When pain is inflicted upon you, it breaks down barriers of decency.From the police's point of view, a certain ideological leap is required for you to cause great pain to a citizen - a downgrading of that person's status, from "equal" to "below equal". This is intensified once the act is committed; a person lumbering around like a concussed bull is not a very sympathetic sight, especially when you know they're in no danger. It is bestialising. It is hard not to think less of that person as a result.Sure, the first question with any new police equipment should be: "Is it lethal?" But if we think that's the only question, we are mistaken. mszoewilliams@yahoo.co.uk