David Cameron confirmed today that his party would scrap the early release scheme under which 25,000 prisoners will be freed from jail this year to ease overcrowding, as the Conservatives prepared to debate crime, defence and security at their conference in Blackpool.David Davis, the shadow home secretary, will take to the platform this afternoon to highlight the prison overcrowding crisis as the Conservatives seek to persuade the public that they are ready for government in the event of a snap election. Mr Cameron told GMTV: "We will be saying we have got to stop the early release of 25,000 prisoners this year." A Tory commitment to scrapping the government's identity card scheme would help fund extra prison places. In an early round of broadcast interviews ahead of the third day of the Tories' annual conference in Blackpool, Mr Cameron also repeated his belief that he could win a general election if Gordon Brown decided to go to the country in the next few weeks. Asked if the Tories could defeat Labour in an early election, he said: "We believe we can. We are ready for an election. If the prime minister calls it, we are ready to go." Mr Cameron is seeking to present "clarity" on his policies as a snap election looked increasingly likely. He defended plans to meter out "tough love" to the workless, with benefits removed from anyone who turned down a "reasonable job offer". Citing the findings of his social justice review group, chaired by Iain Duncan Smith, the former Tory leader, Mr Cameron said that £8bn of taxpayers' money could be saved by getting people off benefits and back to work. In a clear signal that he intends to hive off jobcentre services to private business and voluntary groups, Mr Cameron added that outside companies are "far better" at running return-to-work schemes than civil servants. As Gordon Brown landed in Baghdad this morning for his first visit since becoming prime minister, Mr Cameron also responded to reports that the government may be poised to announce a troop withdrawal from Iraq. He said: "I will always put the national interest first and, in Iraq, if we are ready to withdraw troops, I will be delighted with that and they will have my backing if they get that right." On Europe, Mr Cameron said that his party would "fight" the EU reform treaty in the House of Commons with a raft of amendments in the event that Mr Brown stood firm on his refusal to hold a referendum and also ruled out an autumn election. Other items on today's agenda include an address by Mr Duncan Smith on fixing the "broken society", and a debate on international development policy.