A con man who tricked his way into Windsor Castle by posing as a senior detective and sent police on a string of wild goose chases by phoning in bogus crimes was jailed yesterday for four and a half years.Michael Hammond, 36, spent more than an hour wandering around the grounds of the castle after ringing officers stationed there and persuading them he was a policeman accompanying friends of Princes William and Harry. The incident, last May, caused a major scare and was hugely embarrassing as it came 12 days after an in-depth review of security. On other occasions Hammond wasted police time and resources by ringing the Metropolitan police, posing as an officer and claiming he needed back-up as he had spotted murder suspects or gangsters. Three times his actions caused innocent people to be searched at gunpoint. Judge Richard McGregor-Johnson said his conduct had been much more serious than simply making a nuisance of himself. "On three occasions innocent people were stopped at gunpoint because of what you said and pretended to be. Quite apart from the stress and fear that must have caused those people, you created the risk of something much worse." While he accepted that Hammond had psychological difficulties, the judge added: "I am satisfied that you knew exactly what you were doing and that a prime motivation was a desire to exercise power and gain attention. My main concern is to protect the public from you." Hammond pleaded guilty to one count of being a public nuisance - incorporating 11 instances of impersonating a police officer - and one charge of wasting police time. Isleworth crown court, in south-west London, was told that Hammond rang police 133 times in 11 months from September 2003, pretending to be an officer. On one occasion he claimed he had spotted armed men near Downing Street, on others he phoned in a report of gunmen at Canary Wharf and at London's City airport. Even after being arrested and bailed for the Windsor Castle incident - in which he was waved through the Henry VIII gate, which is reserved for royals and staff - he did not stop carrying out hoaxes. While travelling on a ferry to Dover he claimed to be from Interpol and had an Iraqi family stopped and searched. His fantasy life did not stop at posing as a policeman. Last February, he was given a police motor escort after posing as a surgeon on his way to perform life-saving surgery on a child. Over the years, Hammond, the son of a painter and decorator, has also posed as a millionaire playboy and falsely claimed to have dated famous women, including Jordan and Dannii Minogue. He often talked his way into showbusiness parties and got himself photographed with famous people and models. When arrested, Hammond was driving a £105,000 black Mercedes. But the car had been obtained by deception and Hammond was drowning in debt, unable to pay the bills on his rented luxury penthouse flat in east London. Outside court Detective Chief Inspector Chris Lovatt said Hammond, who had 102 previous offences, the majority for fraud and deception and two for impersonating a police officer, got away with it because he was a "skilled con man". He added: "He lives a Walter Mitty existence and is probably today still living that existence and I don't think he will ever stop."