A religious education teacher who admitted 10 charges of engaging a 15-year-old pupil in sexual activity has been jailed today.Madeleine Martin, 39, of Knutsford, Cheshire, admitted beginning a week-long relationship with the boy, who was under 16 at the time, when she appeared in court in September.Today she was sentenced to 32 months in prison at Manchester Minshull Street crown court. Martin was also suspended from her job at a Greater Manchester school, which cannot be named for legal reasons.The court was told that Martin had qualified as a teacher four years ago and first met her victim in September 2008.The pair began communicating via the Facebook social networking website and their contact escalated into a sexual relationship.On 9 February she asked the boy to do something that would remind him of her when they were apart. She drove him to a tattooist and paid for him to have "Mad" and a heart etched onto his skin.They then drove to a secluded area, where they had sex. The boy quickly decided to end their involvement and told Martin.He eventually told his mother what had happened and she immediately reported the matter to police in April.Judge Jonathan Geake told her: "It is clear that your life came to a very low ebb. Unhappily it was against that background that you were trusted with mentoring this young teenage boy who himself was vulnerable in the sense that he was having his own difficulties at school."It is clear from the way in which the prosecution presented that case that rather than mentor him in the proper way, you used him as an emotional support and comfort for yourself rather than the other way round."You started to abuse the trust you were entrusted with. Eventually you lured him into intimacies which should never have happened and which you now admit should never have happened."Mark Fireman, in mitigation, said his client had brought "shame on herself and her family" and had lost her career, and her friends. He said at the time of sexual contact she was going through a "very difficult time in her personal life". Her relationship with her husband had ended, and her sister was suffering from terminal cancer and eventually died."The matter left her extremely depressed and perhaps vulnerable to thoughts and actions that would not have normally have taken place."He added: "It is an incident that she bitterly, bitterly regrets. She knows that she has caused great harm."In a victim impact statement, the boy said he had been taunted by his fellow pupils and had not returned to the school. He also said he was embarrassed to show people the tattoo Martin had encouraged him to get. His mother told the court that her relationship with her son had suffered, and that he had become lethargic and lost interest in his hobbies. She added: "He has lost the sparkle he always had."Outside court, Detective Sergeant Dave Moores of Tameside Child protection unit said: "Martin's actions will leave emotional scars on her victim and his family and have also impacted on the wider community."I would like to praise the bravery of the victim in speaking out and ensuring justice was done for him."I am satisfied that she has been given the sentence she deserves and hope this will send a strong message that this behaviour will not be tolerated."He added that Martin would remain on the sex offenders' register.