There are 80,000 places in British prisons and all are taken. Since the courts are not responsible for building jails, the lack of capacity is hardly their fault. But thanks to the Home Secretary, it has become their problem. Perhaps recognising the futility of asking villains to refrain from offending, John Reid last week wrote to judges reminding them of the options to custody in their sentencing arsenal. Non-dangerous offenders, he said, should be paying their debt to society in other ways.He is right. There are some people so vicious that they must be locked away. But there are also shoplifters, fine defaulters and petty ne'er-do-wells being sent down. For these people, a prison term might have no long-term effect other than to make it impossible later to find a job and a home. Too often, prison is an initiation into lifelong criminality. Around two-thirds of released inmates go on to reoffend. Britain also uses cells to plug a gap in mental health care. According to one recent estimate, around a third of under-18s in custody suffer from psychiatric disorders.We lock up a higher proportion of our population than nearly every other European country, but there is no evidence that as a nation we are more criminal by nature, nor any evidence that higher incarceration rates have a long-term impact on rates of serious crime. So highlighting options to prison is sensible.The problem for the Home Secretary is that his sensible words are made foolish because they come in the context not of strategic thinking about policy, but of panic about a lack of cells. The timing of Mr Reid's intervention implies that the only reason not to jail people is because there aren't enough jails. That does not support the case for a more balanced approach to sentencing, it undermines it.To be fair to Mr Reid, he has said before that non-violent offenders needn't be imprisoned. He has also said that dangerous criminals should be punished more vigorously. Last year, he publicly criticised a five-year sentence given to Craig Sweeney, a violent paedophile, as too lenient. He called for the case to be referred to the appeal court. As it happened, Sweeney's sentence was a minimum tariff that easily allowed for later extension by a parole board, so Mr Reid's intervention was premature. But more important, it was constitutionally improper, a headline-hungry interference in the work of the courts. That has been a habit of Labour in government, so anxious to be seen as tough on crime that it portrays itself in alliance with the public against a fictitious soft-touch, rights-obsessed judiciary.So it is hardly surprising when there is retaliation. Last week, two judges took pains, when sentencing sex offenders, to point out that they had been spared jail because of the Home Secretary's call for rationing. This was surely provocative, but the judges were only playing Mr Reid at his own game.The government announced last week that it is belatedly funding 8,000 new prison places. On current trends, these will be filled as soon as they come on line. The real challenge is to invest in credible alternatives to jail that will be seen by the public as appropriate payback for breaking the law. There is no reason why community service orders and tagging regimes should not be rigorous enough and policed properly to dispel the notion that they are somehow equivalent to freedom.Likewise, government must make the case that, since heroin and cocaine motivate a huge number of offenders, treating addicts out of jail is better for society than locking them up with their dealers.It is time that Labour got over its obsession with looking tough on crime. No one advocates being soft on crime and everyone wants justice to be done. We might have welcomed Mr Reid's call for fewer custodial sentences, but it should have come not under duress from a system in crisis but from honest recognition that prison doesn't always work.