A man has been jailed for hiding his neighbour’s body “like a piece of rubbish” under a tarpaulin in a yard so he could use his flat as a cannabis factory.Paul Jackson befriended lonely former navy helicopter engineer Nicholas Clark, 63, but when his neighbour died of natural causes he saw the chance to use his home to produce drugs. Instead of reporting the death, Jackson, 40, removed Clark’s body from the flat in Bristol and hid it under debris in a yard near his friend Anthony Whillier’s home.The body was found months later when Whillier was evicted and his landlord went to clear the flat and yard. A murder investigation was launched, Clark was identified and the cannabis factory found at his old home. Police also discovered Jackson had taken money from the dead man’s bank account. Jackson was jailed for three-and-half years at Bristol crown court for preventing a lawful burial, theft and allowing the production of cannabis.Whillier received a two-year suspended jail term and 240 hours of unpaid work for cannabis production.Clark’s family, from whom he was estranged, released a statement expressing anger at the lack of respect Jackson had shown. They said: “It’s devastating to know that Nick’s body was treated with such crudeness. The lack of respect shown by the perpetrators is beyond comprehension.“While Nick may have died in natural circumstances, the actions to move his body from the home he loved … showed a complete lack of respect for any human being, let alone someone classed as a friend.“Nick deserved to have his human rights respected, and not be treated as something which could be discarded without a moment’s thought. Nick was a lonely man who relied on the support of his neighbours and friends”Detectives do not know exactly when he died, but Clark had not been seen since undergoing an operation in February 2015. His remains were found in April 2015.Senior investigating officer Det Ch Insp Mike Williams said Jackson took money from Clark’s account after his death.He said: “Nick’s family have been devastated by the way his body was treated after he died and it’s hard to comprehend how anybody could treat a human being in this callous way. Because he wasn’t reported as missing, it’s very likely his remains would have remained undetected if the yard hadn’t been cleared.“Nick deserved respect for loyally serving his country but after he died from natural causes, his so-called friend and neighbour Paul Jackson treated his body like a piece of rubbish.”