Two police forces are being sued by the bereaved parents of a 14-year-old boy who was stabbed to death by an older teenager whom he met over the internet.On Tuesday Lewis Daynes, 19, a computer engineer, pleaded guilty to killing Breck Bednar, 14, after the younger boy secretly travelled to his flat in February.Breck had told his parents he was sleeping at a friend’s house near their home in Caterham, Surrey, but travelled two hours by train to meet Daynes at his flat in Grays, Essex.It was there that Breck was stabbed in the neck in a fatal attack that involved a “sexual, sadistic motivation,” prosecutor Richard Whittam QC told Chelmsford crown court in Essex.Daynes initially denied murder but changed his plea moments before he was due to go on trial. He now faces a life sentence when he returns to court on 12 January.The Guardian can reveal that Breck’s parents, Barry Bednar and Lorin LaFave, have launched a legal action against Essex and Surrey police forces over their handling of the case.Breck’s family told Surrey police in December that they feared he was being groomed and manipulated by an older man he had met online. Despite this report, the family believe no action was taken to prevent Daynes carrying out the killing two months later.Bednar, 49, a millionaire oil trader from Texas in the US, and LaFave, 47, a teaching assistant from Michigan, accuse Essex police of failing to share information with Surrey police about the case.The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating Surrey police over the matter.Outside court, LaFave paid tribute to her son and warned about the dangers of online grooming. “I am heartbroken and lost without my Breck and I will never be the same. He was murdered on my birthday this year and so much of me died as well,” she said.“My poor triplets lost not only their adored big brother but also their mother. Breck was my amazing, clever, beautiful boy, a beautiful son who we will miss forever. He had so much potential that he will never now reach. He had so much to give to this world.“I want Breck’s tragedy to open the eyes of everyone to recognise the dangers of online predators. It is a very real danger today. We all need to look after each other. We have set up the Breck Bednar memorial foundation to help raise money and awareness and protect all of our children from danger. I’ll never stop missing my Breck.”In an internet post after Breck’s death in February, LaFave said she had pointed out Daynes’s “obvious lies” to her son. She said the older boy was trying to “control his ideology about religion, government, family, education”, but Breck “couldn’t see the bad” and looked up to Daynes because of his computer skills.The pair are believed to have been members of an internet community on TeamSpeak 3, a social network similar to Skype, and to have played the computer game Battlefield 4.Breck was a pupil at St Bede’s school in Redhill, Surrey. A fund set up by his parents to deliver better computer education for young people has raised more than £26,000.Asst Ch Con Gavin Stephens, of Surrey police, said that since the murder the force had reviewed its call-handling procedures and implemented changes to improve the way information was handled and shared.He said: “This has been a tragic case and our thoughts remain with Breck’s friends and family. In December 2013 a call was made to Surrey police by a relative of Breck expressing concerns around online grooming, and due to the prior contact the case was referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission.“They have since decided to conduct an independent investigation into the actions taken by Surrey police following this communication. We will fully cooperate with the ongoing investigation.”An Essex police spokesman said: “Essex police have been notified of a civil claim against the force and it would be inappropriate to comment further on that matter at this time.”