There is no crisis in the prison system, the justice secretary, Chris Grayling, repeatedly asserts – even as the prison and probation ombudsman, Nigel Newcomen, says he is “troubled” and “appalled” by the rising rates of prison suicide; the chief inspector of prisons, Nick Hardwick, expresses concern about prisoners spending “too long in their cells with nothing constructive to do”; and Frances Crook of the Howard League for Penal Reform calls plans for a super-jail for children a “recipe for child abuse”.Their concerns are all based on official figures or findings, but the secretary of state continues to insist that there is no crisis. Yet the evidence that all is far from well is underlined by this weekend’s Guardian investigation revealing that as many as six people a month are taking their own lives in prison.The factors contributing to this disgrace are not mysterious if you understand that properly run prisons rely on good relationships and cooperation between staff and prisoners. Unfortunately the justice secretary does not appear to get that. He has presided over the worst deterioration in relationships between staff and prisoners since we started building jails.There have always been and continue to be common themes underpinning suicide in jails: remand prisoners are more vulnerable and we know segregation makes more people vulnerable.Going back to 2009, the Bradley report into the treatment of mentally ill prisoners came up with the blindingly obvious conclusion that we should divert those with a mental health problem away from prison. The Corston report more than seven years ago came up with equally good recommendations about keeping vulnerable women away from custody. Problems and solutions are identified but, beyond a few pilot programmes, actions are scarce.Prisons don’t run on reports and recommendations, they run on relationships and cooperation. Get it right and rehabilitation and safer communities follow. Good relationships inside prison can help to prevent suicides. They are hard to measure and are eschewed as liberal concepts that don’t fit the “tough on crime” agenda. They are difficult in a prison setting and rely on a culture of discussion and conversation based on good leadership. The process takes time, continuity of management, training and support from above.We ask of prison staff more than almost any other public servants. The job has its dangers and the environment is complex. We expect a lot for negligible entry requirements and six weeks’ generic training, which is among the worst in the world. And in those six weeks they get almost no mental health awareness training. In Norway it is two years to degree level. Such limited training makes it difficult for officers to engage positively with well-adjusted prisoners, let alone difficult, damaged, chaotic and disordered individuals.Despite this, many staff build up considerable skill and competence on the job. My time as governor of Brixton prison saw many examples of relationships at their best. A dangerous and highly volatile prisoner – let’s call him Jim – arrived in the segregation unit one evening from another jail with his own personal riot squad. I supervised Jim’s placement in the spartan, single solitary confinement cell, checked on his wellbeing and left. Next morning I returned to find the staff in the office drinking tea with Jim’s cell door partially open, an (illegal) extension lead running into the cell powering an old black-and-white TV perched on a broken chair by the bed. After an exchange of pleasantries, Jim and I agreed he would make a fresh start and leave solitary. We had no further trouble from him. It is difficult expertise to bottle – if only we could.In the current malaise we ignore this dynamic relationship at our peril. As staff numbers have reduced, it tends to be the more experienced staff who leave first, taking redundancy packages. With them goes a wealth of knowledge and jail-craft. Those left behind are not just fewer in number, they are also less experienced. They feel vulnerable, and literally and metaphorically retreat into corners. Beyond training, staff morale is poor; can we expect anything more from a workforce poorly paid and not knowing from one week to the next whether they have a job?Prisoners themselves, meanwhile, need a sense of investment in what is going on in the jail and a hope that something other than unemployment and social exclusion will be there for them when they emerge. Without either, we are creating a prison population with nothing to lose. This gives us suicide at one extreme and violence at the other, making prison a very dangerous place in which to work or live.Unfortunately, we hear nothing from serving governors at times of controversy. They are called upon to make some impossible judgments, but have no opportunity to state their case publicly. The prison service has become so secretive under this government that outside scrutiny is increasingly difficult.Yet the justice secretary can’t have it both ways – accusing reform campaigners or the media of getting it wrong while letting no information in or out.Nelson Mandela once said, “No one truly knows a nation until one has been inside its jails.” When all else has failed, prison is an opportunity to intervene, to try to put right what has gone wrong. Prisons are a tool for society, not a football for politicians. But what hope of that from a government hellbent on the abolition of the human rights act?