Police have arrested a third man in connection with Britain's biggest jewellery robbery – the audacious raid on Graff Diamonds in New Bond Street, London.Two others were arrested on Wednesday. Scotland Yard declined to give any details of the latest arrest. It is unclear whether any of the men held are suspected of being the actual robbers.Last week, police arrested and questioned a 50-year-old man in Ilford, east London. He was released on bail pending further inquiries.In the robbery on 6 August, two men wearing suits posed as clients to get past a security guard. Once inside the shop they pulled out handguns, threatened staff and grabbed luxury rings, bracelets, necklaces and watches worth £40m.Scotland Yard released CCTV footage showing the duo leaving the jeweller's. They fired at a security guard before getting into a blue BMW, passing a package to a motorcyclist and then crashing into a taxi nearby. They fired a second shot as bystanders tried to intervene, then got into a silver Mercedes, before changing again to a people carrier.The first suspect was described as white, about 30, with a slim build, dark hair with a well-combed side parting, light stubble on his face and between 175cm and 180cm tall. The second was described as black, also in his 30s, 180cm tall, of a heavier build than the first suspect, and with very short hair. At least two other men acted as getaway drivers in three cars, police suspect.The robbers reportedly had asked make-up artists to age them 30 years but abandoned the plan because it would have taken too long. DNA tests were carried out on masks that the robbers tried on in a studio but did not use.The jewels stolen were worth £40m. Britain's previous biggest diamond robbery was in 2003 when items worth £23m were stolen, also from Graff's.There have been reports that one member of an organised crime gang who carried out the raid was identified after police found his DNA. Officers searched properties in a series of raids across London and the south-east. Police said Graff's insurers were offering a £1m reward for information on the gang.