A Paddington train crash survivor who claimed that a post-traumatic stress disorder turned him into a killer today won his appeal against a high court ruling that he was not entitled to compensation for loss of earnings after committing the offence.In March 2003, Kerrie Gray pleaded guilty to the August 2001 manslaughter of John Boultwood, a 42-year-old welder, on the basis of diminished responsibility. He was ordered to be detained at Runwell hospital, in Wickford, Essex, where he remains. Gray, who suffered minor lacerations in the October 1999 train crash in which 31 people died, stabbed his victim after Boultwood walked in front of his car and banged on the windscreen. Gray had previously been of good character and had been in continuous employment in a variety of jobs in administration or sales. He said he would have limited employment prospects upon his release from detention.After the disaster, he suffered a significant personality change, began to have angry outbursts, became increasingly withdrawn and shunned physical contact. In the week before the killing, Gray was off work because of his psychiatric condition and heavy drinking. He had just started treatment with a psychologist. His counsel, Anthony Scrivener QC, said Gray, 48, of Tilbury, Essex, was "a law-abiding man who has been turned into a criminal". He claimed he was entitled to be compensated for losses caused by the admitted negligence of Thames Trains and Network Rail Infrastructure. The companies argued that Gray was not entitled to any compensation on the legal principle of ex turpi causa, meaning that a right of action does not arise out of an evil cause.In July last year, Mr Justice Flaux dismissed his claim so far as it related to losses suffered after the killing, although he said losses suffered before that date were recoverable - which the train companies did not dispute. Today, Anthony Clarke, the Master of the Rolls, sitting in the Court of Appeal with Lord Justice Tuckey and Lady Justice Smith, allowed the appeal on the ex turpi causa point. They concluded that a claim was not defeated by public policy unless it was inextricably bound up with or linked with the criminal conduct and - insofar as Gray claimed loss of earnings - this was not such a case.