The suspended detective credited with bringing zero tolerance policing to Britain announced yesterday he intended to resign from the force so he could stand as mayor of Middlesbrough.Detective Superintendent Ray Mallon, who is awaiting a disciplinary hearing in October, will formally announce his candidacy for the post at a press conference today - although his political ambitions may be thwarted by the chief constable of Cleveland, Barry Shaw. Mr Shaw may decide that Det Supt Mallon, nicknamed Robocop for his adoption of forthright policing techniques pioneered in New York, should remain with the force until the hearings are completed. However, the 1997 suspension of Mr Mallon and the inquiry which followed created so much controversy and embarrassment, Mr Shaw could be tempted to let him go to draw a line under the saga. Mr Mallon was accused of alleged criminal activity under the Operation Lancet inquiry. The investigation centred on claims that drugs were offered to criminals for information. In February this year, the crown prosecution service announced that none of the 390 criminal allegations levelled by Lancet against 54 officers, including Mr Mallon, would be proceeded with. He has never been charged with any offence but is still suspended pending an internal disciplinary hearing. Even if he is cleared, it seems Mr Mallon's career in the police is at an end. Last year, he considered standing as mayor of Hartlepool, but the CPS was still considering charges against him. Yesterday it emerged that Mr Mallon had been approached by his supporters to stand as mayor of Middlesbrough. Before the election takes place, the public must vote in a referendum in October to adopt the system for a directly elected mayor. As police officers cannot campaign politically, Mr Mallon was told he would have to resign now so he could campaign initially for a Yes vote in the referendum, and then for the post itself. He is still extremely popular in the north-east, where his zero tolerance methods led to falls in crime. Mr Mallon won national headlines and approval from both Conservative and Labour home secretaries before his suspension. In a brief statement issued yesterday, Mr Mallon said: "I can confirm that I intend to resign from Cleveland police." Sources within the force said the chief constable had yet to receive a resignation letter and warned that it may not be accepted. A spokesman added: "If a suspended officer wants to resign, it is a matter for the chief constable to decide if he should accept the resignation or whether that officer needs to remain to face disciplinary matters." Earlier this year, the Home Office announced that a retired chief constable, Sir John Hoddinott, would review the management of the four year Lancet inquiry, which failed to make stick any of 393 criminal allegations against Mr Mallon and the other officers.