Claims that failures in electronic tagging are allowing criminals - including paedophiles - to move around unmonitored were being urgently investigated by the Home Office today.A BBC documentary alleged that dozens of tagged offenders were going unmonitored every week because of faulty equipment and poor management at Group 4 Securicor Justice Services Ltd (G4S). One staff member in the documentary was filmed as claiming: "I've got three paedophiles walking around not monitored." Another said that a killer was untagged. The film focused on G4S's operation in the east Midlands, where more than 1,000 offenders are subject to electronic tagging. Using hidden microphones and cameras the reporter - part of the BBC's Inside Out team - recorded G4S staff openly making the claims. One said: "You think this company is doing good? It's crap. I tell you what, I wish the papers would get to know about it because it would shut them down within months." G4S are the largest security company in the UK, monitoring almost 70% of tagged offenders in England and Wales. The BBC footage also showed instances of offenders going "missing" from the monitoring system because the equipment had lost the signal. Another staff member claimed: "All those times it [the Home Monitoring Unit] is on 'missing' status it isn't recording what they are doing. "We don't know, we cannot retrieve the information ... They could have been in Barbados for a week while it is on 'missing' status; we wouldn't know." Another monitoring officer said he worked on the premise that one in seven monitoring units he installed would actually work. A spokeswoman for the Home Office said their contract with G4S was now under review. Tagging, which was introduced eight years ago as a cost-effective alternative to jail, cost the Home Office £102.3m in 2004-05. The BBC investigation was launched after a former office temp at G4S claimed that she had been asked to falsify records showing how often offenders had broken their curfew.The former temp, who was not named, said: "Myself and a colleague would sit there thinking, 'God, this just isn't right. We're taking off so many hours, surely we shouldn't be doing this.'" Over a four-month period the BBC reporter also filmed G4S staff allegedly fabricating records of installations to save money and meet government targets. In another recording, a man accused of assault is seen breaching his bail conditions by drinking in his local pub just ten minutes after a monitoring officer removes his tag. The company said they were following government guidelines by removing a tag the night before he was due in court. Five members of staff have since been suspended by G4S, which said it had immediately ordered a "full and rigorous investigation" into the allegations, though it insisted it had confidence in its equipment. A spokesman for G4S said: "We take the allegations put to us by the BBC very seriously ... G4S takes its responsibility to the public very seriously and we will not tolerate such practices if they are proven. "We are very disappointed that some staff may have engaged in practices which at the very least are unprofessional and at the worst constitute gross misconduct." Management at the Nottingham branch has been changed and an improvement programme has been put in place, the spokesman said. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said: "I knew that there were problems with tagging, but what this programme shows is that the problems with tagging are immensely worse than I thought." Paul Cavadino, chief executive of the crime reduction charity Nacro, said: "The BBC's findings are alarming for those of us who believe that electronic tagging can play a useful role in offenders' rehabilitation." Inside Out will be broadcast on BBC1 in the east Midlands at 7.30pm today and will later be available to view online.