Five teenage members of a west London gang were given lengthy prison sentences at the Old Bailey yesterday for the murder of a 16-year-old A-level student. Kodjo Yenga was left dying in the arms of his girlfriend after the gang ran away, laughing and exhilarated, the court heard.Judge Christopher Moss told the youths it was unclear who wielded the knife but the sentences had to be a deterrent because the violent gang culture was a serious problem. He ordered that Tirrell Davis, 17, and Brandon Richmond, 14, be imprisoned for a minimum of 15 years. Kurtis Yemoh, 17, Jamel Bridgeman, 15, and Michel Williams, 15, were given 10 years' detention for manslaughter with five years on extended licence after their release. The judge told them Kodjo's death was an example of the "needless loss of another young life by the use of knives on the streets of our cities by youngsters like you. You were all part of the gang culture which casts its dreadful influence and leads to the sort of tragedy we have seen here. All of you come from decent and caring backgrounds, which makes the situation all the more worrying."During their trial last month the jury was told that the youths were members of the Murder Dem Pussies gang. They would challenge non-members to one-to-one fights only to turn up with several friends to stage an ambush.After the jury's guilty verdicts, Kodjo's mother, Ladjua Lesele, said: "I stand before you as a broken mother whose prayers, dreams and hopes for the bright future of her beloved son were cruelly and needlessly crushed. I only have one thing to say to those who murdered Kodjo. As you spilled and touched his blood, no matter how many times you wash your hands his blood will stay on them for as long as you live."On March 14 last year Kodjo was with his 15-year-old girlfriend in Hammersmith Broadway shopping centre. One of the gang challenged him to a fight and, against the wishes of his girlfriend, who cannot be named because of her age, he agreed. They moved to a side street where eight or nine other boys were waiting, one with a bull terrier which was set loose. One of the gang produced what appeared to be a Stanley knife and Kodjo asked him: "Do you think you're a big boy because you've got a knife?" He was told: "I don't care. I want you to respect me." While his girlfriend was forcibly held back, Kodjo ran away with the others in pursuit shouting "kill him, kill him". Kodjo was left lying on the ground bleeding heavily from a wound to his chest. His girlfriend recalled: "I ran straight up to Kodjo. He was holding his heart. He was lying and I turned him over. I put his head in my lap and I was crying and I said, 'Please don't die, please don't die.' He was just moaning, making noises."A local teacher told the court that she saw a boy running away and brandishing a bloodied knife. "He looked proud as if he had done something by way of an accomplishment."Kodjo was born in the Democratic Republic of Congo and lived with his mother in a former council flat. As a pupil at St Charles Catholic Sixth Form College, North Kensington, he had gained 10 GCSEs and was hoping to sit A-levels in business, computer studies and French before going to university. Headteacher Paul O'Shea described him as a "gentle and peaceful young man".The London mayor, Boris Johnson, said: "The brutal murder of Kodjo Yenga shocked Londoners. I am now working with the police to get handheld scanners at transport hubs to crack down on anyone who carries a knife or gun."