A jet-setting jewel thief who lived a life of luxury by plundering the rooms of wealthy guests at top hotels all over the world has absconded from prison after being allowed out to attend a hospital appointment.Juan Carlos Guzman-Betancourt, 29, who modelled himself on fictional conmen such as the gentleman thief Raffles, was serving a three-and-a-half-year sentence in Standford Hill jail, on the Isle of Sheppey, Kent, after Scotland Yard seized him last year. The son of a Colombian diplomat, who speaks several languages and has 10 aliases, was allowed out of the low security prison for a medical appointment on June 6. The Home Office confirmed yesterday that he had failed to return. Airports and ports have been alerted, as have police forces in several countries, including the FBI. Guzman-Betancourt, who was jailed under the name Gonzalo Zapater Vives, stole £150,000 from London hotels, including the Mandarin Oriental, the Dorchester, the Lanesborough and the Savoy. He tricked staff into letting him into guests' rooms or opening safe-deposit boxes by pretending to have forgotten his keys, and then cleaned out the valuables. Detectives believe he netted millions worldwide. He is also being sought by police in the US, South and central America, Russia, Canada, Thailand and Japan. He was arrested in London in 1998, but skipped bail and repeatedly evaded police. He was eventually spotted by an off-duty Scotland Yard detective in a supermarket. Detective Sergeant Andy Swindells, who recognised his distinctive eyebrow mole, described him as a highly accomplished liar. "He is always immaculately presented, very charming and speaks several languages fluently," he said. "He is plausible, believable and incredibly well-versed in identity theft, hotels and foreign travel." In May 2001, Guzman-Betancourt stole £40,000 of jewellery from guests at the Mandarin Oriental, and burgled four other London hotels before using a stolen credit card to pay £400 for a chauffeur-driven Bentley to drive him to Heathrow. He blew £8,000 at departures before flying to Paris for a shopping spree. A former Standford Hill inmate said: "It's a very comfortable open prison and it would be easy to walk out any time you wanted." The Home Office said that as with all prisoners, Guzman-Betancourt would have been "risk assessed" before being moved to open conditions.