South Wales Police, the force responsible for a long series of miscarriages of justice in high-profile murder cases, is facing a courtroom probe into the methods used by its CID.The High Court in Cardiff will begin tomorrow hearing an action for malicious prosecution brought by Annette Hewins, an innocent mother who was jailed for an arson attack in which three people died, only to be freed later on appeal. The case, set to last three weeks, will see officers up to the rank of detective chief superintendent forced to give detailed accounts of their actions.If Ms Hewins wins, the force will be liable for damages and costs likely to near £1m. Her fourth child, Joshua, was born in jail and placed in care when he was nine hours old. Ordering her release after two and a half years in 1999, Lord Justice Kennedy said: 'There was no sufficient evidence to prove the case against her.'According to her legal claim document, the investigating officers charged her even though they 'lacked an honest belief in the probability of her guilt'. It accuses them of concocting a case by putting pressure on a girl of 16 named Carly John to change her story about the night of the killings, telling her things that they knew to be untrue. The police deny the allegations. They admit they made false assertions when interviewing John, but insist these were honest mistakes.'No amount of money can make up for what happened to me and my family,' Ms Hewins said last week, 'but I'm bringing this action because the stigma sticks. I still suffer psychologically, and my therapist says that I'm still having difficulty coming to terms with it.'Ms Hewins's struggle for justice goes back to the early hours of 11 October, 1995, when Diane Jones, 21, burnt to death with her two children in a fire at her home in Merthyr Tydfil. For more than four months, the police had no suspects. Then Carly John - who had been interviewed five times and had made no admissions or allegations against anyone else - began to change her story. As a result, Ms Hewins and her niece, Donna Clarke, who had had an affair with the murdered woman's boyfriend, were charged with murder and arson. Convicted for the latter offence in June 1997, Ms Hewins was sentenced to 13 years and Clarke to 20.The successful appeal by the two women two years later was one of several in south Wales. They include the cases of the Cardiff Three, wrongly convicted for killing prostitute Lynette White in 1988, for which another man was later found guilty; of Jonathan Jones, jailed for killing his girlfriend's parents; and of Michael O'Brien, Ellis Sherwood and Darren Hall, freed in 1999 after serving 11 years for murdering a newsagent. Campaigners say South Wales Police were responsible for wrongful homicide convictions in at least eight cases since the Eighties.The case against Ms Hewins rested on Carly John's evidence that at about 11pm on the night of the arson she drove Clarke to a garage to buy an electricity meter token. John claimed that when Clarke returned she had a Lucozade bottle containing a 'rusty' liquid that lacked 'fizz'. The prosecution accepted that Ms Hewins went home to bed. But the liquid, they claimed, was the petrol used to start the fire. Closed-circuit TV footage showed Ms Hewins at the garage but not filling any bottle. The prosecution suggested that she might have siphoned it instead. 'I'd have no idea how to do that,' she said yesterday.Ms Hewins claims the police gave John a 'blatant inducement', by implying she would be charged herself but would go free if she incriminated others. At the time, the legal claim says, the police knew they did not have enough evidence to charge John but were 'frightening' and 'putting improper pressure' on her.Ms Hewins said yesterday: 'That fire didn't light itself - it took the lives of a mother and her babies; their father's life; my life and that of my husband and children. That's why, after 10 years, I'm hoping the truth will come out.'