The detective responsible for leading the investigation into the murder of Damilola Taylor today calls for changes to the law which would allow vulnerable witnesses to get special treatment during court proceedings to avoid similar cases collapsing.The Damilola Taylor trial collapsed last year after the judge branded the main witness, a 14-year-old girl codenamed Bromley, a fantasist whose evidence was "embellished with lies" and could not be relied upon. The child, who was just 12 at the time of Damilola's death, has insisted she was telling the truth about what she saw and has since revealed that her life has been ruined by her decision to testify. Detective Chief Superintendent Tony Crofts said she was a perfect example of the kind of vulnerable witness for whom the normal adversarial procedure should be suspended in favour of a more inquisitorial process in which the witness would be called by the judge, rather than the prosecution or defence. He said many witnesses such as Bromley who came from deprived backgrounds and had little experience of the judicial system did not respond well to the kind of challenging and robust questioning they were forced to endure in court and often responded in a hostile way which could then be misinterpreted and lead to them being discredited as witnesses. He said that it was often difficult for the police in cases such as the Damilola murder because they were forced to put people before the court as witnesses of truth even when they had reservations about their honesty. In the present system the police are not allowed to reveal that they have doubts about certain parts of someone's testimony. This gives rise to defence barristers being able to attack the whole of the evidence and the credibility of the witnesses themselves. "We cannot have a system where police are trained to the hilt in achieving best evidence from vulnerable and intimidated witnesses when the practices currently used within the adversarial system to test their evidence completely ignores that approach and focuses on destruction of the witness and their credibility rather than trying to establish the truth. "The manner in which someone such as Bromley may reveal what they know may not be straightforward. They may not tell the full truth at the beginning for a variety of reasons. "When they are then in a situation as a key witness it makes it extremely difficult because the nature of the way they have disclosed their evidence often follows a route of denial and a desire to not be involved. When they finally give evidence, their earlier conduct tends to undermine their credibility," he said. If the judge took the leading role in deciding whether such a witness should be called and then went on to direct the questioning in a reasonable and measured way, the jury would be able to judge the evidence on its own merits, he added. "When a witness is clearly vulnerable they do not act and react in a manner which is understood by the court process and from time to time they might appear hostile, uncooperative and chaotic. This does not mean that they did not see what they said they saw." Det Chief Supt Crofts, who is head of the south London homicide division, said his proposals were simply a "small extension" to the recommendations made last December by the then bishop of Birmingham, John Sentamu, which said the handling of vulnerable witnesses should be reformed to prevent the fiasco over Bromley which turned the trial into a farce. In an interview broadcast on Radio 4 today the teenager, who now lives in protective custody with her mother and has moved 39 times, said she had been very upset by the way she was treated in court. Describing defence barrister Courtenay Griffiths QC as "a lot rude", she said she did not regret swearing at him but "should have slapped him" as well. "I think the judge, yeah, didn't know about girls like me, girls, 'cos I think the judge has seen girls that go to Sunday school and stuff like that," she added.