Thousands of parish council wardens are to be given powers to hand out fixed fines for litter, graffiti or noise nuisance offences in the drive against antisocial behaviour.Tony Blair also confirmed yesterday that the government was looking at expanding the range of offences for which the police can issue on-the-spot fines to include criminal damage, minor theft and the misuse of fireworks. Ministers are also trying to find ways of giving civil courts the power to ensure that drug abusers who are issued with an antisocial behaviour order (Asbo) can be compelled to undergo drug treatment. Currently only those convicted of a criminal offence can be ordered to take a course. Dan Corry, of the New Local Government Network thinktank welcomed the proposed powers for parish and town councils. They knew best about the specific problems that affected their neighbourhood, he said. Mr Blair said legislation would be brought in as soon as possible. It is unlikely to be before the general election. The results of a national audit published yesterday on the first anniversary of the government's updated antisocial behaviour legislation reaching the statute book show that the police and local authorities took action in an estimated 100,000 cases. More than 2,600 orders have been issued by the courts since November 2003 which as many as in the previous four years put together since their introduction in 1999. Home Office figures also published yesterday show that 418 "dispersal orders" have been made to break up intimidating groups of teenagers so far this year and the courts have made a further 158 orders to close down individual "crack" houses. Mr Blair told a national conference in London marking the anniversary: "For too long, the selfish minority have had it all their own way. That's changing. The fightback against the criminals, the louts and the nuisance neighbours is well underway. "The new powers ... are making a difference. But we need more communities to use these powers relentlessly." The home secretary, David Blunkett, said that only about half the local communities had dedicated antisocial behaviour teams and there were still too many cases where "the yobbish behaviour of a few thugs is ruining the quality of life of whole communities". Intensive antisocial behaviour pilots which have been running in 10 areas are to be expanded to 50 other towns. But Home Office research from the annual British Crime Survey shows that speeding motorists, illegally or inconveniently parked cars, and rubbish strewn streets cause most concern.More than 40% of people said speeding traffic was the biggest problem, 29% were worried about fireworks going off at nights, 28% about vandalism and graffiti and about teenagers hanging around. Only 9% said that noisy neighbours was a big problem. However, the research does confirm that in "hard-pressed" inner city estates people faced far more acute anti-social problems. But the government's drive continues to attract criticism within the criminal justice system. Rob Allen, director of Rethinking Crime and Punishment, said the ministers were placing too much emphasis on bans, injunctions and public identification threatened to create outlaws who had less and less incentive to conform. "Pressurising local councils to impose more and more Asbos on young people will inevitably propel into prison some who breach the long and strict requirements. Locking them up does not sit well with the government's policy of reserving prison for the most serious offenders." Chris Stanley, the head of youth crime for the crime reduction charity Nacro, said there was little research available on the effectiveness of Asbos. But the government seemed intent on encouraging local authorities to dish out more by competing in Asbo league tables regardless of the long-term results, he said.