I am grateful to the coverage you gave to the Howard League for Penal Reform's inquiry into former armed service personnel in prison, which I chaired. However, I must take issue with your headline (Inquiry finds ex-forces crime link, 23 June).You reported that "military veterans are twice as likely to be convicted for sex offences than other people and more likely to commit violent offences". It is true the statistics establish that a disproportionate number of ex-servicemen are serving sentences of imprisonment for sexual offences, and for offences of violence, compared to the general prison population – and the inquiry concluded that research should be undertaken to discover why this should be so.But the evidence also suggests that ex-servicemen are in fact less likely to commit crime than civilians, with an official estimate suggesting that ex-servicemen are 30% less likely to end up in prison than other adult males. It may well be that the crimes they do commit tend to be of a more serious variety; but, contrary to the headline, we could find no link to explain why this might be so and indeed in general we could find no link between crime and service in the armed forces.Furthermore, the evidence reveals that about 3,000 ex-servicemen are imprisoned at any one time out of a total veteran population of 5.5 million. We know that ex-servicemen in prison tend to be older than the average prisoner: 51% of ex-servicemen in prison are over the age of 45, and 29% are over 55. This compares to 9% of the general prison population being aged 50 years or over.The majority have offended many years after discharge from the forces. This long gap is in part why it is difficult to ascertain a link between offending and active service. It also makes it difficult to blame the armed forces' resettlement provisions, which have much improved in recent years.It is important to recognise that 90% of servicemen undertake the transition to civilian life successfully and take significant advantage of the training and standards learned in the forces.The age of ex-servicemen in prison also tells us that it is not recent action in Iraq and Afghanistan which is fuelling the numbers and, as you report, we found "'little or no evidence' that combat trauma is directly linked to offending".Beyond the individual culpability inherent in the commission of any offence, is there a broader culprit on which we should focus our attention? I believe there is. As the article states, the army in particular "recruits a significant number from those with 'socially deprived and economically disadvantaged backgrounds' shared by many in the criminal justice system".It may be tempting for some to find fault with the armed forces as an institution, or to blame controversial wars in foreign countries. But the stories of social exclusion, alcohol misuse and financial problems which we heard in interviews with ex-servicemen in prison suggest a more familiar foe. And that is poverty.