A 15-year old boy has been arrested after a female teacher was stabbed to death at the Corpus Christi Catholic College in Osmondthorpe, Leeds. Teaching unions have warned that, although violence in schools has not increased in recent years, the incident highlights the risks teachers face.For a teacher to be killed by a student is a shocking and rare occurrence. But data shows that pupil violence against teachers is a daily problem for teachers around the country.The Department for Education (DfE) collects figures on the number of pupil exclusions, including the number of exclusions for physical assault against an adult. This could include violence against adults other than teachers but it's reasonable to expect the figures to give some indication of the level of violence against teaching staff. The figures are collected in the Department's school census and physical violence against an adult is described as including obstruction and jostling, violent behaviour and wounding.There figures are broken down into different categories; fixed period exclusion and permanent exclusion. The DfE defines them as such:Fixed period exclusion refers to a pupil who is excluded from a school but remains on the register of that school because they are expected to return when the exclusion period is completedPermanent exclusion refers to a pupil who is excluded and their name removed from the school register. Such a pupil would then be educated at another school or via some other form of provisionThere were 17,520 exclusions for physical assault against an adult in the year 2011/12. That's a slight fall from the 17,900 exclusions recorded in 2008/9. This could be affected by changes in schools' approaches to dealing with violence, so we should be cautious about concluding that violence fell over that period. It does show that teachers around the country are facing pupil violence on a daily basis.It’s difficult to track exclusions for physical assault against adults before 2006/7 because of changes to the way the data was collected. But the DfE does publish the overall numbers of permanent exclusions going back to 1997/98. The total number of permanent exclusions declined from 12,300 in 1997/98 to 5,080 in 2010/11. As well as physical assault this includes exclusions for persistent disruptive behaviour and verbal abuse. The decline could indicate a decline in serious behaviour problems, but it could also be partly due to a move towards temporary exclusions.Persistent disruptive behaviour accounted for 32.9% of all permanent exclusions recorded in 2011/12. Physical assault against a pupil accounted for 16.6% and 14.4% were categorised as 'other'. Physical assault against an adult was the fourth most common reason for permanent exclusions in 2011/12 at 10.7% of the total.Another source of data on violence in schools is the Health and Safety Executive (HSE). Their database shows the number of incidents in which schools reported injuries to teachers resulting from being physically assaulted by a person. These figures could include assaults perpetrated by people other than pupils. Not all incidents will be reported to the HSE, but the figures are likely to be skewed towards more serious incidents. Serious injuries are required to be reported under workplace health and safety legislation, although the HSE says injuries are typically under-reported by roughly 50%.The HSE figures shed light on the kinds of injuries sustained. Among 258 incidents reported in 2010/11 were 48 assaults that resulted in fractures, nine that resulted in concussion or internal injuries and nine that resulted in laceration or an open wound.School exclusion figures are also broken down by local authority. We should be cautious about making comparisons here because exclusion rates will be affected by individual authorities’ and schools’ policies on exclusion as well as by the level of pupil violence. But the Datablog has calculated the rate of temporary exclusions for assaulting an adult and found substantial variations across the country. On average, schools in England recorded 20.8 temporary exclusions for assaulting adults per 10,000 pupils in 2011/12. But in Leeds, the authority where Ann Maguire was killed, the rate was 58% higher in the same year, at 32.8 temporary exclusions per 10,000 pupils.Weapons in schoolsA Sky News investigation, published last week, found that almost 1,000 students had, had weapons confiscated on school premises since 2011. Of the 981 pupils who had been caught with weapons in school, 329 were charged with a criminal offence. However, Sky News reported that campaigners warned that the scale of the problem is likely to be even worse as 21 of the 52 UK police forces failed to supply figures. Also the investigation didn’t include data from West Midlands Police in the overall total - weapons were recovered from 538 people during the same period - because they also accounted for colleges and universities as well as schools.Download the data• SOURCE: • DATA: download the full spreadsheet More open data Data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian Development and aid data • Search the world’s global development data with our gateway Can you do more with this data? https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/224898/SFR29-2013_LA.xls">DfEMore open dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianDevelopment and aid data• Search the world’s global development data with our gatewayCan you do more with this data?• Contact us at data@theguardian.com• Follow us on Twitter• Like us on Facebook