The prisons ombudsman, Stephen Shaw, will be responsible for investigating suicides in prisons and probation hostels from April, the Home Office confirmed last night.A dedicated team at the independent ombudsman's office will investigate each suicide, instead of a prison inquiry. The announcement to be made today comes as the annual figures show 94 inmates killed themselves last year, and 95 in 2002. The figures also show that 14 women killed themselves - the highest number ever - though there were no suicides of prisoners under 18. A radical overhaul of the Prison and Probation services, including a merger of their headquarters staffs into a single correctional service, is also expected to be announced today by the home secretary, David Blunkett. The change, expected to see the director general of the Probation Service, Eithne Wallis, named as head of a transitional team - is part of Mr Blunkett's response to a review of the correctional services by government troubleshooter, Patrick Carter. The decision to widen the role of the prisons ombudsman to inquire into suicides was welcomed last night by penal reform groups. Juliet Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust said such deaths were a tragic indicator of sickness - not only in the individual, but also in the prison system. "We welcome this long overdue move to establish independent investigation of deaths in custody. "We look to the ombudsman to ensure that these investigations are linked to primary healthcare trusts and strategic health authorities, involve bereaved families, and produce recommendations which are publicly reported and lead to lasting change." In an interview with the Guardian last year Mr Shaw said he hoped his new role would mean that the causes of prison suicides, including multiple deaths at individual prisons, were more effectively identified and the lessons learned more widely. He said he hoped an independent element would strengthen public confidence, and held out the prospect that it could help stall, and even reverse, the rise in the number of self-inflicted deaths. Figures show five jails had four deaths or more in 2003: Birmingham, four; Blakenhurst in Worcestershire, five; Nottingham, four, Winchester, four; and Styal women's prison in Cheshire, four. · Tina Bromley, 37, was found hanged in her cell at Edmunds Hill prison in Suffolk on Sunday night. A Prison Service spokeswoman said the police, the coroner and the woman's family had been informed. She was serving four months for possessing class A drugs and for criminal damage.