Sabina Rizvi never knew what hit her. In the early hours of last Thursday morning she and a male companion had been released on bail from Bexleyheath police station after being questioned about a stolen vehicle.As she drove along Watling Street, close to the Territorial Army Centre, the 25-year-old spotted traffic cones in the road and slowed down. Shots rang out, hitting Rizvi and her passenger. She slumped forward and her car crashed into the front of a house. She was pronounced dead at the scene and her companion is in a critical condition. It seems there was an ambush with cones being taken from nearby roadworks to cause an obstruction. In what detectives fear is a disturbing new trend, the victim is the second woman to be shot dead in the South East during the past two weeks. 'The long-standing criminal tradition that women and children should be kept out of the line of fire appears to have been abandoned,' said one detective. 'Women, it seems, are now considered legitimate targets for this kind of violence.' On 10 March, 25-year-old Pauline Peart was shot dead at the wheel of her £24,000 Audi TT sports car in Tottenham, north London. Peart, a telemarketing worker with the HFC Bank, was chatting to a male friend while parked on Hampden Road when three men in their early twenties came and looked at the car. Nothing was said but within 15 minutes they were back. Peart may have said something that one of the men interpreted as an insult. Witnesses reported seeing someone trying to open the driver's door only to find it had been locked. The man then poked the barrel of a handgun in through the half-open window and pulled the trigger. Peart, who had bent forward to try to protect herself, was hit in the back. A post-mortem confirmed she had died after the single bullet pierced her heart. Police have found nothing in Peart's past to suggest a gangland connection. Other theories are that she was the victim of a botched carjacking attempt or that her male companion was the intended victim. He is under police protection and still unable to give a full account of events leading up to the murder. Peart's sister, Donna, said: 'Pauline was a lovely, beautiful sister. She was fun, happy-go-lucky, very much loved and liked by everyone that met her. She was very independent, had a good job, her own property and a car. She had everything to live for, her whole life ahead of her. Why would someone want to take her away?' Over the past four years, eight women have been shot in incidents linked to gang activity. In all cases both the victims and those believed to be responsible for shooting them were black. Only two women survived. Britain's old-style gangsters have long claimed to have honoured a code of conduct prohibiting the deliberate targeting of women. Joey Pyle, 65, is a former associate of the Kray twins and the Richardson brothers, who ruled London's gangland in the Sixties. 'There were a lot of shootings back then and people did get killed,' he said. 'There's a lot of rubbish talked about those days but we only hurt our own. You only went after other villains, not what I would call civilians, particularly women. 'It was one of the worst things you could do. A man who went out and shot women or children, as far as we were concerned, was a nonce. No one would have any time for someone like that. And if they went to prison, they'd get a fucking good hiding.' In January 2001, in London, 22-year-old Sophie Lewis was shot four times in the head and body on the orders of her boyfriend, Yardie gangster Ricky Sweeney, who feared she would give evidence against him in a murder trial. She survived and testified against Sweeney who was sentenced to life. She also gave evidence against the two men Sweeney had hired to kill her. Each was sentenced to 18 years. Three months later, a pregnant woman was shot in front of her two children in London after being involved in a minor road accident with an alleged Yardie. Charlene Ellis, 18, and Letitia Shakespeare, 17, were shot dead as they left a New Year's Eve party in Birmingham. Police at first thought they had been caught in crossfire but are now investigating the theory that they were deliberately targeted. One victim was related to a key figure in the Burger Bar Boys, a street gang. A rival gang, the Johnson Crew, is said to have several active female members. In 1999, two mothers were killed in front their children in London by two Yardies.