Morain Scott stood outside the High Court in Edinburgh last week and told the country: 'Words cannot express how I feel.' For 30 years, he had waited for an end to the story of his daughter Helen's murder. 'I promised my late wife that I would stick by this and get somebody brought to justice - which I don't think I got today.'No indeed. Paedophile and murderer Angus Sinclair was on his way back to Peterhead prison having, according to one policeman, enjoyed his day in court. Meanwhile, the lead prosecutor, advocate-depute Alan Mackay, had disappeared, only phoning home to say he needed some time on his own.What a grisly conclusion to the World's End murder case that began by East Lothian's Gosford Bay at 2pm on 16 October 1977. It was then that the body of Christine Eadie was found 50 feet from a sewage outlet, naked, her hands bound, a pair of pants in her mouth, a bra securing them. Helen Scott's body was found in a field six miles inland, her tights used as a ligature.The two girls, both 17 at the time, had been finishing a Saturday night out in the World's End pub on Edinburgh's High Street when they disappeared. PC John Rafferty had helped Eadie as she stumbled and then watched the two women walk away with a 'shifty looking' man in flares and a college jumper.The details of this case are necessary to give us the merest glimpse into the horror that hit Morain Scott and his wife that Sunday when they heard reports of the bodies being found, a horror that only justice would heal. So who let the Scotts down and why?It wasn't the police. As my colleague Robin McKie reports, Lothian and Borders, horrified by this killing, have thrown resources at it over the decades. At the beginning, they interviewed everyone they could find who was in the pub that night and then, when DNA became a crime-fighting tool, they went back and swabbed them all. The case has been passed from detective to detective. They never gave up and finally got a profile which they eventually matched with Sinclair.Belatedly he admitted having sex with the girls, but claimed it was consensual. And then, via a piece of degraded DNA right inside the knot in the tights that bound Helen, they thought they had him linked to the final act. They thought they had achieved what society and the Scotts demanded by bringing this man, already serving two life sentences, to justice. But it wasn't to be.Sadly, Alan Mackay appears to have mishandled it. It may be hard to heap scorn on the head of a man clearly now in personal crisis, but it is not good enough for the blame to be put on the judge who threw out the case, as Elish Angiolini, the Lord Advocate, attempted to do in Parliament last week. Mackay, conscientious and liked by many of his colleagues, made a mistake. The evidence Mackay had to present was, admittedly, tenuous and very tricky. What he had is the DNA in the heart of that knot on the ligature. This was low-grade DNA that required the best work of the police laboratories in North Yorkshire and Strathclyde. But that DNA, despite Angiolini's claim that it could have been placed there before the tights were knotted, was the link with Sinclair. For it would allow a credible piece of evidence for the judge to cling to.The man who would establish the link was forensic scientist Jonathan Whitaker. On the stand, Mackay started to ask about the ligature, only for the defence advocate, Edgar Prais QC, to raise an objection, I'm told, more in hope than expectation. The court adjourned.When it reconvened, Mackay appeared to back off rather than fight. He chose not to lead any more evidence about the ligature. With the link broken, Sinclair, as the judge Lord Clarke ruled, had no case to answer.Angiolini has backed Mackay, not least because it is in his apparent failure that the problem with the Crown Office lies.Whether in their preparation, or in delivery, the ongoing misery of Morain Scott is the fault of the prosecutors. There is perceived to be a great variance in quality in the Crown Office.Mackay was in the 'A' team. He's been with the Crown Office since 2003 and was involved in the strange case of two teenagers who dug up a body in Greyfriars kirkyard and cut off the head. Still, the first conviction for 'disturbing the dead' didn't match the World's End killings in profile and difficulty.Life for the lawyers in the Crown Office is hard. The pay's not great and, if they are trying a case away from home, the prosecutors have to cover their expenses out of their salaries. Far better, most QCs believe, to earn their keep in the more lucrative world of defence. The reason to join the Crown Office that appeals to the ambitious and talented is to get the 'red jersey', the insiders' nickname for the robes of the High Court judge.The wisdom is that a case as tricky as the one against Sinclair should have been handled by someone such as Dorothy Bain, the icily impressive QC who saw to it that Peter Tobin, a lowlife of the same order as Sinclair, was put away for the killing of Polish student Angelika Kluk. She, however, was busy with a drug user who had run over a little girl.The SNP's Kenny MacAskill has been busy proving himself an impressive Justice Secretary. His belief that building new prisons is not the answer to the problems of rising crime is refreshing. But he owes a debt to Morain Scott, who will never now see justice for his daughter. And it is not in giving the Crown Office the right to appeal, as mooted by Angiolini. The Crown should just have one shot, so the innocent are not harried by inept prosecutors.Instead, MacAskill needs to rebuild the Crown Office into an organisation that young, principled and ambitious lawyers want to be part of. It needs to be a place of idealism, where prosecutors are given the time they need, as Lothian and Borders gave their detectives time and space. On it rests our belief in justice.