Police searching for two schoolboys who went missing 10 years ago have begun digging up wasteland near their homes, a week after interviewing a convicted paedophile and murderer. Best friends David Spencer,13, and 11-year-old Patrick Warren, from Chelmsley Wood, near Birmingham, vanished without a trace on Boxing Day 1996.Detectives think there is little hope that the boys are still alive, and last week they visited Full Sutton prison in York to talk to Brian Lunn Field, who is serving life for raping and strangling 14-year-old Roy Tutill in Surrey in 1968.Field, 70, was living in Chelmsley Wood in 1996, working as a gardener and odd job man. He was interviewed under caution over three days but denied any knowledge of the boys' disappearance. But yesterday, police search teams started excavation of a site at Old Damson Lane, Solihull, near Birmingham airport, about four miles from the boys' homes, in the hope of finding their bodies. Detective Chief Superintendent Gordon Fraser, of West Midlands police, said Field had not given police any information about Patrick and David, nor had he made any reference to this site. But he used to dump garden waste there and had access to it over Christmas 1996.Mr Fraser said a considerable amount of debris had been deposited over the past 10 years, so the first job would be to level the ground using a JCB digger. Specialist officers will then begin sifting through the soil, looking for any remains. A forensic archaeologist, Professor John Hunter, who has helped uncover mass graves in Bosnia and Iraq, is helping them."This is only one location we will be searching and the search may go on for days, maybe weeks," said Mr Fraser. Last weekend, 10,000 leaflets were distributed around Chelmsley Wood to jog people's memories, and Mr Fraser said the excellent public response had led to some new lines of inquiry. "I still believe someone out there knows exactly what has happened to David and Patrick. It may be 10 years ago - through loyalty to a relationship or an individual that person did not come forward. I would urge that person to rethink and consider if they may be able to bring closure to these two families."David and Patrick were due to stay at Patrick's brother's house on Boxing night, but were last seen at a petrol station shop shortly after midnight. Patrick's new bicycle, a Christmas present, was abandoned outside the shop, prompting police to discount the theory that they had run away. Yesterday, David's mother, Christine O'Toole, 43, made a fresh plea for information."I really hope David is still alive but I just can't see it," said Mrs O'Toole. "I don't celebrate Christmas and haven't put a tree or trimmings up since David went missing." Patrick's father, Derek Warren, 64, said: "We are desperate to know what has happened to Patrick."Field has a long history of violently sexually abusing boys. He only admitted the murder of Roy Tutill more than 30 years later when he was caught drink-driving in 1999 and his DNA matched that of a sample found on the dead boy's trousers.