A woman who admitted tweeting the identity of the alleged victim in the trial of Coronation Street's Michael Le Vell has been fined.Deborah Armstrong, 37, wrote on her Twitter account: "I hope Michael Le Vell's victim … now goes public" – and identified the woman involved.The post was re-tweeted. When others pointed out to Armstrong that her tweet was breaking the law, she told them: "You are not my judge and jury."On Wednesday Armstrong, of Bedale, North Yorkshire, was fined £110 at Manchester magistrates court after admitting publishing information that could lead to members of the public identifying a complainant in a sexual offences case.Le Vell's trial for sex offences attracted widespread media interest. The actor was acquitted in September of all charges.But at the end of the trial, Armstrong tweeted the identity of the complainant in the case because "she was angry at the perceived injustice of the acquittal", Fran Gough, prosecuting, said.Police tracked Armstrong down and she was arrested a month later.Armstrong, who had no previous convictions and is understood to be a full-time carer for her mother, admitted to officers she left the tweet up for a period before removing it and closing her account.Passing sentence, district judge Khalid Qureshi said: "It's not like the old days where it's a quiet chat in the pub. This becomes public within minutes."I accept there was no malice behind the issue. Complainants of the subject of these types of offences need every encouragement that if they have the courage of their convictions they will have the protection of anonymity of this type, whatever the outcome. Whether the prosecution is successful or not, they are entitled to that anonymity."The fear is, I dare not make a complaint because somebody might put my name on Twitter. The offence carries only a financial penalty. That's parliament's decision. In my view, these cases could be looked at far more seriously in terms of sanction."Armstrong was fined £110, ordered to pay £85 costs and a victim surcharge of £20.