The young man on the mountain bike stares intently at the pavement as three men and three women in fluorescent yellow jackets walk by. His guilt speaks volumes: he is a drug dealer and the only thing he fears more than arrest is holy retribution.Welcome to the remarkable world of Bristol's Prayer Patrol, a team of volunteers who regularly tour the city's most dangerous districts, aiming to convince gang members of the error of their ways. 'We had to do something,' says Basil Dixon. 'The situation on the streets was absolutely terrible, with all the drugs and the guns and the prostitutes. Things were getting out of control.' Bristol's troubles have been well documented. They reached a horrific apogee last December, when 24 people had acid thrown over them in a revenge attack at a pub in St Paul's. One, Pauline Williams, received terrible burns to her face. The violence resurfaced in dramatic fashion last weekend. Two local women, Asha Jama, 25, and Donna Small, 22, were caught in the crossfire of the violence that has blighted the city for the past four years. They had met three men on Friday night at Bar III, a popular student hangout. They went on to the Cooler nightclub before accepting a lift home from the men in the early hours. But as soon as the Saab convertible left the club, it was tailed by a silver BMW. Minutes later a volley of shots shattered the car's windows. Jama was hit in the face, blinding her in one eye, and Small hit in the head. She has yet to recover consciousness. The three men ran off, but one later returned, driving the two injured women to Trinity Road police station. He then fled. None of the men has yet been traced. The shootings were a shock, not only because they involved two innocent parties, but because they came as Bristol appeared to be making giant strides towards ridding itself of its gun problem. Gun-related crime in Bristol has fallen by 55 per cent in the past year, bucking a national trend. Much of the credit for this decline can be taken by St Paul's itself, which last week won a commendation from the chief constable of Avon and Somerset - the first time an entire community has received such an award. 'The community support has been fantastic,' says detective inspector Andy Williams. 'It's all very well arresting the people who are carrying the guns, but we have to destroy the culture that encourages young people to get hold of guns in the first place.' Last year Avon and Somerset police launched a number of initiatives under the Communities Against Guns umbrella to address the problem. Although it receives no police funding, the Prayer Patrol is seen as one of a number of these which have made the streets of St Paul's significantly safer. Started by local pastor Reverend Darwencia Palmer, the patrol consists of around 12 volunteers who walk through St Paul's up to four times a day. Their tactics have proved highly effective, particularly with Jamaican gang members, many of whom have strict religious backgrounds. The Prayer Patrol has been credited with a 60 per cent reduction in local crime and has now expanded beyond St Paul's. 'We are a force of good to push out the evil of drugs and guns from the streets of Bristol,' says Palmer. 'But the patrol is not just about religion - it is more about self-esteem and self-respect and morality.' They are soon to rename themselves The Peacemakers to emphasise this point. 'We have had our successes. One time I saw a man dealing blatantly, so I decided to start praying for him and be equally blatant. When I opened my eyes, all I could see were tears streaming down his face. A few days later, someone tried to shoot him in a club but the bullet missed and struck someone else. The next time I saw him he had changed his appearance, given up dealing and enrolled in college.' As the patrol passes the St Nicholas House pub - a magnet for some of the gang members despite the best efforts of the owners - members of the patrol warn The Observer 's photographer not to take any more pictures. 'They come here to relax. This is their private time and the people don't want to find themselves on film,' explains one member of the patrol. Then, almost as an afterthought, he adds: 'And a lot of them may well be dealing drugs.' In the city centre, police are out in force outside the nightclubs where Small and Jama met the men in the Saab. Detective sergeant David Reynolds hopes that by jogging a few memories, they will find a crucial lead: 'We now know the BMW was waiting for the Saab for some time. If you look about on the streets right now, everyone is going somewhere, everyone has a purpose. These people were just hanging around waiting. We are hoping they will have stuck in someone's mind for that reason.' The police say both groups of men were from outside the city. This, they say, was a battle involving gangsters from London or Birmingham Despite the progress they have made, detectives feel one of their biggest enemies is the legal system. Last year Reynolds received a commendation for bravery after he and a colleague chased and caught a man carrying crack cocaine and a gun. The man was sentenced to just three years. With time on remand, he will be back on the streets just a few months after appearing in court.