David Blunkett walked into a quagmire yesterday - stop and search - and emerged decidedly ruffled. He should not have expected anything less. It is a swamp awash with myths and misinformation, such as the suggestion that the Macpherson report into the Stephen Lawrence murder wanted the procedure abandoned (it did not); or numerous Tory newspaper stories suggesting the police no longer feel able to stop black people for fear of being labelled racist (the latest statistics show the number of white people stopped has fallen, but the number of black people has increased).So first some indisputable facts. Stop and search increased ninefold between 1986 and 1998, but the proportion leading to arrests dropped dramatically from 17% to 10%. Even senior police officers conceded the practice had become indiscriminate. Worse still, it was being used disproportionately against black people, causing dangerous damage to police-community relations. At the time of the Macpherson report, black people were five times as likely to be stopped. The problem was not confined to London. Independent researchers found it nationwide, with the disparity in Merseyside being seven to one.Macpherson endorsed the use of stop and search, but wanted better regulation, including the recording of all stops with citizens being given the right to receive a copy of the record and the reason for the stop. This could be invaluable for those who felt they were being persecuted. Some have been victims of deliberate police harassment; others were just unlucky to be black people driving modern cars. It has happened to board members of the Commission for Racial Equality and other officials too. The black race equality adviser to the Home Secretary, for example, was stopped 45 times in 18 years, unlike his white colleagues. These people were believed. The less powerful were not so lucky. The number of stop and searches last year was 714,100 - down 40% on two years earlier. Mr Blunkett went to Bristol yesterday to unveil a new plan. He backed the use of targeted stop and search, but to protect against its indiscriminate use, is intending to insist that all those stopped will be given a written ticket recording the reason why they were stopped, their self-defined ethnic identity, and the outcome of the stop. The suspect will be asked to sign the record in a move to protect police officers and people stopped. To reduce bureaucracy, police officers will be given hand-held computers that can issue the relevant documentation. There are good reasons why the black community could welcome this move - they suffer from more crime than the white community. It has won the support of the Voice, the black community newspaper which has called for more stop and search. But there are good reasons for opposing it too.It will mean more bureaucracy which ministers promised to cut. Stop and search is not going to stop people carrying guns. Only 10% are found with drugs, the numbers with guns would be minuscule. (It would be far better to introduce scanning equipment in shopping arcades.) Requiring people to sign the stop documentation could raise objections, particularly if they have to give their name and address when nothing was found. Already black people are now seven times more likely to be targeted. Will this make it even higher? The only answer is a trial. One is due to start. Instead of castigating his critics, Mr Blunkett should wait to see what it shows. This government is meant to be believe in evidence-based policy-making.