Throughout the official report on Jimmy Savile's abuse at Leeds General Infirmary, dozens of patients and former hospital staff recount in harrowing detail their encounters with the late BBC presenter. One man told investigators how he was sexually abused aged 10 as he laid on a hospital trolley waiting for an X-ray on his broken arm. Savile was working as a porter when he introduced himself to the boy, saying "Uncle Jimmy will look after you", before pushing the trolley through some doors and up against a wall.Savile stood at the head of boy's trolley, stroking his face with one hand and molesting him with the other. "I was terrified about what he was doing," the victim said, adding that he had confided in his mother about the incident but she became angry and told him to stop telling lies. "It took away my childhood innocence when I was most vulnerable."Another victim, named "BB" in the report and now in her late 60s, recalled how Savile sat on the edge of her hospital bed and placed her hand inside his trouser pocket. Then aged under 10 years old, the patient did not realise that what she felt was his erect penis. "This memory has had a lifelong impact on her. BB didn't tell anyone, including her parents, about this incident specifically, but did tell them she didn't like being in hospital."Others reported being mocked or dismissed when they told family and nurses what Savile had done. One young girl told her mother she didn't like Savile as they walked away from the hospital where she had been sexually assaulted. "Shut up. It's Jimmy Savile," her mother responded.In total, allegations were made about the broadcaster in relation to hospitals, hospices and other centres across Britain investigated in 28 reports published on Thursday. They also include:Moss Side hospital, Liverpool: Two female former patients accused Savile of sexually abusing them in a ward, and a third allegation came from a male ex-patient who claimed that he witnessed Savile stroke a patient's breast at a hospital social event.Digby hospital, Exeter: The report found that Savile raped a woman in a motorhome at this mental hospital in 1970. It said: "Ms X stated Jimmy Savile was in a motorhome/caravan and he invited her to see the vehicle, where he then raped her. She did not report the incident to anyone at the time."High Royds hospital, Leeds: A former patient at the mental health unit and a member of staff both reported that Savile had inappropriately touched people during a fancy dress fun run in the 1980s.Wheatfields hospice, Leeds: A woman reported that, as a girl under 16, she was at the opening ceremony of the Sue Ryder-run hospice in 1978. The report said: "He approached her directly, asking her age and what she was doing there, and saying 'squeeze up' as he wanted to sit right next to her. As he sat down, he stroked her leg and, on feeling the suspender belt under her skirt, stared at her before announcing 'grown-up, wearing stockings, goodness gracious me' to the room full of people."Booth Hall hospital, Manchester: A woman said she was assaulted by Savile in about 1958 when she was about seven or eight and a patient. She alleged that her father let Savile abuse her.