A handwritten statement that led to the conviction of two men for a double murder could not have been written at the time claimed by police, the high court heard yesterday.Reg Dudley and Bob Maynard are appealing against their conviction for the killing of two London criminals in the mid 1970s. The men, who began life sentences in 1977 after the longest trial in British criminal history, claim that the key prosecution evidence against them was fabricated. They were convicted on the basis of a confession apparently recorded by a police officer in a contemporaneous handwritten note, and the evidence of a convicted criminal who said they had admitted the crimes when they shared a cell awaiting trial. Dudley and Maynard were arrested following the murder of two underworld figures. In 1975 the torso of Billy Moseley was found in the Thames, and a year later the body of Micky Cornwall was found in a shallow grave in Hertfordshire. The crown alleged that Moseley was murdered because he had accused Dudley of being a police informer, and that Cornwall was killed after he tried to avenge his friend's death. Dudley and Maynard have maintained their innocence since the trial began. Robert Hardcastle, a forensic document examiner, said yesterday the handwritten "confession" provided at the original trial could not have been completed as police claimed. According to police the confession was taken down in a maximum of 51 minutes between 4.28pm and 5.28pm on January 23, 1976. Under questioning from Michael Mansfield QC, representing Dudley, Mr Hardcastle said the document contained 11,325 characters written in longhand. For the note to have been completed in that time the officer would have had to write 222 characters a minute. Mr Hardcastle said that theoretically the fastest it is possible to write longhand is around 190 characters per minute, and that he had never personally seen anyone write faster than 170. He agreed with Mr Mansfield's suggestion that the statement could not have been written in the time stated. He said none of the other documents from the original case he had examined had been written at similar speed. The case continues today.