The grim weekly toll of brutal assaults, violent protests, suicides and escapes inside Britain's beleaguered prisons is rising sharply, according to internal Home Office security reports leaked to the Guardian as inmate numbers hit a new record this weekend.The weekly operations reports compiled by Stephen Moore, the prison service's deputy director of high security, show that the system is struggling from a startling array of security failures. The leak comes as the service is already reeling from the attempted suicide of Ian Huntley, the man accused of the Soham murders, and yesterday's revelation that an undercover reporter for the News of the World had managed to infiltrate the unit where Huntley is being guarded. The internal reports are produced by the prison service security group and provide a rare snapshot of weekly life inside Britain's prisons where assaults on staff and inmates and violent protests are now regular features. They uncover a rising number of prisoners dying in custody - seven alone in the first week of this month. They also provide evidence that there are as many as half a dozen serious security alerts each week in which full sets of security keys are reported missing or are left on tables, as well as disturbing cases of inmates setting fire to their cells. They say that there were more than 1,200 security incidents over a period of only 14 days inside the 135 prisons in England and Wales, each considered serious enough to be reported to the Home Office. The number of such secu rity incidents has soared by 50% in the past seven years. The scale of unrest is revealed as the prison population hit a new record of 73,379 on Friday - and is rising at the rate of 150 a week - amid growing fears that the jails are becoming increasingly volatile. The chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, has already warned that overcrowding means the penal system in Britain is heading for "crunch point". The embarrassing leak of the prison service's confidential security reports is bound to prompt demands for further action on overcrowding. The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, is expected to warn that David Blunkett's criminal justice bill will drive up prison numbers even further when it is debated in the Lords today. The Prison Reform Trust has also warned that the bill would bring an extra 14,000 inmates to a prison system at breaking point over the next decade. Harry Fletcher, of the probation officers' union, Napo, said the reports showed the number of incidents had soared in recent years: "This is clearly linked to overcrowding and the ability of staff to cope. I fear for those working inside prisons. The number of assaults on staff is unacceptable." The reports leaked to the Guardian show that the number of security incidents, which was running at about 300 to 400 a week in late 1990s, has jumped by nearly 50%. The report drawn up for last week says there were 559 incidents, including the seven deaths in the first week of June alone. The official entry recording Huntley's attempted suicide reads simply: "Woodhill - a male prisoner currently on remand for the high profile 'Soham' murders was found unconscious in his cell. It is believed that he took an overdose of the prescribed drug Amytryptilene. He was taken to outside hospital in a critical but stable condition." But his was not an isolated incident. Three of the seven prisoners who died did so from medical problems or natural causes but that was not the case in the others. The catalogue of security disasters contained in the report includes: · At Blakenhurst, Worcestershire, a man on remand for murder hanged himself. · At Styal in Cheshire, a woman hanged herself from a rail in her cell. · At Wealstun in West Yorkshire, an inmate was found unconscious in an open section of the prison. · A prisoner sentenced to life who was found missing during a roll check at Leyhill, Gloucestershire, was found dead on a nearby railway line by police. · Another prisoner sentenced to life was found to be missing during the midnight roll check at Sudbury open prison in Derbyshire. · At the same prison another prisoner sentenced to life failed to return at the scheduled time after a period of home leave. A separate prison service security group report for the week ending May 25 paints an equally bleak picture. It records that there was one escape, two deaths and 658 incidents - 100 more than in the first week of this month. In seven days last month one prisoner in Wandsworth hanged himself, there was a violent protest at a Lancashire prison and several brutal attacks on prison staff. The security bulletins go on to detail several incidents of keys going missing, fires started deliberately, attempted suicides and incidents of self-harm, and several cases of prisoners escaping from their guards when being taken to court. All were quickly caught.