Young offenders' institutions are failing to provide inmates with adequate education and training, the chief inspector of prisons said today. According to Anne Owers, young offenders are taught by inexperienced staff and offered little vocational training, thus ensuring the institutions fall "far from meeting" their targets. The report by the prisons inspectorate, A Second Chance, was published today alongside a detailed plan to improve education and training by the youth justice board. The board's plan said little was being done to improve levels of literacy and numeracy for the 3,000 youngsters in the care of the prison service and proposed £40m of investment to improve standards. Ms Owers said the inspectorate's account was a "progress report" into detention and training orders one year after they were introduced as part of the youth justice system. "It describes a system which is clearly still in development and in transition and which is dealing with an extremely demanding and vulnerable group of young people," she said, adding, "We hope that its conclusions will assist the positive development of the system, to support the staff and young people within it."Among the key findings were that effective teaching was difficult because of the constantly changing prison population, staff shortages, unpredictable attendance patterns and varying degrees of motivation. Few teachers had experience of working in secondary or special schools and the provision of vocational training was generally lacking. Arrangements for girls had suffered because of the uncertainty surrounding the role the prison service had in providing for them, the report said. The report also found some examples of good practice but in general claimed the quality and provision of education and training for young people was inadequate, especially for female and remand prisoners. The report recommended a greater use of creative educational methods, better training and support for teachers as well as integrating education and training as a central part of each institution's regime. Using the information in the report, the youth justice board today launched plans aimed at significantly improving education and training. The board announced that it had agreed a plan with the Home Office to invest £40m over a three-year period to achieve the target of providing a minimum of 30 hours a week of education and training. Lord Warner, chairman of the youth justice board, said: "This report indicates that the scale of literacy and numeracy deficits among young offenders is even worse than had been anticipated and highlights the huge task that education providers have to face in providing education to young people sentenced to custody." The board's findings included the fact that around 50% of youngsters in youth offenders' institutions had the numeracy ability of an average seven-year-old child. The majority of offenders had not been in full-time education prior to custody, and only one in six discharged into the community as part of their detention and training order had education or training provision immediately on release. 