What do you call a man who disappears for five years, resurfaces saying he has no memory of the intervening period, then turns up in a photo with his wife in Panama? Let's see ... missing presumed dead, memory loss, Panama, the tantalising prospect of a major scam. How about "canoeist"?In news stories John Darwin is regularly referred to as "canoeist John Darwin", as if it were his profession, when our main assumption all along had been that he wasn't very good at it. The New York Times called him a "'Dead' British canoeist". They put 'Dead' in inverted commas because he's clearly alive, but they don't question his canoeing expertise. La Dépêche referred to him as "Le canoéiste soi-disant amnésique". Die Welt styles him the "britischer Kanufahrer".The red tops have tired of "canoeist", and you can see why - with that untidy run of vowels in the middle, it always looks misspelled. The Sun simply calls him "Canoe Man". The Mirror has branded him the "Mysterious Mr Canoe", making him sound like a character in a low-budget kid's film. Mrs Darwin, in turn, has been dubbed "canoe wife" and together they are the "canoe couple", lately disowned by their canoe sons - and all because Darwin was allegedly last seen setting off in a little boat which wasn't a canoe at all, but a kayak.These appellations are a little insulting to the reader. They assume we cannot keep pace with this fast-changing story and must be continually reminded that we are reading about the canoe guy. When the photograph of the Darwins turned up last week, the Mirror went with the headline "Canoe's This In Panama?", which is pretty shocking even by its relaxed standards. The pun is already reckoned to be the lowest form of humour. It doesn't need that sort of help.We don't normally label missing people according to their last known mode of transport. We don't call Lord Lucan the Mysterious Lord Ford Corsair. But there is something oddly compelling about the image of the broken red canoe - sorry, kayak - on the beach, the key element in an audacious, if ill-thought-out little adventure. It hardly matters what Darwin's been up to these past five years - he'll always be the Canoe Man now.