In a plain white classroom at Channings Wood prison near Newton Abbot in Devon, Peter is reliving the night he put his head through his sister's glass front door. A slight, stooped figure in his early thirties, he speaks softly, with a light Yorkshire accent. Today's 'key offender' at first he seems uncomfortable at presenting his story to his seven inmate colleagues.But as the words start to come, his hesitancy gives way to a vivid, staccato torrent. 'I was high on glue, I wanted to get myself more smashed, but she'd taken it. I thought, "You fucking bitch", but she was the other side of the door, waving my glue about and I just knew I had to get to her. She was taunting me and it was making me angry, wound up. I thought, "You can't fucking talk to me like that". I wanted to hurt her. If I'd stopped to think, I might have stood back. But I thought, "I've just got to use my head" - and I put my head right through it. Once I got in, everything seemed to stop.' 'What did she do?' someone asks. Peter still carries a lasting memento of that distant evening, a jagged scar above his left eye. For a moment he fingers it. 'She panicked.' For the next hour, questioned insistently by his fellow prisoners and the group's two tutors, prison officer Colin Brewer and a psychologist who has asked not to be named, Peter unpicks the details, attempting to analyse what happened, second by second. What were his thoughts and feelings that night, his attitudes and beliefs? What exactly were the 'drivers' which pushed him to such extremes? All but one of the eight prisoners on the jail's year-long Cognitive Self-Change Programme (CSCP) are serving life sentences: either (like Peter) for homicide or because they have been convicted of a serious violent offence for second time. All have been judged by psychologists as at risk of offending again. The programme aims to reduce that risk. It is just one aspect of a radical transformation in philosophy and practice now sweeping the British prison system. From spacious Channings Wood, with its sports fields and moorland views, to the shabby Victorian wings of Pentonville, the Prison Service has been keeping an unexpected secret. Prison, as the former Tory Home Secretary David Waddington once put it, is widely held to be 'an expensive way of making bad people worse'. Now, under the at-times messianic leadership of its director-general, Martin Narey, large parts of the service are starting to reverse that formula - to make prisons a place which succeed in making 'bad people' better. Rehabilitative programmes are now in place at 130 of the 138 prisons and Young Offender Institutions in England and Wales, and at further jails in Scotland and Northern Ireland. In the words of a senior probation officer, this unreported penal revolution amounts to 'the biggest experiment in social engineering this country has ever seen'. Battered politically by the escapes of terrorists and murderers from the Whitemoor and Parkhurst maximum security jails, the last Conservative government invested almost exclusively in prison security. In the past three financial years, however, the three main types of rehabilitation scheme - psychological 'offending behaviour programmes', drug treatment and basic skills education - have been funded to the tune of £213 million, and are set to expand substantially again. Last year, 6,127 inmates completed offending behaviour programmes, more than 11 times as many as in 1994. That figure will rise to 9,000 in 2002. Another 16,000 are being taught numeracy and literacy - the basic skills of more than two-thirds of prisoners are so poor they are automatically excluded from 94 per cent of jobs. Research shows that nothing succeeds in preventing recidivism more effectively than employment. For the past two months, The Observer has been given unprecedented access at four disparate jails, allowed to sit in on programme sessions and to interview prisoners. 'Believe me, I don't want still more people to be sent to prison because I'm promising we will try to make them better,' Narey says. 'I'm not looking for a greater market share. But we can do things to change people and until recently that mindset had been all but abandoned. Michael Howard [the last Tory Home Secretary] said prisons should be decent but austere. The truth is, prisons can be much, much more than that. I'm finally doing the things I joined the service to do 20 years ago. 'Like many who work in the service, I've never seen my job as being about just locking people up. It's self-evident in terms of value for money that if we can get people off drugs, on to offending behaviour programmes and into education, then we're going to reduce crime.' By the end of the day's session, Peter is visibly drained. The class includes prisoners at different stages of the programme and those nearer its end agree that the early months are the toughest. Each student has to examine, in the formal, classroom setting, not just their 'index offence' - the murder or other crime for which they are serving a sentence - but every significant past violent episode as well. It isn't easy. 'Everyone throwing their shit down on the board each day; having to go into all the stuff you got up to - it brings you down. You think, "I'm a scumbag",' one prisoner says. These disclosures are used to produce 'pattern circles', visual diagrams which represent how particular thoughts and behaviours have cropped up repeatedly. The second part of the course focuses on overcoming these patterns, and devising strategies for 'relapse prevention'. Next day, the second-phase students examine what this means. The session seems flat until Dave, 16 years into his sentence, shudders and says with sudden feeling: 'Never mind just the consequences for yourself. Think of the victims. I carry a deep sense of guilt about victims. I couldn't cope with that again.' Some prisoners, inured to a 'lifer' system which has frequently shifted the hurdles murderers have to jump before they may be considered fit for release, express scepticism about CSCP. 'Thirteen years down the line, I'm asked to put my murder down on the board and relate to it: say what my attitudes, thoughts and beliefs were,' says one student. 'My memory is bound to be selective and I've not been caught in a fight for all those 13 years. 'So what's the point? The point is, the psychology department have to put you through a stringent risk assessment. It's a year on a microscope slide. If you get your rubberstamp at the end of it, you're OK for D Cat [open prison]. If not...' For some of the class, parole hearings have been postponed until a prisoner completes the course: CSCP will have delayed their possible release. Most, however, are positive. Dave, now just days from graduation, says: 'I didn't want to do this course, but it has given me a lot of insights: why I killed the person I killed and why I've committed violent offences through my life. It's given me a lot of tools that I'm already using, to assess my own and other people's actions.' Tony gazes through the bars of a Pentonville prison window at the blossom on the trees outside. 'At the end of the day, it doesn't add up.' He shakes his head. 'Look at that sunshine. And I'm banged up. I've got two little girls and they're starting to understand where their dad is all the time. It's a rut, man, a deep rut.' At a basic level, most prisoners know exactly why they have been incarcerated: 'If you can't do the time,' goes the old convict saying, 'then don't do the crime.' Most inmates also leave jail determined not to return. As Tony, 32, a seasoned crack cocaine user, knows to his cost, fulfilling that resolution is not always easy. 'I'm actually in for assault and affray this time. It's usually dishonesty: burglary, handling, things like that.' He is serving his third sentence in as many years. The Enhanced Thinking Skills (ETS) course which he and nine fellow prisoners are attending is the volume end of the cognitive psychology market. At Pentonville, it's being aimed for the first time at the 60 per cent of prisoners serving less than a year, for whom the prison gate is all too often a revolving door. The tutors - prison officers Mags Harvey and Dominic Miqueleiz - begin by explaining that today's two-hour session, the 18th in the course of 20, will concentrate on strategies for solving problems, using some of the 'creative thinking tools' which the class has already absorbed. As at Channings Wood, the relationship between officers and inmates seems relaxed. Harvey reminds the class that one of the course's central messages is the need to consider an action's possible consequences. 'And where might we end up if we don't, Chopper?' she asks breezily. 'In here,' says the inmate, with a self-deprecating shrug. Harvey and Miqueleiz move on to enact a role play. In their hypothetical scenario, she is trying to study for promotion exams, but Miqueleiz has just moved into the flat below and plays loud music until late each night. 'The music is driving me mad,' says Harvey. 'So what's my problem?' For the next hour, the class tries try to find solutions, using seven formal steps set out on charts around the walls. Ahmed supplies Step One: 'Where am I, where do I want to be? I want to study, but I can't study.' Step Two is perhaps the most important: 'Stop and Think.' Somehow, the class agrees, Harvey has to avoid behaving aggressively. 'What am I looking at if I just go and hit him?' she asks. 'Six months,' someone says, to rueful guffaws. ETS tries to replace aggressive thinking and behaviour with 'assertiveness' - the clear expression of one's own needs and feelings, tempered by respect for others and a readiness to compromise. After discussion of numerous alternatives, the scenario is resolved: Harvey will study from Monday to Thursday and cede the weekends to music. 'You done well,' comments Chopper. 'You got what you wanted but you also saw things from his perspective - that he loves music and needs to play it when he was stressed out.' Deconstructing everyday scenarios the ETS way might seem unrealistically cumbersome. Its methodical approach to problem-solving might seem like simple common sense. But most crime, especially youth crime, is impulsive. There might be few better ways to reduce the crime rate than to make ETS part of the national school curriculum. 'It certainly can't do no harm,' Tony says afterwards. 'This emphasis on stop and think before you do things. I don't think I've done a lot of that. This has given me some alternatives and a chance to think of other people - my family, the victims.' A few days later, after another ETS session, I meet Wendy, who is nearing the end of a four-year sentence for dealing heroin, at Drake Hall prison near Stafford. She says she'd had to apply the course's lessons the previous weekend. 'It was my first home visit and I went to see my son. I hadn't seen him since I was arrested and I felt pretty emotional. I'd really built this moment up in my mind. I thought we'd just see each other and everything would be OK again. He looked at me like I was a piece of shit and stormed off. 'Before the course, I would have stormed after him, and thrashed it out in the middle of the street. But I thought, "No, leave this, let him calm down, he knows I love him or I wouldn't have tried to see him." ETS helped me realise I can't just get what I want. This is going to be difficult, it's going to take time.' Wendy has also completed a prison drug rehab course. 'I used heroin for 20 years. I feel as if I'm seeing things clearly for the first time. I just feel so much better. After seeing my son, I walked round the corner and there was my own brother, still dealing drugs. It would have been the easiest thing in the world to ask him to give me some. But I didn't. If you really do want to change, you will.' A dedicated regular at the prison gym, last month Wendy gave up her final addiction - smoking. ETS is now in use in 79 jails and a similar programme adopted from Canada at another 24. Peer-reviewed research by Caroline Friendship, a Prison Service psychologist, compares 670 inmates who went through these courses with 1,801 offenders matched by offence and social categories who did not attend a programme. All types of offender who had the treatment were significantly less likely to be reconvicted within two years. Among those judged 'medium-low risk', for example, only 18 per cent were reconvicted, against 32 per cent in the comparison group. The research concludes that prisoners who take the courses in 2002 can be expected to commit 21,000 fewer crimes. The effects of rejecting the bleak 'nothing works' philosophy go beyond the courses themselves, to prison culture as a whole. The rapid spread of offending behaviour, drugs and education programmes, and the increasing involvement of ordinary prison officers in running them, means the old, militaristic ethos is breaking down in many prisons. Small signs point up deeper changes - most prisoners address their officer tutors by their first names, for example. From the staff's point of view, convicts struggling to overcome dyslexia, or to analyse their worst past actions, are less easily dehumanised. To use a word from a previous era which believed in rehabilitation, albeit through religion, they have begun to appear redeemable. At the same time, as research from Canada has long suggested (see box below), prisoners on programmes are less violent, more sociable, and easier to work with. 'I'm more outgoing, more relaxed,' says Dave from the CSCP. 'And if someone calls me a wanker now, I'm OK with it. That's their opinion, that's all. It doesn't mean everyone thinks that.' At Pentonville, all staff, not only those running programmes, attend an 'awareness course' to learn what they entail. 'You see a prisoner develop, so your attitude to him changes,' says officer Steve Oliver after one such session. 'He's no longer the prat he was, so you treat him better. When you see a prisoner doing something you never thought he would, it's an incredible buzz.' 'There have always been people in the service prepared to treat prisoners decently,' Narey says. 'But sometimes they might have felt they had to treat prisoners decently by stealth. Recently I took a guy into Wormwood Scrubs who had worked with Lord Woolf on his report into the [1990] Strangeways riot. He was astonished at the change.' The best testimony comes from prisoners themselves. After 16 years inside, Dave says the changes are palpable. 'It's much less hostile. The media's constantly saying that society has got so much more violent. The funny thing is, it's got less violent in here.' Jailed several times since 1980, Channings Wood ETS graduate Walter Playfor says: 'Ten years ago, there was a fence: them and us. We were criminals and they locked us up. The only courses were plastering, welding, trades. The outlook on inmates now is totally different. If you want to be helped, you can be helped. It's given people a chance to get their self-esteem back.' Positive as these changes are, they face a lethal threat. The paradox in penal policy over the last decade is that while most types of crime have steadily fallen, the prison population has soared from less than 42,000 at the end of 1991 to an all-time high, 70,578 last week and rising. Politicians and police officers complain about dropped cases and acquittals in court, but the facts remain that judges and magistrates are much more likely than they were a decade ago to send convicted criminals to prison, and they are awarding longer sentences. The stresses on the prisons are immense and they may, in the end, obliterate the good Narey and his staff are trying to do. The effects on the programmes are already being felt. Peter is on his third attempt to settle into the CSCP - far from ideal for such a demanding programme. At Ranby, near Nottingham, where he started, the course has been closed altogether; he then moved to Dartmoor, where it met the same fate. He says he knows the course is valuable to him and may indeed be essential for release. But he is being forced to spend a year hundreds of miles from his family in the North. 'They can't visit me. And believe me, doing this, I could really do with their support.' In other jails, overcrowding means prisoners are disappearing from courses just as they get into their stride. 'The commitment to rehabilitation is genuine,' says Anne Owers, the Chief Inspector of Prisons. 'There's an understanding that public protection doesn't just mean locking people up - it means trying to ensure that they don't reoffend once they are released. 'At the same time, however, the system faces the double whammy of fixed, or even decreasing, resources and the large rise in the number of prisoners. Prisons are being overwhelmed, to the extent that some are struggling to provide standards of safety and decency, let alone constructive work to tackle reoffending.' 'This place is built on misery,' says Tony in Pentonville, 'but this course has given me a little bit of light.' After such promising beginnings, it would be a crime if that light were to be extinguished. Some names in this report have been changed