Here is an entertaining little exercise if you are one of the million Britons who regularly cycle and leave your bike appended to railings, drainpipes and cycle racks on a frequent basis. Go to YouTube and type in the words "bike lock". You will be presented with a large selection of videos detailing the merits of different types of locks and handily demonstrating, for trainee thieves everywhere, how to pick them apart. If you lock your bike with a combination lock, for example, you will be reassured to see how by simply jiggling it a bit the lock can be opened. Heavy duty cables with rubberised locks are easily mastered with a short, straight piece of wire and a second, slightly curved one. Most reassuring of all is the speed at which D-locks are unpicked using the end of a biro.Many thousands of unfortunate cyclists fall victim to techniques such as these every year, and this week David Cameron became one of them. The Conservative party leader and noted cycling enthusiast was on his way home to Notting Hill on Wednesday when he stopped at a shop to pick up "a few bits of salad", slipping a chain through a bike wheel and looping it over a low bollard . When he emerged from the store the bike was nowhere to be seen, leaving him, according to a spokesman, "pretty hacked off".It is a sentiment many people will recognise. The number of bikes stolen each year is notoriously difficult to estimate, but the British Crime Survey said 439,000 were taken in 2005-6; recent Halifax insurance figures suggested one bike is taken every 65 seconds nationwide. With the highest proportion of cyclists by some distance, more were taken from London than anywhere else, but cycling hubs such as Bristol, Gloucester, Oxford and Cambridge can also boast their own enthusiastic cycle liberators (the largest claims by some distance, at an average of £505, are in Bristol, according to the Halifax).Nor are bike thieves, as Cameron has learned, respecters of status or celebrity. Madonna and Jeremy Paxman have both have bicycles stolen in recent years; Boris Johnson has been relieved of seven since 2000. For the nation's hard-pressed two-wheelers it is difficult to resist the feeling that one never really owns a bike; one is merely looking after it until someone else decides to assume custody. "When your bike gets nicked it feels like you have temporarily lost a limb," says Roger Geffen, campaigns and policy manager of the national cyclists' organisation CTC, who thinks he has been robbed of "eight, maybe 10" bikes over the years. "It can become so much part of you, and losing that is incredibly disruptive." The biggest issue for Geffen and other campaigners is the lack of suitable street furniture, or - even better - secure bike lockers, in which cyclists can confidently leave their bikes without automatically fearing they will not be there when they return. The main problem, Geffen says, is the number of agencies to be lobbied, or blamed, for this: "Councils are responsible for cycle parking on public highways, but there are also issues with supermarkets, workplaces, planning authorities, railway networks. Part of the reasons why things go wrong is because organisationally there is confusion, and this ends up in another opportunity for them all to pass the buck."Tim Barns is assistant manager of Cycle Surgery in Holloway Road, Islington, the capital's hotspot for bike crime according to Scotland Yard figures. Within half an hour yesterday afternoon he had two customers looking to replace a stolen bike. One told him he had lost four in a year. The other, a regular customer who he knows always bought excellent locks, was replacing her seventh in three years. He describes the provision of secure bike parking in the area, principally the standard inverted-U-shaped "sheffield bars", as "terrible". People make the mistake, he says, of believing wrought iron railings of the kind common in London are secure - "If you hit a railing with a hammer it shatters. Also, people will lock to skinny little railings. A lot of people just put a lock through the wheel and the frame and then just lean it against something. We desperately need more things to lock the bikes to."Local authorities around the UK are investing in secure facilities, says Geffen, but coverage is piecemeal and often highly localised. The previous mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, increased provision by 40,000 in the capital and his successor Johnson has promised 10,000 more. For Jenny Jones, however, Green party member of the London assembly and the former mayor's green transport advisor, an equal problem lies in the police's attitude to stolen bikes. "The police still don't take it seriously enough," she says. "They have set up an online system called Immobilise, which is a way you can mark your bike where if it is found they can get it back to you. But they have got to do a crackdown on all illegal bike selling." Critics of the police express concern that at street markets such as Brick Lane in east London, scores of second-hand bikes of extremely questionable provenance are on offer each week. Tom Bogdanowicz of the London Cycling Campaign urges enforcement of traders' licenses and better ID to end street-level selling of second-hand bikes altogether.Despite the sheer number of thefts involved - the official Metropolitan police figures for London in 2005-6 were 21,238, but estimates put the tally above 80,000 - bike owners frequently believe the police to have little interest. With highly portable, high-value items, owners with low expectations of recovery and police forces who view bike theft as a low priority, say critics, there is little wonder the activity is so popular. While professional bike thieves, equipped with heavy duty bolt-cutters and vans and often stealing to order, account for a significant chunk of missing bikes, the majority are probably taken by opportunistic amateurs. Without accurate figures, says Barns, it is impossible to know. "If more people reported their bikes stolen the police crime figures would go up, and that would be a problem for them."However distressing and inconvenient for the victims of bicycle theft, perhaps most significantly for the politicians, says Geffen, is that bike crime is a demonstrable deterrent to the uptake of cycling, a professed government target. For David Cameron, however, the short-term news is cheering. If his insurance doesn't kick in, the Dutch tourist board last night offered to donate a self-locking Dutch bike to replace his missing one.Avoiding theft· Write down serial number and carve telephone number into hidden location on bike· No lock is infallible, but hardened steel U-locks and steel chains deter casual thieves. Use two types of lock· Ensure frame and both wheels are locked to object - remove front wheel and lock it to back wheel and frame· Choose busy, well-lit place · Buy inexpensive model for everyday use. Make it look unappealing by painting it an ugly colour · Replace quick release levers with bolts