The mothers of the five suspects in the Stephen Lawrence murder case declared today that their sons are the innocent victims of media persecution and threatened to start a libel action against the Daily Mail for its 1997 front page report branding them "Murderers". The mothers of Gary Dobson, David Norris, brothers Neil and Jamie Acourt, and Luke Knight also insisted that their sons were not racists and were unwittingly caught up in a "political argument". "They have got nothing to do with the murder of Stephen Lawrence," Pam Knight, Patricia Acourt, Pauline Dobson and Theresa Norris told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. The women made their remarks as the Government prepares to publish the report of an independent inquiry into the police investigation into Stephen Lawrence's murder, which is expected to be highly critical of the Metropolitan Police.  Stephen, 18, was stabbed to death by white youths in April, 1993, in a racially motivated attack as he waited for a bus in Eltham, south east London.  All five men refused to answer questions at the inquest, in February 1997, into Stephen Lawrence's death. The inquest jury decided that Stephen was unlawfully killed in a "completely unprovoked racist attack by five white youths". The following day the Daily Mail named the five as "Murderers".  One mother said: "Now after six years, enough is enough, we the mothers have decided to speak out to try to help our sons ... We wish we had spoken out the first day they were arrested."  The women complained in the interview that the massive publicity generated by the case meant that their sons were unable to get jobs and the case had "ruined their lives".  "We have had death threats, all of us, we have had to move a number of times, I've got a daughter who is anorexic because of this, another daughter suffers from her nerves because of this," one of the women said.  "What has happened to us, I wouldn't have believed if I saw it on a film, I would have said it was far-fetched. Our sons are innocent, and none of this is right, we need someone to help us. There's never been anyone to put our side of it."  Another said: "We think it's political. We have been caught up in a political argument, that's what we think. Because it's been said it's a racist murder, that's why.  "We are not racists, any of us. We take people as we find them."  The mothers dismissed the notorious covert police video tape showing the men indulging in violent racist fantasies as their sons simply venting their frustration at their unjust treatment.  "They were 17 or 18 years old at that time. It was bravado, they were hitting back in their own home with words after 18 months of persecution."  The women complained that the video displayed edited highlights from tapes taken over a three week period. One of the mothers insisted: "It was hitting back, just with words, no more. No-one said they had done any of them terrible things. They are not bad boys, they are good boys."  It was pointed out to Mrs Acourt that the tape showed one of her sons, wielding a knife, demonstrating how to stab a black man.  She responded: "Well I don't think it did suggest violence at all. It was playing, acting. I didn't like looking at my son holding knives at all, it upset me terribly. But what can I say any more about it? All I can say is that they were just acting out, they wasn't there hurting anybody."  The women complained that all the media coverage of the case had been one-sided and based on "unfounded allegations" and insisted they knew where their sons were on the night of Stephen's murder.  "They have been made as scapegoats, they are sacrificial lambs for a political cause," one of the mothers claimed.  "Our children got arrested the day after Nelson Mandela visited this country, that's when their first arrest was. The police were under pressure to arrest them, they arrested them on no evidence, which is why it was dropped by the CPS (Crown Prosecution Service). The CPS don't drop cases for no reason."  The women said their sons had wanted to give their side of the story in public, and intended to do so by appearing in a Panorama programme on which they would have been interviewed by Martin Bashir. But the programme had been stopped.  Asked if they would sue, even if it meant their sons appearing in the witness box, and if they could guarantee the men would turn up at court, one said: "If they got a fair hearing and their safety was guaranteed, yes, we would do it tomorrow. Our sons have been tried, convicted and condemned by the media."  The women revealed they had wanted to sue the Daily Mail after it published its "Murderers" front page - but they were told that a libel bid would cost half a million pounds.  More recently, one large libel firm told them that the publicity and "extraordinary emotion" which the case had generated meant they had no hope of winning because any jury would be prejudiced against their cause.  One of the women said: "Every week I pray to win the Lottery, and it's a rollover, because I would sue every single one of them."  Asked what they would say to Doreen Lawrence, Stephen's mother, one of the women said: "I feel for her, being a mother myself. But I know that she also knows this case as we do. There's no evidence on our sons, our sons are innocent."  Another said: "It's terrible for anyone to lose a child, anyone, and it's terrible for our children to get blamed for something they haven't done."  All insisted they had sympathy for Mrs Lawrence, but one of the women insisted: "Our sons are innocent. They can't keep persecuting our sons for something they haven't done."  But Conservative MP Peter Bottomley, who represented Eltham at the time of the murder, defended the Daily Mail's "legitimate journalism" and challenged the five over the killing.  "The question everyone wants to put is: 'When will the five young men answer questions directly themselves?' he said. "When will they answer questions about what they took out of the house after the murder? When will they explain why they refused to answer questions at a Coroner's inquest on the grounds that it might incriminate them?" 