The home secretary, Jack Straw, today appealed to the public to help the police track down the killers of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor.On a visit to the dead boy's school in Peckham, south east London, Mr Straw said that anyone with information about the murder had a responsibility to the community to come forward.Damilola was left to bleed to death after being attacked by a group of 11 to 14-year-olds on his way home from school on Monday. "We know young people and some adults and friends know exactly who killed Damilola Taylor," Mr Straw said.Althea Smith, chair of the local police consultative committee, backed the home secretary's appeal. "Someone is shielding these children. There are bloodstains on someone's clothes," she said.Forensic experts are running tests on a knife discovered yesterday near the murder scene. The knife was wrapped in a piece of cloth but there were no visible signs of blood. Tests are also being run on a broken bottle found near the scene and detectives are examining CCTV footage.Mr Straw described the death as "an awful evil" and acknowledged fears among the local community that it would be stigmatised as a result of the crime. But he said he knew the area well and that it is full of "law abiding people" who want to get on with their lives. "Someone said to me in the meeting that it is not the buildings that killed Damilola Taylor but some people," he said.Mr Straw also heard parents' concerns about bullying. Damilola's mother, Gloria, has claimed the school did not take seriously her complaints that he was being bullied in the days before his murder.She says that he wrote the name of one of his tormenters on a scrap of paper left in his locker, a clue that could provide the police with crucial evidence. Headteacher Mark Parsons is certain that none of his pupils were responsible for the murder and said he was "immensely proud" of the school's anti-bullying policy. Damilola staggered 100 yards with blood pouring from a sliced artery in his leg after being stabbed by a fleeing gang. Nearby workmen tried to save him but other passersby ignored Damilola as he lay dying on a stairwell near his council home. Police are hunting for three boys seen near the scene of the attack. Related special report Policing crimeRelated stories Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Boys murder should be wake-up call - Straw 29 November: Death of a school boyUseful links Metropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate