There are at least 1,000 corrupt prison officers who smuggle drugs and mobile phones into prisons, and a further 500 staff are involved in "inappropriate relationships" with inmates, according to a confidential internal police and Prison Service report.The study, leaked to the BBC, says the vast majority of the 45,000 prison staff in England and Wales are honest and operate with integrity, but a small minority are involved in corrupt practices, which include accepting bribes to facilitate transfers to less secure prisons.The report, drawn up by the Prison Service's anti-corruption unit and the Metropolitan police, says the estimate of 1,000 corrupt staff should be considered the lowest likely number and warns that the problem is growing.Yesterday's disclosure led crime experts to warn that the anti-corruption unit was gathering intelligence but not investigating individual cases.Tim Newburn, of the London School of Economics, who carried out an official study of the problem six years ago, said an investigatory agency separate from the Prison Service was needed to tackle corruption.As part of the six-month inquiry, researchers visited senior Prison Service officials, including governors and area managers, and trawled the Prison Service intelligence database, known as Watson. One area manager is quoted as saying that 70 reports filed by officers identifying other officers as corrupt had not been referred to headquarters and no action had been taken.An unnamed prison governor is quoted as saying: "Here corruption is endemic ... I've identified over 20 corrupt staff, but there may be more." Another says: "I currently have 10 corrupt staff and I am managing the threat they pose to my prison. Positive mandatory drug testing figures are over 20%, so it must be staff bringing in drugs."The director general of the prison service, Phil Wheatley, acknowledged that there was a problem with "bent officers" in the system, which he said had always been the case.But he said declining levels of escapes and drug use in prisons suggested the problem was being successfully tackled."I have no doubt that we have to regard this as something that is serious and work hard at it," he said. "But I don't think the answer is to create a large investigatory force, which would have to take resources away from frontline work, when the police are a genuinely independent investigation force able to investigate crime."Mr Wheatley also rejected suggestions that prison officers failed to report corrupt colleagues out of a false sense of loyalty. "Most prison staff hate those who are corrupt," he said. "They are dangerous to you. They may bring in a weapon that could be used against you. So there is no loyalty to people behaving in this way."Brian Caton, of the Prison Officers' Association, said immediate action was needed: "I joined the Prison Service in 1977. It was then a stricter vetting process, a lot stricter interview process to get into the Prison Service than to get into the police, for obvious reasons."