The arrest of Jon Venables, convicted alongside Robert Thompson of the murder of James Bulger in November 1993, calls into question the idea that people convicted of serious offences, especially those convicted of murder, can ever be "rehabilitated".Or does it? That depends, I guess, by what we mean by rehabilitation. Certainly you would be hard pressed on a prison landing to find anyone who could give a coherent definition of the word and at the same time keep a straight face. A prison governor once told me that his problem with rehabilitation was that, "as a society we believe in it – but we are not sure how rehabilitated we want prisoners to be". That is because, first and foremost, we insist on inflicting punishment on those who cause us serious harm and distress. We want them to suffer. Perhaps if they suffer enough they might stop harming people. Although, if we think about it, we also want perpetrators to come out of prison less likely to do it again to us, or to anyone else. So we provide a measure of rehabilitative facilities in prison; education programmes, counselling, work skills training. But not sufficient to provide rehabilitation for the majority. For that to happen we would have to make changes so radical and so politically precarious that it is unlikely any British government in the foreseeable future will ever commit to promoting the idea of our prison regimes being primarily rehabilitative.The problems that cause criminal dysfunction in those we imprison – mental health issues, social inadequacies, behavioural and psychological difficulties – are varied and myriad and because of our reluctance to commit seriously to rehabilitation, what we provide in relation to the scale of the need barely scratches the surface. This, I believe, is why there is little chance of us ever making any serious headway into the reoffending figures (around two-thirds of all prisoners re-offend within two years of being released), and until we can make our mind up what it is we want from our prisons – punishment or rehabilitation – things are likely to stay pretty much the same for a long time to come.If we did decide that we would rather just have punishment on the other hand, the situation would most certainly get worse. William Weld, former two-term governor of Massachusetts and a devotee of punishment-only solutions for criminals famously declared that his state prison would be "a rock-breaking tour of hell". It was a policy that led to ever-increasing recidivism rates and caused a new head of the state's department of correction, Harold Clarke, to announce a retreat.Weld's policy, said Clarke, justifying the reversal of the strategy, had made society less safe and failed to provide exiting inmates with the basic skills needed to lead lawful or productive lives. "We got tough and what have we gotten for that? Do we feel any safer?" he said in a Boston Herald interview in 2008. "Rates of recidivism are climbing. We are going in the wrong direction and this is getting worse."But what are we to make of the return to prison of Venables? We know little about his life and that of his co-accused in the years since they were convicted of murdering Bulger. At the time when they killed the toddler they were both 10 years old. It was obvious to anyone who read about their lives before the crime that their formative years had been abusive and damaging. These were not two well brought up little boys who went to a posh school. They were rough kids who had experienced more of life's degradations than any child should. They knew about life on the streets. Perhaps "feral" would have been an appropriate adjective to describe what they had become. But those in power used more potent words. The popular press labelled them beasts, bastards, evil, brutal, cunning, freaks. Three days after Bulger's body was found, the then prime minister gave an interview to a Sunday newspaper calling for society to "condemn a little more and understand a little less". And that is what we did. Lynch mobs gathered outside the court where the two boys first faced charges. The van transporting them to "secure accommodation" was attacked with stones and bottles. People in the street called for them to be hanged. But whatever we feel about what they did, they were still only children. Yet we tried them as adults and sentenced them to be detained at "Her Majesty's pleasure", the juvenile equivalent of life imprisonment.Their trial judge said they should serve at least eight years in custody. The lord chief justice later raised this to 10 years. Initially the home secretary, Michael Howard, resisted media clamours for a higher "tariff." But after a 300,000-name petition was handed to him from a tabloid newspaper, he summarily raised the tariff to 15 years. This was later quashed by the court of appeal, who described Howard's actions as "institutional vengeance". On account of their "progress" in c ustody, their expressions of remorse, personal development and educational achievements, the tariff was changed again by a different lord chief justice, who reduced it to the original eight years, and the boys, by then young men, were released.According to various reports and undisclosed sources, in the years since their release Thompson and Venables have been given ongoing help with their education, finding jobs and accommodation. Worldwide injunctions have helped to maintain a veil of secrecy over their lives, though intermittent leaks and whispers indicate that both have been able to form loving relationships. It is known that Venables, believed to be a born-again Christian, had settled down and was planning to marry. But he is also reported to have been involved in several aggression-related incidents over the years, including one in December 2007 when he was said to have been stabbed after accusing someone of chatting up his girlfriend.It is Venables therefore who appears to have had the most difficulty with rehabilitation. As yet we do not know what has led to his return to prison. It is unlikely to have been a "standard" recall – this is when conditions such as the requirement to report to a supervising probation officer or the forbidding of communications with victims or co-accused have been breached. Venables has almost certainly been incarcerated as a result of an "emergency recall", which happens only when an offence has been committed, usually quite a serious offence, which has caused or threatened personal harm. Indeed, speaking on the television news, the home secretary, Alan Johnson, defended his reluctance to divulge the reasons for Venables' recall, saying, that he " . . . must in no way prejudice the future criminal justice proceedings".Between 1 January 2003 and 17 February 2009 there were 758 releases of mandatory life sentence prisoners, all of whom had been convicted of murder. Of those, 48 were later recalled and subsequently convicted of further serious offences. One was convicted of another murder.The evidence shows that the rate for the successful rehabilitation of murderers is high. As a child offender Venables received more help than his adult counterparts could ever have hoped for. So should we be surprised at his failure? Venables and Thompson were subjected to more public opprobrium than perhaps anyone since Myra Hindley and Ian Brady. Perhaps, therefore, we should be more surprised if, after all that they been through since their arrest and incarceration, they actually succeeded in achieving a totally rehabilitated life and lived contentedly and constructively into a peaceful old age. After all, they traumatised not just a family but a nation. And in return we traumatised them. For sure, after we made them suffer, we gave them help, from probably the finest child-development specialists in the country. But even those well-motivated people could never be a real substitute for loving, adoring, security-giving parents.The specialists undoubtedly worked hard to root out the damage that had been done to them and which drove their horrific actions. But what they did can never be eradicated from their memory. And they know, and will always know that they carry the brunt of a large section of the nation's fury and outrage on their pathetic shoulders. Despite their ability to speak "fluently about their emotions and remorse", as has been reported, there will barely have been a day that has passed when they have not thought about what they did as children. And they will be aware that across the country they are considered to be monsters – in their private moments they will still feel monstrous, because they know what they did and only they alone can live with it – every day, every night, for the rest of their lives. Knowing this, we should never have expected them to live through that without stumbling at least occasionally. If Venables has committed a serious crime then due process must be followed. But for this failure, however trivial or grave it turns out to be, we all must share some of the responsibility.According to Dr Bob Johnson, former consultant psychiatrist for five years at maximum-security Parkhurst prison, where he instituted a radical therapy regime for some of the most dangerous murderers in the country and where his methods achieved unprecedented results, "all murder is a tantrum/revenge, and when murderers 'grow up', they will/can/have no possible need to murder again – once the damage is cleaned out 100%, then it is gone for good. All murder is infantile in origin, the cure is emotional maturation. Once this is achieved it is better to exercise social skills than killing skills."Whatever Venables has done he will still need our support. So long as he has not caused serious harm to another person he should be released back into a supportive network in the community at the earliest opportunity. My fear is that he will never be safe in prison, for prison is the most difficult place to keep secrets. The longer Venables is in there, the more he will be at risk of having his secret identity blown - and with it any chance at all of resuming his rehabilitation. And that would not be justice for James Bulger.• This article was amended on 10 March 2010. The original referred to Harold Clarke as William Weld's successor as Massachusetts governor. Harold Clarke's direct quotes have also been inserted in this article, from the original report, a Boston Herald interview. The original quote attributed to Clarke was a Herald paraphrasing of what he said. The direct quotes support the paraphrased summary.