The plight of pupils who are being stalked and criminally harassed is often ignored because parents, schools and police think that they are simply being bullied, researchers say. Aggressive behaviour that in adults might trigger police investigations is "trivialised" when it happens to teenagers, but they are more likely to come to physical harm at the hands of a stalker, academics found.The study - the first in the world to investigate adolescent stalking - is based on interviews with 299 teenagers convicted of harassment, and is published in the British Journal of Psychiatry today. It concludes that the link between bullying and stalking has been "ignored". It says: "Juvenile stalking is characterised by direct, intense, overtly threatening and all too often violent forms of pursuit. The seriousness that is afforded to adult forms of stalking should similarly apply to this behaviour among juveniles, given the greater rates of disruption to the victim's life and risks of being attacked."Stalking - defined as repeated harassment over weeks or months, which can include physical threats - could have a worse effect on adolescents than on adults because they are at a "critical phase in their psychosocial development," the study says. Researchers interviewed teenagers who had been convicted of stalking in Australia - 64% were male and 69% of their victims were female. Three out of four had repeatedly approached their victims and 67% used telephone calls and text messages. Three-quarters had threatened their target and 54% had physically or sexually assaulted them. Emma-Jane Cross, of the bullying prevention charity Beatbullying, suggested that stalking was also common among teenagers in the UK. "The research further proves that juvenile stalking is a very dangerous form of bullying and one that is likely to escalate to youth-on-youth violence," she said. "Early intervention and on the ground bullying prevention work in schools and local communities needs to be part of the solution, with young people at the heart of implementing change. "If we are to tackle the problem of child-on-child violence effectively, we need to introduce these programmes into every community, creating a joined-up, strategic approach to solving the problem. With an emphasis on peer-led practice and interventions, we can arrest a youth culture which is bound up with fear and violence."Last month, the government launched a crackdown on bullying outside the school gates, amid rising concerns about pupil behaviour in the streets. Train conductors and bus drivers in England were issued with advice on what to do when they witness children being victimised on the journey to and from school, while youth clubs were given details of how to work with the police when children get out of hand.