A teenager with a history of self-harm managed to take an overdose of prescription drugs at a women's prison shortly after she had been convicted of manslaughter, an inquest heard yesterday.Sarah Campbell died in January 2003, three days before her 19th birthday, when she became ill at Styal prison, near Manchester, after swallowing a large quantity of tablets. The inquest heard she had expressed a fear of reprisals from her co-defendant, who had been sent to the same jail, after Sarah gave evidence against her. She was taken to a cell in the segregation unit, where she later told a nurse she had taken an overdose. Her mother, Pauline, a retired lecturer, told the inquest Sarah had been arrested in May 2002 after an elderly man, Amrit Bhandari, died of a heart attack after she and a friend harassed him for money. She was charged with manslaughter and remanded in custody. Her mother visited her every other day at Styal prison and became increasingly concerned about her mental health. "I was aware that she was self-harming regularly and my visits usually found her in a profoundly depressed state," Mrs Campbell told the hearing. She first expressed her concerns to a staff nurse at the prison in June 2002. "On July 4, I visited Sarah again and found that she had required stitches for self-inflicted wounds the night before." Five days later, she called a senior officer on the wing to express concerns about her daughter, which she also raised following a visit. "Every time I contacted the prison or spoke to staff there, I asked them to log the call or conversation and on each occasion I expressed concern about Sarah's mental health. My experience was that they would listen and say something would be done, but I didn't feel very reassured and I didn't feel that anything was really being done." Mrs Campbell wrote to the governor to express concern. She said the reply from the deputy governor did not address her concerns. In an unusual move, the coroner allowed Mrs Campbell to lead a minute's silence in memory of her daughter. The inquest is expected to last two weeks.