A Latvian man who is the chief suspect for the rape and murder of Jeshma Raithatha will be extradited to the UK, it was confirmed today.Viktors Dembovskis, 42, who is in custody in Preile, south-east Latvia, has been given 10 days to appeal against a ruling that he should be handed over to Scotland Yard for questioning.Mr Dembovskis left Britain after the attack on Jeshma, 17, who was stabbed to death on May 16 as she walked home along a secluded path in Sudbury Hill, west London. The aspiring singer and A-level student was raped and knifed three times in the heart. Her body lay undiscovered for eight days in dense undergrowth only yards away from her family home.Mr Dembovskis lived near Jeshma's home with other immigrant workers and worked as a carwash attendant. He entered Britain last June from Latvia, which joined the European Union in May, giving its citizens freedom of movement throughout member states.He is believed to have travelled by coach to Latvia after the murder. He was arrested earlier this month under a European arrest warrant at a flat in Livani, 150 miles east of Riga.At an extradition hearing at Preile district court on June 5, Mr Dembovskis denied involvement in Jeshma's death. Today prosecutors confirmed that Mr Dembovskis would be handed over to British police. It is not yet known if the suspect intends to appeal against his extradition. If Mr Dembovskis does appeal, it could take up to a month for his case to be heard.A Scotland Yard spokesman said Latvian authorities had not yet contacted detectives about the extradition proceedings. The Metropolitan police have been liaising with Interpol and the Latvian authorities in the case. At the June 5 hearing, a judge ordered that Mr Dembovskis be remanded in custody for 80 days. After that hearing, Mr Dembovskis's lawyer, Agnese Sevastjanova, said: "He pleaded not guilty to the charges in court, but it's impossible at the moment to say whether or not he wants to be extradited to England."Under the European arrest warrant scheme, Mr Dembovskis should be extradited within 60 days if a Latvian judge deems there are "reasonable grounds" for suspecting he committed an extraditable offence.British detectives believe that Jeshma was picked at random by her killer.On the day she vanished, she had been dropped off at her school by her mother. She later left the school to go shopping, and was casually dressed in jeans, T-shirt and cardigan.Police have appealed for witnesses, asking people who attended a sports centre near the murder scene or anyone who may have seen Jeshma walking home on May 16 to come forward.