"I met my boyfriend when I was 15. The relationship started off really well. He kept saying 'I'm going to marry this girl.' Although he was five years older than me my parents weren't worried because they thought he could look after me. I had just come out of foster care so things with my parents were strained."I was with him for three and a half years and the abuse started after six months. He started to separate me from friends and family. He got a flat on the other side of town, my parents could never have afforded to live there. The violence started with a little slap and he'd apologise afterwards. Then he'd want to rape me after every bit of abuse. When I was almost 17 I came home late from a work do. I crept in, got undressed and got into bed. He started beating me up. I didn't know I was pregnant at the time."I begged him to let me go to the toilet and he said I wasn't to lock the door. I did and he started kicking the door in. My only way out was the window. All I had on were my knickers. It was December, it was freezing and it was raining. I was running, I could hear my partner behind me. A neighbour called the police. Suddenly this man grabbed me and I screamed. It was a policeman. He put his jacket over me. My partner was arrested. He wasn't charged, even though he had previous. I didn't press charges. But the CPS [Crown Prosecution Service] were really keen to have him sent down."He locked me in a room for four days when I was five months pregnant and threw me down the stairs at six months. I got up to run away but he blocked the door. I was so scared I wet myself."I went into hospital 20 times because of the abuse. Sometimes he was loving, so hospital staff weren't suspicious. But it got to the point where the police were hanging around all the time. But it's up to the individual to report it and I was too scared to do anything."We ended up in a hostel because he stopped paying rent on the flat but he got thrown out for beating me up. We were on the ground floor and my daughter's cot - she was four months - was beneath the window. He punched the glass and it shattered all over her. I was terrified the whole time I was with him. I used to lie in bed thinking of how I could kill him and get away with it."That's when I called Women's Aid. I was so worried for my daughter. She was nine months when I decided to leave him. A refuge worker put me in a shelter. He wrote me letters, saying he couldn't stop the anger. He's got a girlfriend now, she's pregnant and the same thing is happening to her."