Rukhsana Naz, a 19-year-old in the advanced stages of pregnancy, was strangled in 1998 by her mother and her 22-year-old brother, Shazad, after she had shamed them by conceiving out of wedlock. When her younger brother chanced upon them, his mother said "Be strong, son" as she forced him to help dispose of Rukhsana's body.What drives women, generation after generation, to perpetuate the vicious cycle that made their own lives miserable as they grew up? More worryingly, why do second- and third-generation British Muslim men such as Shazad, born and raised here,carry out or support such acts?The recent decision by Scotland Yard to reassess at least 13 cases of suspected "honour killings" should be welcomed as an attempt to understand the nature of this crisis. But rather than try to deepen understanding, some pundits have used the move as another opportunity to point their fingers at "backward" cultures and, in particular, Islam. The coverage of the trial of Abdalla Yones, for example, a Kurdish Londoner who hacked his only daughter to death because of her "western" lifestyle and "Christian" boyfriend, focused on his Muslim motivations. Honour killings are not a Muslim problem. Last year, Anita Gindha, 22, was heavily pregnant when strangled before her 19-month-old son, allegedly for renouncing Sikhism and marrying her boyfriend in London after refusing an arranged marriage. Just weeks ago, Stuart Horgan, 39, shot dead his ex-girlfriend and her sister at a family barbecue in Oxfordshire after being kicked out for threatening behaviour. Honour crimes have no relation to religiosity. Why is it then that such acts - along with practices like female genital mutilation continue to be linked exclusively with Muslims? It becomes increasingly difficult to tackle domestic violence in an environment of blame that borders on Islamophobia. Most migrant families, including mine, stay closely connected to relatives "back home". This is enriching and offers a safety net in the face of a hostile society. But too often these networks are patriarchal, stifle dissent and demand loyalty at all costs.  Y oung men are allowed to carry on a relatively unsupervised public life - socialising, drinking and womanising. Upholding honour, which is linked closely to social standing and upward mobility, falls to women. The mere allegation of impropriety - such as being seen with a man outside the family network - can damage a woman's, and thus her family's, reputation. Women who "deviate" from this moral code may encounter violence from partners, parents or relatives. Meanwhile, marriage restrictions, as in the case of Anita Gindha, leave many young people no choice but to defy their elders. Being free to choose a partner and live according to one's own aspirations is an alien concept to many cultures. I know many young women - educated, intelligent and professional - who have abandoned personal ambitions because the culture clash is too stressful. Honour killing is neither simply a gender issue nor an individual aberration. It is symptomatic of how immigrant families attempt to cope with an alienating urbanisation. In villages "back home", a man's sphere of control was broader, with a large support system. In our cities full of strangers, there is virtually no control over who one's family members sit, talk or work with. Failed efforts to retain control can be devastating - enough to generate the unimaginable rage that it must take to kill one's kin. The same communities that are driven by honour and shame are also driven by gossip. Individuals or families teetering on violence refuse to seek help for fear of further dishonour in a community that loves to talk. Community workers say honour killings are the tip of the iceberg, and a symptom of a wider crisis: of masculinity, and socio-economic disadvantage. So many Muslims have told me they feel disgraced on behalf of Palestinians, Kashmiris and Iraqis, and in the UK, where the community suffers educational under-achievement, unemployment, poor housing and mental illness. According to both the office of national statistics and a Teenage Pregnancy Unit report from the Health Department, teenage pregnancy is significantly higher among Bangladeshis than whites (despite discounting pregnancy within wedlock). Given the lack of opportunity for young people in this community, this is not surprising. And yet pregnancy out of wedlock is perhaps the most mortifying thing that can happen to a traditional family, and often provokes what sociologist Akbar Ahmed termed as "hyper-honour" - a fanatical sense tribalism. Regardless of class, people hold on to traditional practices more fiercely when they feel threatened or confronted. In Leicester, private detectives are hired for thousands of pounds to investigate allegations of impropriety and hunt down runaways, who can be forcibly returned to their families for "retribution". Some people in the community do offer these women support. Anonymous refuges provide advice and shelter. Some women have even been helped to gain new identities. Often, the police turn a blind eye for fear of being accused of racism and Islamophobia. And such accusations have been made. But instead of hiding behind platitudes, ethnic-minority and faith groups need help in creating communities where people genuinely believe there is no honour in honour killing. Getting to the heart of honour crimes involves maintaining a responsible discourse in the media and policy circles while empowering local organisations, many of which are driven by women who have an unparalleled understanding of the forces that perpetuate injustice in their communities. Unless we do, it is the victims who will continue to have the most to lose. . Fareena Alam is managing editor of the Muslim magazine Q-News fareena@q-news.com