It is hardly the kind of place in which you might expect to find the future of British law enforcement. It is the first decade of the last century, and deep in the wilds of North America, Tom Swift - fearless boy hero of Victor Appleton's classic adventure tales - is in peril of imminent ambush. Luckily for Swift and his fellow explorers, Tom has brought his ingenious self-designed electric rifle, and he is not afraid to use it."Tom's finger pressed the switch-trigger of the electric rifle, for previous experience had taught him that it was sometimes the best thing to awe the natives in out-of-the-way corners of the earth," Appleton writes in Tom Swift In The Land of Wonders (1917). "But the young inventor quickly elevated the muzzle, and the deadly missile went hissing through the air over the head of a native Indian who, at that moment, stepped from the bush... " It has become a commonplace to dismiss the futuristic techno-fantasies of the military and police authorities as the stuff of science fiction and adventure stories, but in the case of the taser this is literally true. The 50,000-volt stun gun - just approved by the Metropolitan Police for use against knife attackers and other violent suspects - takes its name (an acronym for Thomas A Swift's Electric Rifle) and rudimentary concept directly from the breathless pages of Appleton's work. And the taser is indeed the stuff of fantasy: the ultimate "non-lethal" weapon, capable of rendering its victims immobile without, proponents say, causing any lasting harm. Executives in the electric-restraint industry are fond of pointing out that "electricity speaks in every language known to man", and in the case of the Advanced Taser M26, the £200 model approved for the Met's immediate use, the message is simple and to the point. The holder releases a safety catch from the gun-shapedbarrel, and a red laser pinpoints the suspect. The trigger is squeezed, and two sharp barbs trailing copper wire fly up to 30ft, penetrating clothing and sending up to 50,000 volts into the body, overpowering the central nervous system and sending the suspect paralysed to the ground in the foetal position. Involuntary defecation may occur. The experience is either unimaginably painful, or too overwhelming for the pain even to register: in one study, 92% of people claimed not to be able to remember anything of the experience by the time they recovered, around 15 minutes later. It is, of course, hard to argue with the Met's new policy if tasers are only used where firearms might otherwise be deployed. But plans have also been announced to equip the Met's unarmed territorial support groups with the stun guns. And it is by no means clear from the scant evidence available that the M26 - a "less-lethal" weapon in the euphemistic terminology of US police forces - does not end up being used in a much wider variety of situations. This has been a good year for Taser International of Scottsdale, Arizona, which makes the M26. Last month it reported record revenues for the second quarter of $1.54m. More than 850 police departments around the country are packing M26s, and Steve Tuttle, the company's head of government and law enforcement affairs, claims two new departments are signing on each day. One month ago, the Los Angeles County Sherriff's department signed a two-year contract to supply $1m worth of weapons over the next two years. "We're finding that we've come up with something that can take a forceful, goal-oriented person down," Tuttle says. "With previous technology, it couldn't deal with someone who was under the influence of drugs or extremely forceful. This time we did our homework." Police had initially been sceptical about the taser, doubting that in a moment of crisis, when an officer was confronting someone armed with a knife or a club, and pumped up with fury or drugs - specifically PCP, which increases physical strength and renders its users oblivious to pain - the new weapon would be able to stop its target in time. Taser International put those doubts to rest by upping the wattage from seven to 26 watts, so that the electronic barbs would bring even the biggest and angriest man to the ground instantly. Tuttle claims that in 650 uses of M26s reported by US police departments, the weapon has worked successfully 93% of the time. In the remaining 7% of cases, it failed be cause the hooks hit heavy clothing, or because the target was moving too fast. And yet rarely has such a revolutionary technology been introduced so widely with so little research into its effects. Throughout the taser's three-decade history there have been alarming rumours - of spontaneous miscarriages suffered by pregnant victims; of epileptic fits triggered; of pacemakers interrupted, with fatal effects - but precious little research. When it comes to the long-term health effects of being on the receiving end of a stun gun - or, indeed, the question of whether police officers really tend to use tasers only where they would otherwise risk killing people with guns - we are as ignorant as Tom Swift, plunging blindly into the bush. Robert Stratbucker is one of the optimists. When the manufacturers of stun guns need to defend themselves from critics, they tend to turn to Dr Stratbucker, of the University of Nebraska Medical Centre, in Omaha, and a consultant to and holder of stock options in Taser International. The author of several of the tiny number of academic studies in the field, he has repeatedly cleared the weapons of causing harm in those with healthy hearts - or even those with pacemakers. "Only when the shocks were delivered directly to the pacer itself did erratic pacing occur," Stratbucker found. "Following the termination of the shocks, the rhythm returned promptly to pre-shock regularity." Lewis Mehl-Madrona would disagree. In 1992, one of his patients was "tasered" by a police officer when 12 weeks pregnant. The barbs hit her abdomen and leg. Seven days later, she began to miscarry spontaneously, and underwent a medical procedure two weeks later for incomplete abortion. "As use of the taser becomes more common, obstetrical clinicians may encounter complications from the taser more often," he wrote. There have been a handful of deaths linked to the police use of tasers in recent years - but in each case it has been unclear whether the weapon was the direct cause. In many instances, the person who died was delirious from overdosing on drugs. The case of David Flores, a Californian private investigator, is fairly typical. He became violent after taking a huge dose of cocaine. When the police arrived he resisted arrest and at one point picked up the lid of a toilet cistern. "Their way of dealing with the situation was to fire tasers at him," said Ed Duree, Flores's friend and former employer. Flores died 15 minutes later. Duree, a lawyer in Fairfield, California, admits his friend had taken a potentially lethal dose of cocaine but argues: "If you've got a health problem or if you're high on drugs, are you going to add 50,000 volts to your system? It becomes an alternative to using three or four or five policemen to grab hold of him and wrestle him down." Amnesty International has called for use of tasers to be suspended while more comprehensive tests can be carried out on its impact on the frail and vulnerable. Human Rights Watch (HRW) is more ambivalent. "Any technology where the likelihood of lethal force being used might be reduced might not be a bad idea," said Allyson Collins, an HRW researcher. "But what's better than new technology is new training on how to deal with people who might not be complying with an officer's commands." Tuttle, at Taser International, says that the company has never been sued for harm caused by its products. Nor has it ever had to draw on its product liability insurance. "As with everything, it depends on whether it's used appropriately," says Peter Burdett-Smith, a consultant emergency physician at the Royal Liverpool University Hospital with experience of treating victims of other electric-shock equipment. "If you were to repeatedly shock somebody with one of these things you could theoretically paralyse their respiratory muscles, but that's not how they're designed to be used. This is for people totally out of their tree, who won't respond to anything, who think they can fly and who are often physically strong because of the drugs, so they can't be stopped." Wherever tasers have been deployed as a law-enforcement tool in the US, acclaim has tended to follow swiftly behind. In Los Angeles, the police used it against a 14-year-old girl who was threatening to kill herself and slash her mother with a butcher's knife. The electric darts made her drop the knife and fall to the ground. But there have also been more troubling tales about the new weapon. In Oregon last month, a prison guard was convicted for using a taser repeatedly against a mentally disabled inmate. "I was shot with an electric current," said the 40-year-old prisoner, Stephen Thom. "It's like grabbing an electric fence and you can't let go. It keeps coming and coming and coming." A different kind of stun gun, the Ultron II, was linked to the death in custody of Lawrence Frazier, a Connecticut prison inmate, prompting prison officials to ban it. And a taser was also used, famously, to subdue Rodney King, whose subsequent beating at the hands of Los Angeles policemen shocked the world. A 1999 HRW investigation into treatment of prisoners at the Red Onion "Supermax" prison in Virginia reported claims from inmates that they were shot with tasers while they were confined in their cells. Jamie Fellner, the report's author, wrote that the devices were used in response to "a wide range of minor misconduct that poses no physical threat" - including verbal insolence. In one reported incident, a new prisoner was shocked with a taser in September 1998 after he displayed reluctance to strip and permit a visual body search in the presence of female staff. Nor does the behaviour of suspects at large in the city always seem to have justified a stand-off ending in the use of electric shock: one study of 16 people who died after taser use, in the Journal of Forensic Sciences, found the weapon used after police confronted people "hugging and kissing a lamppost", "lying in the gutter with hands and feet flailing" and "walking erratically and blowing on a whistle", as well as more obviously violent activities. (The researchers attributed only one of the deaths to the electric shock.) Taser International, notes Brendan Paddy, parliamentary affairs officer at Amnesty International UK, "does not market tasers as an alternative to firearms, but, very specifically, as an alternative to other kinds of non-lethal force available to the police, such as batons or pepper-sprays. I would be surprised if the police would choose to deploy them in a circumstance in which someone was armed with a gun. We're not talking about these being an alternative to firearms, but an addition to firearms." The Advanced Taser M26 speaks every language in the world. The challenge will be to keep it from talking too much.