The trouble-strewn career of entertainer Michael Barrymore was plunged into fresh turmoil yesterday as he was arrested by Essex police on suspicion that he sexually assaulted and murdered the 31-year-old found dead in his swimming pool six years ago.Mr Barrymore was one of three men detained by detectives after a re-examination of the death of Stuart Lubbock, a butcher who followed the entertainer and a group of friends home after meeting them in a nightclub.It is understood that the other two were Jonathan Kenny, 37, Mr Barrymore's former lover, and Justin Merritt, 32, a dustman who lived close to the comedian's mansion in Roydon at the time. They were picked up in Lancashire and Staffordshire respectively. Mr Barrymore was arrested in London having recently returned to the UK from New Zealand. All three were taken to the same undisclosed Essex police station and after questioning throughout the day were held overnight.The arrests were welcomed by Mr Lubbock's relatives who believe he was the victim of foul play and have claimed that Mr Barrymore knows more than he has so far told police. Notably, they doubt that Mr Lubbock met his death in the pool and say he was thrown in after an assault.His father Terry, 62, said: "It feels like the end of a long struggle." Rosina Lubbock, 86, the deceased's grandmother, added: "I'm so happy I can hardly speak."No representative of Mr Barrymore was available for comment yesterday but the star has always denied wrongdoing, claiming that he left the mansion soon after the body was discovered by others at his party.The entertainer and the same two men were arrested and bailed in connection with the death in 2001 but were not charged. Mr Barrymore, 55, received a caution for cannabis possession and for allowing the drug to be smoked at his home.An inquest a year later heard that Mr Lubbock died with "a significant level of alcohol and drugs in his system" but had also sustained serious and unexplained anal injuries. The coroner recorded an open verdict.Tony Bennett, Mr Lubbock's solicitor, said the family has been angered by the accounts they have received but also the police investigation, prompting 38 separate complaints to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. "Terry Lubbock has never said that Michael Barrymore was the perpetrator but he has always maintained that Michael Barrymore knows what happened," he said. "He wants justice."Mr Barrymore has always denied any foul play in the death of Mr Lubbock. Promoting his biography last year, he said: "I think it was a straightforward drowning. He dived into the pool and passed out from all the drink and drugs."Essex police are saying little about the progress of their inquiry but it is understood that they have been retracing their steps, looking for clues that may have been missed and trying to re-examine items using the most up-to-date technology.There has been a reanalysis of the emergency call that was made on the night Mr Lubbock's body was discovered, with the hope that the background noise may yield some clues about what transpired.Advances in DNA analysis have also enabled officers to take a fresh look at items seized from Mr Barrymore's home.Last week officers received tapes of interviews with Mr Barrymore that were made by his former literary agent Tony Cowell - the brother of the X-Factor judge Simon Cowell - in preparation for Mr Barrymore's autobiography. However, the force downplayed any link with yesterday's development "The arrests were planned prior to Essex police obtaining those tapes," a spokesman said.The arrest of Mr Barrymore can only hasten his downward trajectory. In the 1980s, shows such as Strike It Lucky and My Kind Of People attracted up to 13 million viewers but in 1995 his mainstream career hit trouble following revelations that he was gay. He split from Cheryl, his manager and wife of 19 years, and his TV career floundered amid tales of drug and alcohol abuse. In 2002, after the inquest into Mr Lubbock's death, he tried to revive his career with a one-man show in London but it was scrapped after poor ticket sales and he fled to New Zealand.He filed for bankruptcy two years later. Last year he came second in Channel 4's Celebrity Big Brother but the Lubbock case has always dogged him. The victim's father is to publish what promises to be an explosive book on the affair in a fortnight's time.Timeline: Drugs, exile, bankruptcyOctober 2001 Michael Barrymore is arrested on suspicion of possession and supply of a class B drug, possession of a class A drug and allowing premises to be used for the taking of a class B drug. He receives a caution. No further charges are broughtSeptember 2002 An inquest hears Stuart Lubbock suffered severe internal injuries, suggesting he may have been the victim of a serious sexual assault. The coroner is also told that alcohol, cocaine and ecstasy were found in his system. Mr Barrymore refuses to answer questions over claims he gave Mr Lubbock cocaine. The coroner records an open verdictSeptember 21 2002 ITV says it has no plans for further Barrymore showsSeptember 30 2002 Mr Barrymore reveals he is "sad and sorry" and offers to meet Mr Lubbock's familySeptember 2003 He abandons a comeback attempt after poor reviews of his one-man showDecember 2003 He leaves the UK to live in New Zealand with his long-term partner, Shaun DavisMay 2004 He reveals that he has filed for voluntary bankruptcy because of an "unexpected" tax demandJanuary 2006 He appears in Celebrity Big Brother. Holds a tearful meeting with Mr Lubbock's father, TerryFebruary 2006 Mr Lubbock's family are blocked from launching a private prosecution because of insufficient evidenceApril 19 2006 Police announce they are reviewing Mr Lubbock's deathDecember 2006 Essex police begin a new inquiryJanuary 2007 The IPPC announces an investigation into the handling of the original inquiry into the caseMarch 30 Detectives make a direct appeal to "those who have any information"