There must be more than one Jack Straw at large in the cabinet. The thoughtful Mr Straw wrote the foreword to a recent collection of essays on penal reform, a book which not only called for a massive cut in the prison population, but included that call in its title. The other one delivered a hardline speech on punishment yesterday. One of these men panders to liberal reformers - indeed, would like to be thought of as something of a liberal himself. The other goes down well with the Daily Mail. Only an old lag at the political game, serving his second stretch in charge of the justice system, could be both of these people at the same time.Mr Straw's foreword to Sir Louis Blom-Cooper's book, The Penalty of Imprisonment: Why 60% of the Prison Population Shouldn't Be There, was admirable. But he seems not to have read the book itself. True, his speech yesterday, to the Royal Society for the Arts, did not quite live up to the lurid pre-briefing ("Straw slams do-gooders helping criminals", said the Sun). He was careful to pack plenty of cosy cotton wool around his attack on the prisons lobby. He paid the necessary encomiums to drug treatment, education and community sentencing and supported improved conditions, especially the end of slopping out. But the message was obvious: prisons are for punishment, Britain needs more, and the small band of people who care about conditions inside are obstructing the rights of victims and the justice system. This charge would be a very serious matter, if it were true. But Mr Straw provided absolutely no evidence that the cause of prison reform is having the malign effect he described. He simply lashed out at others to disguise his own department's terrible failings. He described a prison service in blooming good health, which neither its inmates nor its staff would recognise. Not once, in over 4,000 words, did he admit to the problem of overcrowding. If Britain's prisons were notable for the effective treatment of mental health, sound policies on drug abuse and emphasis on improving literacy and numeracy, then prison reformers might indeed be overstating their case and Mr Straw right to criticise them. But sadly they are not. Mr Straw said yesterday that he would "never sign up" to the inhumane treatment of offenders. The reality is that prisons are often inhumane. The justice secretary only has to read the opening paragraph of the chief inspector of prisons' latest report to find out. "Brixton prison in many ways exemplifies all the problems of our overcrowded prison system. It has old, cramped and vermin-infested buildings, no workshops to provide skills training, and two prisoners eating and living in a cell with an unscreened toilet no more than an arm's length away. A visit to the top landings of Brixton's old wings would quickly dispel any notion that our prisons are 'cushy'."Attempting to divert attention from the prison service as it is, rather than as he would like it to be, the justice secretary yesterday found a straw man to fight in the form of sociological language. He accused campaigners of driving him "mildly nuts" for using terms such as "criminogenic needs of offenders", and the phrase is indeed ridiculous, even if one of the principal sinners turns out to be the old Home Office itself. For a man to attack jargon while boasting in the same speech of "multi agency public protection agreements" and "integrated offender management" is absurd. If Mr Straw had been brave yesterday, he could have admitted that victims often feel hard done by (after all, they are still waiting for the victims' commissioner he first promised in 2001, and promised again yesterday). Then he could have set this against the reality of prison life, the cost of incarcerating ever-greater numbers and the failure of prisons to stop crime. Saying such things is not easy. But it becomes harder still when the justice secretary plays to popular prejudice.• This article was amended on Tuesday November 4 2008. It's 'foreword', not 'forward'; this has been corrected.