The teenage boy in school uniform had just finished spraying a graffiti tag outside the Tesco store when Mike Neilson rounded the corner into the shopping parade. Unfortunately for the boy, Mr Neilson is no ordinary resident but the newly appointed community officer for this small stretch of Ham in south-west London. Within minutes the teenager was arrested, another success for Sergeant Neilson barely weeks into his job. But the visible presence of a community officer is just one part of a clampdown by the authorities on antisocial behaviour. It includes the erection of CCTV cameras, a local police office and, most controversially, a dispersal and curfew zone for under 16s in Ashburnham Road from 9pm to 6am throughout the summer holidays. The zone, one of 400 around the country, gives officers sweeping powers to disperse children between those hours and to forcibly send them home. But today in the high court, Lord Justice Brooke will rule on its future and that of others set up under the 2003 Anti-Social Behaviour Act when he passes judgment on a 15-year-old boy's challenge to the curfew zone. The boy, who does not want to be identified, has never been in trouble with the police and is said to be a "model student". Backed by the civil rights group Liberty, he claims his social life has been curtailed by the antisocial exclusion area, as he fears being "pounced on" by police and returned home when he travels alone to band practice in the church hall, walks on errands to Tesco or takes the dog out. Lined with willow trees and grass verges, Ashburnham Road bears little resemblance to any frontline in the battle against yobs and thuggery being waged by councils and police across Britain. It winds three-quarters of a mile through a 1960s housing estate, past tidy terraces, around a church, primary school, youth club and green, and on to the £1m homes that overlook Ham Common. There is a group of teenage boys in school uniform hanging around at the shops opposite the church, but little sign that criminal damage, vandalism and violence are pervasive in the suburban strip sandwiched between Richmond and Twickenham which makes up the zone. "Don't get me wrong," said Sgt Neilson. "It's not Brixton, it's not a massive problem, but the residents here do have concerns. "Mostly it is not the crime figures themselves but the perception of crime that we have to fight here. Residents have told us they are most concerned about graffiti and criminal damage." Misinterpreted As he patrols the main parade of shops opposite St Richard's church, where businesses and residents are eagerly awaiting the judge's ruling, Sgt Neilson says the curfew zone has been misinterpreted. "This is not about trapping law-abiding people it's about having the ability to deal with groups of youths that may be causing problems," he said. "It is not about making this a no-go zone. If that is what Liberty are saying they are very wrong. We are not targeting under 16s just going about their business." As well as the newsagent, a German bakery, Tesco and a Threshers, the zone encompasses the church, the primary school, secondary school, the youth club and Ham Green, where teenagers play football after school. Residents tell tales of teenagers setting up roadblocks with traffic cones, climbing flat roofs and firing a paintball gun at the bus on its evening route - after which the company refused to allow buses down Ashburnham Road unless they had a police escort. "We want this zone because these teenagers are very intimidating," said Nancy Will, who works at Backhaus, the German bakery. "When I come to work they verbally abuse me. I've tried to talk to them but they don't listen; they try to set light to the back of the shops, they block my way, and I feel threatened." But the community, a mix of pensioners, young families and German immigrants drawn to the area because it has one of the only German schools in London, seems far from united. There are mutterings that those opposed to the dispersal area, including representatives of the young people, were banned from speaking at public meetings on the issue. "There are a lot of middle class people with clout around here," said one resident. "We don't have the problems of the inner cities, yet we have a big police presence now, because people are articulate and pushy and they get what they want even if we don't need it. People who didn't want it were stopped from speaking out." At St Richard's church the congregation is a cross-section of the community; pensioners express fear about the groups of teenagers hanging around the shops, but young people complain that there is little for them to do. Criminalised At Ham and Petersham youth club, the children are waiting as keenly as the residents for the judge's ruling. Few have been able to put their views on something which they say curtails their freedom. Many feel they are being criminalised en masse for the actions of a few troublemakers. When the zone was last in place, over the Christmas holidays, the attendance at the youth club, the only facility of its kind in the area, dropped from 40 to four as teenagers went elsewhere, concerned they might be arrested after 9pm. It was set up again last week to run for the summer holidays. Many youth workers believe it will not solve the problem of a few troublemakers, but will push young people further away from their homes. "This zone doesn't mean they won't be going out in the evening," said Lucy Byrne, a development worker. "What it means is the kids are just pushed away from the area close to their homes, the area that is the most safe for them, and sent out further afield where they don't know anyone and where there are dangers."