A mystery man smoking a cigarette with his left hand has been asked to come forward by detectives hunting for the missing university chef, Claudia Lawrence, whose mother today made her first appeal for help in the six-week search.The man was seen with a woman at 5.35am close to the route in York which the 35-year-old used for her early-morning walk to work. Police are concerned that a detailed description of the man has not prompted anyone to come forward.Claudia's solicitor father, Peter Lawrence, 62, said the couple might have had nothing to do with his daughter's disappearance, but it was crucial to find out. Claudia was last seen near her home on the evening of 18 March, on her way back from her catering shift at York University. The sighting in Melrosegate was made the next morning.Lawrence said: "If the woman was Claudia, she didn't go past the CCTV camera which is approximately 200 yards further down the road. So we need to know, and if anybody doesn't want to give that information to the police they can always do it anonymously on Crime­stoppers." The charity is offering a £10,000 reward for information leading to the conviction of anyone linked to Claudia's disappearance.The man was described by an eyewitness as being skinny, wearing dark combat trousers, and having a distinctive way of smoking using his left hand. "If he gets this message and there was absolutely nothing untoward, if would be extremely helpful if we knew that," Lawrence said. "Somebody else must know who he is from the description – husband, partner, brother, neighbour, workmate. We really need to know, even if it is just to eliminate."Claudia's mother, Joan, 65, who has stayed out of the limelight until now, issued a statement todayappealing for more information. "The situation I find myself in is every parent's worst nightmare," she said. "Our children, no matter how old they are, are still the most precious things in our lives."I am blessed with two beautiful daughters, not only beautiful on the outside but inside as well. I wish to appeal for help to all of you, whoever you are. The response so far has been fantastic but unfortunately, as we speak, our attempts have been unsuccessful in finding Claudia."I wish to make a further appeal to everyone to come forward with any information, no matter how insignificant or trivial they think it may be. Someone, somewhere, knows where Claudia is. We are devastated and miss and love her so much. We just want her home with us all, safe and well."The inquiry was upgraded last week from a missing person case to a suspected murder. Students returning from the Easter break to York University and York St John University, which has many student residences near Claudia's home in the suburb of Heworth, have been asked to think back and come forward with any information, however small.