The home secretary, David Blunkett, will tell police superintendents today that he is ready to allow police forces to offer cash deals to persuade key senior officers to go on working rather than retire in their late 40s and early 50s in order to stem the flow of leadership talent from the service.Mr Blunkett believes that the loss of such experience, expertise and talented officers who have served in the police for 30 years is seriously damaging the service. The current structure of the police pension scheme provides a strong incentive for most officers to leave, take a generous lump sum and a pension on half-pay while getting another job in the private security sector or elsewhere. "We have to find a way of encouraging this key group to stay on. Nothing is ruled out at present," said a Home Office source. The West Midlands police has already asked for permission to allow some of its 180 officers who retire each year to commute part of their pensions into a lump sum and then rejoin as constables. The Metropolitan police wants to persuade its 500 officers who retire each year to stay on by allowing them to claim a tax-free lump sum from their pension while reducing their pension payments. In a key speech on his plans to reform the police service, Mr Blunkett will also tell the annual conference of the police superintendents' association that he wants to see the "extended police family" which includes neighbourhood wardens, security staff and traffic wardens used to take the pressure off the police by taking on tasks that are considered minor by constables but nevertheless create misery for the public. It is expected that Mr Blunkett will today cite the example of dealing with the menace of off-road bikers shattering the peace of the countryside and parks as the kind of task that could be taken on by wardens or private security. The proposal is expected to prove among the most controversial of the government's radical police reform programme, with rank and file constables resisting any measures they regard as "two-tier policing on the cheap". The home secretary will also detail his controversial plans for the introduction of a central police standards unit and will announce that he is to scrap half the 30-odd performance targets that are used to measure the progress of each force. The 15 new performance indicators will be chosen on the basis of how easily understood they are by the public and the amount of bureaucracy they place on the police. But his speech will also focus on improving the quality of leadership of the police. Under the current accelerated promotion scheme it can take up to 15 years for an officer to reach superintendent level. A new scheme, more tailored to the requirements of the individual, would enable rapid promotion within five years for the right candidate to a command position.