In the debate on a national DNA database provoked by the convictions of Steve Wright and Mark Dixie, Henry Porter articulates the classic libertarian standpoint ('MPs must thwart the dark plans of the state', Comment, last week). In the 1960s and 1970s I was an active member of National Council for Civil Liberties (now Liberty) and its sometime chairman, but I believe there is a compelling case for a universal national DNA database.There is growing evidence that it is a unique weapon in identifying, and eliminating, perpetrators of crime. Its use minimises the possibilities of miscarriages of justice. There are, however, undoubted dangers in 'the state' being the custodian of the database. Why not entrust the database to an entirely independent authority with a remit only to release profiles for good and authenticated cause? If we were all on the database, from cradle to grave, the suspicion of partiality would go by the board.Benedict BirnbergLondon SE3There can be no doubt that the ill-effects of the present database policy are immense: large sections of the population are simply criminalised. Police forces boast of increases in arrests during a financial year. What they do not do is differentiate between arrests that were dismissed by the Crown Prosecution Service and those that resulted in a conviction. Any government is happy to seize on the 'tough on crime' ticket as an easy vote-winner. When innocent people are arrested by over-zealous policing great damage may be done to their reputations, health and careers. Let us hope the European Court of Human Rights makes a wise decision. If it does not, please continue to campaign for the abolition of this Big Brother tactic and its potentially damaging consequences for the human rights of every citizen.Patrick MurphyMatlock DerbyshireHenry Porter is misguided in complaining about the government's plans to require rail and sea travellers to provide 19 items of personal information for 'more general public policy purposes'. The proposals do not go far enough. They admit the possibility that anti-social elements may conceal their movements by travelling by bus or coach, so logically these should also be included. Furthermore, since no tickets are required for car travel, every journey by car should be registered in advance with a new body which could be called the State Transportation Authorisation and Surveillance Institution (Stasi). A miniature radio beacon inserted under the skin at birth would ensure that even those devious enough to attempt to evade monitoring by travelling by cycle or on foot would not be able to do so.The problem is that while it is often stated that those who have nothing to hide have nothing to fear from such measures, those who do have something to hide will inevitably find ways of circumventing them.Stephen ButcherBallymena, Co. AntrimI would have more sympathy with Henry Porter if he acknowledged that a more 'profound threat to our liberty and privacy' is to be raped and killed by someone who could have been apprehended before with a properly and responsibly organised national DNA database.A database does not need to have 'dominion over our biological essence' nor be tantamount to 'a police state'. It is not beyond the wit of legislators to, for example, create a non-compulsory service operated by academia, overseen by the judiciary and commissioned under reasonable restrictions for the police.Whose liberty are we protecting? The perpetrators' or the victims'?Andrew George MP House of Commons, London SW1