The former prisons minister Paul Boateng could be forced to defend in court his decision not to hold a public inquiry into the murder of an Asian prisoner by a racist psycopath following a hearing at the high court yesterday. Staff at Feltham young offenders' institute could also face charges of manslaughter due to gross negligence as a result of an inquiry, according to representatives of the family of Zahid Mubarek, who was beaten to death by his cellmate Robert Stewart in February last year. Last November, after Stewart was jailed for life, Mr Boateng asked the commission for racial equality to include the murder of Mr Mubarek, and conditions at Feltham in general, in an inquiry into racism at Brixton and Park prisons. The CRE decided to hold its sessions in private and not allow the family's representatives to ask questions. In addition the west London coroner refused to reconvene an inquest into Mr Mubarek's death on the grounds that the verdict - unlawful killing - was obvious. As a result, say the family, there has been no public scrutiny of how Mr Mubarek, an Asian prisoner with no history of violence, was allocated the same cell as a psycopath with a long record of violence and racism. Under precedents arising from the European convention of human rights and supported in British courts, deaths in custody should be examined by an "effective, independent and prompt investigation" separate from any criminal hearing. Mr Mubarek's family was yesterday seeking a judicial review of the CRE decision when, in an extraordinary move, Mr Justice Hooper suggested the family also apply for a judicial review of the Home Office decision not to convene a public inquiry, and the coroner's refusal to hold an inquest. "Otherwise I think each will pass the buck to each other," he said. The hearing was adjourned until September 3 when Mr Justice Hooper will hear an application for judicial review of the decisions by all three parties. Imran Khan, the solicitor acting for Mr Mubarek's family, said they were delighted at the decision. "We are very pleased with the outcome today," he said. "In essence it is recognition by the court of what the family have asked for all along; the need for a public inquiry to ensure that reforms in the prison service, and that lessons need to be learned," he said. Following the hearing Mr Khan wrote to the prisons minister, Beverly Hughes, to ask if she supported the position of her predecessor Mr Boateng, and informing her that if she did the Home Office would become parties to the application for judicial review. Patrick O'Connor QC, acting for Mr Mubarek's family, said the questions raised by the case went to the heart of the state's responsibility to permit public scrutiny of deaths in custody. "There was enough material for the CRE to have an inquiry into racism in the prison service, and at the request of the prisons minister they added Feltham. They thought they could fulfil their responsibility through the CRE, and obviate the need for a full public inquiry." Mr Mubarek had asked four times for a transfer from his cell because he was worried about Stewart's behaviour. Referring to the fact the incident was not discovered until Stewart rang an alarm after beating Mr Mubarek, Mr O'Connor said it was "strange that the noise of beating someone to death in a cell should have gone unnoticed" by staff. An internal prison service report into the murder found evidence of poor management, the breakdown of screening procedures and a failure adequately to monitor Stewart's letters in which he expressed admiration for the killers of Stephen Lawrence.