On May 8, 1993, the Daily Mail made an early attempt at covering the murder of a black teenager in south-east London.It was one paragraph long and this is what it said: 'Three white teenagers were being questioned about the killing of black student Stephen Lawrence, after being arrested in dawn swoops. Stephen, 18, of Plumstead, south-east London, was stabbed to death after being ambushed by a gang of six two weeks ago.' It was tucked away on page 19 in the news in brief column. No front page story on the horror of it all. No shouting headlines or a demand for an end to racial injustice. No mention of the fact that it could even be a racially motivated attack. Just one short news story. Nearly six years later and we now survey a different landscape. From that quiet start, a murder in a London street has become a marking point in the relationship between black people, television, the press and Middle England. In the last 12 months the Mail has run more than 170 stories that either mention Stephen or are about him. That's more than double the number the stories the newspaper has run on the Archbishop of Canterbury (66), Robbie Williams (72) or most members of the Government. It would be easy to say that the murder of Stephen Lawrence has produced a remarkable shift in attitudes. Newspapers, the BBC, ITV - each have been tripping over themselves to cover Stephen's death in more detail than anybody else. Worried that the Charles Wheeler documentary, Why Stephen? was delayed by snooker coverage; the BBC decided to repeat the programme three days later. In the last month viewers have been plied with programmes: Panorama, Why Stephen? the Murder of Stephen Lawrence, Hoping for a Miracle, The Colour of Justice. No other story has taken up more time. 'It would have been different if Stephen had had dreadlocks or had been a member of the Nation of Islam,' said Patrick Younge, executive producer of Why Stephen? 'You wouldn't have seen his face on the front pages then.' Most remarkable, in this frenzy of coverage, has been the role of the Daily Mail. No other paper has been so closely associated with the story and it is difficult to underestimate its importance in bringing the Lawrence case to the doormats of the semi-detached homes of the comfy middle classes. In a study of the changing attitude of the media as a whole to the coverage of black issues, the relationship between the Mail and the Lawrences is edifying. Its famous Murderers front page in February 1997 came at a time when Jack Straw, then shadow home secretary, was considering whether to back an inquiry into the case. 'And we know how close Jack Straw's Home Office agenda is to the agenda of the Daily Mail,' said Brian Cathcart, a journalist who has sat through every day of the inquiry. When the Mail first decided to cover the Lawrence story its reaction was predictable. Here was a murder investigation, the paper decided, that was being hampered by a hotch-potch of scaremongering left-wing groups who had hijacked the campaign for their own ends. There had been a similar reaction to the death of Rolan Adams, murdered by white youths in 1991. Hal Austin, a black journalist at the Mail, was sent to interview Doreen and Neville Lawrence. Although details of what happened on that day in 1993 are unclear it seems that Mr Lawrence managed to talk to Paul Dacre, the editor of the Mail, on the telephone. Mr Lawrence was angered by the Mail's line and told Mr Dacre so. Mr Lawrence did not make the mistake of emphasising the politics of it all. Instead Mr Lawrence made it very simple: this was a story about a young, black teenager murdered by white thugs. 'It is Middle England's nightmare,' Younge said. It is unclear whether Dacre had already realised that Neville Lawrence was the same Neville Lawrence, painter and decorator, that had once done some work on Dacre's house in Islington. Wheeer said: 'To suggest that the Mail covered the Stephen Lawrence case in the way they did simply because Neville had once plastered the editor's front room is fatuous." The fact is that the Lawrence story pressed many of the Mail's buttons and therefore many of the buttons of a concerned Middle England. Here was an aspirational working class family who had seen their hard working son murdered. Worse still, the five men accused of murdering Stephen had seemingly stuck two fingers up to British justice by refusing to answer any questions during the inquest, positing a 'right to silence' in their defence. 'They were making a mockery of the law and it really got up Dacre's nose,' Cathcart said. The Mail has always been a firm backer of legislation to curtail the right of silence. 'There will be loud complaints about curbs on the right to silence,' the paper wrote of Michael Howard's plans to reform the criminal justice system in 1994. 'Once again we shall hear the voices of those who care more for the welfare of psychopathic thugs than for the victims. The liberal hand-wringers should have a care.' So Lawrence fitted the Mail rubric well. And floating underneath is the commercial imperative. Just as young women are the new holy grail for newspapers seeking to boost circulation, the growth of a black middle class is also an important demographic change. 'It will be difficult for the left to point a finger at the Mail now [about racism],' Wheeler said. On the Lawrences' coat-tails have come other 'deserving' black victims: Alison Moore, the black primary school teacher beaten-up by racists; Jay Aba tan, the Nigerian-born City executive killed by white youths while waiting for a taxi. Each have had their full page asking why, oh why? But other cases - Ali Ibrahim, a Sudanese refugee; Quddus Ali, permanently brain damaged after being beaten by white thugs; Somali refugees attacked as benefit scroungers - are not so fortunate. If the media, not just the Mail but the broadsheets and television as well, had not been so vocal, would the Lawrences' have managed to take their case so far? Most disagree. The Lawrence story had such momentum because of the legal process - a rotten investigation, a failed private prosecution, an inquest, an inquiry. Why was there no Panorama on the subject until a few weeks ago and why has there still never been a Crimewatch report, despite the Lawrences' request for one? The Lawrences have been a convenient bandwagon and the media has clambered aboard with gusto. 'I was asked to write a piece on the case for Granta in 1997,' Cathcart said. 'I was surprised when I discovered that, although Stephen had been murdered four years earlier, there had been no piece of substantial journalism on the case, no Sunday supplement pieces or proper investigations. It was all 300 word stuff, fragmentary. 'In the end the Lawrences became too embarassing to live with.We were shamed into taking the story on.' 