You give four pages to the story of a taxi driver's rape of more than 100 women across London (Police failures blamed after driver stayed free to attack 100 women, 14 March). The failure of the police to take these women's complaints of sexual assault seriously gave John Worboys the green light to go ahead and rape even more women. This shocking revelation will not surprise many women across the country who have experienced gender-based violence and have long lost faith in the police and the justice system - faith that can only be restored when police officers who ignore complaints brought by women are brought to account and there is an end to all forms of violence against women.Many of the women Worboys targeted were picked up in central London. This is where, on 7 March, 5,000 women from across the UK demonstrated for an end to male violence against women. The Million Women Rise march closed down Oxford Street and Regent Street and was the biggest march of women since the suffragettes. Yet, unlike Worboys, the march did not attract any coverage.We call for an end to all forms of violence against women. We demand a fully resourced national strategy that sends the clear message that violence against women will not be tolerated. We also demand a full inquiry into the actions of the police in this case.Sabrina QureshiFounder and co-ordinator, Million Women Rise Coalition And 16 othersI stopped taking taxis years ago. It is common practice for taxi drivers to make sexual remarks to female passengers. There was a period when I was taking taxis a lot for work and I was repeatedly told I could pay for fares "in kind", asked how far I could spread my legs - this was a bewilderingly regular question - and so on. Eventually, I quit the job and took one which did not involve taking taxis. Now I never take them, even if I miss the last tube home. I would rather walk. Taking a taxi is not much different to hitch-hiking. You get into the car of a total stranger who has the ability to lock you inside. The taxi system needs to be overhauled. Drivers should not be able to lock passengers inside.Kate AlleyLondon It would be disastrous if this unique case leads to women avoiding black cabs, which are overwhelmingly safe and recognisable compared with many illegal minicabs, or worse, just private cars which regularly pick up passengers from the streets. If the police had appealed to the black-cab drivers for help, it is likely Worboys would have been caught much earlier. Kris BeuretLeicester