A husband who helped his wife to kill herself to save her from suffering the degenerative effects of multiple sclerosis was spared jail yesterday.Robert Cook, who had been asked by his wife Vanessa to help her die, placed a plastic bag and pillow over her face after she had taken an overdose of pills.The 60-year-old admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility and aiding and abetting suicide and was given a 12-month prison sentence, suspended for two years, by a judge who described the case as "tragic". Lewes crown court heard that Cook told police after being arrested in October 2006: "The only reason why I done what I done was through love and affection through 29 years. I carried out my wife's dying wish."He and Mrs Cook, 55, were said to have been devoted to each other. But her health deteriorated after she was diagnosed with MS in 2003. She had a history of depression and had tried to kill herself three times. Mrs Cook had told her husband not to call emergency services until he was certain she had died, the court heard, and she suggested using a bag, after seeing it on television, if the overdose alone did not work. Christine Laing QC, prosecuting, said: "He said he asked her if she was really sure she wanted him to do this and she nodded yes." After Mrs Cook had died her husband called the emergency services and led police officers to their bedroom. He was arrested and broke down during the police interview as he said he would have to "live with what I've done".He said of the killing: "It's not what they show you on the TV. It doesn't take a couple of minutes. It takes longer."Cook had been due to stand trial on a murder charge, which he denied, before pleading guilty to manslaughter last month. Mrs Cook's family in a statement described her husband's actions as "brave and unselfish". Judge Richard Brown said he was satisfied an immediate jail term was not necessary. Cook was also given a 12-month supervision order.Sarah Wootton, chief executive of Dignity in Dying, said: "At a time when he should have been treated with compassion and been allowed to grieve for his wife in peace, Robert Cook was arrested, charged with murder and forced to wait months to know whether or not he would be sent to prison."The current law is failing terminally ill people and their loved ones."