Women's groups are calling on the police and prosecutors to treat abuse of women and girls online as "robustly" as they do offline, as a report published on Thursday reveals the extent of sexual harassment on social media sites such as Twitter.Holly Dustin, director of End Violence Against Women Coalition (EVAW) said: "Rape threats online should be treated with the same seriousness as if they happened in the street or on the bus. They need to treat abuse online in the same way as they do offline."The call for action comes in the same week as two people were charged with improper use of a communications network on allegations of abusive tweets to Caroline Criado-Perez this summer. The campaigner, who led calls for Jane Austen's portrait to be featured on a banknote, said the experience of abuse had left her "emotionally and psychologically scarred", scared to open email or look at her mentions on Twitter.She is also to make an official complaint about the Crown Prosecution Service's handling of the case after it released details of the charges to the press before alerting her to the abuse. Speaking to the Guardian, she said the CPS did not seem to realise that any renewed interest in the case could trigger more abuse online. The Labour MP Stella Creasy, who has also been subject to abuse online, tweeted her outrage over the lack of notice.EVAW published its report, New Technology, Same Old Problems, in association with the Guardian after a round table of 20 lawyers, academics, support workers and journalists was convened to discuss the issue of the online abuse of women. The discussion ranged from rape threats sent to high-profile women such as Professor Mary Beard to sexist bullying and harassment of teenagers on sites such as ask.fm and Facebook to the distribution of pornography through web chatrooms and messaging.The report also demands that the government places an obligation on all schools to teach respectful and consensual relationships, whether offline or online, and for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport to set up an advisory group on sexism in the media.Dustin said the abuse and naming on Twitter of a rape victim following the conviction of the footballer Ched Evans in 2012 showed her how much work needed to be done to get the police to understand the severity of the crime. "I called the police in North Wales and they said: "Why are you calling us and not Twitter?'". It is a criminal offence to identify a rape victim and no media site would be able to do such a thing.The report also calls on social media firms to review their terms and conditions to ensure they outlaw harassment and abuse. Following a spate of cases in which young women and girls fall victim to former partners sharing intimate pictures online, EVAW also wants the companies to commit to removing any intimate photo from a site when a subject requests even when the image was originally taken with consent. Such calls has typically come up against US companies which fear infringing on freedom of expression. But campaigners argue that women are being silenced through abuse.Dustin said social media has provided a new platform to campaign against abuse, including campaigns on "everydaysexism" and against sexism and racism in music videos at the same time as "creating a new space for the same old abuse".She added: "This abuse is real and threatening, and is circulated and duplicated far more quickly because of new technology. The government and the companies who provide those spaces have responsibility to prevent this. The police and prosecution must urgently respond to abuse online, and we must ensure that schools talk to young people about these issues, as well as ensuring specialist support for survivors."Campaigners also want each police force area to publish data on their rate of prosecutions and convictions for offences involving social media and for schools and for schools to teach relationships as part of sex education.