Three prisoners, two of them on suicide watch, were found hanging in their cells over Christmas, reviving concerns about the care of vulnerable inmates. The co-director of Inquest, a group concerned about deaths in custody, said that she feared prison service guidelines were still not being implemented properly. Prison staff who had been monitoring Steven Keeling, 34, as a possible suicide risk found him hanging in Nottingham prison on Saturday afternoon and were unable to resuscitate him. He shared a cell but hanged himself while his cellmate was out on the wing. He was being held on remand on charges of grievous bodily harm and child neglect. Prison officers had also identified Anthony Rowan, 27, as a suicide risk before he was found in his cell at Norwich prison in the early hours of Christmas Day. He was serving a life sentence for arson after being convicted at Bradford crown court in February 1998. David Berriman, 31, who was serving an eight-month sentence for driving while disqualified and theft, was found hanging in his cell at Hull prison late on Christmas Eve. The deaths bring the total number of prisoners who have died in custody to 70 this year. A spokeswoman for the prison service said it was not unusual to see a cluster of deaths at this time of year. "It's reflected in society as a whole," she said. "Christmas is a very stressful time of year both in and out of prison." She added: "The number of suicides in prisons is falling at a time when the prison population is increasing and the number of suicide attempts in the outside world is rising. Our anti-suicide measures are working, but there will never be a way to stop prisoners who are determined to do it." But Deborah Coles of Inquest said: "There's no doubt that the prison service has invested a lot of resources in the problem, but the reality is that far too often the deaths we deal with raise questions about the implementation of their suicide prevention guidelines. "We are deeply disturbed by the number of these cases that, when they come to an inquiry or inquest, show poor levels of care." Ms Coles said suicides and self-harm were more common in local prisons such as Nottingham, Norwich and Hull because they tended to the most "impoverished and limited" regimes. Martin Narey, the director general of the prison service, has introduced new measures to the system, including "safe cells" and mobile phones that can be used to dial only the Samaritans.