The driver of a black taxi accused of rape and a string of assaults told a court today that he had consensual sexual contact with female passengers in the back of his cab and had offered women champagne and a free lift home because he craved their attention.John Worboys, 51, a former stripper, admitted making up "banter" about winning huge sums of money in a casino and then inviting women passengers to celebrate his winnings with a drink.Worboys said he had sexual contact with women passengers in his cab but denied the prosecution's claims that they had been drugged or were unconscious.The defendant told Croydon crown court that he sometimes waived the fare, telling the women it was on his way home even when it involved driving to the opposite side of London. He admitted having sex with several passengers at their homes but said he did not have many one-night stands. "To my knowledge they have never been drugged. I just would not do that," he told the jury.Speaking about his "odd" behaviour, he said: "I think it is due to my mum dying when I was young. I lost her when I was 13 and all my friends were getting attention and cuddles and stuff like that. I just did not think I was getting attention."Worboys, of Rotherhithe, south-east London, is accused of 23 offences against 14 women, including rape, assault by penetration, sexual assault, attempted sexual assault and administering a substance with intent. He denies all the charges.Speaking in his defence for the first time, Worboys said he lied to women about his name – sometimes giving his stripper's stage name of Terry – as well as lying about his background and cash winnings because he craved female attention. "I used to wait until I had a good two or three thousand pounds with me and I used to sort of make up a story that I won money in the casino or lottery. I used to show it to them and ask if they would celebrate with me and have a drink, either champagne or wine, just to celebrate my winnings. It was like banter really – just to get their attention."The prosecution says Worboys spent 18 months cruising the streets of London late at night looking for drunk women to attack. He allegedly coaxed or intimidated the women into drinking alcohol laced with over-the-counter and prescription sedatives.Worboys said he had no memory of three women who made allegations of being drugged and assaulted by him after he picked them up in central London. In another case of a young woman he picked up on the King's Road in Chelsea, he said they enjoyed a drink together after he offered her a free lift home. She fell asleep in the back of his cab and she suddenly began swearing at him as they arrived at her home. In another case, he ended up drinking with a young woman and admitted paying her £50 to down a glass of vodka, saying it was because he had a headache and wanted to go home.He wept as he told the court that it was the 13th anniversary of the day he passed "the knowledge" to become a black cab driver. He previously worked as a milkman, junior dairy manager, security guard and stripper while living in Enfield, north London; Waltham Abbey in Essex; and Cheshunt, Herts. He spent 13 years working as a male stripper under the stage name "Terry the Minder" and performed at hen nights, gay venues and as a kissogram. Worboys said he found the attention from women "very enjoyable" but gave up stripping in 1999 when he was 42. "One imagines that a male stripper has a limited shelf life during which they can pursue their career," said his barrister, Jeremy Gold QC. The defendant said he was involved in a series of unsuccessful relationships and met two girlfriends after giving them lifts in his taxi.Worboys said he began carrying drinks including champagne, wine, gin, whisky and vodka in the front of his taxi after a woman passenger suggested it. He said "99%" of women accepted the offer of a drink, which he made on the last job of the night.Gold asked: "Do you accept that there have been occasions when you have had sexual contact with passengers in the back of your cab?"Worboys replied: "Yes, I have."The trial continues.