The government is to open a new front against yob culture by encouraging the break-up of the England football supporters' club which it claims is infested with young, white male hooligans "determined to display offensive and distorted perceptions of patriotism".It is also considering requiring most league clubs to restrict the sale of away tickets to visiting team's membership clubs. Ministers will propose stricter implementation of laws against racist and sexist remarks at matches. The proposals come in a Home Office report calling for a transformation in the breadth of support for English football so women, children and minorities are no longer alienated. The report, drawn up by a 26-strong group chaired by the Home Office minister Lord Bassam, proposes that tickets for England matches abroad should be diverted away from young, white male hooligans. It claims that a transformation is necessary if the xenophobic image of the England support abroad is to change. It also suggests that uniformed, accredited stewards should travel abroad with fans to liaise with locals and police. Drawn from a pool of existing club stewards, they would have powers to intervene inside and outside grounds. The stewards, who might spot potential troublemakers, would not be presented as an external police force but as a group determined to defend the anti-violent principles of a new England Members Club. The knowledge of the stewards, the report claims, would also help the host police forces to "distinguish between passionate English followers and potential troublemakers. "This should help allay a common fear of many sup porters that they run the risk of being arrested simply for being English in the wrong place and at the wrong time." The Home Office group of police, football authorities, supporters and members of football club boards, including Delia Smith of Norwich City, has so far rejected the use of British uniformed police or a private security company. A new England Members Club, the report suggests, would require the existing 27,000 members to be vetted again. Clear criteria for expulsion and non-admission would include a criminal record. The report argues that the "dramatic rehabilitation of the Scotland support occurred as a direct result of fans opting to act in a manner which clearly distinguished them from their menacing and disruptive English counterparts". There are signs that some big English football clubs playing abroad no longer attract racist support. But this does not extend to some smaller clubs, many of which remain immune to anti-racist campaigns, the group says. The report also finds that many stewards at Premiership clubs are reluctant to act decisively against groups behaving in a racist or offensive manner. "Unchallenged racist or sexist remarks and threatening behaviour can transform the communal and passionate experience of watching football into a wholly negative and intimidating one for minority community and female supporters." The group was set up in the wake of anger at English supporters' behaviour during the Euro 2000 tournament in Belgium and the Netherlands. The government was forced to admit that a massive policing operation for the tournament failed because few of the hooligans who travelled were known to the national criminal intelligence service. Analysis of those arrested revealed that around 42% had previous convictions, many for violent and public order offences, but not necessarily for football-related crimes. The government responded with legislation giving courts powers to ban hooligans from travelling if there are reasonable grounds to believe that would prevent football-related disorder. Euro 2000 confirmed, the report concludes, that the England following "disproportionately comprises white males aged 20 to 35, some of whom clearly have racist and xenophobic tendencies. "Many more seem to believe that racist or xenophobic chanting is the appropriate way to demonstrate national pride and support for the English team. "They appear oblivious to how that behaviour is perceived and then bemused when the host police behave accordingly. "In many respects the behaviour at England football matches mirrors that demonstrated in high streets every weekend and when on holiday on continental resorts. It is hostile, anti-social and dismissive of all things not stereotypically English."