Two corrupt detective constables who became involved in a criminal's scheme to kidnap and assault a money launderer over debts of up to £600,000 were yesterday sentenced at the Old Bailey to seven years and 30 months in prison after pleading guilty.Their two co-conspirators, both with criminal records, were sentenced to seven and four years in what Judge Graham Boal described as an "unholy alliance" between poachers and gamekeepers to commit a very serious crime. The four were arrested two years ago after a sting by Scotland Yard's anti-corruption squad. Passing the higher sentence on Detective Constable Martin Morgan, a 39-year-old father of four, the judge said: "You have brought dishonour and disgrace, not only on yourself, but upon the service you were meant to represent. Your conduct was calculated to bring the rank of constable into disrepute. There is no more despicable spectacle than that of a bent police officer." The judge told Detective Constable Declan Costello, 36, that his criminality was less serious. "I accept that you chose to destroy a hitherto impeccable record by an isolated decision which was out of character and born of a misguided sense of loyalty." The court had been told that both officers had joined forces with Robert Kean, 54, a builder from Norwich with a string of previous convictions, and Carl Wood, 45, of Waltham Cross, Hertfordshire, to hunt down Kean's crooked associate, known as Mr X, and force him to hand over what they claimed he owed them. Sentencing Kean to seven years, Judge Boal said the builder had intended to imprison Mr X "so that you could make it abundantly plain to him that the consequences of his not complying with your demands might be dire indeed". Secretly taped conversations between Kean and Wood suggested that they intended to torture Mr X and then put his body in a car crusher. Wood's four years in prison will include the six months he spent in jail in Spain, from where he was extradited. Morgan, Kean, and Wood, pleaded guilty to conspiring to unlawfully and injuriously imprison Mr X and to detain him against his will. Wood and Costello admitted conspiracy to assault, causing actual bodily harm. But their pleas had only been made at the eleventh hour, the judge said, after lengthy legal efforts to stop the case in its tracks. Nevertheless, Judge Boal said a guilty plea made before a jury was empanelled was a significant mitigating factor which effectively reduced their sentences by one-third. In an outline of the case on Tuesday the court was told that Mr X, who has been convicted of laundering drug money, had disappeared. Kean claimed he was owed £600,000 and Wood £80,000. Kean enlisted Morgan's help to find Mr X through police resources. Morgan's reward was said to be £50,000. But they were unaware that undercover officers had become suspicious of Morgan's activities and an elaborate sting was put into place. The four men were lured to a hotel in Guildford in the expectation of catching Mr X. The room they stayed in was bugged. Mr X, in the meantime, had been traced by the investigators and placed in protective custody. Earlier, in pleas of mitigation, Michael Gledhill QC, for Morgan, said there was no evidence of financial gain. Malcolm Swift QC, for Costello, said: "His personal file makes it clear that he has been an outstanding officer. He is basically an honourable man. His career has been destroyed." Counsel for all four said the talk in the hotel of torture was simply "bravado".