Amy Winehouse said she was "relieved and going home" today after a district judge dismissed a charge alleging she punched a dancer at a charity ball.Burlesque dancer Sherene Flash, who admitted she had been "tipsy", had claimed the singer hit her in the right eye after being asked for a photograph at the Prince's Trust Ball in Berkeley Square, London, last September.But judge Timothy Workman, sitting at City of Westminster magistrates court in London, said that "having heard the evidence from all the witnesses, I cannot be sure that this was not an accident".Winehouse, who had fanned herself with a notebook during the hearing, at first seemed confused by his decision, leaving the dock only after her solicitor appeared to clarify the not guilty verdict. On her way out, she told reporters she was relieved.She had told the court she felt intimidated and scared by Flash when the dancer leaned over her and put her arm round her while backstage at the event. She would have been happy to pose for a picture with Flash, she said, but had asked her to wait while she said goodbye to a friend.Winehouse, who was at the ball to see her 13-year-old goddaughter Dionne Bromfield headlining in her first gig, denied punching Flash in the face. "I pushed her up, like away. I wanted her away from me ... I was scared. I thought: 'People are mad these days, people are just rude and mad, or people can't handle their drink.' I didn't know what she was doing. She lunged at me and put her arm around me. She was just drunk."I think it was just intimidating. Suddenly out of nowhere she's got her arm round me, her face next to mine, and there's a camera in front of me. I think she was being overly friendly but that was intimidating. I was scared. I'm not Mickey Mouse. I'm a human being."The singer, who said she was two stone underweight at the time, and "five foot two and a half, or five foot three", felt Flash towered over her.Outside the court, a spokesman for Winehouse said: "She's always maintained her innocence and is very happy to move on with her life and put the episode behind her."Summing up the evidence, the judge said all but two witnesses in the trial were drunk at the time of the incident. "The two accounts are irreconcilable and I have had therefore to examine carefully the evidence of other witnesses."Whilst I accept that all the witnesses have endeavoured to give an accurate account of the events, all but two of them were under the influence of alcohol to varying degrees."The judge said the medical evidence presented by the prosecution did not show "the sort of injury that often occurs when there is a forceful punch to the eye".Prosecutor Lyall Thompson had told the two-day trial that Winehouse had instigated a "deliberate assault" on Flash. The dancer said she had approached Winehouse's dressing room with friend Kieran Connolly in the hope of getting a picture with the star.Flash, who admitted being tipsy, said she ushered Connolly into the photograph when suddenly Winehouse struck out at her, leaving her crying, in shock and unable to open her right eye.The court also heard Flash's call to police. The operator asked the dancer who had hit her, to which she tearfully replied: "Amy Winehouse, of all fucking people."But none of the other witnesses giving evidence said they saw Winehouse throw the punch.The singer's lawyer, Patrick Gibbs, said: "The main injury here was probably to Miss Flash's pride. Maybe she had been made to look silly in front of friends and colleagues."