A violent and wealth-obsessed career criminal who stabbed a financier to death three months after being freed from jail on early release was found guilty of murder at the Old Bailey yesterday.Damien Hanson, 24, was one of two men who tricked their way last November into the London home of John Monckton, 49, managing director (bonds) for insurers Legal and General, by pretending to be postal delivery men.Although Mr Monckton immediately realised he had made a mistake and fought to keep the two robbers out, he and his wife Homeyra, 46, were overpowered in an incident described to the court as "every householder's nightmare".The alarm was raised by their nine-year-old daughter Isobel who partly witnessed the attack as she hid upstairs in their home in Upper Cheyne Row, Chelsea, west London. In a videotaped interview played to the jury, she described how, after the robbers fled, she heard her mother frantically screaming for help. She ran downstairs where she saw "blood all over the floor" and on the walls. Her mother, who had been stabbed twice in the back, was lying at the bottom of the stairs. In the interview, Isobel described how she saw her father on the floor with his eyes closed.The court heard how Hanson - wearing a balaclava, armed with a gun and a knife, and accompanied by his friend Elliot White, also 24 - had forced his way into the home and stabbed Mrs Monckton, leaving her close to death. He then attacked Mr Monckton, stabbing the financier repeatedly. The two men fled with a pair of earrings, two rings, a watch and a purse, a haul worth just £4,000.Hanson, of Shepherd's Bush, west London, was also found guilty of attempting to murder Mrs Monckton, who lost seven pints of blood and needed emergency surgery. She now walks with a stick.Richard Horwell, for the prosecution, told the court: "Every householder's nightmare became a reality for the Monckton family. The house was like a fortress - heavily and obviously protected by various security systems."The prosecution took advantage of a change in the law which allows the jury to be told of a defendant's criminal record if it is relevant and shows their bad character. The jury is still considering their verdicts in the case of White, who faces charges of murder and attempted murder, but was sent home last night after sending a note to the judge saying they could make no further progress for the day.White, of Fulham, south-west London, sustained stab wounds during his struggle with Mr Monckton and left a trail of blood in surrounding streets. He also left traces of his blood at the murder scene. On arrest he immediately admitted robbing the Moncktons. However Hanson, who was said to have been obsessed with rich people and their jewellery, said nothing. The jury was told that three months earlier he had been released after serving seven years of a 12-year sentence for attempted murder, when he and an accomplice had robbed a man of a Rolex watch after attacking him with a machete.After robbing the Moncktons, Hanson and White tried to burn their clothes with petrol bought four days earlier. The blaze was spotted by passersby who called the fire brigade.They also travelled to a restaurant in Shepherd's Bush where they were caught together on CCTV. This undermined Hanson's claim that he was not White's accomplice. Hanson claimed that at the time of the murder he was with his sister at a friend's house, but the friend told the court she had never met him. Hanson is said to have planned the robbery in considerable detail. On searching his bail hostel, police found he had been studying a copy of the Sunday Times Rich List and The Mail on Sunday's Rich Report in his search for affluent victims.A document bearing the registration of a Mercedes owned by a wealthy woman who periodically drove into London was also unearthed. Material was also found suggesting he had an interest in the Duke of Devonshire. The court heard that Hanson began following rich women on shopping trips in Chelsea and Fulham. It is believed he spotted Mrs Monckton at the Via Venise shoe shop in King's Road. A business card from the shop was found in his hostel room.Though the two defendants were childhood friends, they turned on each other during the proceedings, with Hanson claiming that White was framing him.White claimed that he accompanied Hanson on what he believed was a straightforward robbery, and accused his friend of the most extreme violence. Despite an extensive search, the murder weapon has never been found.The victim and the man convicted yesterday of his murder followed paths that should never have crossed. Mr Monckton was regarded as one of the most influential investors of his generation within his specialist field. His team of 25 people had just won an award for bond group of the year for the second consecutive time, and managed £34bn of assets between them.He was described as a "man of deep Christian convictions", who worked hard for Catholic charities and came from a high-achieving family. His cousin, Rosa Monckton, is the wife of the former Sunday Telegraph editor, Dominic Lawson.Hanson was excluded from primary school at 10 and had four criminal convictions by his 16th birthday. His childhood nickname was the Omen, and White told the court that his mother referred to his friend as the "devil's child".Hanson was said to have had difficulty coming to terms with his crimes. While an inmate at Highpoint prison in Suffolk he read Machiavelli's The Prince and Sun Tzu's The Art of War. Damien Hanson's previous convictionsFebruary 1993: six-month supervision order, indecent assaultMay 1995: compensation order, actual bodily harmJuly 1995: conditional discharge, burglaryAugust 1996: 18 months detention, unlawful woundingFebruary 1997: four months detention, attempted burglaryApril 1998: 12 years detention, attempted murder