Tucked away near the end of the government's vast coroners and justice bill are proposals to allow the confiscation of any proceeds an ex-offender may make from describing their crimes in a book or any other artistic medium.Having passed through the House of Commons largely unscrutinised, these proposals were then considered by the House of Lords. Despite almost universal condemnation from those peers who spoke in the debate, the relevant clauses were eventually passed, meaning that it is now very likely that they will soon become law. This would bring the creation of a new civil order, the exploitation proceeds order, which would allow the seizure of any financial benefit resulting from the description of a crime.Objections to these proposals have been driven by a number of concerns.First, the proposed measures will not do what they are primarily intended to do, which is to protect victims and their families from suffering any distress. While an exploitation proceeds order would see any financial benefits seized, it would not in itself prevent publication. As a result, an ex-offender could publish details on a blog or via another free medium. The measures would not therefore block the release of offensive material, particularly if the motivation is vindictive or a glorification of the offence, which might lead to the highest level of distress.However, these proposals do raise questions about censorship and the right to free speech. While the measures do not actually forbid publication, they prevent the offender making any money from it, including in expenses, which will have the effect of preventing publication in many cases. Lord Lester, a human rights lawyer, has argued that in his opinion the proposals do not comply with article 10 of the European convention on human rights, the right to freedom of expression, and would therefore be unlikely to withstand a legal challenge. It is surely nonsensical to introduce into UK law a measure that is very likely to be overturned following a lengthy and expensive legal battle.Writing by former offenders is also often in the public interest, revealing important information about crime and the criminal justice system. While the public interest would be taken into account when deciding whether an exploitation proceeds order should be issued, it is only one factor among many that would be considered. It could therefore be overridden if another factor is judged more important. This introduces subjectivity into the decision and puts at risk the publication of material that is genuinely in the public interest.The proposals could also potentially damage valuable rehabilitative work with ex-offenders. Payments to former offenders frequently occur as part of constructive and rehabilitative work, whether it is writing or other forms of art, and organisations working in this area have stated that the proposals would inevitably put such work at risk. In addition, the benefits that could be seized under an exploitation proceeds order are not limited to those that the offender would receive directly but also extend to payments made to a third party. Therefore, an organisation that supports its rehabilitative services by selling ex-offenders' work could see this money confiscated, essentially making this sort of project unviable.Finally, the government has also failed to publicly give any examples of previous publications on which they would have wanted to use an exploitation proceeds order. The most commonly cited candidate is Cries Unheard, Gitta Sereny's important book about Mary Bell, for which the latter was apparently paid for her input. However, while nobody would dispute the horrific nature of Bell's crimes, this book was clearly in the public interest and an attempt to use financial restrictions to prevent its publication would have been inappropriate. The other frequently raised example is Dennis Nilsen, who has previously sought to publish his autobiography. However, as a prisoner serving a life sentence, Nilsen is already prevented from doing so by existing prison rules and no new law is required. If the government is unable to identify an example of the problem that it is attempting to address, creating new legislation seems unnecessary.The government, in the face of opposition both in the House of Lords and among experts, most prominently English PEN and the Howard League for Penal Reform, has already made some concessions. A measure in which the extent to which the general public would be offended would be a factor in whether an order is granted has been removed. The proposals have also been changed so that they only applied to offenders who have committed a more serious "indictable-only" offence. However, these changes are not sufficient. In practice, only indictable offences would have been likely to have been considered anyway and this still captures a broad range of offences. It also misses the point. Work with the most serious offenders can be the most important and the most beneficial. Removing the "public acceptability" test is welcome, but does not change the substance of the proposals.The proposals are clearly neither necessary nor effective, as well as being potentially illegal. The government should withdraw them, and reconsider how it can best ensure that inappropriate publications are prevented without putting valuable rehabilitative work at risk.