A foggy day in the Solent. Skipper Tim Beckett is putting a trainee crew through their paces on a 38ft yacht.As always, one of the key lessons on this busy stretch of water between the Isle of Wight and the Hampshire coast is how to stay safe; how to be seen by the many giant vessels that navigate these waters.In recent years, yacht crews have relied on a combination of old-fashioned watchkeeping and technology to steer clear of the giant ferries and hulking cargo ships.But since the sinking of the yacht Ouzo off the Isle of Wight 15 months ago, a tragedy that claimed three lives, there have been growing concerns that many, if not most, of the hundreds of small boats that use the Solent lack equipment to stop it happening again.In the fog, Beckett and his crew consider putting up a radar reflector - a device meant to make it easier for ships' radar to spot smaller vessels - but in the end decide not to. "They are now saying that they don't work," says Beckett. "Most of them don't help you to be seen. So what's the point?"Beckett and his pupils on the training yacht Rumour of Boss (British Offshore Sailing School) decide to stick to shallow waters instead.The Ouzo case shocked the yachting world. The officer in charge of the P&O ferry Pride of Bilbao ferry that sailed from Portsmouth to Spain on the night the yacht vanished in August last year has now been cleared of all charges over the deaths of the crew. Michael Hubble had denied manslaughter and engaging in conduct as a seaman likely to cause death or serious injury.Hubble accepted he passed close to a yacht the night the Ouzo vanished, but said that when he looked back he saw the lights of the boat he had passed - so it could not have been the Ouzo.The prosecution argued that it was, in fact, the Ouzo, and that while Hubble should not necessarily have spotted it before it came close, he should have raised the alarm after passing it and checked that the crew were safe.The loss of the Ouzo has focused attention on safety at sea and exposed shortcomings in equipment, especially radar reflectors.Speaking during a tea break at Cowes Yacht Haven, Beckett says: "Keeping watch has always been crucial. It seems even more important now. We used to think radar reflectors helped keep us safe. Now we're told they don't work. What do we use if we're coming close to a ship? Blast the horn, shoot off flares - we do anything we can."Mark Barr, who was crewing with Beckett but has his own 36ft yacht, Magnum, which he sails out of Port Solent, Portsmouth, says: "We've all learned that the best way, the only way, is to keep your eyes open."Around the coast at Bembridge, where the Ouzo sailed from, experienced sailor John Arthure believes it is getting more difficult to remain safe in the waters around the Isle of Wight."I think there is an ignorance from some about how small yachts perform. Bigger ships seem to think that yachts can get out of the way easily. But if a small sailboat is travelling at 3 knots it is very difficult to get out of the way of a boat moving at up to 30 knots. It is like expecting a hedgehog to get out of the way of a car doing 80mph."Letters printed in Telegraph - not the newspaper, but the in-house journal of the marine professionals' union, Nautilus - have exposed the tension between yachts and large ships in the UK's crowded waterways.Some suggest the rules of the sea ought to be rewritten, including the central tenet that steam gives way to sail. One union member, John Barton, for example, wrote: "Most, if not all, yachts can turn on a sixpence as shown when they are racing and as most cargo vessels take time, I think a yachtsman should take the view that he should keep out of the way. The rules were written for sailing vessels that were square-rigged and would need the whole crew to change course, not for racing-developed sailing craft of less than 100ft."The Confidential Hazardous Incident Reporting (Chirp) scheme, which allows crews and skippers to report anonymously any instances of poor seamanship, has received evidence recently that suggests rising tension between recreational sailors and professionals.One large sailboat skipper told how when a commercial vessel came worryingly close to him, he contacted the officer of the watch by radio and asked him to steer clear. The officer replied he was "under orders" and was a "commercial vessel" and did not want to waste fuel by altering course.The shipwrecking of a professional Italian sailor and his Israeli girlfriend in the Indian Ocean in October also clearly illustrated how hard it is to be seen at sea. After a structural failure - there was no collision - they spent nine days in a life raft. Eight or nine large ships passed close to them but did not see them, even though they fired off flares. They were finally picked up.The Royal Yachting Association, which represents the interests of recreational boat owners and crew, is calling on manufacturers to come up with a reliable solution to the shortcomings of current radar reflectors. It has said: "The Ouzo incident has certainly led to a heightened awareness of safety among the boating community. The RYA have been circulating safety information to the boating community to spread as much awareness as possible."Elaine Bunting, the features editor of Yachting World, says the problem of small yachts staying safe will rise as the number of giant vessels increases. She agrees that the technology needs to be better, but says sailors also need a better understanding of each other."It's just about impossible to sail around Britain and other parts of Europe without going near the routes used by large ships," she says. "I don't think the rules have to be rewritten. But people need to be clearer about what they are. There is ignorance on both sides."