Accountancy firms are the new masters of the universe shaping audits, accounting, accountability, corporate governance, taxation, insolvency, consultancy, railways, the NHS, Private Finance Initiative (PFI), government departments and much more.The world of accountancy is dominated by just four secretive accountancy firms: PricewaterhouseCoopers, Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young and KPMG, although their might is now being challenged by mid-tier firms such as Grant Thornton. The Big Four's combined global income of $80bn is greater than the gross domestic product of many nation states. They are controlled by secret trusts headquartered in offshore tax havens (Bermuda and Switzerland), which do not have multilateral information sharing treaties with other countries. Despite appealing to codes of ethics, profit-hungry accountancy firms are engaged in a race to the bottom. A few examples would help to illustrate the issues.In the year 2000, the Italian competition authority fined the then Big Six accountancy firms for operating an illegal cartel. Their secret agreements included fixing prices and deciding in advance the firm that would win any auditing contracts. More recently, the Big Four firms, plus Grant Thornton, got together to challenge the French government over its law barring accountancy firms from auditing a company's accounts if they have provided advisory services to the client in the past two years. The same firms are planning to make further joint challenges to the French law. The UK government has shown no interest in investigating the practices of major firms.Around the world, some $2.5 trillion is estimated to be laundered each year. An early indication of the involvement of accountants is provided by the UK high court judgment in the case of AGIP (Africa) Limited v Jackson & Others (1990) 1 Ch 265et seq. The judgment noted that:"Mr Jackson and Mr Griffin are professional men. They obviously knew they were laundering money ... It must have been obvious to them that their clients could not afford their activities to see the light of the day. ... [They] were introduced to the High Holborn branch of Lloyds Bank Plc in March 1983 by a Mr Humphrey, a partner in the well-known firm of Thornton Baker [this is now part of Grant Thornton]. They probably took over an established arrangement. Thenceforth they provided the payee companies ... In each case Mr Jackson and Mr Griffin were the directors and the authorised signatories on the company's account at Lloyds Bank. In the case of the first few companies Mr Humphrey was also a director and authorised signatory. "Despite the very strong court judgment, there has been no investigation by any UK government department, regulator or professional body.Tax avoidance is a huge money-spinner for accountancy firms. The US government is estimated to be losing nearly $300bn of tax revenues each year. The US Senate committee on governmental affairs (pdf) investigated the activities of KPMG and after examining the firm's internal documents concluded (page 4 of the report) that the firm:" ... devoted substantial resources to, and obtained significant fees from, developing, marketing, and implementing potentially abusive and illegal tax shelters that US taxpayers might otherwise have been unable, unlikely or unwilling to employ, costing the treasury billions of dollars in lost tax revenues".The Senate hearings found that to secure competitive advantage senior officials at the firm had decided not to comply with the law requiring them to register avoidance schemes with the tax authorities. One internal document, mentioned on page 13 of the Senate report (pdf), noted that:"Based upon our analysis of the applicable penalty sections, we conclude that the penalties would be no greater than $14,000 per $100,000 in KPMG fees ... For example, our average ... deal would result in KPMG fees of $360,000 with a maximum penalty exposure of only $31,000".Through such strategies KPMG received more than $120m in fees while the US treasury lost billions in tax revenues.Subsequently, the US department of justice charged (pdf) the firm with criminal conduct. The firm admitted such conduct and paid a fine of $456m. Several KPMG (now ex) partners are facing what the US department of Justice described as "the largest criminal tax case ever filed". In March 2006, one of its ex-partners told a court, "I willfully aided and abetted the evasion of taxes". Other major firms and their partners are also facing lawsuits for selling questionable tax avoidance schemes.The US methods for selling tax services also appear to be used in the UK. For example, a Tax Tribunal heard (pdf) that KPMG cold-called clients to sell a VAT avoidance scheme. The scheme was found to be unlawful and the firm appealed to the European court of justice, which declared it to be "unacceptable". Accountancy firms continue to sell dubious tax avoidance schemes (pdf). A partner of a mid-tier firm was bold enough to say: "no matter what legislation is in place, the accountants and lawyers will find a way around it. Rules are rules, but rules are meant to be broken". The UK is estimated to be losing between £97bn and £150bn of tax revenues each year. Yet neither the Treasury nor any select committee has launched an investigation into the practices of major firms.In 2001, the New York district attorney told a US Senate committee that:"In 1996 my office concluded a case involving the bribery of bank officers in US and foreign banks in connection with sales of emerging markets debt, transactions that earned millions for the corrupt bankers and their co-conspirators. In this case, a private debt trader in Westchester County, New York, formerly a vice president of a major US bank, set up shell companies in Antigua with the help of one of the "big-five" [these are now part of the Big Four firms] accounting firms; employees of the accounting firm served as nominee managers and directors.The payments arranged by the accounting firm on behalf of the crooked debt trader included bribes paid to a New York banker in the name of a British Virgin Islands company, into a Swiss bank account; bribes to two bankers in Florida in the name of another British Virgin Islands corporation and bribes to a banker in Amsterdam into a numbered Swiss account".Successive UK governments have failed to commission any independent investigations into the real or alleged audit failures at Polly Peck, Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI), Levitt Group of Companies, The Accident Group, Resort Hotels, or the UK parts of the Enron, WorldCom, Ahold, Parmalat, WestLB, Hollinger and Xerox episodes. In other countries, the regulators are becoming more concerned. The US securities and exchange commission (SEC) fined PricewaterhouseCoopers for persistent violation of auditor independence rules. Ernst and Young (E&Y) were prosecuted for persistent violations of auditor independence rules.In April 2004, a 69 page court judgment (pdf) stated: "EY committed repeated violation of the auditor independence standards by conduct that was reckless, highly unreasonable and negligent ... They were committed by professionals throughout the firm, who exhibited no caution or concern for rules on auditor independence in connection with business relationships with an audit client ... EY partners acted recklessly and negligently in committing wilful and deliberate violations of well-established rules ... "The firm was banned for six months from securing any new audit clients and put on probation for three years.In another case, a US judge banned a Deloitte & Touche partner for life for audit failures at Adelphia. The judge ruled that among other things the audit partner bowed to pressure from the company, which didn't want to disclose the full amount of money it co-borrowed with businesses owned by its founders.In September 2005, four accountants at the Japanese firm ChuoAoyama PricewaterhouseCoopers were arrested for allegedly helping Kanebo executives falsify accounting reports and conceal losses of nearly £1bn. After further investigations the Japanese regulators suspended the firm's statutory auditing operations for two months. This effectively haemorrhaged the firm's operations. It subsequently reinvented itself by forming another organisation.The above is only part of the mounting evidence that raises concerns about the activities of major accountancy firms and highlights the need for UK regulators to intervene.