Olivia Walker is 15 and she wears her school uniform with an air that says she's slightly too old and a lot too cool for it. And she is, to be frank, just a little bit gobby. For these special qualities, she's been picked out by her school to take part in a mission: to help tackle knife crime on the sprawling estates around her school.And it's working. Already, Olivia, who attends the Manchester Creative and Media Academy, has been able to put her leadership qualities – and the lessons she's been doing on the subject with youth workers from the Rathbone charity – to good use."On Friday, I went out with someone and he showed me he was carrying a knife," she explains. "I was going mad! I just ended up going home by myself because I couldn't be bothered staying there with him. He didn't even need it!"Olivia says she never thought carrying a knife was a great idea, but, thanks to 12 twice-weekly sessions on the subject with Rathbone, she was able to explain in detail why it wasn't. "I said, 'Why are you carrying it?' and he said, 'In case anyone starts.' And I was just telling him how stupid he was because he could get caught by the police or something. I wouldn't carry a knife because someone could take it off me if I was going to hurt them with it, and they could hurt me instead."One of the key messages of the programme, No Knives More Lives, is that young people who carry knives are far more likely to get stabbed than those who don't – partly because their weapons can be used against them, and partly because it makes them a target. Participants have also learned how terrifyingly easy it is to kill someone with a single wound to an artery or a vital organ, and have talked about the legal consequences of carrying a weapon. There are also messages about self-esteem and staying safe.But while Olivia, who attends the academy's girls' school, has been able to take full advantage of the £100,000 Rathbone received last year from the Home Office under its high-profile anti-knife crime initiative, Joe Hinsley, 14, who attends the academy's boys' school, has not. Two weeks into his six-week programme, the funding ran out."I went on Friday and they said it was cancelled. I was gutted," he says. "I really wanted to finish it. It isn't like lessons, like maths or English, it's something really useful, like real life."To be fair, Rathbone and two other charities funded by the Home Office to run similar programmes were told they would have to find funds from elsewhere after the first year. But with spending cuts looming, neither the local authority nor a number of charitable foundations that were approached by Rathbone were willing to pay out. The Home Office, which spent £5m on knife crime projects in 2009, has not made any further announcement of funding for this year.Paul Fletcher, Rathbone's director for policy and development, says charities working in schools and elsewhere often start new and worthy initiatives only to see them cut a few months later. He believes public money is being wasted on quick-fix projects that cannot achieve their goals."We accept short-term funding because we want to do this work, but it isn't efficient and it isn't effective because you break the continuity and then restart it all the time," he says. "A business wouldn't work like that, so why do we tackle a serious social issue in this way?"In the wake of high-profile events such as the stabbing of Ben Kinsella, brother of the former EastEnders actor Brooke Kinsella, in 2008, politicians tend to make headline-grabbing announcements of initiatives that quietly fade as media interest subsides, Fletcher believes. "If Gordon Brown was serious about tackling knife crime, he'd make £5m available to the voluntary sector over five years to work with schools. We need to fund these projects for a number of years, and not just until the headlines have gone away," he says.Even more frustratingly, Rathbone has just received an evaluation report on its project, written by Dr Geoff Hayward, director of research at the University of Oxford's department of education. Hayward travelled to Manchester last month to congratulate the charity on a highly successful project – but learned when he got there that it was being forced to close. "They did a terrific job with not very much money, so it must be deeply frustrating to have done all that hard work and not to get the continuation funding," he says.The schools workshops succeeded in raising awareness of the issues among pupils at the two schools where the programme was run, he says, but one-to-one follow-up work with youngsters who came forward to say they had been carrying knives or were being pressured to carry them could achieve little in the timeframe."The distance that has to be travelled with the young people you are trying hardest to reach is enormous," Hayward says. "You are talking months and months. You measure progress in microscopic steps. Just getting them to come to a centre is a major achievement. It's expensive to do this work properly – but then doing nothing is going to be very expensive in the long run."None of the three projects announced last year by the Home Office has yet found any other source of funds to continue their work. And other organisations involved in getting the anti-knife crime message across to pupils have also been frustrated by funding difficulties.Among them is Foundation 4 Life, a south London-based consultancy that was asked to run a series of workshops in schools to back up an anti-crime campaign by the Damilola Taylor Foundation. The idea was to persuade youngsters to sign a pledge not to carry a knife – but the schools programme had to be cut back because of funding problems. Gifford Sutherland, director of Foundation 4 Life, said that while some schools managed to find money in their own budgets to pay for the workshops to continue, others had had to pull out of the project."We've had to be quite creative," he said. "Ideally, this should be delivered as a programme that runs for the course of a school term, and that means us coming into school once a week. But because of budgets, sometimes we just have to do a one-off event such as an assembly or a presentation on knife crime. To really try to change attitudes and behaviour you need to unpick the issues, and that takes a lot more time."By the time you've planned the project, you are often halfway through your first year already. Rather than sticking with what works, its easier to keep funding new initiatives that grab the headlines."It isn't just anti-crime projects that experience these difficulties – a wide range of organisations that help schools to deal with vulnerable or disaffected young people are finding life tough. Last month, Youth Access, a charity providing advice and counselling to young people, warned that agencies offering these services were struggling with similar difficulties.Steve Lee, the policy officer for Youth Access, fears that with deep cuts in public funding looming it will become increasingly difficult for outside bodies to find funding for worthwhile projects. Several charities that responded to a survey by his organisation reported having had to cut counselling services in schools because of funding problems, he said. Almost half had experienced funding cuts in 2009, and a quarter feared they might be forced to close."We are seeing local authorities cutting back on their youth service budgets, and cutting back on stuff they don't have a statutory duty to provide. The voluntary sector seems to be an easy target for cuts – it's very worrying."Meanwhile, staff at the Manchester Creative and Media Academies are looking for a way to build on the good work that's been done with their pupils. Barry Fishwick, the executive principal, says he hopes to find some money from the school's budget to finish the course the boys have begun, and maybe to train up some of his own staff and those of neighbouring schools to continue it. But, he says, having the charity do the work added an extra dimension."Children listen to people from outside," he says. "We could tell them this stuff from now till doomsday but these youth workers have real-life experience they can relate to. They have a lot more credibility with our kids."