There is quite a crowd in the tiny, windowless interview room at South Sefton magistrate's court on Merseyside. Waiting to go into the dock with Kenny, 6ft 2in and 16 stone, are four of his friends, Seamus, Anthony, Danny and Suey, aged between 15 and 17. All are accused of creating a public nuisance in Antonio Street, Bootle, a blackened and gap-toothed row of Victorian terraces in the north-west of the city. According to an interim antisocial behaviour order placed on the group a month previously, in December 2003, they have "engaged in shouting, swearing, destroying property, drinking, bullying and harassing the residents, throwing missiles at residents and their property and threatening their personal safety".This catalogue of misdemeanours is not solely the teenagers' responsibility in the eyes of the law, however. Squeezed in next to them is Kenny's mum Maria, short, stout and silent next to Kenny's towering bulk, her round face pale under straight brown hair. A 37-year-old mother of 11 with a 12th child on the way, Maria has also been placed under an "asbo", accused of failing to keep her son and his friends under control. "I'll admit this now - we dress like Scallies," Anthony says, looking down ruefully at his uniform of trainers and tracksuit. "We cut our hair short, and Kenny looks scary because he's so big. But all we do is stand outside on the corner of the street. Because we're being loud, they don't like it." He pauses. "And ... if it's Friday or Saturday night we have a little drink." Suey pensively rolls up her sleeve to display the psoriasis that's been creeping up her arm for the past month. The December ruling placed the five youngsters under an order that restricts their movements and their right to associate with one another. They are barred from a block of more than a dozen streets around Antonio Street. Seamus, Suey and Anthony, all of whom live across the road from Antonio Street in Rosalind Way, are allowed to access their homes only from the far end of their street, keeping them well away from Antonio Street. Kenny, who lives nearby with his Nan, is no longer allowed to visit Maria in Antonio Street. The order forbids all five, plus Maria, from indulging in "behaviour likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress to the residents of Antonio Street, or incite or encourage others to do so". It is a measure that, although often controversial, is expected to become increasingly common. In the three years after their introduction in 1999, 518 orders were handed out, and ministers are keen to see them used even more widely. Under new legislation that came into force in January, the government hopes to make much more use of the orders to tackle perennial problems such as vandalism and noise. Under the new act, fixed penalties will be imposed for offences such as fly-tipping and graffiti and the orders will be used against truants and drug dealers as well as against problem neighbours and rowdy teenagers. What attracts police and courts to asbos is the fact that you don't have to commit a crime to be placed under anti-social restrictions, but merely attract complaints that your behaviour is anti-social. And because the orders are civil rather than criminal measures, the level of proof required is less than in criminal cases. Despite that, offenders risk prison if they breach the terms of their orders. Even under the rules of the new Anti-Social Behaviour Act, dressing "like a scally" would not be sufficient to put a teenage boy in court. But pressed, all of them do admit that there has been a certain amount of argy-bargy in recent months, centred on Maria's three-bedroomed Victorian terrace in Antonio Street. The front step of No 8 has, it seems, become the epicentre of a war zone. Until Maria moved in two years ago with her husband Big Robbie and most of their large brood, a 10-page police statement says, this grey street was "a quiet spot with no social problems". Then last summer Kenny, who has lived down the road with Joan since Maria moved out when he was a baby to live with her new partner Robbie, began to visit increasingly with his friends. "People would congregate on the step of No 8 drinking, virtually living outside on the doorstep," the police statement says. "The community has now in effect been destroyed, families are being harassed, bullied and terrified ... The situation in Antonio Street is bordering on anarchy." The neighbours went further. They poured out their frustration in a series of letters and phone calls to the police. "We're not sleeping properly. We all work. Sometimes we can't even go to do our shopping because we get shouted at or are frightened something might happen to our homes. We cannot live like this any more. What are we supposed to do? We are living in terror," one neighbour wrote in a letter signed "Very Tired and Angry Resident". The situation deteriorated gradually, says one neighbour who asks not to be named. "If I asked them to be quiet, I'd get a very nice response," she says, "but as time went by things got worse and worse. You'd go out and there'd be about 20 of them, jeering and shouting. It destroys your life." Verbal abuse and vandalism were common, these neighbours said, some of them even expressing fears that they could be burned out of their homes. Scrawled across an anonymous note attached to the police document are the words: "Welcome to the Bronx!" Anthony's mum, Margie, snorts when she sees the note. "It's always been like the Bronx round here," she says. "Actually, it used to be much worse a few years ago." The teenagers admit to some of the misdemeanours laid out in the order. There was milk thrown on a car on "mischief night", the day before Hallow'een, they admit, and some rowdy behaviour late at night. There have been a certain number of confrontations with the neighbours, they add. But they deny many of the accusations levelled at them: that Danny climbed up a drainpipe to break into an empty shop on Antonio Street; that Seamus, Kenny, Anthony and Suey tried to kick in the door of a nearby house; that they pushed a firework through a resident's letter box a few days later. All deny this. Sometimes the police have arrived to deal with complaints and found them unsubstantiated, they say. Their solicitor, Jim Murray, says the orders against them go too far. The group, friends since infancy, are only being allowed to meet today because they have a court hearing to set a date for a full trial. Suey and Seamus spent Christmas in the police cells after being spotted talking outside their adjoining houses in Rosalind Way. Murray's shoulders tense with anger as he considers the terms of the order. "It's just a nonsense," he says. "And what is Maria supposed to have done? So far as I can see her only crime is having 11 children." It is the day after the court hearing, and Kenny has decided to lie low for a bit after some "argy-bargy" at the courthouse. Sgt Peter Ward, the bobby from the local anti-social behaviour unit, saw him lunge at a few neighbours who had turned up to watch, but decided to let him off after a few stern words. But later, two witnesses made a complaint, and now a warrant has been issued for his arrest. Maria and the other mums congregate for a cup of tea in Margie's spotless white kitchen in Rosalind Way. This little estate is no brighter or less graffiti-spattered than Antonio Street, though its little groups of terraces are modern and have front gardens. Margie, just back from her job as a senior carer in an old-folks' home and still in her blue tunic, is fussing around because one of her flower-pots has blown over. Maria, who has asthma, keeps her nebuliser by her on the table, next to her packet of Richmond cigarettes. It is a curiously feminine society, the events that swirl around the teenagers seemingly driven and picked over by warring groups of women. Men seem to play only bit-parts in the drama. Ranged in support of the youngsters are this little group of mums, resolute in their belief that their young can do no wrong - or not this much wrong, at least. Also in Antonio Street is Maria's husband, Robbie, an unemployed former dock worker. Although he shares equal responsibility for their large brood of children, no one has accused him of failing to control their friends, as they have his wife. Robbie's existence is not even acknowledged in the 11-page police statement. Anthony's asbo says that he lives "with his mother", even though his stepfather lives there too. Maria says that she still sometimes sits out on the step with her cup of tea, but not as often as she used to. If her family spills out of its inadequate house, as it does sometimes, it is to the backyard rather than to the step. Now the landlord has served the family with an eviction notice, though he has promised to wait until the council finds alternative accommodation. So what brought them to this pass? How did things deteriorate so far that Maria now risks losing both her home and - if she breaches her order - her liberty? She seems at a loss to say, and blames the neighbours for most of her problems. When asked why she had so many children, she explains that she and Robbie had planned three. Then they loved them so much they had a fourth, which made five including Kenny, born earlier to a different father. The other seven were just accidents, she says. Some of them sleep in bunk beds; others share Maria's and Robbie's room. Kenny was excluded from school at the age of 12 and had a series of home tutors followed by a variety of short college courses. Seamus, too, stopped attending when he was 12. Suey left last year, at 16, but with no formal qualifications. Now, at the end of January, Anthony is still at school but has just been excluded. When it comes to jobs, their future looks bleak. Suey was offered work at a local tanning shop but now can't take it up because it's within the exclusion zone. Seamus, similarly, hopes to work at a garage where he has been helping out a mate, but he isn't allowed to go there at the moment. Kenny has passed a preliminary course that would allow him to apply for the military police, and Murray's assistant, Dave Brown, a former military policeman himself, has offered to help him. But with a criminal assault case now hanging over him, his chances seem remote. By late February, though, some of the clouds have passed. As the trial date dawns Kenny is still at large, and it seems the police have decided not to arrest him. He has some other news, too - he's going to be a father in six months' time. He has just asked Brown if he will be godfather to the baby. After a day-long huddle of solicitors and barristers, an agreement is hammered out and there is no need for a trial. Kenny won't face charges, it is decided, and no action will be taken against Seamus or Suey for breaching their interim orders at Christmas. Maria's order will be lifted and no further action taken against her. All the youngsters are given four-year asbos, but with fewer restrictions on their movement than before. They are barred from just a small area around Antonio Street, and they are allowed to associate with one another again, though only at some distance from their homes. Anthony and Suey are even allowed to speak to one another in Rosalind Way where they live, though Seamus, who lives next door to Suey, seems to have been inadvertently omitted from this concession. The next day, back in Margie's kitchen, there are mixed feelings about the outcome. Maria, clearly relieved, has been round to give Brown a thank-you card and a bottle of whisky. "I think the solicitors did pretty well for us," she says. "At least they were prepared to put up a fight." But officialdom has found her now, and it isn't letting go. She has a meeting scheduled with the council to find out whether she is going to be rehoused, and she has agreed to some voluntary parenting support. Her health visitor will be at the meeting along with officers from the education and social services departments. She seems a little defeated, a little deflated. "I've brought up all my kids without help," she says. "They're all clothed and fed. They get to go out to fun fairs when I can afford it. I can't tell you how many sweets they eat every day. And now they want to teach me how to chastise them." Meanwhile, it is quiet today over on Antonio Street. Mulling over the outcome, Sergeant Ward says that he believes the asbos have had the desired effect. There is a sense of relief in many homes on the street, he says. "Some of these residents have lived here 20 or 30 years, and they remember the days when if there was a problem they could talk to each other and it would be dealt with. It's true, it's a rough area. But they see this as a way of retrieving their community. "I have a bad habit of seeing other people's side, and I would admit in some situations these are nice kids. But I do think if I hadn't had the opportunity to bring this asbo, I would still be dealing with problems in Antonio Street. It's allowed us to draw a line in the sand."