The former girlfriend of Raoul Moat has told a court about the moment when the gunman shot dead her new boyfriend and then wounded her.Samantha Stobbart, who was left fighting for her life following the incident last July, was giving evidence at the trial of two men accused of helping Moat, a former bouncer who had just been released from prison.The 22-year-old wept at Newcastle crown court as she told how Moat "just appeared" and started shooting on 3 July, before going on the run for a week.Stobbart said she had feared that Moat would attempt to confront Brown, a karate instructor. She had told Moat he was a police officer in an attempt to scare him off.Describing Moat as having a "Jekyll and Hyde split personality" and as someone who could be violent and unpredictable, she recounted how she and Brown were walking towards her home in Birtley, Tyne and Wear, when they were ambushed by Moat, who had been lying in wait near another property.Wearing a short-sleeved blouse which exposed a scar caused by the injury Moat inflicted on the inside of her left forearm, Stobbart said: "I just seen Raoul jump up. I think he came from the window. He just appeared."Prosecutor Robert Smith QC asked whether Moat had anything in his hands.She whispered: "A gun. A gun. I did not see the gun at first. Then I seen him load it."When Smith asked: "Did it happen quickly?" she nodded silently.She said: "Chris walked in front of me." Moat then raised the sawn-off double-barrelled shotgun and shot Brown in the chest, the court heard.She said: "Chris went down to the grass and I followed him. I remember Raoul was shouting. I don't know what. Shouting. He pointed the gun at my legs and I ran into the house."Inside, some friends had taken cover in the kitchen and bathroom and her mother was upstairs with Stobbart's daughter."I could not see anybody. I was panicking because my daughter was upstairs and I was running about the house looking for the keys and I did not know what they looked like," Stobbart said."I heard two shots. When I looked out the window it was done. I didn't see Raoul come towards the house, I was concentrating on Chris. I just heard shouting and before I knew it I got shot."Moat shot her through the glass of a downstairs window. The shotgun round pierced her arm then hit her liver, stomach and pancreas, causing life-threatening injuries.She said: "I did not fall to the ground straight away. It took about 20 seconds then I just collapsed."Stobbart was giving testimony at the trial of Karl Ness, 26, of Dudley, North Tyneside, and Qhuram Awan, 23, of Blyth. The men, who claim they were being held hostage by Moat, deny the attempted murder of PC David Rathband, who was shot and blinded by Moat the day after the attack on Brown and Stobbart. Ness also denies the murder of Brown. They also deny charges of possessing a firearm with intent to endanger life, and robbery.The men were arrested in Rothbury, Northumberland, days before Moat killed himself after a six-hour standoff on the banks of the River Coquet. The case continues.