For the two Scotland Yard detectives who have travelled to South Africa to persuade Nelson Mandela to make a media appeal today over the "Thames torso" murder hunt, there is a dominating spur: they fear it could happen again.Of course, they want to find the killer or killers for the victim's sake, and someone of Mandela's stature will guarantee further coverage. Even the most disquieting murders fall from the headlines, and there have been few breakthroughs since the discovery of the boy's corpse in the Thames in September last year.But there is a grave anxiety within the Metropolitan Police that this case be kept high-profile because of the systematic nature of the killing. Systems imply repetition.Seeking to humanise the victim, officers have called him Adam and we know that his torso bore all of the hallmarks of being the UK's first discovered "muti", or African ritual witchcraft killing. His was a careful dismemberment. And while detectives have been frustrated by all efforts to identify him, they are now reasonably sure that he is of west African origin. Which brings us to the Climbié case. The inquiry into the death of Victoria Climbié, the eight-year-old from the Ivory Coast (on the south-west bulge of Africa) who was murdered by her great aunt, Marie-Thérèse Kouao, and the aunt's boyfriend, Carl Manning, has prompted calls for tighter controls on 'private fostering' and young asylum seekers. It has also put a spotlight on the hitherto little cared about children (some say up to 10,000), many from west Africa, who are being traded in the UK as domestic slaves by often very distant relatives, who use them to claim benefits. Parents in Africa who send their children to the UK to relatives for a better education, a greater chance in life, do so in good faith - Victoria's anguished parents are testament to that. But a proportion of the children sent here are not looked after as well as they should - and who is protecting those who have slipped through the net? Who knows precisely what proportion might be in danger?Detectives are only too aware that, if Adam was from outside the UK, his killers would know that his identity would be harder to trace, and that he would be less likely to be missed. So there is great fear at the fact that there are thousands more "invisible" children like him, off the radar, and beyond the help of all authorities. A disturbing thought is that there may already be other muti victims in the UK whose bodies have not been discovered. Nobody seems to be linking Victoria's tragic case to the fate that befell Adam - and it is crucial that we do so. Then the case may be made more powerfully: we need to find the lost children. Muti witchcraft is prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa, where Adam is believed to be from. A decade ago there were 30 muti murders a year. There were only three in 2000 but, despite its falling prevalence there, detectives in the UK still believe that they may be dealing with a new, imported evil. It emerged at the weekend that the government is to launch a crackdown on private fostering. Labour MP Margaret Moran has tabled a backbench bill that would force immigration officers to alert the Department of Health when a child arrives in the UK without its birth parents. The health minister, Jacqui Smith, has launched a review, to report later this year.Meanwhile, Adam's case is particularly sinister because of the fear that it may not be a one-off and that a seemingly incomprehensible belief system is at its root. The muti ritual involves grinding body parts to make potions, which are held to improve luck or vitality, for example. Children are deemed more "pure".There is speculation that some form of murderous cult could be operating in London's large African community. This may strike some people as sensationalistic, as scaremongering. Such feelings may be similar to those experienced by Adam Minter, the 32-year-old IT consultant who was walking near Tower Bridge on September 21 last year, when he saw a "brown shape in the Thames" before realising that it was indeed the torso of a child.