The question: Is forgiveness possible?Do you believe that people should be treated appropriately to how they treat others, and that bad behaviour should not be rewarded? Do you believe that the public should be protected from dangerous or persistent criminals? Do you believe that it is more effective and productive to reform criminals than it is to merely punish them? And do you believe that penalties for criminal behaviour should be sufficient to deter people from engaging in it?My guess is that most people would answer yes to all four questions. In doing so they would agree that each of four most common justifications for punishment – retribution, reform, public protection and deterrence – have something in them. Most differences of opinion only emerge when you try to work out their relative importance.Attempts to do that often make the false assumption that justice is one thing, the essence of which is real and discoverable. A better way to understand the fourfold theory of justice is that it shows that it is not one thing after all, but a composite of different elements. How important each one is depends on the particular circumstances. Determining this is an imperfect human endeavour, not something we can do with anything approaching mathematical precision. That may sound unsatisfactory, but it is better to muddle through knowing that is exactly what you're doing than it is to stride through the fog with the misguided belief that the road is clear. Justice is a messy business which works worse if we try to tidy it up too much.Such considerations have to borne in mind when we think about how to deal with young murderers like John Venables. Too often, the debate is posed as though we had to make a series of binary choices, the results of which must hold fast in all cases: should we seek retribution or forgiveness, rehabilitation or punishment? Such an approach makes two mistakes: it encourages us to see the options in terms of either/or and to neglect the extent to which different cases might require different responses.For instance, it should be obvious that rehabilitation need not mean an absence of punishment. You can both be locked away for several years and integrated back into society at the end of it.Less obvious is the role of forgiveness, which can supplement or supplant justice. In the former case, justice takes its course without forgiveness playing a role. Whether the victim chooses to forgive or not is a separate matter. A grieving family can forgive a murderer in this sense, even as he is led away to serve life.In other situations, forgiveness wipes the slate clean. It grants clemency, saying that even though justice says you must pay for your crime in this way, by forgiving you I release you from this burden.Because a legal system has to treat everyone equally, it is difficult to see how forgiveness could ever play a significant role in it. That's why royal and presidential pardons are so exceptional. From society's point of view, it would be intolerable if one person walked free from court because his victim forgave him while another went to prison for the same crime, because his victim did not. In law, forgiveness can only supplement justice, it cannot supplant it.Where the legal system can vary is its weighting of retribution and rehabilitation. In this pairing, retribution can easily look like the bad cop, rehabilitation the good. But retribution should not be equated with the dark desire for revenge. Revenge is getting your own back, repaying evil in kind. Retribution in jurisprudence need have nothing to do with the negative feelings of the victim. It can simply be a desire among us all that vice is not rewarded and that those who break the social contract to the detriment of their fellow citizens are dealt with appropriately.So when we ask how much we should try to rehabilitate child killers, for instance, it is wrong to think that forgiveness should be the key motivation. It is not for the legal system to forgive. Justice in such cases is rather about giving the right answers to four main questions. First, were the killers sufficiently responsible for their actions for us to regard retribution as of primary importance? Second, would prioritising rehabilitation threaten public safety? Third, would prioritising rehabilitation weaken deterrence against similar future crimes? And four, would rehabilitation actually work?The best reasons we have for thinking that the Norwegians dealt with their child killers better than we did with the Bulger killers is because the answers to these questions in most such cases is no, no, no and yes. It has nothing to do with forgiveness being a superior virtue. To prioritise the rehabilitation of violent criminals who knew what they had done and posed a danger to the public just because we thought it good to forgive them would be a terrible mistake. More than that: it would be unforgiveable.