17 December6pm: Joanna Yeates, 25, left the architectural firm where she worked with her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, 27, and joined colleagues in the Ram pub in Park Street for a drink.8pm: She left the Ram to walk the 20-minute journey home from the city centre to Clifton.8.10pm: Yeates was caught on CCTV popping into a Waitrose supermarket in the Clifton Triangle.8.30pm: She used her mobile phone to ring her friend Rebecca Scott and arranged to meet on Christmas Eve.8.40pm: At a Tesco Express on Regent Street in Clifton Village, about a quarter-of-a-mile from her flat, Yeates bought a pizza, which is missing. She then visits a nearby off-licence to buy cider.Police believe she returned home to her flat in Canynge Road, which she shared with Reardon. A receipt from Tesco was found in the flat, along with a cream-coloured coat she had been wearing and her mobile phone and keys.19 DecemberReardon reports Yeates missing when he returns to Bristol from a weekend away visiting relatives in Sheffield.20 DecemberAvon and Somerset police make their first appeal for information over Yeates's disappearance. Officers say they are concerned for her safety because it is out of character.21 DecemberYeates's parents, David and Theresa, make their first appeal for information at a police press conference in Bristol.Appealing directly to their daughter, they say: "Jo, whatever the reason that you have not been in touch over the last few days, we want you to know that we love you dearly and are desperate to know that you are safe and well. Please get in touch as soon as possible. Either to the police or anyone who can confirm you are ."22 DecemberReardon describes his distress at the disappearance of his girlfriend. "I desperately want her back – I thought we would be together forever," he says from Yeates's parents' home in Ampfield, Hampshire. "She was my future. This Christmas was going to be our first together. I was going to spend it with her family, which is always a big deal for a boyfriend. We were both really happy in our jobs – we worked together and that's how we met."Specialist officers have been searching the couple's Clifton flat, as well as the Bristol Downs and Avon Gorge. They have taken a phone and laptop from Reardon as part of the inquiry.23 DecemberYeates's parents make a second appeal, revealing their fears that their daughter has been abducted. Her father begs his daughter's potential kidnapper: "If she's dead, please tell somebody where she is. I think she was abducted after getting home to her flat. I have no idea of the circumstances of the abduction because of what was left behind."I feel sure she would not have gone out by herself leaving all these things behind and she was taken away somewhere."Detectives say when Yeates was in the Tesco Express she had bought a Tesco Finest tomato, mozzarella and basil pesto pizza. However, there was no trace of the pizza or the packaging in her flat.24 DecemberPolice release new CCTV footage showing Yeates buying the pizza in the Tesco Express on the night she was last seen. A spokesman says: "The video has been released by detectives hoping people in the area at the time will remember seeing Joanna and contact the police."25 December9am: A couple walking their dogs in the Failand area of North Somerset, three miles from where Yeates went missing, find a body.Her father tells a newspaper: "Of course we don't know for sure that it's her but we assume that it is. Nobody else has been reported missing and it's the body of a young girl close to where Jo disappeared."It hasn't been a Christmas for us. I don't know what it's been. It's been surreal, totally unreal. We're just waiting now for the police to tell us what we suspect."26 DecemberPolice announce they are "satisfied" the body found is that of Yeates.27 DecemberThe Yeates family visit the spot where her body was found. They lay a bouquet of flowers at the scene.28 DecemberPolice announce that Yeates died as a result of strangulation. Avon and Somerset police say the death is officially being treated as a murder investigation.Her father tells the Southern Daily Echo he is "relieved" to be reunited with his daughter's body.29 DecemberIt is reported that Yeates's landlord, Chris Jefferies, saw her leave her flat with two people on the night she was murdered. Detectives confirm it is a line of inquiry. Jefferies tells reporters he "definitely cannot say" he say saw Yeates.Officers reveal new CCTV footage of the architect buying cider at an off-licence on the night she goes missing and announce Crimestoppers is providing a £10,000 reward for information.30 December Avon and Somerset police announce that a 65-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder.31 December Police reveal they have been granted more time to question Jeffries1 January Jefferies is released on police bail pending further inquiries. Yeates's family issue a statement expressing their grief that their daughter has been "stolen" from them but say they are confident her killer will be caught.2 January Police warn women not to walk home alone after dark as Yeates's killer remains at large.3 January Police say they have found no evidence Yeates was sexually assaulted and suggest that more than one person may have been involved in her murder. They appeal for help in tracing a 4x4 vehicle seen near where her body was discovered and reveal that they still do not know when and where she died.4 January Detectives launch a national campaign on Facebook to appeal for witnesses.5 JanuaryPolice reveal they are investigating whether Yeates could have been strangled with her own ski sock, which her killer might then have kept as a trophy.7 JanuaryOfficers talk to more than 200 people as they retrace Yeates's last steps three weeks after her disappearance.8 JanuaryYeates's parents say their daughter's killer has robbed her of a future as a wife and mother. Her brother, Chris Yeates, says he has been left in a "surreal hole of despair".12 JanuaryYeates's best friend Rebecca Scott, the last person to speak to her, says she is "desperate to see justice done".17 JanuaryLand Registry documents show the killer could have entered and left Yeates's flat without being seen by any of her neighbours.18 JanuaryYeates's parents say their daughter probably knew her killer and urge anybody who knows somebody who has reacted strangely to the murder to come forward.A reconstruction of Yeates's final steps is created for BBC's Crimewatch programme.Detectives say that tests revealed Yeates did not eat the Tesco Finest pizza she was seen buying on her way home just before she went missing.19 JanuaryPolice say that more than 300 people have made calls to the Operation Braid incident room since filming started on a reconstruction of Yeates's final movements.20 JanuaryA 32-year-old man is arrested on suspicion of the murder of Joanna Yeates.