The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 27 September 2009We said that Judge Khan's cleaner had tried to blackmail him. In fact, she was never convicted of blackmailing Judge Khan. She appealed against her conviction for blackmail (involving a Judge J) and theft (involving Judge Khan). All charges were dropped and therefore she was cleared on both counts. Apologies. Two judges at the centre of a blackmail trial involving their former cleaner will face a formal investigation into their conduct, the lord chancellor and the lord chief justice announced yesterday.Lord Falconer and Lord Phillips said there were sufficient grounds to ask the Office for Judicial Complaints to conduct a preliminary investigation to help them decide whether they should exercise their disciplinary powers.Mohammed Ilyas Khan and his former lover, known only as J, both full-time immigration judges at the asylum and immigration tribunal, employed Roselane Driza as a cleaner although she had no permission to work in Britain.The statement from the lord chancellor and the lord chief justice, who are jointly responsible for disciplining judges, said they were concerned in particular about "the allegation that Mr Khan and Ms J employed Ms Driza as a cleaner when she was ineligible to work in this country".Mr Khan, 60, and Ms J, in her 50s, gave evidence anonymously during the blackmail trial, but the order banning identification of Mr Khan was lifted after Driza was cleared of blackmailing him. She was found guilty of stealing videos of him having sex with two women, one of them alleged to be Ms J.The judges have not been suspended but both have been asked not to sit while the investigation continues. Mr Khan will receive his salary of £98,418 during the investigation. Ms J, whose salary is £117,680, has been off sick with stress for about 18 months. She is thought to have been paid more than £100,000 in public money while on sick leave.Mr Khan acknowledged after the trial that his job was "on the line". He also risks losing the right to sit as a recorder, presiding over criminal trials in the crown court.Sanctions available following the investigation range from warnings and reprimands to removal from office in extreme circumstances.