Like the bereaved mother Elizabeth Davidson, at the trial of the teenager who ran down her daughter Margaret, and the parents of the schoolboy Joe Geeling, after the conviction of his murderer last month, Adele Eastman, the fiancee of Tom ap Rhys Pryce, dwelt on the impossibility of putting her experience into words in a victim impact statement. She said her pain was "literally indescribable". And yet, like the Geelings (who said they would be better placed to speak in 25 years), Eastman chose, none the less, to try to tell the court what she had lost, hoping she would "manage to convey it at least to some extent through my statement". The fact that this wrenching, yet dignified document was reproduced, in full, in virtually every national newspaper yesterday not only confirms how powerfully she did, indeed, communicate her devastation; it also illustrates what is now at stake for the relations of victims who try to describe what impact a murder or manslaughter has had on their lives.For the miserable families who come after Eastman, her statement will, at least, provide a sort of model of what can be done with an oral statement to the court, a procedure now being trialled in six regional courts, including the Old Bailey. As one of the earlier participants in the pilot scheme, Eastman herself must have decided to pitch the statement somewhere between the sort of tender eulogy you would expect at a lover's funeral - "his beautiful heart, his brilliant mind" - and a formal condemnation of his murderers for their cowardice and lack of remorse. "Greed fuelled Carty and Brown's attack on Tom," her statement goes on to say, "but it is obvious, particularly from the trademark injury which they inflicted on his left leg, that they were also trying to play the big man."Yet, without sanctimoniousness, Eastman's statement also emphasised what the murderers had done to wreck their own lives. "I very much doubt that as children, any of their hopes and aspirations they held for their future included killing a man, and yet here they stand convicted of that heinous crime." The combination of simple, personal narrative (her fiance's niece sitting "quietly by his graveside, her little hands gripping hold of the edge"), arresting phrasing and exclamations of incomprehension ("what a huge waste of life") is as effective as Eastman no doubt intended it to be. Plainly, it is perceived by some writers of these statements that they should use art to organise intimate details, memories and contrasts in such a way as to stop a torpid court in its tracks, deflect accusations of bitterness, move strangers to tears: "I feel as though Carty and Brown have ripped out my heart with their bare hands ..."In a statement that acted as intended, on at least one judge, as well as many listeners to the Today programme, Davidson recently remembered her daughter smiling at her, on her graduation day, "a smile of sheer joy, love and gratitude. Less than a year later I collected a very tasteful carrier bag containing a cardboard box labelled: The remains of the late Dr Margaret E Davidson."Reading such statements, you can hardly help imagining - before recoiling from the exercise - how you might phrase your own contribution to this disturbing new genre; how you would strive to touch the feelings of a person who had never met your child/fiance/parent, while trying, at the same time, to shake the world into some heightened awareness of its own savagery, and possibly - as Eastman does - to extract some hope from senseless bloodshed. In the case of the Geelings, no such resolution was suggested. "Since the day when our son never returned home from school, things just went from bad to worse to unbearable."Since victim statements were first proposed, by the Conservatives, there have been frequent objections that they would indulge the impulses of the lynch mob. Or, at least, sanction bad taste. Do we really want to hear about ripped-out hearts and little hands in courtrooms? To see custom and correctness dissolving in a sea of catharsis, sopping hankies, and tabloid drivel - "He'll be out in 20 years while we've got a life sentence." Then, when Labour revived the idea, pedants worried about procedures in the event of a bombing, or a prolific mass murderer such as Harold Shipman. What if they all wanted a turn? We might be here for years. Chiefly, however, legal critics of the scheme seem concerned about simple lay victims, who might confuse the chance to describe their suffering with an opportunity to have sentences increased, ask for hangings and blood money, and to get primitive/retributive ideas off their chests. Discouraging oral statements last year, Judge John Samuels, chairman of the criminal committee of the Council of Circuit Judges, said "Our primary concern is that the proposals will conceptually encourage such relatives to believe they can, through their own advocate, influence the judge's sentencing".A more plausible worry, perhaps, once you have seen the power of an accomplished impact statement, is the way they seem likely to privilege the articulate and educated; the competent and composed. Victim Support is understandably anxious about the possible unfairness to people who might find statement-writing more of burden than a solace. Leaving aside the fairly limited comfort to be had by anyone from the profession of unresolved grief, this is surely an argument for assisting the nervous and tongue-tied to express themselves. Rather than, as Judge Samuels might put it - conceptually encouraging the belief, among relatives, that their afflictions of loss and lifelong pain, must always give way, inside a courtroom, to the murderers who caused them.· This week Catherine read, at last, Joan Didion's The Year of Magical Thinking: "and immediately wanted to read it again. To try to figure out why a clinical account of consuming grief should be as gripping as a thriller." And Rachel Cusk's Arlington Park: "scene on cleverly observed scene of marital misery, guaranteed to put a smile on the face of your favourite singleton this Christmas."