Three British Muslims took part in a "hostile" reconnaissance mission of potential targets in London with two men who went on to bomb the city's transport system on July 7, a court was told yesterday. The trip, in December 2004, was "part of a sinister plot to cause explosions", according to the prosecution. It was an "essential preparatory step ... to bring death and destruction to the heart of the United Kingdom".During the mission - seven months before the bombs that killed 52 people - the men visited a number of locations, including the London Eye, the Natural History Museum and the London Aquarium.Neil Flewitt, QC, told a jury at Kingston crown court in south-west London that it was not his case that the defendants were directly involved in the London bombings "in the sense that they were responsible for transporting the bombs that were detonated with such catastrophic consequence".He said: "It is the prosecution case that the defendants associated with and shared the beliefs of the London bombers and so were willing to assist them in one particular and important aspect of their preparation for the London bombings."Waheed Ali, 24, from Tower Hamlets, east London, and Sadeer Saleem, 27, and Mohammed Shakil, 31, both from Beeston, Leeds, all deny unlawfully and maliciously conspiring with the July 7 bombers, Mohammed Siddique Khan, Shehzad Tanweer, Jermaine Lindsay and Hasib Hussain, between November 17 2004 and July 8 2005. The three accused do not deny travelling from Leeds to London with Hussain, one of the bombers, or meeting up with another of the bombers, Lindsay, in the capital. They claim their purpose was for Ali to visit his sister in east London and the visits to the London Eye, Aquarium and Natural History Museum were for social reasons.Flewitt said: "Although the defendants all accept that they knew the London bombers, it is their case that their friendship was entirely innocent and that they knew nothing of and took no part in their plan to cause explosions in the United Kingdom." Highlighting the connections between the bombers and the accused and their "shared beliefs", he told the jury that in October 1999, Shakil countersigned Siddique Khan's passport application. In July 2001, Ali travelled to Pakistan with Siddique Khan and in July 2003 Shakil went there with Siddique Khan.The jury were told that they would hear evidence via videolink from Mohammed Junaid Babar, currently awaiting sentencing overseas after pleading guilty to terrorist charges, that he and another British Muslim, who used the name Ausman, took Shakil and Siddique Khan to a training camp in Pakistan where they used light machine guns, rocket-propelled grenades and AK-47 assault rifles.He showed the jury a video made by Siddique Khan as he introduces his baby daughter, Maryam, to her "uncles", who include the July 7 bombers Tanweer and Hussain, and one of the accused, Ali. In a similar video, Siddique Khan then says goodbye to his daughter before what the prosecution say was his departure to fight jihad in Afghanistan.Flewitt said in early 2004 UK authorities were monitoring Ausman and his associates and in February Siddique Khan, Tanweer and Ali travelled from Yorkshire for a five-minute meeting at a retail park with Ausman in the south of England. At another meeting three weeks later, a conversation between Ausman, his brother, Siddique Khan, Tanweer and Ali was recorded. Ausman can be heard telling Khan about problems associated with travelling to Pakistan and the risk of drawing attention to themselves and their associates upon their return to the UK. Talking about fundraising, Ausman said that before leaving to fight abroad they should "rip the country apart economically as well". He advised on scams including opening fraudulent trade accounts with builders' merchants and applying for loans, using a false name, that would never be repaid. Two further meetings took place at which Ali was present. Flewitt said: "There is a reasonable inference that Ali took what he learned at those meetings away with him and passed it on to Sadeer Saleem and Mohammed Shakil." It was no coincidence that in the months that followed the accused "engaged enthusiastically" in fraudulent activity by opening false building trade accounts, he said. The hearing continues.