The Ministry of Justice is considering increasing the use of restorative justice – in which offenders are encouraged to meet their victims – as part of its forthcoming green paper on criminal justice reform. Oliver Laughland brings together 34-year-old Reggie Aitchison, a prolific offender and drug user from Widnes, Cheshire, and 72-year-old grandmother, Kathleen, whose house he burgled, to discuss their experience of going through the restorative justice process and their reflections on the crime.Reggie Aitchison: My recollection of that day is going into the town centre to do some shoplifting to fund my drug habit. We got through about five runs until the security guards had had enough and we couldn't get in any shops. We were making our way back and it was only then, on the way past [Kathleen's house] when the window was open, it was an opportunity. I climbed through. All I was looking for was something quick to sell, you know, or money, gold, that type of stuff. Kathleen turned up so I opened the front door and darted out through fear of getting caught. I knew what would happen if I got caught. I'd go to prison and I'd be rattling [detox] so I darted. That day I was under the influence of alcohol, crack cocaine and diazepam.Kathleen: When I came home I tried the front door key but I couldn't get in – then you came out. I tried to grip you but I couldn't and you ran off. Upstairs was an absolute mess. I phoned the bobbies who came. Then somebody came out to see if I was all right, did I need somebody to talk to? At the time I didn't, all my insides felt just like clockwork. But I was there [at home] for one or two days and I just didn't feel safe. I kept turning round [thinking someone was there] and when I went to bed, being on my own, I was listening for noises. My granddaughter lives across the road so I moved in with her for a few weeks and then I went back to my house but I still didn't feel secure. So I left her and I went into private accommodation, but I still had that fear. I went to the doctor and he gave me tablets. I was really angry that you'd invaded my privacy.RA: It was the day after I was arrested and put in prison that I knew what had happened. I knew I'd burgled a house, that ... it was an old lady. At that point, I was still under the influence of drugs, you don't feel much. It wasn't until my detox that I started feeling bad.K: Why go for houses?RA: I think people go for houses through desperation really. They exhaust all other avenues, whether it's family or their own possessions, and drugs get you to a point where you don't care about yourself, you've got no feelings for others and all you're motivated by ...K: Is a fix?RA: Yeah. You know your head will tell you it's OK to do because you need that drug and you're not thinking at the time about who's living there.K: It took me a long time [to get over it]. I'm in my 70s – it's frightening. You've got to look at it at from other points of view. If you went in that house and there was an elderly person in, how would you feel if the shock killed them?RA: I don't know.K: You want to think of it that way. At the end of the day, it's not worth it.RA: No. I understand that now.Oliver Laughland: Can you remember how you felt the day you met through the restorative justice process?RA: I was full of fear. I thought, how's she going to react? But I felt that you deserved an explanation and that you deserved to get how you felt about it across to me, as well. The way I see it is that you must have imagined some kind of monster going through your stuff.K: I did. When I went to meet you there was still built-up anger, and when we got talking I burst out in tears. All that hatred had built up that much, that's how I released it. And [after that] I just built my life back up. All the hatred and everything went out. It was like a relief.RA: It must have been pretty scary and I can understand all that, definitely, and that's what I felt bad for. I thought, what have I done to this lady? You've worked all your life, you've got all your stuff, and for someone to just come in and invade it like that. It must just have been awful. So I was feeling pretty bad, but I sat there and I went through it. To be honest, I felt really upset myself, but me being a lad, you know, I always try to hold it in me. But that day it was all about you really having to face me. I wanted to know what I'd done, because I needed to know. Everything you said to me, I got it up there [points to his head] and I'll always keep it there because it's a constant reminder to me of what I was capable of in drug addiction. I took your independence away.K: I didn't know you were on drugs and I didn't know your tale until it all came out. You were a different lad altogether. You weren't the same Reggie that I'd seen dart out the house.OL: And what has happened since you've been through the process?RA: Kathleen giving me the opportunity to explain myself, has been very therapeutic for me as well. That day motivated me to get detoxed because I was still on a methadone script. I went in for five weeks and it was a nightmare. It was hell. It was the worst rattle I've ever had. I got through the process and now I've got my own flat, I don't go near anyone that's using any more, and I'm just trying to get my life back on track.K: Good. Very good. I was hoping that you would change, which you have, and it's good to hear that you're doing so well. You've got to think about your freedom, you don't want to be locked up again. I've tried to get you back on track. But now it's up to you. Just keep up the good work.RA: I will. Whenever I'm feeling down or in that mould of where I used to be, I always, always think of you and it keeps me going forward.K: Never look back, always look forward.