A 23-year-old Lithuanian woman was trafficked into Britain and forced to have sex with up to 210 men a week, Southwark crown court heard on Monday. The young woman, known only as Julie for legal reasons, was kept prisoner, beaten and made to work 19-hour days as a prostitute earning her bosses £8,000 a month, the court was told. During a seven-month ordeal, the woman was used as a "licence to print money" and was sold from one brothel to another. She was considered "a valuable commodity", but was paid just £30 a week, the prosecutor, Lisa Wilding, told the jury. Andrius Zubina, 34, and his "common-law wife" Edita Zubkova, 40, of Thamesmead, south-east London, deny conspiring to traffic Julie into Britain for prostitution between December 1, 2006, and June 30 2007. They also pleaded not guilty to plotting to falsely imprison her. Zubina denies controlling prostitution for gain, a charge the jury of 10 men and two women heard Zubkova had earlier admitted. Until November 2006, Julie lived at home with her widowed mother and alcoholic brother. After a female member of a "human trafficking train" befriended her, she was invited to a party as part of a plan to make her "financially and emotionally dependent" on others, the court heard. "But it turned out to be a ruse," Wilding said. "There was no-one there and no party. She was taken to a block of flats and kept locked up and raped by a man believed to have been an ex-policeman." After three days she escaped but felt unable to face her family and returned to the woman she still believed was a friend. Eventually, she was told a barmaid job awaited her in England. She was driven to the Latvian capital of Riga and forced on to a plane bound for Stansted airport, where she landed at night with nothing but her handbag and identity documents. When she was taken to buy "sex clothes" she was told she would not be a barmaid but had been sold to work as a prostitute. "As in the case of many other women, she was informed that in order to survive she had to have oral and full sex with up to 30 men a day," Wilding said. The brothel was allegedly run by Zubina's brother-in-law, a Lithuanian known as Aurimas. The court heard that two months later Julie was allegedly sold to the two defendants. On one occasion Julie tried to escape and sneaked past a drunken guard, only to run straight in to Zubkova who dragged Julie back and gave her a vicious beating, Wilding said. When asked if she knew what a prostitute was, Zubkova replied: "They are people who love sex." Despite being watched round the clock she finally managed to escape and using money saved from her wages, bought a plane ticket back home, the court heard. The trial continues.