I once knew a man celebrated in several tabloid newspaper headlines at the time as, "Britain's oldest armed robber". He was 73 and had just received what the judge described as a "sympathetic" five-year sentence for a bank hold-up, during which he had brandished a fake "gun" (in fact a monkey wrench in a sock). He had tumbled out of the bank clutching the few hundred pounds that had been handed over by the young female cashier he had terrified and hopped straight on to a bus. What he hadn't noticed was that the bus was stuck in heavy traffic. To add to his ignominy our man was quickly apprehended by a traffic warden who saw him exit the bank "in a confused state" and chased him onto the bus's running plate.The old man was an entertaining soul out on Wandsworth prison's exercise yard. He loved regaling the younger cons, of whom then I was still one, with tales of his exploits "on the pavement" and "over the counter" in the 1960s and 70s. He told us he had been a member of the infamous Wembley Mob, whose haul from a north London branch of Barclays in 1972 of almost a quarter of a million pounds in cash had set a new record.The Wembley Mob was, of course, the gang put away for a total of 106 years by their former colleague, Derek "Bertie" Smalls, Britain's first premier league "supergrass". The old man said he'd got a 12 stretch because of "dirty Bertie". The aged robber was funny and likable - but gave no sense of having any understanding or consideration of the distress and trauma he must have caused to the many people he had held up over the years. Neither did he appear to appreciate the waste that had been his life. Long prison sentences interspersed with short bursts of freedom had broken his family (his ex-wife had been his childhood sweetheart, he said, and his grown-up children were "straight-goers" - honest people - who had long since disowned him). He'd tasted a bit of glamour, had held "grands" in his hands and enjoyed a spell on Spain's costa del crime. But he was so locked into the idea of the armed robber as the "folk hero," and the "likable rogue," that in his dotage he had become a caricature. It was sad to see really - we were a pitiable bunch as we strolled purposelessly around that exercise yard - but the figure of "Britain's oldest armed robber" was the most pathetic.Over the years, I met many men in high security prisons around the country who had been convicted of armed robbery. I spent a while in a "secure unit" where I played badminton with Charlie Wilson, one of the great train robbers - shot dead by a paid hitman in Spain in 1990; I played backgammon with neighbours who had been involved in the 1983 Brinks Matt bullion robbery and for a few months had supper brought to my cell door by a member of the gang who stole £6m cash from a Security Express depot the same year. There was definitely a several-tiered armed robber culture. At the top were the organised gangs, mostly from London and the home counties, who were "connected" and prepared for their "bits of work" as if organising a military operation. It has to be said that in other lives many of those men would have made superlative soldiers, and formidable leaders in the business world. Instead, for whatever reasons, they had chosen crime and excelled - until their moments of truth, usually in the dock at the Old Bailey.Then there were lone players, some just as professionally minded as their gangster counterparts. Again they were often men of resource and bold spirit who took big risks - I knew men who went out to rob ready to do or die for "the prize," and had been lucky to survive shootouts with the police. And then there were the others, the most desperate. I met a man who had run a business employing 30 people. Then he had a "cash-flow crisis" and attempted to rob a bank to pay the wages. Another had been unemployed for 10 years and just wanted "to see what a thousand pounds looked like". As he found out, it looked like 10 years in jail. In every case, however, I never heard a single word of regret for the people who had been affected by their deeds: guards, cashiers, managers, bystanders, or the occasional "have-a-go hero".Among the serious organised robber stratum there was definitely a "culture," but it was corrupt. It did appear, from conversations and banter, that there had been an era, a long time gone, when men who engaged in this type of crime had an authentic value system of sorts. Being "staunch" and loyal to comrades was important, and no "grassing" whatever that cost in "bird" (time in prison). Yet in almost every case I knew about, the people I met had been caught because of a "grass on the firm". Once inside there were few who I ever met, even among the "major league" types, who were "looked after" by former colleagues still free. Greed and outrageous ostentation meant that few organised armed robbery gangs survived for long. It seemed to me that their chosen lifestyle, far from being glamorous or full of "cheeky chappies," was an existence in which treachery thrived and nobody ever relaxed, even when they were counting up the spoils in Spanish hideaways. If there ever had been a genuine "code" among them (and I'm not convinced there was) - I am thinking particularly about the stereotypical London gangs of the 1960s and 70s - its final demise came with the arrival of Queen's evidence of turncoat Smalls at the Old Bailey in 1974.After the Smalls' turnaround, informing on fellow armed robbery gang members became almost fashionable. The trading of information with the police in return for shorter prison terms has been a regular feature of a great many of the robbery trials over the past three decades - and here it is again in the UK's biggest ever cash-haul by an organised crime gang. The key figure in the case against the somewhat anachronistic £53m Securitas robbers (drug importation and distribution has long since surpassed armed robbery as the crime of choice for serious criminals), was one of their number, Michelle Hogg, the makeup artist who helped the robbers with their disguises. Hogg turned Queen's evidence and had all charges against her dropped. It was a classic example of "doing a Bertie". Yet Hogg was hardly a gangster with a criminal pedigree. Her involvement, and that of the two Albanian men, gives a flavour of the underlying amateurish nature of the Securitas venture. But that has not stopped the talking up of the "glamour" of the crime - words like "audacious" and "stunning" being used to describe what will be long remembered as "the heist of the century".It's a great fantasy, the idea of wheeling cages full of £50 notes out of a warehouse and into the back of a lorry. Fifty three million in cash is a mind-boggling amount to contemplate. But we delude ourselves if we think there is anything glamorous or admirable about what happened that dark night in Tunbridge Wells. It may be a record amount and £30m-odd is still missing. But the treachery and deceit that abounds in most criminal enterprise was just as apparent in this case. No thought was given to the people who were terrorised in order to gain entry to the compound. Colin Dixon, the manager of the depot who, along with his wife and child, was kidnapped, has seen his family's life effectively destroyed. Other staff on duty that night are not going to forget the ordeal for a long time to come. And now we learn that there is going to be a television film about the robbery - inevitable I guess. I don't want to sound like a killjoy here, but I hope the film-maker bears in mind what the head of the Kent prosecution team said after the gang's conviction: "There is nothing romantic about a child being held at gunpoint by a masked man."