Police last night retraced the final known footsteps of Joanna Yeates, the murdered landscape architect, on the first working Friday three weeks to the day that she disappeared.Officers followed the route Yeates took on the night she vanished, stopping to ask people motorists, cyclists and passersby whether they had seen her, hoping to jog the memory of anyone who might have a vital clue but has yet to come forward. They stopped more than over 30 cars in Canynge Road, Clifton, where she lived, asking drivers to fill in questionnaires on why they were using the road – and if they had used it between 8pm and 2am the night Yeates went missing on 17 December. Officers also stopped more than 100 vehicles in Longwood Lane, where her body was found. Detectives believe she was left on the narrow verge shortly after she disappeared.A spokesman said: "The road is a popular cut through route between two main roads and we've stopped more vehicles than anticipated. Everyone has been very helpful." Police have decided not to enact a full reconstruction at this stage but are understood to be in talks with BBC Crimewatch about one this month.Yesterday's operation began at the Ram pub, on Park Street, near Bristol city centre, where Yeates was drinking with work colleagues on the evening of her disappearance.Yeates, 25, left the pub at about 8pm and began the walk up the hill towards Clifton. She bought a pizza from a supermarket and cider from an off-licence and is believed to have reached home at 8.45pm.Police later found her coat, boots, keys, purse and bankcards at her flat, together with a receipt for the pizza.A spokesperson said: "[This] activity is about creating a visible presence, jogging people's memories and gathering information."Rewards totalling £60,000 are being offered for information leading to Yeates's killer. The Sun has offered £50,000 and the charity Crimestoppers has put up £10,000.Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, who is leading the murder investigation, said: "I'm sure someone out there has that vital piece of information we need to catch Jo's killer. I would again urge anyone with any information whatsoever to come forward and help us find the answers that both ourselves and Jo's family want and need."Police said they had chosen to carry out the operation now because it was the first Friday since Yeates' disappearance when people's routines were likely to be back to normal – the first Friday was Christmas Eve and the second New Year's Eve.Jones said: ""Were you in Bristol on the night of Jo's disappearance? You may have a valuable piece of information which could help. You may think that something you may have seen or heard is insignificant but let us make that decision. We continue to work tirelessly to catch and bring to justice whoever killed Jo and thank the public for the overwhelming response we have already received."The parents of a teenager from Yate, near Bristol, who was murdered in 1995 have urged police to DNA-test people living close to Yeates's home.Louise Smith, 18, was raped and killed as she walked home from a nightclub on Christmas Day. Avon and Somerset police took DNA samples from 5,000 men in the area when initial inquiries failed to trace the killer. David Frost, a 21-year-old student, was caught 14 months after the murder when police noticed he had evaded giving a DNA sample.Louise's mother, Gillian Smith, said: "They should test residents near where she lived in Clifton and where her body was found. The tension in Bristol and around Clifton will not be relieved until someone is caught."Police say such a move is not a "priority". Officers are continuing to hunt for a long grey ski sock that was missing from Yeates's body when she was found, and are considering whether it may have been kept by the killer as a trophy and whether she may have been strangled with it.Police were also looking at a sighting of two men seen running out of woods near Longwood Lane early yesterday morning. They appeared to be soaking wet and "agitated", according to a witness. Police are not commenting on individual sightings.The Avon and Somerset force has retracted its complaint to the broadcasting watchdog Ofcom about ITV's coverage of the murder investigation. The force was accused of censorship after an ITV news crew was stopped from entering a press conference this week in a row over a report on the News at Ten.The report, which criticised the police investigation, was described on Wednesday by the force as "naive and irresponsible". But a joint statement released yesterday by the force and ITV News said: "The chief constable of Avon and Somerset police, Colin Port, and the editor-in-chief of ITV News, David Mannion, have today resolved differences between their two organisations resulting from a report on News at Ten."ITV News has made careful note of the concerns raised by the chief constable. The chief constable has made it clear that ITV News is welcome to attend future force press conferences. Both parties now regard the matter as closed."