"Blanket and indiscriminate". Strasbourg's condemnation of the English and Welsh DNA database could not have been more damning. The European court of human rights spoke unambiguously and with one voice last year, when it ruled against a system that shows the same disregard for the privacy of innocent suspects as for convicted criminals. This morning the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, finally unveils her response. It will no longer be official policy to hold the records of the innocent in perpetuity, but the details of the plan are so anaemic as to constitute a show of contempt for the spirit of the ruling.Hundreds of thousands of innocent people will have their DNA profiles retained on a bulging system which continues to dwarf that in comparable countries. The security state will - for as long as a dozen years - cling on to genetic fingerprints of many whose only sin is to have fallen under a passing glare of police suspicion. The destruction of the mere handful of records held on very young children is of course welcome, but it should not be allowed to distract from the fact that innocent youngsters - some no more than 11 - who the authorities mistakenly believe to have done something wrong will be subjected to rules not much different than those for adults. The stepping stones towards the banks of redemption thus stop dead in the midst of the mire.During the five months since the ruling, the government has dragged its feet. Indeed, it was quite possibly only the fear of diplomatic blushes that persuaded ministers to say anything at all. Britain's stance had seemed so outrageously leisurely that there was every chance that the Council of Europe's committee of ministers - a body which includes Russia and Moldova, as well as France and Germany - would have referred a fresh case to the court if something was not said. The fact is that ministers, understandably seized by DNA's great utility in cracking crime, have allowed themselves to forget about the principle that citizens must always be innocent until proven guilty.An fully universal database would at least treat every citizen in the same way, and so avoid blurring the crucial line between suspect and convict. The authorities, however, know this is an argument they could not win, rightly anticipating that respectable people, unused to contact with the law, would not take kindly to having their biological blueprint stored on a police computer. Their fears that those family relationships and medical conditions which are woven into the double helix could somehow leak from the system would create an almighty political backlash. Instead, therefore, the database has been exclusively focused on those who have had a brush with the law. The implicit presumption is that, regardless of whether suspects turn out to be guilty or innocent, most of them come from disenfranchised parts of society and will be unable to make a fuss. Such cynicism carries the risk of bias against those minorities that are disproportionately likely to fall foul of the police. Strasbourg felt that general concerns about privacy were so overpowering that there was no need for it to get into arguments about discrimination last year. But this is another issue left unresolved by today's announcement, and one which could form the basis of a fresh claim against the system.The number of convictions has recently been broadly stable, despite the burgeoning of the world's biggest forensic databank. No one disputes DNA is invaluable in solving some heinous crimes. But it is most valuable as a tool for rounding up the usual suspects, those with convictions who have earned them their place on the system. That is where the quantitative difference is made. The qualitative damage to British justice, however, is done by the database's treatment of those convicted of no crime. And the upshot of today's announcement is that the damage will continue to be done.