At the age of 15, five months into a life sentence, Brooksie's account of his crime is spare and matter-of-fact. 'These four men raped my little cousin,' he says. 'Two of them were convicted, but that left two who got away with it. So me and some of my family went round to see them, and we had a fight. Unfortunately, one of them died.'Brooksie, from Hampshire, is a tall, well-built boy with unblemished features and a huge, beaming smile. After more than a year on remand and a three-month trial, he was sentenced for murder, with his aunt. Another member of his family was convicted of violent disorder, while a fourth walked free. But his parents, he says proudly, are standing by him.'I talk to my mum on the phone at least once a week. At the moment, my dad's in prison himself, for GBH with intent, but we get a phone call together every fortnight.'He grins. 'The sentence don't really bother me, because I'm still really young, and I've got my life to live.' If he satisfies the authorities that he poses no risk, he can expect to be freed on licence before he is 30. Even then, if he reoffends or does anything else to cause concern, he could be recalled to prison indefinitely.Brooksie - as a juvenile he can only be identified by his prison nickname - is one of just 27 inmates at the specialist Carlford Unit near Woodbridge in Suffolk, which houses youths convicted of very serious crimes. Last week The Observer became the first national media organisation to be allowed access since it opened in 2000.'Basically, what we've got here are the most dangerous 14- to 18-year-olds in the British Isles,' prison officer Ian Walker says cheerfully. 'We're a national resource so some will come from as far away as Wales or Cornwall, and most of their crimes will have put them in the papers.'There's a 33 per cent split: a third are lifers, a third are rapists and sex offenders; the crimes of the rest range from arson to GBH.' As we walk the unit's corridors, it seems difficult to believe. Boisterous but orderly, the prisoners greet Walker with warmth and politeness, like boarding school pupils encountering a respected master.Housed in a gloomy single-storey building, Carlford has a high, barbed wire perimeter fence. Its cells look the same as those in any modern British jail, with hard, narrow beds and reinforced windows, metal toilets protected by waist-high 'privacy panels', and posters snipped from men's magazines. There the resemblances end.In place of the normal blue service uniform, the staff wear slacks and polo shirts, and with a high ratio of officers to inmates, they cultivate an atmosphere of relaxed informality. In most jails, inmates take their meals alone in their cells, and the staff eat in a separate mess. At Carlford, everyone has the same food together at communal tables.Pride of place in the well-equipped gym goes to an indoor climbing wall, 30ft high, which officers and prisoners scale together, securing each other with ropes. 'I wouldn't like to be halfway up and have one of the kids unclip me,' Walker says. 'Giving them that level of trust is a very big deal - not only for us, but for them.'At £53,000 a year, a place at Carlford costs about £9,000 more than at an ordinary young offender institution. Whether it is justified to invest so heavily in youths convicted of such serious crimes is open to debate. Its long-term effects on offenders' behaviour have yet to be evaluated.But in the short term, at least, its approach seems to be working. The issues which would usually dominate a journalist's visit to a juvenile prison, such as bullying, fights and suicide attempts, are almost absent. Since last January, there has been only one violent incident at Carlford, and one case of self-harm.'It's a bit of a halfway house, between a children's home and ordinary prison,' says Walker. 'Most of the year, our main business is education, and because these lads are serious offenders, they'll always be one of us in a classroom, because it wouldn't be appropriate to leave them alone with a teacher. But at the end of the day, they're also only kids.'Those who behave well - an overwhelming majority - get a long list of 'enhanced' privileges. As in adult jail, their cells contain TV sets, and also, less commonly, prison-issue PlayStations.I ask Brooksie how he feels about being in prison. 'It's just missing out on a few things, and you don't get to leave.' He shrugs. 'I miss my mates and going up the shops. And there's the fact that when you get told something here, you have to do it.'What about the chance of having a girlfriend? Brooksie laughs, and claims that being inside gives him an advantage. 'My auntie's in Bullwood Hall [women's prison], and she gets the girls there to write to me. I was really excited last week when one of them told me she's a lesbian but she still fancies me 'cos she thinks my picture is cute! You ask anyone here. They're all writing to at least six girls.'How does he see his future? 'I'll be in adult prison, but I'm not too bothered about that because I'll be on a lifer wing, and everyone there's got a lot to lose, so they'll behave themselves. Then I want to get out and get a real job. I want to be a roof tiler. I like being up high and outside. There's good pay as well.'Among the biggest influences in the unit is the arts organisation Aldeburgh Productions, which runs the annual music festival at Benjamin Britten's old home at the Maltings in Snape, a few miles from the unit. 'A lot of the time they spend in prison the lads are asked to face the past that brought them there,' says Aldeburgh's education manager, Emma Scott. 'We want to take them as they are now and help them achieve something to be proud of; to give themselves and the officers a chance to see them as something other than offenders, inside for a particular crime.'Thanks to Aldeburgh, Carlford inmates have written and produced short films, recorded studio-quality music and, for four summers, broadcast interviews, news and music to a surrounding 10-mile radius on Future FM.Scott's commitment is palpable: 'For every crime, there's a human being behind it, and there must be a hope they can be rehabilitated. These lads are so very young. If we can show them there can be more to life than what they've done and what they can achieve, they will hold on to that.''Chaps' seems to be one of the successes. Due for release in October, he passed five GCSEs and A-levels in economics, science and business studies at Carlford. This is his third year working for the radio station, and among other projects he produced and directed a TV advert.'This place has given me a lot. You can communicate with staff, and learn to work as a team. It was the wake-up call I needed: as a young teenager, I messed up badly. It's taught me to stand on my own two feet, to be more mature. When I get out, I'm going to apply to uni, to study aeronautical engineering.'He's about to have his first day on the outside for more than three years, and admits he is nervous: 'I tell myself that when I get on the other side of the fence, I'll be with staff and I'll cope. After one or two times, it'll be all right.'However, most of Carlford's inmates and all of the lifers will graduate not to freedom but a much tougher world of young offender institutions such as Feltham, in west London, and eventually adult prisons. There, the optimism expressed by its staff may begin to erode.'It can get kind of intense in here after a while, don't you think?' says Walker as the photographer and I get ready to leave. 'Spare a thought for us - with shifts that start at 7am and carry on through to 9.30 at night.'Outside, beyond the fence, lies a scene out of Constable: huge oaks and lush fields, sloping gently towards the sea. Freedom. As we wait for a taxi, I remember a trip to the American South, when Harry Connick Senior, the District Attorney of New Orleans, gave me his reasons for successfully seeking the death penalty for a boy of 16: 'You commit an adult crime, you pay an adult penalty.'The unit represents a very different philosophy, a fundamental belief that its inmates can be redeemed. Yet it raises as many questions as it satisfies. Its palpable humanity is deeply impressive. But is it justified to invest so much more heavily in youths convicted of such serious crimes than in 'ordinary' prisoners? And is there any prospect that once they leave Carlford's benign confines, the progress they have made there can be sustained?