It is a depressing and disturbing thought that children are being taken, either forcibly or through deception, for a 21st-century version of slavery.Hundreds of thousands of children are exported from some of the poorest places in the world to work as domestic servants or for sexual exploitation in richer regions of the globe. The child victims have little idea that they will be deposited in a foreign country and denied basic human rights - or that they will be forced into degrading work. As our investigation reveals, this trade in child labour is becoming a feature of many British cities. Prostitution is its most widely reported outcome, but emerging now are many cases of child drug mules and underage forced marriages. Brought into the country clandestinely or by an adult claiming to be their parent, the vulnerable and the meek are coerced into misery and harm. Far from the law and in a foreign land, they are forced to rely on their abusers to survive. That children in Britain endure psychological and physical torture on such a scale should shock. Like much else in matters of immigration and asylum, the issues are complex. There are economic reasons why children are sold: the poor around the world often get into debt, and some give up their children for a few pounds. There are cultural reasons - it is not unusual in some countries for children to spend years working as bonded household labour. War, which all too often troubles poor nations, produces refugees upon which child traffickers can easily prey. But these provide a supply. The demand comes from the greedy and the morally corrupt. Alarmingly, criminal gangs have quietly set up business here seeing opportunities where the rest of the country sees depravity. Since the first recognised case in Britain in 1995, the growth in child trafficking has been a worrying and persistent trend. Victoria Climbié, trafficked for benefit fraud to die after months of neglect, malnutrition and physical abuse by her great aunt, was one victim whose name we have all heard of. There are many more who are anonymous and out of sight. Today's Unicef report should ensure that others are heard. It contains testimony from children traumatised by horrors that no civil society should allow to occur and points out that, without monitoring in place, the 250 cases of children trafficking in Britain represent the tip of the iceberg. Policy-makers and politicians need to respond imaginatively and sensitively to this issue. The problem can be tackled at source with aid and reconstruction packages to countries where child populations are at risk. In Britain, enslaved children need to escape from the traffickers' clutches. He or she needs protection and specialist care so that they can recover from their experiences. This is not easy to do. Taken into the care of social services, children are often instructed to flee and return to their former captors. Traffickers are also adept at recapturing children who run away. Others simply put pressure on families and relatives at home to ensure that trafficked children return. Locking up children for their own good is difficult to defend - which a safe house for trafficked children amounts to. But it is worth experimenting with to see whether they can work as part of a wider policy. Unicef's suggestion for children to be able to stay for six months, without committing themselves to helping in any prosecution against their trafficker, is also worth considering. None of this will make a difference unless the criminal gangs who make money out of children's hurt and distress are put out of business.