Police commissioner Paul Stephenson is "rather fond of villains going to prison", because his mission in life is to "save life, prevent crime." I share the same mission, only mine has an addition: less crime, safer communities, fewer people in prison. I normally try to avoid criticising the police, as they keep us safe and do a good job of it. But Stephenson's remarks seem to come directly from the Batman school of crime-fighting. In real life, however, catching the bad guy and sending him to prison is not the end of the story.If the commissioner thinks that a short spell in prison will stop these "villains" reoffending, then he is at best naive, at worst plain wrong. Over two thirds of those sentenced to less than a year in prison will be reconvicted within two years of release. The National Audit Office estimates that reoffending by all recent ex-prisoners costs the taxpayer up to £13bn a year.By the commissioner's thinking, the petty burglar will be released from 12 weeks lying on a prison bunk having thought about what they have done, and realised the error of their ways. Only they still have their crack addiction, and they still don't have a job, nor do they have anywhere permanent to live.The more custodial sentences one is given, the less effect prison has. For those who have served more than 10 previous custodial sentences, the rate of reoffending rises to 76.4 %. Nothing meaningful can happen to those on short-term prison sentences. People do not have access to education, drug and alcohol rehabilitation, anger management classes and the like. In short, nothing happens to them to make them less likely to offend when they are released.Kenneth Clarke, the secretary of state for justice, concedes that "it is virtually impossible to do anything productive with offenders on short sentences. And many of them end up losing their jobs, their homes and their families during their short time inside". The answer is not to send people to prison for longer. The past 15 years have seen an exponential rise in the number of people sent to prison and in sentence lengths, and reoffending rates remain stubbornly high. Clarke said that the current prison population number is "astonishing… which I would have dismissed as an impossible and ridiculous prediction if it had been put to me in a forecast in 1992".Our legal caseload tells countless stories of neglect and abuse. Our clients are in custody because they did not have the right support and guidance in the community. If they go back to the same conditions and are unchanged themselves by custody, then we are all wasting our time and money. With the Home Office and Ministry of Justice both facing swingeing cuts, which would Stephenson prefer to see funded: a police officer or a prisoner? They cost the same to the taxpayer. The truth is, if we prevent cyclical reoffending through a more advanced penal system, with the costs to victims and the economy that it entails, we can afford to fund more police officers to prevent more crime year on year.Prison does not set people on the right path. It is not uncommon for people to enter prison clean and leave with a very expensive crack habit. People often leave prison more damaged and more dangerous than when they first went in and we are mistaken if we think we can avoid having that inflicted on us when they come back to our streets. Prison is not the answer. Kenneth Clarke knows it, criminal justice practitioners know it, prisoners know it and victims know it.