Police in Leeds are continuing to question a man about the murder of a woman and her eight-year-old daughter at their home in the suburb of Garforth, and the attempted murder of a four-year-old child.The man has been named locally as John Miller, 36, a self-employed plasterer. He was arrested after an apparent row with paramedics who were called to treat him at the Fairburn Ings nature reserve, where walkers and birdwatchers reported him as injured and struggling to walk.Police found the bodies of Sarah Laycock, 31, and her older daughter, Abigail, at the bungalow in a quiet street which is also Miller's address. Abigail's sister was also found there with minor injuries and was taken to Leeds General Infirmary. She has now been discharged.The house, which is close to the edge of Leeds and the countryside, is sealed off with police tape. Forensic officers are carrying out a search inside and in the garden.A spokesman for West Yorkshire police said: "Our officers were called at around 4pm on Saturday afternoon to reports of an assault near the Fairburn Ings nature reserve near Castleford. Following initial inquiries, a house search was conducted and a 31-year-old woman and an eight-year-old girl were found deceased there. A four-year-old girl was also found with minor injuries."A 36-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder and attempted murder. He is currently in police custody and enquiries remain ongoing."Neighbours said they were familiar with the family and had been shocked to hear what had happened. "They just seemed a normal family," said Janet Hutchinson."They had a dog and we had a dog and we used to pass in the street and say hello. We are all shocked. You just don't know what is going on in other houses, do you?"Another neighbour, Audrey Bottomley, said: "My friend lives next door to them. [The man] would always say hello or good morning."He was out with his children on Christmas Day, they had some new bikes, he loved the children."I can't understand it. I was quite shocked when I heard. The lady who lived there seemed quite shy and didn't seem to mix with anyone on the street."Miller is known to have a keen interest in bodybuilding.