Crown prosecutors are to be strongly urged today by the solicitor general to press ahead with domestic violence prosecutions even if the woman victim insists on the case being dropped."She might want to forgive him, but the next time he assaults her she could be killed," the solicitor general, Harriet Harman, will tell an Association of Chief Police Officers conference on domestic violence. Ms Harman will give her strongest backing yet to moves to give the victims of domestic violence the same anonymity as that offered to rape victims when they appear in court to give evidence. The measures are part of a wider package in next month's criminal justice bill which will see the systematic review of all murder cases involving domestic violence. It also outlines new powers to impose restraining orders to keep the perpetrators away from their victims and make the breach of a non-molestation order a criminal rather than a civil offence. The legislation on domestic violence will be the first for 25 years. The latest official figures show that the police make an arrest in only 52% of domestic violence cases and the arrest rate varies from 9% to 86% across 29 police forces. The solicitor general will tell today's conference that a decision on whether or not to drop a case when a woman says she will not support the prosecution is very difficult. "It is not just the issue of whether there will be enough evidence without her, it is about where the public interest lies when the victim is insisting the case be dropped," says Ms Harman. "Prosecutors are right to remember always that the safety of the woman is paramount, but they are considering a public, not a private prosecution. "She might want to forgive him, but the next time he assaults her she could be killed. Even if she has left him and wants just to move on in her life and put it all behind her, he is likely, unchecked, to just go on to assault his next partner and she might end up dead." The government wants to make clear to the victim of domestic violence that the assault is a crime and not a private matter just for themselves and their children. At the same time it has to be made clear to the men involved that they are criminals if they assault their wives and girlfriends. "If you commit assault at home you are every bit as much a criminal as someone who assaults a stranger in the street," Ms Harman says. She will also give her strongest support yet to the proposal to give the victims of domestic violence the same anonymity as is offered to rape victims. No final decision has yet been taken in government on whether this will be included in the criminal justice bill.