Tens of thousands of workers are employed by gangmasters across Britain, it was claimed today, some of them being paid just 78p a week after paying for transport and accommodation.Some 3,000 gangmasters are in charge of 60,000 to 100,000 workers, according to the Labour MP pushing for the gangmasters to be licensed. Jim Sheridan, Labour MP for West Renfrewshire, said he had held "very constructive" meetings with ministers over his private member's bill. But he did not yet know if he had enough support to push it through. He said licensing the gangmasters would enable the government to keep track of them and their workers. Under his bill, employers would not be allowed to take on workers from unlicensed gangmasters. "I am not offering this as a panacea," he said. But speaking on BBC Radio Four's Today programme he said it would go a long way to stopping the black economy. The issue of gangmasters came to the public attention after the recent deaths of 20 Chinese cockle-pickers in Morecambe Bay. Many of them are packing food for major supermarkets, according to Mr Sheridan. The "scandal" came to light as unions, MPs and church leaders joined forces to appeal to the government to support legislation to licence gangmasters. The bill is drawing support from politicians of all parties but Mr Sheridan said, "there was some way to go" before the government gave it complete support. An official of the Transport and General Workers' Union told a news conference in London that he had interviewed seven South African workers yesterday he believed were being exploited. They had been recruited in South Africa, lent money which they had to repay at 100% interest and were living in cramped conditions being paid below the minimum wage, claimed Don Pollard. He said 24 of the workers were living in one house, paying £55 a week for accommodation and another £17.50 for administration and transport. One of the workers showed Mr Pollard his pay packet, which contained just 78p after stoppages. The workers, who Mr Pollard claimed were being paid just £4 an hour, were packing fruit for sale in supermarkets. Mr Sheridan said the case highlighted the need for legislation which he hoped would now move forward following the second reading of his bill on Friday. "As the people of Britain now know following Morecambe Bay, allowing the unscrupulous to thrive and the failure to protect workers can have the most tragic human consequences. "The government has said that it backed the principles of my bill and I hope they will now help me to progress this important legislation." Jack Dromey, deputy general secretary of the TGWU, said: "The weaknesses of the law are undermining reputable labour providers and responsible retailers and allowing the ruthless exploitation of vulnerable workers, many of whom are working legally. "This bill would ensure that gangmasters must obtain a licence and operate transparently, establishing the paper trail that has been missing which has helped illegal employers operate beyond the law."