A prolific teenage eBay fraudster was ordered to do 240 hours of community service yesterday for swindling rugby fans by selling them non-existent match tickets. Phillip Shortman, 18, had been told to expect to go to jail but was spared because the judge believed he was a reformed character.Shortman, of Cwmbran, south Wales, became notorious in May when he was given a 12-month detention and training order for persuading more than 100 internet shoppers to pay him £45,000 for imaginary goods. He was released in September but immediately arrested again over another series of swindles which police discovered he had committed in March.This time he offered tickets to the Wales v Ireland rugby grand slam decider. Desperate to see the game, supporters sent him thousands of pounds but no tickets materialised.Judge David Aubrey QC said Shortman, who admitted four offences of obtaining property by deception, was guilty of "deliberate and elaborate offences."The judge told him: "We live in days when more and more business is done on the internet. It depends on the honesty of those who use it. I could have jailed you but because you have already served time in prison since you committed these offences, and because I believe you have been transformed I will not send you to custody. It would undo much of the good that your sentence did for you."The court heard that as he waited to be dealt with for the previous run of offences, Shortman spotted a chance to make more money on the back of the excitement surrounding the crunch Six Nations game.Shortman sold one of his victims, Nicholas Price, a debenture seat and tickets for £7,000, pretending to be the nephew of the ex-Welsh rugby international prop Graham Price to give himself credibility. When no tickets turned up, Mr Price contacted the Welsh Rugby Union, which told him he had been conned.Another victim, Timothy Robertson, paid £600 for tickets, rugby tops and a match programme, but received nothing. He arranged to meet Shortman in a hotel in Heathrow but the fraudster did not turn up. A third, Sheila Foster, paid £380 into Shortman's bank account for match tickets for her grandson but they did not arrive. A fourth victim paid £125 for a Nokia mobile phone which never came.Lawrence Jones, defending, told Cardiff crown court that Shortman had been "addicted" to defrauding shoppers on eBay. "But since his jail term he has become a model character."After the case, Shortman said: "I'm so happy and relieved to be going home for Christmas. My prison experience has inspired me to get qualifications to become a youth worker."Shortman, a father of one, has also offered to work with eBay to help them stop conmen. The company has said it would not employ Shortman but would talk to him.