"Neighbours from hell" who are evicted from their council homes will have to agree to take compulsory rehabilitation programmes to get rehoused under new government plans. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has acknowledged the criticism that evicting anti- social families and simply rehousing them means that someone else gets the nuisance neighbour. He wants to use little-known powers in the new anti-social behaviour legislation to ensure that they take part in a rehabilitation programme when they are rehoused. They will be expected to take courses in parenting skills, financial management, and anger management in return for another home. This will take place while they are living in a dedicated "secure" council block with half a dozen other problem families. Social workers will provide them with 24-hour counselling and family support Shelter and other housing charities have condemned the current policy as simply kicking the problem around the country. Earlier this year, the Guardian followed a mother, Jackie Annable, evicted from her home in Eastwood, Nottinghamshire, because of the problem behaviour of her son, Shane. It took more than five months for them to be rehoused.In that time, there was no attempt to address Shane's worsening behaviour. Mr Blunkett revealed the plan during a Labour big conversation event in Oxford last week. He came under pressure, along with the work and pensions minister, Andrew Smith, to adopt a similar voluntary scheme, known as the Dundee family project, which has run in Scotland since 1996. "We are thinking of extending that further," Mr Blunkett said. "We have built into the Anti-social Behaviour Act a facility that has not yet been used." He said the Dundee scheme and others in the Manchester area had been working on a voluntary basis: "They have had to work in terms of housing people in a secure environment so that they won't create as much mayhem as they were in the local community," Mr Blunkett said. "But the step further that we are considering, and it is in the act, is that we could make that a compulsory part of the order." He said that at present the only choice when somebody was up for eviction for antisocial behaviour was to rehouse them "so somebody else gets a neighbour from hell". He said that the families would need to take the courses to earn the "right to be rehoused and be put back into the community". The Dundee family project was set up by the children's charity, NCH Action for Children Scotland, in partnership with Dundee council, with the aim of avoiding evictions and preventing the breakdown of vulnerable families. Staff run after-school and teenage group activities, with courses for adults in cookery, parenting skills, anger management and tenancy issues. The £300,000 a year project was initially condemned as creating another "Colditz" but it has proved successful and helped more than 160 families. A second voluntary scheme in Miles Platting, north Manchester, where a unit of five flats are used to house nuisance families, was also criticised initially. It also involves the children's charity, NCH, and disruptive families who face eviction are offered the alternative of moving in the family support unit. They are expected to sign up for a strict code of behaviour, including no returning drunk late at night or disturbing neighbours. In return they get 24-hour support, including assistance with getting up in the morning, breakfast, getting children to school, and with homework in the evening. A two-year Glasgow University evaluation of the Dundee project found that local residents had been won over. Partnerships with services such as police, schools and social services had also been strengthened, and the families themselves had "made progress". At last week's Labour big conversation, crime reduction workers made clear to Mr Blunkett that they preferred to see an expansion of schemes such as the Dundee families project across the country. They were not keen to see the welfare benefits of nuisance families taken away as a punishment. The homelessness charity Shelter has estimated that as many as 6,000 housing association and council tenants are threatened with eviction each year because of their behaviour. Manchester city council, which has one of the toughest policies, evicted 283 households between 1995 and 2002.