The case of a nine-year-old boy who was murdered after he walked home from school following a game of marbles with his classmates has been solved after more than 24 years, police said today.Imraan Vohra was last seen leaving Frenchwood primary school in Preston, Lancashire, in July 1985. He never arrived home, and his body was found in a nearby park two days later after a search by police and 150 volunteers.He had been raped before being strangled with his trousers and his body was left in undergrowth at Avenham park. Despite a major inquiry, his killer was never found – until police matched DNA samples to Robert Morley, a father of seven who died of lung cancer in Essex in 1997. At the time of the murder, Morley was living in a tower block in Avenham, Preston, near the park where Imraan's body was discovered.Scientists said the chance of him not being responsible for the murder was one in a billion.During the lengthy police investigation, more than 6,000 people were contacted, 2,500 statements taken and hundreds of items of evidence stored on a computer database.The case remained open, and eight years ago, a previously unidentified DNA sample was found which had been left by the killer.Lancashire police have traced the sample to Morley, who was originally from Islington, north London. He was evacuated to Lancashire as a child during the second world war and returned to Preston in the late 1970s. He had a string of convictions for minor offences, including theft and indecent exposure. Police said there was no previous evidence linking him to the murder.Detective Chief Superintendent Graham Gardner, of Lancashire police, described Morley as "a violent, sexually controlling man". He said: "Many detectives and scientists have worked tirelessly on this very sad case for many years. The result is as a consequence of that dedication and of advances in forensic science, which have changed considerably."He said that "it transpired Morley had lived in Preston at the time of Imraan's murder. He's a petty criminal with a string of convictions for things like cheque forgery but hasn't committed any similar offences as far as we know. We are starting to build a picture of a heavy drinker, an aggressive, controlling character and a womaniser – but he doesn't present as a predatory paedophile. His ex-wife viewed him as a secretive man, sometimes not knowing what job he was doing."He led a nomadic existence in Lancashire, living alone and moving around.Gardner added: "Imraan's relatives have had a very long journey and did not know how to take it. They are religious people and believe that his killer would have been punished in heaven."He said the police were now endeavouring to find out more about Morley's life in the city. They already know that he lived at various addresses in Lancashire between 1979 and 1987 after moving to the area from London.Gardner said the boy's family had conducted themselves with "great dignity in the most distressing circumstances for many years". He added: "There's no happy ending to this story, but in some ways it does bring some conclusion to them. I would have liked to have seen this man brought to justice in crown court."Imraan's family released a statement thanking the police and said: "As a family we would have liked to have seen justice in the courts, but justice will be done hereafter."Anyone who has information about Morley's time in Preston is asked to contact Lancashire police.