Detectives investigating the death of skydiver Stephen Hilder today said that there had been a "significant" development in the inquiry.Mr Hilder, who was 20, plunged 13,000ft to his death over Hibaldstow airfield, in north Lincolnshire, in July last year. Today, a spokeswoman for Humberside police said: "We can confirm that there has been a significant development in the forensic side of the investigation, and forensic scientists are now conducting in-depth tests on various items in order to obtain more results." The force was responding to recent press coverage of Mr Hilder's death, which had suggested officers were working on the theory that he had committed suicide. Humberside police refused to confirm or deny the reports, but added that the speculation was "unhelpful and distressing to Stephen's family". The spokeswoman said: "Stephen's parents are aware of all developments in the inquiry, but do not wish to discuss them with the media. We would appreciate it if their privacy is respected."Firstly, we must stress that the case is still active and all aspects of Stephen's death continue to be investigated. "Detectives working on the inquiry are keeping an open mind, and are continuing to gather information about the circumstances surrounding the skydiver's death."The potential forensic breakthrough involved tests on DNA and fibres, but the spokeswoman said that it was too early to give any more details."At this stage, although the forensic tests have provided useful information to the inquiry, they are by no means conclusive. Until such time that further results are returned to us, we are not in the position to elaborate," she said."The extensive forensic tests are likely to take six weeks to be completed. Once the tests are completed, we will then consider our position and update the media accordingly."The army cadet died while competing in a national skydiving contest at Hibaldstow, near Brigg. A murder inquiry was launched, and Humberside police interviewed almost 2,500 people, taking nearly 800 written statements. Two army cadet colleagues who studied with Mr Hilder at the Royal Military college of science, in Shrivenham, Wiltshire, were arrested and questioned about his death, but released without charge. Both had been on the jump with him when he died.