Police were granted another 36 hours today to question a 33-year-old man in connection with the brutal murder of French students Gabriel Ferez and Laurent Bonomo, Scotland Yard said.The suspect was questioned today by detectives after being released from hospital. He had walked into a south London police station in the early hours of yesterday suffering from burns, reportedly to his hands and face. He was assessed and treated under police guard in hospital.The bodies of Ferez and Bonomo, both 23, were found in a bedsit in New Cross, south-east London, on June 29. They had been tied up and repeatedly stabbed in the head, neck, and torso before the bedsit was set alight. Bonomo was stabbed 196 times and Ferez 47 times. Detective Chief Inspector Mick Duthie, leading the inquiry, said the injuries were the worst he had seen.Officers said there was a strong smell of accelerant in the rented flat after the fire had been put out. Forensic searches of the scene are expected to continue for several weeks.It is believed a burglary at the premises six days earlier, during which a laptop was stolen, could be linked to the killings. Experts said they had found no evidence of forced entry, suggesting that keys to the bedsit could also have been taken. Two Sony handheld games consoles were also stolen, and credit cards were thought to be missing. Police believe the students, who were living in London as they worked on biochemistry research projects at Imperial College, could have been tortured for their pin numbers. Over the weekend, Scotland Yard released a computer-generated image of a white man, aged between 30 and 40 and wearing a pale baseball cap, a dark top, blue jeans and white trainers, who several people saw fleeing the area after the killings. Sources close to the investigation said detectives believed more than one person could have been involved in the attack.A 21-year-old man arrested at the weekend in connection with the killings was released without charge.Ferez's parents, Françoise and Olivier, this week released a statement in which they appealed for whoever was responsible for their son's death to give themselves up."You will not be able to live in hiding forever," it said. "You may be scared and feel like a coward, but you must recognise this terrible mistake you made.''Yesterday, more than 500 people marched through the university town of Clermont-Ferrand, where the victims had been in the second year of a three-year master's degree at the Polytech'Clermont-Ferrand.They walked under a banner reading: "From all the corners of the world, the second-year biology students think of you and those close to you."