Why shouldn't anti-social behaviour orders be an election issue when politicians are taking credit for the "success" of a policy that is bringing homelessness and imprisonment to countless vulnerable people? (Leaders, April 8)? Probation and council officers as well as campaigners for the rights of children, women, prisoners and others describe a climate of "spiteful and cruel" treatment. Young people with nowhere to go, now that resources have been cut, are being criminalised for hanging out on street corners. Sex workers are being imprisoned for Asbos, despite the fact that prison for loitering and soliciting was abolished years ago.Like anti-terror legislation, there is no trial. Hearsay evidence can result in up to five years' imprisonment or destitution. These are not Asbos working badly, these are Asbos working - pitting against each other people frustrated by this government, which ignores our needs, starving our communities of resources in order to make war. Niki Adams Legal Action for Women No one wants to live next to noisy neighbours but the depressing common denominator in all the stories cited is that the Asbos will do nothing to sort out the causes of the problems. They are designed, at best, to provide symptomatic relief. The result is that intractable difficulties are displaced rather than resolved, allowing the more fundamental issues to be ducked. This approach may drive some problems back behind closed doors and this could be particularly dangerous for women and children unsafe in their own homes. Una Padel Director, Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, King's College LondonA few examples of extremely foolish use of Asbos shouldn't blind us to their positive achievements. They may be seen as sticking plaster on a society wounded by decades of inequality but they have manifestly succeeded in increasing the sum of human happiness. I've spoken to scores of people in Gloucestershire whose lives have been transformed now that the hoodlums who terrorised their neighbourhoods have at last had their wings clipped. Brian Hughes Cheltenham, Glos