Women who leave prison with drug problems should be relocated to another part of the country, with access to all-female treatment to give them the best chance of a new life and rehabilitation. These are the radical findings of a report to be published tomorrow by Drugscope, amid growing concerns for the safety of women with drug and mental health problems in Britain's overcrowded jails. Last year, 13 women killed themselves in prison and this month, 26-year-old Victoria Robinson, hanged herself at New Hall prison near Wakefield. Two-thirds of those who commit suicide in prison have drug problems. The report from the drug information charity also urges the introduction of a lower sentence for couriers - often women - who operate at the lowest level of the drug trade, to distinguish them from the criminals and gangsters at the top. An opinion poll to be published with the report will show that the majority of people in Britain believe that sending women to prison does not make society safer and jail is not a solution for women with drug problems. More than 4,100 women are now in prison compared with an average of 1,800 in 1994. At the same time, the number in prison for drugs offences has escalated from 250 at the beginning of the Nineties to just over 1,300 in 2002. An NOP poll commissioned for Drugscope found that 65 per cent of those questioned thought that imprisoning women did not make Britain safer, and 62 per cent thought that sending women with drug problems to prison was not an effective way of addressing their addiction. Drugscope's Using Women report - the first comprehensive survey of women offenders in prison and treatment - found that most female prisoners had a history of physical and sexual abuse and that being jailed made their problems worse. The survey's most surprising revelation is that many women believed that relocation after release would provide the best chance of staying off drugs. The received wisdom is that women need to be as close to their homes as possible to give them maximum support. But many female offenders reported that they would benefit from making a new start in an area where they would not come into contact with dealers or friends and family involved with drugs. Drugscope also urges a priority be given to keeping women in contact with their children while in prison and giving them custody when they are released. At present, children are often taken into care when women go to jail, and remain in the custody of the local authority even when their mothers are released. This is often because women who leave prison find it difficult to find housing. The report calls on the government to rethink its drug crime policy to address the crisis in women's prisons and urges ministers and the courts to take the radical step of giving women non-custodial sentences except in the most extreme cases. Many of the former prisoners interviewed for the report said they only became involved in crime to fund a drug habit and, even then, only after serious intimidation or violence from a male partner. The vicious circle of drug abuse was compounded by the fact that women often took drugs to forget the abuse they had suffered, or the subsequent guilt from crimes they had committed. Although most offenders responded to women-only residential treatment, the report found that almost all drug rehabilitation was carried out in a mixed environment. According to the National Treatment Agency, the number of beds available for female-only residential rehabilitation is just 18. 'Vicky', who has not used drugs for more than three years, said she had benefited from treatment at an all- female residential unit: 'Most of us have been dogged all our lives by men. We have been told we are worth nothing. You need to have a place that breaks all that down, doesn't have men around so we can get the confidence back that we need.' 'Jackie', another former prisoner, said she believed that offenders were desperate to be sent into rehab: 'There are a lot of people dying to have treatment. I think it is about time that something was done about it. Instead of building more prisons, I believe that they should be building more rehabs.' Natasha Vromen, co-ordinator of Drugscope's Using Women campaign, said: 'The public clearly understands that too many women are being given prison sentences and that prison does not help women with drug problems. It is about time politicians and the sentencing authorities woke up to the truth on this issue.' She said the report put forward a clear argument for a special case to be made for women prisoners with drug problems. 'Our interviews show that a history of abuse and violence lay behind their drug addiction and that drugs provided a means of escape. No one is making excuses for women who commit crimes, but we need to find ways of stopping these women relapsing and returning to crime.'