Sales of pirate CDs in the UK have soared by a third over the last year, with the black market now estimated to be worth £20m, according to figures published yesterday.The increase was reflected in a worldwide surge in the illegal industry which is posing a threat to the future of recording companies, experts said. Worldwide sales of pirate CDs rose by a quarter last year, accounting for one in three sales. The underground business is now thought to be worth £3bn. A report published by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry described how organised crime in Italy, eastern Europe, Russia and Asia is slowly bringing the music business to its knees. Global sales of legally recorded music fell last year for the first time, while gangs have developed techniques for producing good quality pirate CDs for 30p, massively undercutting the industry. Launching its annual report in London, the IFPI chairman, Jay Berman, said pirates were becoming much more brazen, particularly in Latin America. In Mexico, bootleggers have set up their own official federation and run an awards ceremony. Last year, they awarded a plaque, in absentia, to a singer who had sold the most pirate CDs, he said. Mr Berman said the loss of revenue meant recording companies were having to cut the number of artists on their books, and had less money to take on fresh talent. "Pirates do not invest in music or local artists. That's the tragedy of what is happening. They do not take chances," he said. Madonna is the pirates favourite artist worldwide, followed by REM. Frustration within the music industry has grown in recent months as the scale of the problem has unravelled. The threat of mass produced pirate CDs has been compounded by the popularity of song swapping websites such as Napster, which is busy removing copyrighted material from its site after a legal fight with the music companies. IFPI has identified pirate CD factories in the Ukraine, Russia, south-east Asia, and Italy, yet the authorities have been unwilling, or unable, to tackle the crime chiefs. In China, pirate factories used to be owned by the state, he said. Police believe there is evidence to suggest that big crime syndicates are turning to music piracy as a lucrative, less risky alternative to drugs. "[It] poses a greater threat to the international music industry than at any time in its history," an IFPI spokesman said. "Traffic in pirate recordings is not only proliferating worldwide, it is rapidly diversifying into new technologies." The pirates threatened the existence of the recording companies, he said. www.culture.gov.uk/creative/ music - tune.html Government report on technology and the industry www.prs.co.uk/prs.nsf/sitepages/musiconnet Performing Rights Society