A multimillionaire faces up to 20 years in a US jail after admitting he had conned thousands of British pensioners out of their life savings.Richard Pope, 53, enjoyed fast cars, yachts and private jets paid for by the sale of fake shares to more than 2,300 victims by his international criminal gang. One victim alone lost more than £800,000, in what was estimated to be a £100m scam.As Pope pleaded guilty to conspiracy at a Florida district court, British police said his cold criminality had left hundreds of people destitute, many of them retired people in the UK. Detective Superintendent Bob Wishart said: "He and the guys who did this are on a par with some of the most ruthless villains out there."Wishart, part of the City of London police's economic crime directorate, had led the investigation in partnership with US homeland security investigation of Tampa and the US secret service."The [victims] did not deserve what they have got; they thought they were going to be able to look after their families for years to come with this," he said. "But instead many of them have ended up divorced, homeless, or have had to come out of retirement and get jobs. For some of these people there will be no closure. This has scarred them for life. The psychological effects cannot be underestimated. It is the worst case I have dealt with."Pope's gang stole the identity, history and shareholder base of dormant, publicly trading companies in America before coldcalling investors using "high pressure and misleading sales techniques", in what is known as a "boiler room" scam.Pope helped sell fake shares and options to unsuspecting investors between 2004 and 2008 through operations in Spain.One of four businesses in the scam was Mobilestream, a worthless entity sold as an up and coming company. Websites and glossy brochures were used to lend credibility to fake investment opportunities."Many of the [victims] were left penniless, some even destitute," an investigating officer said. "The stolen money was funnelled off into US bank accounts, where it was reinvested by financiers and enjoyed by the gang leaders."While the fraud in the indictment totalled £80m, detectives believed the actual total was well in excess of £100m.Boiler room scams are thought to cost the UK around £200m a year.Pope spent two years on the run before his arrest at an undisclosed location in Spain, police said. He was charged in March 2009 by US authorities with six other defendants, two of them also Britons: Paul Gunter and Simon Odoni. The other defendants await trial.Pope agreed to pay more than £26m in restitution, and to help prosecutors and testify against his co-conspirators, the Tampa Tribune reported. US district judge Richard Lazzara postponed his sentencing until completion of the case.