Hundreds of children are still subjected to physical restraints in prisons and young offenders' institutions as a means of controlling their behaviour, despite the 2004 death of teenager Gareth Myatt, who was pinned down by guards and asphyxiated.Many children are also being placed in solitary confinement and strip-searched as a matter of routine, despite the concerns of the Chief Inspector of Prisons and the Youth Justice Board, penal reform campaigners claim. They say that little has changed since the publication last year of an independent inquiry into the treatment of young offenders in custody by Lord Carlile that raised serious concerns about punishment techniques. There are currently about 2,900 children in penal custody, of whom about 230 are in secure children's homes, 270 inq secure training centres and the remainder in young offender institutions.In the 12 months leading up to last October, prisons used physical restraints on children in young offenders' institutes on 4,801 occasions, according to figures obtained by Carlile and the Howard League for Penal Reform. Similar restraint methods were employed on 3,036 times in secure training centres. Carlile will tomorrow use a House of Lords debate to publicise the figures.Restraint techniques vary according to the type of institution. They include inserting a prison officer's knuckles into a child's back to exert pressure on their lower ribs and using the back of an officer's hand in an upward motion on the child's nose. Such techniques can legally be applied for up to half an hour.The Carlile inquiry found one in five instances of restraint resulted in an injury to the child or staff member. A report last year found that three children at Hindley young offenders' institute had sustained fractured wrists following the use of control and restraint.New figures highlighting the common use of segregation units have also alarmed penal campaigners. At Ashfield prison in Bristol an average of 30 boys are held each month in solitary confinement. And, despite the Carlile inquiry's suggestion that the use of strip searches should be kept to a minimum, the figures tell a different story. At Huntercombe prison in Oxfordshire, for example, 6,832 strip searches were carried out between January 2005 and October 2006.A report last year by the Chief Inspector of Prisons, Anne Owers, stated that at Huntercombe 'children and young people were still automatically strip-searched in some instances, and we were very concerned that force was used for those who did not agree to be strip-searched'.The use of restraint techniques on children in custody is currently in the spotlight. Last week an inquest opened into the death of Gareth Myatt, a 15-year-old, seven-stone boy who died while being restrained by officers at Rainsbrook Secure Training Centre in Northamptonshire. Gareth choked on his own vomit as two male members of staff and a female colleague held him down on his bed. He was held in a Home Office-approved restraint hold called a 'seated double embrace' after lashing out during an argument.The hold - in which the teenager held is made to sit down by officers while his upper body is pushed forward - has since been withdrawn from use. The furore over Gareth's death led to the setting up of Carlile's inquiry. The inquest into how the teenager died is continuing.