Martin Narey, former director general of the prison service, argues that public-sector prisons have been forced to improve as a result of competition from the commercial sector (Preferential treatment, Society Guardian, January 10). "Competition," he argues, "drives efficiency, and innovation." This is a mantra frequently invoked by government ministers and others, but there is no evidence to support it.Improvements in prison management began at the beginning of the 1990s, before the advent of privately managed prisons, and have continued since then. The government now rates prisons on a scale of 1 to 4, with 4 being the best. The latest figures, published this month, show 20% of publicly managed prisons in level 4, compared with 9% (one prison) in the private sector; for level 3, the respective figures are 68% and 64%; and for level 2, 12% and 27%.Narey argues that the voluntary sector can provide "high quality, innovative and good public services". Based on my experience as governor of several prisons, I can confirm that is so, particularly when this is done in a cooperative manner rather than a competitive one. And I also agree with him that "12-month contracts [for delivering effective, innovative and economical services], with renewal often not assured until a few days before expiry, could not be designed more surely to thwart the success of the voluntary sector" - though it is arguable whether the 25-year contracts Narey offered for privately managed prisons while he was chief executive of the National Offender Management Service provided better value for money.But Narey attributes improvements in Dartmoor prison since 2001 to the threat that it would be transferred to the private sector. Nonsense. The prison began to improve when a competent governor took over and introduced a programme of changes which the staff followed enthusiastically. I was proud to lead significant change at Brixton which was highly commended by the chief inspector. The prison later slipped badly, and in 1999 the prisons minister described it as "failing". He invited the private sector to tender for the management of the prison. Not one company responded: it was too difficult a challenge. Subsequently an experienced governor again transformed it into a well-managed prison.The real objection to viewing prison places as a market subject to competition is that, as with any market, the business will seek to expand. This goes at least part of the way to explaining why the prison population has increased by more than 40% over the last 10 years while overall crime has been falling.Narey ends by asserting: "Choice is what matters." This is not so. Courts want well-managed local prisons to which they can send those who commit serious crimes, in the expectation that they will be kept there throughout their sentences and will come out less likely to commit crime in the future. This is also what the public wants. It has nothing to do with choice or competition.· Andrew Coyle is a professor at the International Centre for Prison Studies, University of London, and was governor of Brixton prison from 1991-97 icps@kcl.ac.uk