I like food. Didn't have too much of it as a kid, at least not haute cuisine. My taste began to develop in the late 50s when I was in my teens and had my one and only stint of regular, lawful employment. Starting as a commis waiter (I thought the guy in the labour exchange said "common" waiter), I worked my way up in various hotels and restaurants to chef de rang.By about 20, though, I decided that as much as I liked the job and the nosh that went with it, I was on the wrong side of the table, and the customers had the best of the deal. Hence my foray into full-time crime and the opportunity, between periods dining at Her Majesty's table, of sampling the best around. At that time, Britain was not as gastronomically clued up as it is now, but there was enough to keep a lad from Gorton satisfied. I recall the most splendid Dover sole at Scotts in Mayfair, assisted by a quite magnificent premier cru chablis. Later, I had the pleasure of being one of Raymond Blanc's early punters when he opened his first restaurant in modest premises in Summertown, Oxford. In prison, it was a different story. Suddenly, the food you want is out of reach. Do prisoners think constantly about food - like C-list celebs in make-believe jails apparently do? I imagine the young ones spend more time dreaming about sex, but food would run a decent second, I guess. I certainly gave the matter a lot of thought. Not on a wish-I-was-there basis, more in a forward-planning fashion. I doubt, for example, if this newspaper's food writer, Matthew Fort, was ever read as avidly as when I was in the slammer. I devoured every word as I joined him for lunch at the Ivy, or sipped a fine claret in some country house restaurant. Then there was a pal of mine, free at the time, who wrote letters describing his every course and vintage. Some might have seen this as a wind-up. Not me; I relished every word as a joyful reminder of what would eventually be in store for me. As with any object of desire, prisoners had their tactics. To my delight, I discovered many inmates could not abide kippers. When in 1968 I was starting my first long sentence, at Strangeways in Manchester, we had kippers for tea once a month. No choice, of course. You could smell the beauties the moment you hit the wing from the workshops. Then came the serious business of marshalling the abstainers I had lined up (I actually lined them up together in the queue). I think 20 portions was my record - not eaten at one sitting, of course. Perhaps four fish that meal and a couple for supper, with the rest wrapped up and stored on the windowsill for as long as they survived the weather and the pigeons. The thing about kippers was that, however hard the kitchen tried they never managed to boil all the flavour out. For most prisoners, life consists of wall-to-wall boredom. (Never found that myself, but that's another matter.) Hours locked behind your door; the same routine, day in, years out; such work as exists is usually mindless and extremely low-paid (£8-£9 for a 30-hour week is the average wage inside). Small wonder that mealtimes, when you leave your cell to collect your grub with your near neighbours (no room service, unless you're in a hospital bed, or in the segregation unit), take on a significance far beyond the fare on offer. It was a social thing, you see: the hotplates of the servery were usually at ground level, so there was a walk involved, and time for exchanging words, tobacco or newspapers. There might even be a cabaret if it "went off" between two inmates who had been slagging each other off through their cell bars and now realised their listening public expected a confrontation. As I say, it was a significant time of day; the 10 minutes or so it took to collect your grub and return to your peter served to break the days up. The time that grub is served is a contentious issue inside. People on the out eat when they like, I suppose. Prisons, like most institutions, are run mainly for the benefit of the staff, and cons eat at times convenient for their keepers. This is never more evident than at weekends. The standard of food usually rises on Saturday and Sunday, with the latter taking top spot. A typical Sabbath menu would read something like this: breakfast, fried egg, with maybe a rasher of bacon for the carnivores and beans for the veggies. OK, the eggs would have been fried about two hours before being served and had set somewhat, but this is jail, and a fried egg is not to be sniffed at. Lunch, meat, two veg and, best of all, roast spuds - albeit of a greasy, soggy nature. To finish off, duff à la stodge. Tea would be salad, of sorts, usually served with cheese (in Dorchester jail in the late 80s, I fondly recall, it was a mature cheddar, uniquely excellent by prison standards. Everywhere else it was pretty dire, rubbery stuff of uncertain provenance). Followed by a biscuit. It wasn't at all bad by the standards of the day. What was disgusting was the time they dished it up on Sundays (and still do in some nicks). Breakfast was at 8.30-ish, lunch at 11.15am, and the "evening" meal at around 3.30 in the afternoon.Staff who work on Sunday want late starts, long lunches and an early finish. And they say Gordon Ramsey is fussy. In fairness to the prison service, there was a dramatic improvement in standards after the Woolf report into the Strangeways prison riot was published in 1991. Cons were given a choice of food. There were proper salads, lots more fruit, and menus that took account of ethnic makeup in jails. Food committees were set up with prisoners represented. Only last week, a con in Brixton prison told me that the Jamaican-style chicken and snapper dishes there were the business. Impressive stuff when you consider the daily budget of £1.38 per prisoner - even taking into account the power of bulk buying. But I am sad to report, a counter revolution has set in since 2001. Fast food has emerged in all its nasty "convenience" wrapping. Breakfast has been the first victim, and my hand trembles in disbelief as I write these next words: porridge is no more. Grade A pigmeal it may have been, but, by all that's good, it was filling and lukewarmish at least. What has replaced this start to the day? A micro-packet of bloody cereal "puffies", which prisoners collect with their supper the night before. This means in some jails it can be lunchtime the next day before cons who aren't working are opened up, having been in their cells since eight o'clock the previous night. It also means that in young offender institutions - where they are guaranteed to watch TV as much or more as kids do on the out - the cereal is polished off that night, leaving nothing but not-so-fresh air on which to start the new day. At least, you imagine, there would be some nutrition in the milk. But recently prisoners at Frankland jail near Durham complained that their breakfast milk was regularly off. Getting no joy from their keepers, they sent a complaint to Durham trading standards. After due consideration, that body replied that it could not deal with the matter, because the milk came from a prison farm, so there had been "no trade involved". Well, that's all right then. And what are today's prisoners likely to get for lunch? A prepacked sandwich, likely as not - more convenience for the staff, and more savings in the budget. It can only be a matter of time before the hot evening meal, too, is history. How are prisons getting away with it? Answer: televisions in cells. Paid for by prisoners, TV has spread throughout the system and hugely reduced the chance of serious dissent against any form of change dreamed up by the keepers. No one wants to miss Corrie or Home and Away. And TV creates a demand for... TV dinners, of course. So the lunchtime sandwich is eaten in front of your private gogglebox. And remember that in closed prisons most cons already take their supper trays back to their cells, meaning that the evening meal can complete a full day of viewing for those not in the workshops. The TV, the meal for one, the in-cell loo: occasions are dwindling for prisoners to venture out and break bread with their fellow men. Anyone remember that quaint old custom? Risley 97: The house wineNo essay on prison food would be complete without an honourable mention for the house wine that is sometimes available to diners inside. I refer to hooch, a rather impertinent brew with a particularly sturdy nose. The run-up to Christmas is the favoured laying-down time, when the annual contest between the brewers who are hiding it and the screws who are searching for it really hots up. The main problem for the former is the aroma: the combination of fruit, a bit of yeast nicked from the kitchens and a few secret ingredients that shall remain so, makes for a pungent pong over the several weeks that it takes to ferment. The hooch is usually stored in plastic containers then wrapped in a cloth that has been soaked in whatever is available that has a chance of masking the smell. Most of it is pretty awful, truth to tell, and would certainly be sent back in nosheries of repute, but I well recall at least one outstanding vintage: Risley 97 was the fellow, and it was seriously passable. Went down a treat with the salmon on Christmas Day.e.allison@theguardian.com