The boy should have been scared. At 14, he had been taken in for questioning about a murder that shocked Britain. Newspapers and politicians were screaming for justice after Damilola Taylor was stabbed with a broken bottle as he walked home from school on a notorious south London estate. Operation Seale, involving 120 police officers, had been launched to solve the killing of 10-year-old Damilola, who had been sent from Africa to Britain in the hope of a better life, but bled to death in a filthy Peckham stairwell. The teenager, with a scrawny build and pock-marked face, had been identified as a suspect. He was taken to Edmonton police station in north London in early December 2000, just 10 days after the murder. With his lawyers and social workers present because of his age, a detective constable asked him about the killing. Without warning, the boy rushed him and planted a vicious head-butt in the officer's face. As the detective stumbled backwards, blood rushing from his smashed nose, the teenager folded his arms across his chest and sneered: 'Well? What you going to do about that?' For the investigating team, it was the first inkling that they had grossly underestimated the intricacies of modern inner-city youth culture: their bid to track down the killers would be far tougher than they could have imagined. Initially, the case appeared to be relatively straightforward. The murderers, after all, were just children, unsophisticated and living near their victim. Working to values that matched the youth of two decades ago, detectives had assumed that any kids they arrested would be so terrified, so intimidated by the prospect of spending the rest of their lives in prison, that they would soon name those responsible. Tougher boys who put on a brave front would be offered the chance to move away from the North Peckham estate to a nicer area with greater prospects of a good life. The approach was fundamentally wrong from the start. The police had underestimated the rise of a new breed of teenager: feral children, who run wild with no fear of the law, looking to score drugs and easy sex. They meet mostly at night, roaming in packs around the estate's monolithic blocks of flats, many of which are being torn down and replaced with low-rise houses and flats. Identifying themselves by gang names such as the Ruff Riders, the Ghetto Boys, the Firehouse Crew and the Peckham Boys, they listen to gangster rap and idolise the heroes of films like Scarface, Goodfellas and Menace II Society, adopting their values and some of their language. They talk about people getting jacked - robbed or mugged - being blazed (shot) and how they want 'the Cris life', a reference to Cristal champagne, the ultimate in underworld chic. Most of all, they adopt the same attitude to the police: they are the enemy, and the worst thing anyone could possibly do is cooperate with them. That is why the detectives immediately found themselves up against an unbreakable wall of silence, as all the area's youths seemed to clam up and refuse to pass on any information, even though many of them clearly knew who killed Damilola. Emma, a teacher at an inner-city secondary school, believes the change in attitude develops slowly: 'When they arrive they are just babies. By the time they are 14 they are all carrying knives and calling the police Danish Bacon. They believe the police are against them. There is no respect.' The mother of a boy arrested in connection with Damilola's murder but not charged, recalls: 'We were in the police station interview room, and I asked him if he had killed Damilola. He said no. I asked him if he knew who did, and he said yes. I told him to tell the police, and he looked at me as if I was mad. Then he said: "I ain't no grass." It was like something out of a bad gangster film. 'He'd never been in any trouble, I thought he was a good boy, but he was still caught up in the culture.' It was something the police were totally unprepared for. One recently retired detective said: 'When I first started, you'd sometimes stick kids in a cell just to show them what it was like. It used to scare the shit out of them. 'If you tried that these days the only thing that would happen would be that the kid's street cred would go up. And then you'd get a writ for unlawful imprisonment. I've arrested 11-year-olds who have been as calm as anything, and just handed over the card of their solicitor and told me they won't say a word until their brief arrives. It's unbelievable. It's like dealing with someone whose been in the game for decades.' This was exactly the kind of attitude which Detective Superintendent Trevor Shepherd, the senior officer in the Damilola murder hunt, encountered when his team hit the streets to seek information. 'The loyalty of these youngsters to each other was very difficult for us to break down. Their lives revolve around being on the streets and having the respect of their friends. Nothing else matters', Shepherd said. The only person to break ranks during the investigation was a 14-year-old girl, known by the codename 'Bromley', who claimed to have seen the murder take place. But during the trial at the Old Bailey, when videos of her police interviews were shown, the jury were shocked to see her singing and joking about the £50,000 reward. Carolyn Crooks, the officer who interviewed her, was accused of 'inducing' Bromley to change her story in order to get the reward money. Bromley eventually admitted lying in some of her evidence, and the judge told the jury to disregard her entire testimony. Today Bromley is living under the Witness Protection Programme and seeking psychiatric help. Walking around the streets of Peckham, however, there is no doubt how her actions are viewed by locals. Graffiti giving her name followed by the word 'betrays' appears on dozens of walls. Examination of Bromley's school record shows she was every bit as violent and wily as the boys she accused of carrying out the murder. The parents of such children, most of whom come from broken homes, face an impossible battle to try to bring them into line. 'I tell my sons that they have to go to school and study hard so they can make something of themselves, but they just laugh in my face,' says Carl, the manager of a Peckham clothing shop and one of the few fathers living on the estate where Damilola died. 'They say "why should we study? So we can end up like you? No thanks." There are kids on the estate of 12 and 13 who are going out stealing every day, and they are making more money than their parents earn. How are you supposed to convince people like that you know what's best? It's impossible. 'But it's not just about money, it's also about respect. No one wants to do well at school because you don't get any credibility for that. You don't get MCs in a club saying, "Let's all big it up for John who got top marks on his geography homework this week".' There have always been street gangs, and teenagers have always got into trouble. The difference today is that gang culture has expanded beyond a phase that all kids go through to become a fully fledged career option. When the unruly youth of yesteryear went about smashing up phone boxes and stealing sweets from the local corner shop, none of them would have considered trying to make a career from such activity. Today, the muggers and street drug dealers are the richest kids on the estate, and are heroes to a new generation. The trend has been accelerated by the fact that younger kids have become easy, worthwhile targets for criminals. Ten years ago a boy of 11 carried his dinner money and little else. Now, even on the poorest estates, he carries a mobile phone, portable CD player and perhaps a handheld gaming console, all of which can be readily converted into hard cash. Being arrested or stopped by the police is less of a hazard, and more a rite of passage. The idea that mugging and violence are wrong doesn't occur to them. 'One of my relatives is one of the Peckham Boys,' says Khadar Ahmed, 24, who lives on the estate. 'He's 17, he's just been in prison for a few months for robbing a mobile phone. 'The kids just want to prove themselves. They want to be good at something, to be someone. They don't realise that what they do is bad. All the kids know that the law says you can't touch them.' The father is not at home, and the teenager 'won't listen to me', she says. 'There's peer pressure too, and lots of bullying at his school. They all use drugs. He smokes weed, but there is always a lot of crack around, and that makes people more violent. They need more crack so they commit more crimes to get money.' Unemployment in Southwark, the borough covering Peckham, is running at twice the national average and with many of its wards being among the most deprived areas in the country, a lot of youths believe they have few other options. Darren, who is 20 and was brought up in Peckham, left school early and supports himself entirely through drug dealing. 'If I go out to get a job I take home £150, but I have to take a load of shit with that. So instead I do a bit of hustling, trying to make myself a bit of cash just so that I can get a house and a girl and be happy. 'People say I'm a criminal: they put me in with those people who rob and beat people, but I'm not like that. I've got morals. I'm the good guy, but life is fucked. The only time I feel good is when I buy new clothes or go to a party. Otherwise it's just grim.' A bus driver who lived in Peckham for 20 years before moving to improve his quality of life experienced the new youth culture when he spent time in prison. 'The whole place was full of kids like them. A lot of them will do a spell inside, because they've got no ambition and they don't care. They just want to be on the streets with the wickedest car, the best clothes and the best trainers. 'I wanted to rob things and run around, but my old man booted me around and made me forget about it. That doesn't happen any more. A lot of the parents of these kids are very young, and they just can't control them.' Like many kids of his age, Damilola had been bullied by some of the older children in the weeks leading up to his death. Detectives working on Operation Seale were shocked to discover a miniature protection racket operating in which children as young as eight were forced to hand over money as the price of avoiding being beaten up. The lure of the gangs is so powerful that even those who are being picked on are unable to resist. A year ago, 16-year-old Joshua was kidnapped by a gang of his own friends. They held him prisoner for hours and tortured him by burning him with cigarette ends and cutting him with knives. Despite his ordeal he can still be seen hanging out regularly with the same gang. He was seen as weak, and now he is seen as one of them. 'It is the terrible normality of this sort of behaviour that is the most shocking. For this young man what happened to him at the hands of his friends was not unusual. They are still his friends because they are all he has,' said Camilla Batmanghelidjh of Kids' Company, a social charity working with Peckham's youth. 'They just don't care what happens to them any more. The law and adults mean nothing to them - they have never had positive experiences of either,' she said. 'They have shut down their capacity to feel. That makes them incredibly powerful. 'The gang culture has developed because these children don't feel they can trust adults. They turn to each other for support, and in Peckham the only currency they have is violence and anger. 'Those who are weak are repeatedly victimised,' she said. 'They are socially lethal. They are just emotionally cold, and the only way to deal with them is to restore a sense of guilt by giving them a relationship with an adult that does not abuse them. They don't need swimming pools or libraries, just need good adult contact.' Batmanghelidjh warned: 'Peckham is just the beginning. If the Government does not act, this sort of culture will develop in all our inner cities.' The children of north Peckham have come to learn they can get away with most things. Now murder has been added to their list. tony.thompson@observer.co.uk