New powers to tackle animal rights extremists by clamping down on protests outside people's homes and providing further protection for companies against harassment are to be announced later this week by David Blunkett, the home secretary.He is expected to introduce a specific criminal offence of protesting outside someone's home in an intimidating way and to make it an arrestable offence to return to someone's home after being found guilty of aggressive behaviour. Ministers are also expected to extend the anti-stalking laws so they can be used to protect a group of employees facing repeated "alarm and distress" because of the activities of a group of protesters. The law was framed in 1997 to protect a single person from being pursued by a single stalker. Mr Blunkett is expected to confirm the changes will be made by amending existing legislation rather than in a dedicated bill dealing only with animal rights extremists, which has been demanded by the biotechnology industry. Yesterday Glaxo's chief executive, Jean Paul Garnier, said the activities of protesters were driving investment away from Britain. Ministers have ruled out a dedicated bill, however, believing it would take longer to get the powers on to the statute book and would also result in duplicating existing legislation. They also believe it could restrict the use of the powers in other situations such as anti-abortionists protesting outside the homes of doctors. Home Office ministers are also believed to have rejected suggestions that the most militant animal liberation organisations should be added to the list of banned terrorist organisations. "We are not going down the road of proscription. It is a public order question rather than a terrorist issue at the moment," said one Home Office insider. That means the main focus of the official effort against animal rights extremists will continue to be as a public order problem for the police rather than as a counter-terrorism issue for the security services. The necessary changes to the 2001 Criminal Justice Act and the 1997 Protection from Harassment Act will be made in Mr Blunkett's wide-ranging crime and policing bill to be introduced this autumn. Mr Garnier was reported in the Daily Telegraph as describing the militants as "despicable cowards" and they also posed a serious threat to the economy. "This is money that could be spent on research and development of new drugs," he said. "Britain has to do more with its police and judicial system because we are being terrorised." The details of the legislation came after Ian Gibson, the chairman of the Commons science select committee and MP for Norwich North, said yesterday he had turned down an offer to appear on BBC2's Newsnight because he feared reprisals from animal activists. "I spoke to my wife and said 'no way'," he told BBC Radio 4 yesterday. "I don't think people deserve to live like that just because they have strong beliefs one way or the other." Mr Gibson said stronger action had not been taken because "many people have not stood up and been counted to explain to the public why it is important that they do what they do using animals". Some concerns have been raised in Whitehall over whether the powers could be used against journalists or the anti-war protesters camped opposite the House of Commons. But these anxieties were thrashed out before the anti-stalking legislation in 1997 when concerns included its use to prosecute paparazzi photographers pursuing figures such as Princess Diana. Ministers are also expected to stress that the robust enforcement of existing powers could go a long way in dealing with animal rights extremists. Home Office figures show there has been an increase in the number of those arrested for animal offences. Police action was taken against only 15 animal rights activists in the first three months of 2003. But the number rose to 117 between January and March this year after the introduction of the Anti-social Behaviour Act. The new powers allowed the police to take action against those who undertook "intimidatory protests" and staged illegal occupations. Mr Blunkett said last weekend: "The companies, the individuals working for those companies are being terrified into backing off and not being able to do their jobs. "That is unacceptable. We have proper licensing and proper regulation of the use of animals in those experiments where only animals can offer a way forward in terms of research."