A passing couple stumbled upon the body when they pulled their car over to check a discarded tyre dumped in a remote area of rural Norfolk. Gordon Boon's body had been stripped of its shoes, socks, trousers and jacket, and then shoved under some wooden fencing panels on the grassy verge of Rabbit Lane, 13 miles west of Norwich. Detectives quickly realised it was murder, and a particularly violent one. The 73-year-old retired cider factory worker, a father of five, had not only been strangled: he had two black eyes, bruising to his lip and forehead, and an arm and a leg had been bound with a ligature.Boon, it turned out, was known to the police. In 2001, he was jailed for six years and placed on the sex offenders' register for life after admitting serious sexual offences against three young girls; he had sexually assaulted one 13-year-old after plying her with alcohol, playing games of strip poker and taking pornographic photographs with a Polaroid camera. There were plenty of people with a reason to hate the pensioner, and few with much sympathy for him.Two months after his death in October 2008, police admitted they were struggling to make headway in a challenging investigation. In fact, they had received just two telephone calls from the public about the murder. Speaking anonymously, Boon's eldest son, Philip, then made an emotional plea via the media: "Even if you can't forgive him, please remember what we are going through," he said. "We can't ignore what he's done, but nobody deserves to be murdered."Eighteen months on, the family of Gordon Boon have one answer: the man who killed him was not a vigilante, nor one of his victims, but a friend. Royston Jackson, a 43-year-old turkey catcher, was found guilty of murder at Norwich crown court on 23 March. Like Boon, he had been released from prison to start a new life, with plenty of making up to do for his past crimes.Boon's father was in the army. His mother was unreliable and promiscuous, according to family members, and Boon and his brothers and sisters were put into care. Two brothers were later sent to Australia; Boon was packed off to live with an aunt in Bedfordshire. It was there that he met his future wife, Andrea Spink.One day early in the 1960s, Andrea's two brothers struck her a deal: if she cooked them dinner, they would take her to the Territorial Army social club in Luton. She bumped into Boon at the club. "When I first met him, I didn't like him. He asked me out and I nearly didn't go, but then I thought, 'I wouldn't like to be stood up,'" she says now. She went away to the US for two years to be a nanny and when she came back, Boon was still to be found at the TA club. He wooed her and they married.Boon was not a big man, but he was domineering. "If he'd say jump, I'd say, how high?" says Andrea, a plain-speaking woman who struggles with her health and periodically reaches for an oxygen mask by her armchair. Andrea now lives in a homely council house in rural Norfolk with her youngest daughter, Katie, and her husband, some miles from the home she shared with Boon. Alongside a dresser with a mug commemorating the marriage of Charles and Diana are dozens of pictures of family gatherings and children growing up. One person is missing from all the photos, however: Gordon Boon.Boon and Andrea began their family with a son, Philip, and then had twin daughters, Andrea and Ruth. "They were fine after they were born, but as I brought them home something went wrong and they all ended up in hospital," says Andrea. Ruth died aged 18 months; Andrea Jnr was placed in a nursing home aged two, where she lives to this day. Severely autistic, she has not spoken since she was five. Andrea says that when she was with her sick daughters in hospital in London, Boon never visited them.Andrea went on to have two healthy children with Boon, Katie and Christopher, and, she says, she became more assertive. One day, when Boon was "really snotty", she upped and left to join her parents, who had moved to Norfolk. He followed. "When he realised he couldn't put me under his finger all the while, things changed and he changed – for a bit," says Andrea. In the late 60s, they moved to the Norfolk town of Attleborough, Boon got a job at the cider factory, and "things went along OK".Boon continued to rule the household, however, and he did so with a curious mix of authority, paranoia and helplessness. His family remembers him asleep in his chair in the living room in front of the TV, having chosen what they would all watch. But he was a grafter, always bringing in a weekly wage, but also making sure he controlled the finances. When Philip joined the army, his dad would contradict everything he said. "It didn't matter what Philip said about what gun he used, his dad used to say he didn't use that type. He always put him down and he was always right," says Andrea. Boon would blame their youngest, Christopher, for everything, particularly if something went missing.Boon was not violent towards his wife, she says, although Katie, who is now 43 and as honest, blunt and unsentimental as her mother, remembers getting beaten. "Now I come to think about it," says Andrea, "he was sex mad. Whereas I'm not. He just thought it was his right because we were married. If I said, 'Forget it,' he'd get really stroppy."Boon went out to the pub and played darts and dominos. He would come home drunk. "That's when he would tell me my faults. The longer I kept quiet, because he's ranting and raving, that made him worse. The kids used to say, 'For God's sake, mum, answer him,' and I'd say, 'What's the point?'"In an attempt to get away from Boon, Andrea began going to the bingo on Tuesday evenings – and that is when the abuse started. Katie was about eight. "It carried on through until I was about 16," she explains. "The older I got, from about 12 or 13, it was still going on but I would say 'no'. He didn't know what the word meant."Katie was scared of telling because she was scared of her father. "I knew he could hit hard because we got hit a few times as kids." She can still remember one night she got the belt. "He could turn at any time."Andrea says she did not realise what was going on under her nose. Her parents had been so different, she says. "My dad was such a lovely dad. Me and my brothers and sisters could cuddle him and we'd all run in and jump on the bed on Saturday mornings. I found it hard to believe that fathers would do such things to children."Boon was jealous and paranoid when his family had fun without him. "Paranoid isn't the word," says Katie. "It's a much stronger word than paranoid." He was also possessive over his daughter: while the boys were allowed to see their friends, Katie "used to have to almost beg" to go out, says Andrea.When she was 16, Katie got a job looking after old people in a care home. "Dad would come down. Sometimes he started touching me. I said, 'I know what is right and what is wrong – you leave me alone.' He still tried to do it when mum wasn't around, but I pushed him away." Growing in confidence, for the first time in her life, she was able to stop the abuse.Eventually, at 16, Katie told her mother what had happened. "I still feel terribly guilty because I lived there all them years and I didn't know," says Andrea, bursting into tears. "When you read about it in those magazines, people [victims] change – but Katie never did. She never got nasty or withdrawn; she was such a lovely girl and had plenty of friends. My guilt is I lived there [with Boon] for 39 years. I just can't think how I never picked up on it. Even to this day I can't."Katie and Andrea have a loyal bond; when I speak to them separately, they tell the same stories from their past; when they are together they finish each other's sentences. Katie does not blame her mother and is fiercely protective of her. "He hid it well. He knew how to hide it. He said, 'You mustn't tell anybody; we'll keep this a secret,'" she says, with force. "Mum tried as hard as she could. People said to me why didn't you tell the police when it first happened, but they would've taken me straight from my mum and I wasn't going to let that happen, and in those days the police didn't treat rape victims properly. They wouldn't have believed me all those years ago. They would've taken me away from mum – and mum lived for us kids."The Boons did not break up, nor did they go to the police. It seems the family assumed the abuse was a one-off event. Katie moved away to London; her siblings were also grown up and gone; and Andrea and Boon lived under the same roof and kept out of each other's way. Andrea says she never slept with her husband again.In 2001, however, when other allegations emerged, the police were called. This time, Andrea left home and never went back. Boon was arrested, charged and, eventually, persuaded to plead guilty to sexually assaulting the girl he had plied with alcohol and another girl.As I leave Andrea and Katie's home for the first time, I remark on a picture in the hall of a number of smiling children. "They're pictures of the girls I fostered – oh yes, I fostered children for years," says Andrea proudly. While living with Boon, she fostered around 100 children. To a visitor, the idea of all these children growing up in the house of a paedophile is horrifying. But both Andrea and Katie are adamant that Boon did not touch them. "When there were the foster children, I was at home all the time," says Andrea. "They were all troubled children, so if anything had happened like that, I'm sure they would have said." At the time of Boon's arrest, social services investigated the matter but, according to the family, were unable to trace all the children or find any evidence of abuse. When Boon died, one former foster child came forward and made allegations against him.Boon's belated guilty plea left Katie revisiting her childhood, desperate for answers. She went to see her dad on the day he was sentenced, and then went to see him almost every month he was in prison. "I went to the cells and spoke to him because I wanted to know why he did it. Still, to this day, I don't know why. He wouldn't answer. He couldn't tell me why."So how did Boon end up dead? The origins of his murder lie in what unfolded in a lovers' lane near Dagenham, Essex, on the night of Saturday 29 April, 1989. In this country road leading to a cemetery, a 16-year-old boy, Stephen Raven, was found dead. He had been undressed and then dressed again, with his pants put on back-to-front. He had been beaten and strangled and also knifed, repeatedly, in the groin. He had been run over by a car. The violence inflicted on his body was so horrific that the trial at the Old Bailey of the man accused of killing him had to be halted because a juror felt sick when they were shown photographs.The man found guilty of murdering Raven so brutally was Royston Jackson, then 23 years old. Jackson and Raven worked together in the fabric trade in Romford. It was believed the older man took a shine to Raven. On that Saturday night, they both enjoyed a live band and a disco at a nearby village hall. They left and, by midnight, Raven was dead.Jackson served 16 years of his life sentence and was released in 2006, shortly after Boon was freed. Both men, the paedophile and the murderer, went to live at a probation hostel in Norwich, where they met. Both were on licence, meaning they could be quickly recalled to prison if they broke conditions placed on their release. Closely monitored by the probation service, Jackson was encouraged by probation officers to repent his first murder, it was revealed during his trial for the murder of Boon.Living in the hostel, Jackson confessed to his probation officer that he had killed Raven, after what he claimed was consensual intercourse. He strangled him because, the court heard, Jackson felt "ashamed and wanted to stop the story getting out". Another, contradictory, confession to a fellow hostel resident, deemed unreliable in court, was that Jackson accidentally broke Raven's neck during overly vigorous sex.When Boon was released from prison, he cut a distinctive, if frail, figure in the hostel. He wore thick glasses, a baseball cap, cardigan and slacks. He shuffled about in trainers after suffering several strokes. "I got the impression he was the sort of man who ruled his family with an iron fist when he was younger," says a former hostel worker who knew both Boon and Jackson, but asked not to be named. "He came across as a very dominant, traditional man. As he got older he mellowed, but there were still times when he would come across as quite an intimidating man."In contrast, Jackson "never looked dangerous or felt dangerous", says the hostel worker. Known as Roy, he was a quiet, mild man who kept his hair short, dressed in smart shirts and often looked eager to please. While Jackson was believed to be making good progress, accepting responsibility for the murder of Raven, Boon, too, was able to repair his relationship with his sons. Philip Boon told the media when appealing for information from the public in the days after the murder that his dad "was full of remorse and realised the significance of what he had done".Katie, however, got no answers from her father about his crimes, despite her prison visits. "I was hoping he'd say sorry," she says. After his release, Boon was ordered to stay away from Katie. The hostel worker remembers that Boon did not bear an air of repentance, always believing he was right and those around him were wrong – a characteristic typical of many sex offenders.Boon was a private man but not a loner. He watched television with other men in the hostel, played cards and even took trips to the seaside with his new friends. "He was like part of the furniture really. Everyone quite liked him," says the hostel worker, even though the younger men would take the mickey. Over the 18 months they stayed in the hostel, Boon and Jackson became friends. While Jackson described himself as bisexual to police, the court heard that at least four other men in the hostel rebuffed advances from him. Jackson would put his hand on their knee when taking them out in a car, or jokingly suggest oral sex, but seemed to take no for an answer and never forced himself on them.Did he and Boon become lovers? The prosecution suggested the ligatures found on Boon's body indicated the victim and his murderer shared an interest in bondage. Boon had a large quantity of adult heterosexual porn featuring bondage stashed in the flat he moved to after his stay in the hostel, but a direct sexual relationship between the two men seems very unlikely. "I don't think you will find a scintilla of evidence of interest in homosexual behaviour by Mr Boon," Jackson's defence counsel, William Taylor QC, told the jury at Norwich crown court.Whatever companionship or common ground the two men found in the hostel continued when they moved into places of their own. Jackson rented a council house near the University of East Anglia, regularly visited his mum, who lived in a nearby town, and drifted in and out of contract work – finally finding regular employment as a turkey catcher, undertaking tough shift-work in battery sheds belonging to Bernard Matthews and others across Norfolk.Boon got his own flat in sheltered accommodation in the centre of Norwich, and Jackson helped him move his furniture in. Boosted by a private pension, Boon watched TV on a new flat-screen television that his son Philip helped him buy from Currys, and developed his own low-key routine: plodding into the city centre in his brown bomber jacket to buy his papers – the Mirror and the Sport – from Cigs & Papers, before meeting friends in the pub. His sons bought him a mobile phone and most Saturday lunchtimes Boon would meet Philip in the Glasshouse pub for a drink.On Friday 3 October 2008, Jackson drove from his parents' house in a town outside Norwich to Boon's flat to collect a DVD, Once Upon a Time In Mexico. At 9.30pm, a neighbour saw Boon standing outside in the sheltered housing's small courtyard. Moments later, the unblinking eye of a CCTV camera recorded an image of someone, believed to be Boon, sitting in the passenger seat of Jackson's car as it sped away towards the suburbs. It was the last image of Boon alive.When the pensioner did not call his eldest son as arranged on Saturday morning, Philip went to Boon's usual haunts – the pub, the newsagent, and then his flat. He shouted through the letterbox, and then contacted the police. Together, he and an officer forced their way in. Although Boon was not a tidy man, it looked like he had just popped out for a minute: a mug of half-drunk tea was on the side and the television was still on.Boon did not return. That night, police opened a missing persons investigation. On Sunday morning, an officer called at Jackson's home as part of this routine inquiry. He said he had not seen his friend Boon for at least four weeks. Friends described Jackson as a quiet man but, faced by a policeman on his doorstep, he was "particularly extrovert", the officer noted: loquaciously volunteering that he had been in prison for killing a man, and at pains to mention that during his labours catching turkeys, one "strong" bird recently scratched him on his face and arms. In fact, the only health and safety record of Jackson sustaining a minor injury at work dated from three weeks before.Boon was found on the Monday. Andrea and Katie saw that a body had been found on the TV news. At first, it was mistakenly reported it was a Bernard Matthews worker in his 30s or 40s: "I said, 'Oh blast, it isn't your father then, Katie,'" says Andrea. When it turned out it was her ex-husband, Andrea says she only felt relief.Detectives quickly established that none of Boon's family were implicated in his death and, after appeals to the public, played down fears it was a vigilante killing. Jackson's erratic behaviour in the following days – frantically scrubbing his car with carpet cleaner and Vanish; dumping it in a pub car park and fleeing to stay with a cousin in Essex; sleeping rough and exchanging clothes at a charity shop several times – attracted their attention. But he seemed adept at covering his tracks, and the police had almost no help or leads from members of the public.Some weeks later, however, the broken remains of one of Boon's two phones were found in a park close to Jackson's home. Despite his efforts to clean up, forensic scientists picked microscopic flakes of Boon's blood from Jackson's car. Fibres found on Boon's clothing also matched those found on Jackson's clothing and in his car. Oddly, minuscule traces of brass, combed from Boon's hair, matched traces of the same metal found on Jackson's Nike jacket – this, combined with brick dust on Boon's clothing, possibly indicated that Jackson had stored the body in his garden shed. Mobile phone records showed Jackson and Boon had met on the Friday evening before Boon went missing; the last trace of one of Boon's phones as it powered down was picked up by the phone mast closest to Jackson's home.Then there were what the prosecution called "telling similarities" between the deaths of 73-year-old Boon and 16-year-old Raven: both had been found dumped in remote lanes; both had been beaten and strangled; both had their clothes partly removed and had been interfered with in a way that implied their killer gained some sort of sexual gratification from their suffering.The prosecution was unable, however, to provide a clear motive. Jackson continued to plead not guilty at his trial, despite the evidence against him, and despite his original defence counsel abruptly deciding on the eve of the trial that they could not represent him. Nor would Jackson go into the witness box to speak in his own defence, instead waving and smiling at a relative in the public gallery from behind the glass dock.After 12 hours of deliberations, the jury found Jackson guilty of the murder of Gordon Boon. But a host of questions remain unanswered. What drove the 43-year-old turkey catcher to kill again, and choose an elderly paedophile as his victim? Did Boon open his mouth about his own past crimes? Did he reject Jackson's advances? Did the two friends simply fall out, over a small amount of borrowed money or a card game, or did they really have a shared sexual interest in pornography or bondage?Whatever happened between them, a force that Jackson could not control seized hold of him and caused him to act brutally – not for the first, or even the second, time in his life. Outside court, former detective chief inspector Steve Strong, who headed the murder investigation, said Norfolk police had found "irrefutable evidence" from the DNA database that Jackson raped and strangled – but did not kill – a woman in another part of the country. A prosecution was never brought. In Norwich crown court, Mr Justice Underhill told Jackson: "In your case, a life sentence will indeed mean you will spend the rest of your life in prison."Just as there is little possibility that Jackson will ever give any reason for his crimes, so the final murder he committed removes any chance of Boon's family hearing an explanation for his own reign of terror – and any chance of discovering if the three girls he pleaded guilty to abusing were the only children he had harmed."I'm sorry he was murdered," says Andrea. "I definitely wouldn't have wanted that. I think that was a wrong way for him to lose his life. I was hoping he might die peacefully somewhere, but I said I am not sorry and I am certainly not going to cry about it."The daughter who Boon abused for eight years did, however, shed a tear. Katie cried once when he died, and again when the curtain trundled across his coffin at the crematorium. On the day she heard he was murdered, she fell ill – but started feeling better on the day of his funeral."He'll never say sorry now. I've got to learn to live with that," Katie says softly. Has she got any fond memories of her dad? "Not being funny, but I haven't. I can't think of any good memories of my dad. I know he did a bad, bad thing. I'll never forgive him for that, and it took a lot of years for me to love him again. I never loved him the same way as before it happened, but I did love him in my own way."