The former prisoner whose trial, incarceration and subsequent aching account of prison life has gripped the nation was a slight figure, shy and a little anxious, speaking softly of the struggle inside just to survive, and the battle outside against involuntary feelings of shame. "It felt like I'd been turned into scum."That was Ruth Wyner, the former director of Wintercomfort, who was jailed over drug use among users of her centre for the homeless in Cambridge. Prisoner FF8282, in contrast, bounced and shone. His shoes shone, his skin shone, his glasses shone, his silk tie shone. A television crew tried to lob a question at him about how being stripped of one's title might affect a prisoner's rehabilitation. Jeffrey, still billed as Lord Archer, gave one fierce glare over the tops of the glasses. A modest crowd of media, fans and tourists had waited outside the Randolph Hotel in Oxford - all the other sessions of the Howard League for Penal Reform conference were held in a barn-like room at New College - to watch Lord Archer arrive for his first public speaking engagement since his release in July. Last year the Archer-less conference did not attract anyone from the national media . It is a safe bet that Lord Archer has never worked an audience which has bought fewer of his books: lawyers, social workers, a judge, a Scottish sheriff, prison officers, youth workers, several prison governors. They knew about his politics but what they may have missed is that he is a superb storyteller. They could no more resist him than could the Tory ladies on the rubber chicken circus of old. He was modest, courteous and interesting. He blamed nobody and praised everybody: the "highly intelligent" woman deputy governor at Belmarsh, the poorly paid and over worked prison officers, the Listeners and Samaritans who tried to block the onset of despair in prisoners. He even quoted from the Guardian. Heads nodded in approval at his remarks about promoting literacy, about not banging up first time junior league offenders with some of the toughest prisoners, about distinguishing between penalties for cannabis and heroin use. When he spoke of the lifer who worked in the prison gardens, who reoffended to avoid release back into a world in which he could not cope, and killed himself three months after he was released, there was an involuntary "ah" of shock from his listeners. There was another tiny moan when he spoke of a prisoner he met who was excited to be called for a visit, not having seen a soul from his estranged family for three years. He soon returned, desolate: the prison officers had got the wrong name. He had been naive, he said repeatedly, he had not realised what it was like in prison. "I do not consider our legal and prison system either unjust or punitive. I'm no expert. I'm just telling you what I observed." And he left, shining. Linda Erd, who spent six weeks in prison in a wheelchair after a farcical armed siege when despair over health and social problems led her to barricade herself into a house with a toy gun, nodded. "I don't know him, but I don't much like him. But I've seen it from the inside. What he says is true." Frances Crook, the director of the Howard League, was jubilant. "Good speech, wasn't it? It was better when he gave it than when I read it. I look forward to working with him again. Did we pay him? No we did not! We never pay anyone. We make the media pay." It fell to Claire McCarthy, policy officer and conference organiser, to go out and address the scrum of reporters and camera crews still blocking the hotel's main door. "He's gone, he's left the building, you can all go home."