A woman aged 39 was being questioned on suspicion of murder last night after the bodies of her two teenage daughters were found at their home in a Fenland village.Rekha Kumari-Baker was arrested at the scene yesterday morning when police discovered the two bodies in the daughters' bedrooms at the house in Stretham, near Ely in Cambridgeshire, after responding to a phone call.The cause of death of Davina, 16, and Jasmine, 13, is being investigated and a postmortem examination is likely today. It is understood they died of stab wounds.Detectives said they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident.Specialist officers were with the girls' father last night. He is understood to be separated from Ms Kumari-Baker and living in Cambridge. Jasmine, a pupil at Cottenham village college near Cambridge, is believed to have lived with her mother, while Davina had recently moved to attend Cambridge regional college.Yesterday forensic science teams searched for clues at the modern, semi-detached property. Police also examined a silver Volvo estate and a green Renault Laguna parked outside.Detective Superintendent Jeff Hill of Cambridgeshire police said it had been a "terrible, tragic situation". He said that someone in the house had called another member of the public, who in turn had alerted an off-duty officer. Police arrived at the house shortly after 8am.Neighbours spoke of their shock, and said that the family had kept themselves to themselves during the three or so years they had lived in the cul-de-sac backing on to fields. They described Ms Kumari-Baker as a smart and attractive woman who spoke to few people.Abraham Narimissa, 67, who lives next door, said that it was a "tragedy beyond belief". He went on: "I bumped into them every so often and saw them coming in and out of the house. Yesterday I saw the eldest daughter walking along the street, and I saw the mother in her car at about 4pm. There didn't seem to be any problem and everything seemed fine.He had spoken to his neighbour in the past: "I have tried to chat to the lady, but she did not want to. I remember asking her what her name was, and she wouldn't respond."He added: "This is really shocking, and it makes me feel sick to think about those poor children."Another neighbour, Linda Anderson, a school administration assistant, said: "I never saw her or her daughters at social events. We would just smile at each other when I saw her and her girls going off in her car. The girls looked very much like their mother. She is quite an attractive lady who always had lipstick on when I saw her, and shoulder-length dark hair."A third neighbour added: "Nobody knows anything about the family, because they kept themselves to themselves. The woman always had her curtains drawn."