Four of the country's most senior police officers yesterday launched an unprecedented attack on the criminal justice system, claiming it allowed lawyers to use "anything goes" tactics to defend their clients.The president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, David Phillips, said current regulations permitted solicitors and barristers to play a game in which they were encouraged to "exaggerate and obfuscate". "There is no obligation to serve the interests of truth and justice," he said. "They try to get their clients off at any price. If these are the rules, it is difficult to blame lawyers for doing it." The criticisms, which were echoed by Sir John Stevens, the commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir Charles Pollard, chief constable of Thames Valley police, and William Hughes, director general of the national crime squad, reflect longstanding concern within police circles about trial procedures. They believe that the behaviour of lawyers who used "tricks and ambushes", the appalling treatment of witnesses, and the need to disclose "mountains of irrelevant documents" to the defence, put prosecutors at a disadvantage. Officers recognised that they had been paying the price for a number of corruption scandals and miscarriages of justice, but believed the pendulum had swung too far. The view was immediately challenged by the civil rights group Liberty, the Law Society and the Bar Council. "The police have regularly demanded changes to the law to make their job easier," said John Wadham, Liberty's director. "In many cases their demands to take away defendants' rights and protections have been successful, but the erosions of the last 20 years have shown very clearly that eroding rights doesn't crack crime. "The criminal justice system isn't a game, because there is always a real danger that the system will accuse and, sometimes convict, the wrong person. We have to protect defendants properly... we tinker with those protections at our peril." Carolyn Kirby, vice president of the Law Society, added: "Solicitors, whether prosecuting or defending, operate according to their thorough and complex rules of conduct and these are tightly enforced by the Law Society. [We] do not accept that the current shortcomings are caused by defence lawyers exploiting loopholes in the law, or that the solution lies in changes to the codes of conduct of advocates in court. It is the system which needs to change, not the lawyers." The police service has been stung in recent weeks by the home secretary, David Blunkett, who described detection rates in some forces as "appalling". At a press conference yesterday, Mr Phillips denied that the demand for changes was an attempt to apply pressure to the Home Office. While there was some concern about Mr Blunkett's remarks on crime rates, he said Acpo was not in dispute with the home secretary, who was fully aware of police concerns. Most of the ideas suggested by Acpo have been suggested by Lord Justice Auld in his review of the criminal courts commissioned by the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, and published last October. At yesterday's launch the four officers called for a right of appeal for prosecutors in serious cases where rulings result in cases collapsing; for making defence lawyers reveal information before a trial in the same way that prosecutors must disclose their case; for redesigning courtrooms to keep prosecution witnesses and victims separate from defendants; and for allowing evidence to be given remotely, for example by video. The officers said they believed that a judge should have the power to tell a jury about a defendant's previous convictions if a pattern of behaviour was material to the case. Sir John Stevens said intimidation of witnesses, especially in youth cases, meant that many young people were too afraid to come forward. He cited a Mori survey last year which suggested that 62% of schoolchildren believed they would be assaulted if they helped the police, and 41% expected to be bullied.