The law of murder is "a mess", according to a recent Law Commission report, which argued that it was now time for a fundamental re-examination. That all murders are uniquely heinous and can only be visited by a single, mandatory and uniformly severe penalty is not something that accords with public opinion.The commission's research reflects what other studies have shown: that ordinary people have little difficulty in distinguishing between types of killing - whether termed murder or manslaughter - and believe that different circumstances require different sentences. Mercy killings are not identical to gangland slayings, and domestic homicides differ from those done by sexual predators. But criminal law recognises no distinction and, in the case of murder, a mandatory life sentence is all that is available, moderated only by variations in the minimum time to be served before release on licence - though " whole life" tariffs remain a possibility. In a just society it is the norm that "the punishment should fit the crime". Yet those bereaved by death on the road can find it hard to understand how so many offenders seem to walk free from court or receive comparatively brief sentences. And the lack of an effective way of dealing with "corporate" manslaughter can exacerbate relatives' grief. A lay public may well find the distinctions between murder and other forms of manslaughter arbitrary, and sometimes defiant of logic. The defences that can reduce murder to manslaughter - to which, in contrast, a range of penalties can apply - can be equally baffling. The government has indicated that there will be a review. But any hope that this may encourage "blue sky" thinking is decidedly wishful. That it will be a Home Office-led review is an indication that the agenda will be determined within the existing orthodoxy; this means that murder and its mandatory penalty will remain, but effort will possibly be expended in searching for ways of removing some things (possibly "mercy" killings) from the murder category. If this is the case, and consideration of the mandatory penalty is "off limits", then - although this will be the first major review since the work of the royal commission of 1949-53 - it will scarcely be an advance. Yet any adequate review of the substantive law cannot sensibly do other than consider the penalty as part of the process. Crime and punishment come in joint supply. The Blunkett flagship, the Criminal Justice Act 2003, which clearly sets out the various types of murder for which various minimum tariffs should be applied, is a useful clue to what would seem to be the home secretary's thinking: that is, the allocation of murders into categories or degrees in the American style for which different types of sentence would apply.Focusing on murder will not deal with those killings that greatly exercise the public conscience but which are presently outside its scope. Death on the road and on the railway will be excluded. Killer drivers would still seem to have little cause to fear a life sentence, no matter how numerous the previous convictions or how appalling the consequences of the criminal event. The Royal Commission on Capital Punishment counselled against the idea of classifying murders into capital and non-capital. Its chairman, Sir Ernest Gowers, called it the search for the chimera. But in 1957, ignoring his advice, a Conservative government went ahead with a Homicide Act that did just that. Few instances of legislation have been so utterly discredited, and in so short a time seen by lawyers and the public as illogical, quirky and potentially unjust. Its architects appeared heedless of the many years of parliamentary debate in the 19th century when some of the best political and legal minds had unsuccessfully wrestled with this very problem. If the new review is charged with finding ways of limiting the mandatory penalty of life imprisonment, it is almost certain to experience the same failure. Will this new review reflect public concern and awareness of the mess, or will it be limited to minor tinkering within the limits of what appears to be the current orthodoxy? Is there a populist constituency that demands punishment above all else, or could it be that it is no more than a painted devil, feared by the eye of politicians. But in these Blairite times, an "in-house" dominated review may well seek to assuage such a body, though ironically it may not truly represent public opinion, which is tempered by an altogether more common- sense approach and a concern for rational justice. To date, neither this government nor its predecessor has given the impression of being overly attentive to judicial concerns. Academics risk being tarred with the same brush as Hampstead liberals. But that is no reason for not reiterating the point that if the law is not now the subject of a root-and-branch reform, there is no hope of progress. Others have been down the weary track of seeking to identify fine distinctions; the history of that futility is plain and those who choose to ignore it will probably re-live it, if only in the unflattering assessment of the future. The need is for a new and all-embracing offence of criminal homicide, trusting the judges to pass sensible and appropriate sentences.  · Sir Louis Blom-Cooper QC and Professor Terence Morris are the authors of With Malice Aforethought: A Study of the Crime and Punishment for Homicide mailto:morris.atventa@virgin.net