David Blunkett has not been getting on too well with his chief constables. Last autumn, for example, the home secretary unveiled his new national policing plan, which is to guide the 43 constabularies of England and Wales in their efforts to deal with crime and disorder.For many months, in private, the most senior officers in the land told Mr Blunkett their opinion of this central manifesto of the government's attack on crime. One chief constable captured in a single vivid sentence the message his colleagues conveyed: "Frankly, sir, with respect, this is crap." This friction is rather more than an argument among friends. It is a profound clash of ideas about how to generate success from the structural failure of the criminal justice system - a system which succeeds in bringing to justice only 3% of the offences that are committed around it, which then frequently fails to enforce its sentences against those it does catch, and which routinely fails to prevent them offending again. Faced with the limits of conventional law enforcement, the home secretary has inherited his predecessor Jack Straw's attempt to work outside the system with some radical alternatives, which we will examine tomorrow. But Mr Blunkett also has applied the most intense pressure to the existing system in an effort to force it to deliver better results. And it is here - in what Mr Blunkett likes to call "narrowing the justice gap" - that he has found himself at odds with many chief officers who complain bitterly that his law-enforcement agenda is narrow, simplistic and essentially ineffective. ConflictThis conflict of ideas is, in turn, a conflict of power. Chief officers worry out loud that they are faced with a home secretary who is dealing with their doubts about his policy by trespassing on their operations, crashing through constitutional law in a way which, for the first time in this country, involves government in the political control of the police. According to the rules, the home secretary is allowed to establish the level of funding and the strategic priorities for police, but that is all; it is for the local police authorities to decide how the funds are spent; and it is for the chief constables alone to decide how officers are deployed. This awkward balance is rooted in historic fear - that none of these three could be trusted with the power police have to take our liberty and to invade our privacy. Now the balance is tipped towards the centre. As one chief officer put it: "We have always been answerable to the law - and only to the law. Suddenly, we are answerable to a politician." This fretwork of tension has provoked several unseen crises. One of the earliest and most important involved the chief constable of Avon and Somerset. Steve Pilkington is one of a new generation of highly educated chief officers who are willing to tackle crime and disorder with a far more sophisticated approach than their predecessors. Believing that there is more to policing than simply arresting and convicting offenders, Mr Pilkington has championed "geographic policing", using beat managers to build links with communities so that finally and genuinely, his officers can claim to be policing by consent; and he has trained all his officers in problem-solving so that they can try to cut crime before it reaches the criminal justice system, by working with other agencies to unravel the problems that lie behind offences. Mr Pilkington's philosophy was tested to the limit late one night last summer when two men opened fire on a couple of unarmed detectives. The men with guns ran, the detectives ran after them, radioing for help. An armed response vehicle caught up with them. A minute or two later, one of the gunmen was dead on the pavement. A police bullet had hit him in the back. All this had happened in St Paul's, an impoverished mixed race community in the centre of Bristol which is beset with crime problems. The man with the bullet in his back was black. St Paul's notoriously rioted in the early 1980s. As a young inspector in London, Pilkington himself saw Brixton burn at the same time. Those riots had been triggered by heavy-handed policing. Indeed, one of the Brixton riots was caused by a police shooting. TrustUsing the tools of conventional law enforcement, a chief constable would have flooded the area with officers, including riot squads, trying to use force and the threat of arrest to hold down the lid. Mr Pilkington's officers did something very different. They had spent years trying to persuade this community to trust them, so now they put their trust back in it and simply gave it the facts. They set up a team of local leaders and a telephone tree to link up with their contacts in St Paul's and, through their beat managers, to people on the street. Each day, as they found out more about the shooting, they fed out more information: the two men were not local but Jamaican; they were carrying a loaded gun; they had fired on unarmed officers; witnesses had heard the armed response unit shout a warning; the men had ignored it and fired back. They held public meetings. Some officers left their private mobile phone numbers so people could call them to check out any rogue rumour. Mr Pilkington went to St Paul's to talk to people. There was no riot, no disorder. Nothing. In old-fashioned terms of arrest and conviction, this was a non-event, and yet it was a policing triumph. It was not simply that the facts were on the side of the police action, but that this community accepted them and accepted that the police were not strong-arm enemies - because Avon and Somerset had spent years building a relationship with the people they were policing. The important point is that while Mr Pilkington's philosophy was rescuing Bristol from riot, just about every chief constable in the country was watching the home secretary apparently attempting to sack him. Within days of taking office, David Blunkett had made his mark by elbowing the chief constable of Sussex, Paul Whitehouse, out of his job, sending a clear signal to every chief officer in the country that, regardless of the legal nicety that it was up to the local police authority to hire and fire its chief constable, they were vulnerable to his will. Behind the scenes he had taken two further steps to curb their power by creating a new regime of centralised control. Clearly borrowing from his previous job as education secretary, Mr Blunkett transferred the role of the former Ofsted chief, Chris Woodhead, to a new role for HM inspectors of constabulary. Instead of reviewing the work of forces and giving advice to the home secretary, as they had done for years, the inspectors would now inspect individual basic command units or BCU (the new jargon for police divisions). This was a slap in the face for chief constables who were bypassed by the process, but the punch on the nose came from Mr Blunkett's second step - the creation in the Home Office of a police standards unit which could be called in to any BCU deemed to be failing. This was the most direct threat to chief constables, usurping their authority over their own officers, cutting straight through their own policing plans and effectively requiring their resignation. In July 2001 a team from HM inspectorate of constabulary, working to this new agenda, arrived in Bristol to review the work of the central district BCU, which is responsible for the commercial heart of the city as well as the university, the pubs and clubs in the new "24-hour city", and a cluster of deeply deprived wards, including St Paul's. Before they even set foot in Bristol, the inspectors reached for the weapon now at the heart of the struggle between the home secretary and his chief constables: they asked for the numbers. Chief constables, like the chief executives of every other branch of the public sector, are surrounded by numerical performance indicators. In negotiations with the Home Office, they have expressed their deep and often bitter opposition to this. They have warned ministers that the numbers do not measure the reality of their work (the non-riot in Bristol is the sort of example they quote). Beyond that, they have complained that the numbers actively distort their operations, pushing them away from real local needs in order to hit national targets and giving them a perverse incentive to ignore serious criminals in favour of "hunting down the young and stupid, the impulsive, the mentally frail and the absolutely desperate", as one chief constable put it. One of the most troubling examples has been the government's decision to require all police forces from last April to deliver an annual increase of at least 5% in the number of persistent offenders brought to justice. Apart from some strong reservations about the impact of this kind of conventional law enforcement, the chief constables were prepared to go along with the idea. But the Home Office, attempting to satisfy the Treasury's demand for numerically measurable results, converted the initiative into a bureaucratic obstacle. They insisted that persistent offenders must be defined as those who had been convicted of at least six offences in the previous 12 months. New targetThe chief constables complained that was a definition not of a persistent offender but of a stupid one; that it diverted their efforts from the clever offender who had evaded conviction and also from the imprisoned offender who was about to be released without any recent convictions simply because he had been locked up; that it invited them to go after the schoolgirl who had been caught shoplifting six times but not the habitual burglar who had only been caught twice. Even worse, we have picked up reports from around the country of forces who this year gave a holiday to their persistent offenders, choosing not to arrest them until April 1 when the counting of the new target officially started. When HM inspectors descended on the central Bristol BCU, the national policing plan was still in the pipeline, but most of its numbers were already pouring down from Whitehall, which had ignored almost all of the chief officers' warnings. These numbers dominate police strategy and permeate every corner of their decision-making, but the numbers which matter most - the ones which Mr Blunkett was already waving in front of the press, the ones which Home Office ministers inserted into the new role of HM inspectors despite the opposition of chief constables - are the levels of burglary, car crime and robbery. Those were the numbers the inspectors asked for before they even arrived in Bristol. This was bad news for Steve Pilkington and the central Bristol officers. For several years, their own approach had been cutting the local crime numbers but in early 2001 they had suddenly leapt upwards, by 27.3% in three months. In part, this was just numbers, nothing to do with reality: Avon and Somerset had adopted new rules for counting crime, throwing out years of dubious practice and simply recording every allegation from a member of the public as an offence which needed to be cleared up. Mr Pilkington had opted to do this before most of the country and he had made it very clear to all his officers that he wanted this done ethically. He insisted that Avon and Somerset crime statistics had to tell the truth. That alone had sent the numbers jumping upwards by some 10%. In addition, central Bristol had been invaded by Yardie gangsters who had arrived at the end of 2000 and embarked on a campaign of casual violence which had seen opponents abducted, stabbed or shot, and who had also succeeded in boosting the market in crack cocaine, whose buyers were burgling and robbing and breaking into cars to pay their Yardie suppliers. The year of the Yardies' arrival, 2000-01, saw a 72% increase in serious crime in central Bristol - a 52% increase in grievous bodily harm, a 100% increase in kidnaps, a 128% increase in abductions, a 75% increase in rape. The government's most favoured targets were doing just as badly - robbery, burglary, theft of cars and from cars were all substantially higher. The impact had spread across the whole of Avon and Somerset. The chief constables had warned the Home Office that random local events could have a dramatic effect on crime figures. One problem family could move into an estate and send BCU burglary statistics through the roof. One football riot could distort the whole BCU picture on crimes of violence. Random events could cut the numbers too: robbery statistics in the BCU in Somerset East, for example, plummeted when the Glastonbury Festival was cancelled by the foot and mouth epidemic. The Association of Chief Police Officers had been particularly scathing about the Home Office plan to group BCUs together in "families" which were supposed to be similar in terms of miles of motorway or rates of unemployment, but which were often quite different in terms of crime. Acpo even commissioned research from the Police Foundation thinktank, which ran a binary logistic regression and found that fewer than 5% of the 318 BCUs in England and Wales had low clear-up rates for burglary or robbery which could not be explained by local factors.All these underlying difficulties now came to the surface in Bristol. Months before HM inspectors arrived, Mr Pilkington and his senior officers agreed that the only way to tackle the sudden crime boom in central Bristol was to tackle its underlying cause - the Yardies. If they could do that, they could kill off the motive that was driving something like 70% of property crime in the city. That meant more than just arresting and processing Yardies. They would work with the immigration department to stop the Yardies wandering through the airports where they were sometimes spotted and stopped only to be released a few hours later because there were no holding cells. They would negotiate with customs to work with customs officers as the Yardies' drug mules arrived in the country. They would also carry on working with the community, so that it accepted their work without seeing it as a threat. But this was Avon and Somerset's approach, not the Home Office's. With this strategy there would be no spare officers to run any kind of campaign to meet Mr Blunkett's car crime target. If the strategy worked, it would work slowly, waiting for immigration and customs to play their parts, potentially failing to yield the burglary figures as quickly as the home secretary wanted. Fundamentally, the operation against the Yardies was part of a wider effort to work outside the frame of conventional law enforcement by taking a "problem-solving approach", recognising that most persistent offenders were drug addicts and/or illiterate and/or homeless and/or mentally ill and/or jobless, and that there was simply no benefit to the community in arresting them yet again and sending them off on a tragic roundabout of ineffective consequences. As a related example of problem-solving, the local commander at the central Bristol BCU, Chief Superintendent Mike Roe, wanted to extend the network of beat managers into schools, to spot those who were getting into trouble and to work with them and their families before they slipped deep into crime. But he could not do this on the scale he wanted while officers were being diverted by Mr Blunkett's targets. Even if he found the officers, the impact would not show up in the crime numbers for years. Mr Blunkett wanted results before the next election. When HM inspectors produced their draft report, in September 2001, they scarcely noticed the force's problem-solving. The inspectors' report, which the Guardian has seen, made no allowance for the new counting rules or the Yardies. And they made a fetish of the numbers. They said central Bristol had the worst numbers per thousand of population in its family of BCUs, even though they had failed to count more than 100,000 commuters, nightlifers and students who came into the area, all of them potential crime victims and offenders, but none of them on the electoral roll. The inspectors went on to say that central Bristol was underperforming compared with the other 17 BCUs in its family, even though none of the others contained a city centre (15 of them were suburbs, two of them provincial towns); and none had been invaded by several hundred armed Jamaican gangsters with a ready supply of crack cocaine. As part of their attempt to police in the way their community wanted, the BCU had set up special units to deal with domestic violence, sex offences and racist crime. Officers were proud of their success, but in the world of New Labour numbers, their success looked like failure because the victims of these crimes were now trusting the police to deal with them so they were coming forward and reporting more offences. Women who are battered by their partners, for example, typically suffer 35 assaults before they approach the police. Bristol women were coming forward much quicker. It was the same for race crime and sex offences. But HM inspectors complained that the numbers for crimes of sex and violence were increasing and stood well above the other 17 BCUs. Faced with the impact of the Yardies, central Bristol officers were working long hours, but instead of reflecting on the difficulty of dealing with a huge increase in crime without an increase in resources, the inspectors asserted that manpower should be better managed. The inspectors produced 11 coloured graphs and two statistical tables, worried about the absence of "robust audit trails linking targets and objectives through to operations and their outputs", and they went on to make seven recommendations, dealing with internal structures, the cycle of meetings and the monitoring of performance.How politics put policing in the dock (continued)