The first specific charter of rights for jurors concerned about miscarriages of justice was handed down by the law lords yesterday.It advises troubled jurors that they can raise doubts about the safety of criminal convictions, even post-trial, so long as there is a clear intention to avoid injustice. Until now jurors concerned about the conduct of the jury itself have been told they can raise concerns with the judge before a verdict is passed, but they received no clear direction about what they could do after the trial. Yesterday's ruling lists a variety of actions a juror can take without becoming vulnerable to prosecution for contempt of court. It says that while jury-room issues can still be raised with the trial judge or with the appeal court, jurors can also safely alert the judicial authorities by contacting the clerk of the court or the jury bailiff, or even by sending a sealed letter to the court via an outside agency such as the Citizens Advice Bureau. But the law lords' ruling also firmly upheld the principle that secrecy of deliberations within the jury room should remain sacrosanct. They dismissed a landmark appeal by a juror, Keith Scotcher, who wrote an anonymous letter to the mother of a convicted defendant alerting her to alleged improprieties within the jury room. Mr Scotcher, a Ford assembly worker, was traced and convicted of contempt of court, though it was accepted that he acted to prevent what he saw as a miscarriage of justice. He was sentenced to two months' imprisonment, suspended for a year, and ordered to pay £2,500 costs. The law lords yesterday refused to overturn his conviction, arguing that by directing his letter to the defendant's mother, instead of her solicitor or another authorised party, he risked compromising the confidentiality of the jury. Mr Scotcher, 58, of Barking, east London, said: "I am pleased that they accepted there was something wrong with the way things were but I wish they had gone that bit further." Marcia Willis Stewart, his solicitor, said: "For the first time the rights of a juror have been clarified. We know what a juror can or can't do. Until we had this judgment the attorney general was saying that a juror could not write to the court." The ruling was prompted by events five years ago at Blackfriars crown court in London, where two defendants faced serious charges. In their judgment the law lords describe how the jury convicted the defendants by a majority of 10 to 1. They outline how the following day, Mr Scotcher wrote his letter, one passage of which says: "Many changed their vote late on simply because they wanted to get out of the courtroom and go home ... They just decide [sic] on prejudice and hearsay (and wanting to get home for tea). I hope these are grounds in law to show that the verdict was unsafe." Mr Scotcher told the Guardian he would take his case to the European court on the basis that his human rights have been contravened. "I had been reluctant to sit on the jury in the first place because I am not the kind of person who wants to sit in judgment of other people," he said. "The way it all happened at the end of the trial just left me so shocked ... I just knew it was wrong and I am not the kind of person who is going to let it pass me by and just walk away. "As far as I knew there was no avenue in law to do anything about my concerns. I was told quite clearly, 'You must not say anything to anyone.'" He said the case caused years of anguish. "You hear about injustices happening and it taking years of people's lives to do something about it. I saw at first hand how it happens." The government is consulting the judiciary about what to do when jurors are alleged to have behaved improperly. A number of appeals based on the accounts of jury whistleblowers have failed because the courts have prioritised the need to keep deliberations secret. But despite the misgivings of some senior judges, the consultation paper proposes to preserve the status quo, which precludes courts from investigating claims of impropriety within the jury room.