We live surrounded by emblems of remembrance. From the beautiful simplicity of the Cenotaph to the cellophane-wrapped flowers tied to lamp-posts; from the statues of the long-dead to the white "ghost bikes" of the recently taken cyclist, there is a human need to record and remember. It takes many forms. Some need the comfort of public remembrance, a coming together in groups or crowds that tempers grief and emphasises our common humanity. For others, remembrance is an intensely private matter, one that can only be borne alone if at all.It is right that London remembers those who died on July 7 2005. Jean Charles de Menezes had nothing whatsoever to do with those events. On one level, he was the tragic victim of mistaken identity, a casualty of the times in which we live. London was a jittery city; an attack had long been expected. Like the victims of the bombs, Jean Charles joined the roll-call of the innocent, the unfortunates whose guiding stars lead them to the wrong place at the wrong time. It was the immediate aftermath of the killing that made his death a matter of national shame. A single death never reverberates in the way that multiple deaths do. That is how terrorism works, by striking fear into the collective consciousness, by showing how our everyday activities can place us in random danger. Terrorists thrive on the numbers game; the greater the deadly roll-call, the more devastating the impact. But the individual death, particularly one at the hands of the state, should not be allowed to fade from the collective memory. Such deaths undermine our belief in the value of democracy and play directly into the hands of those whose mission is to achieve their aims through violence. The block of flats De Menezes left on 22 July was under surveillance. The security services were watching for a man called Hussain Osman. When De Menezes emerged, a surveillance officer was relieving himself and did not identify him as the suspect. When he boarded the number 2 bus at Tulse Hill, there was no certainty that he was the man they wanted. Equally, there was no guarantee that he was not their man. They followed him to Brixton underground station. It was closed. They followed him on to another bus and onwards to Stockwell underground station. So far three occasions, at least, on any of which a suicide bomber might have detonated his explosives; three occasions, too, on which he might have been intercepted. At Stockwell, they followed him on to the northbound Victoria line train at which point recently arrived specialist firearms officers took command, entered the carriage, were pointed to De Manezes and shot him dead. Imagine the terror he must have felt as they bore down on him. Imagine too what the security services must have felt when they realised that the body on the floor of the carriage was not Osman. Even then, an admission that a horrendous blunder had been made might have mitigated the damage that was done to our sense of ourselves and the democracy in which we live. But no. The smear campaign began. De Menezes was wearing a bulky jacket that could have concealed a suicide belt; a lie – he was wearing a denim jacket. He jumped the ticket barrier at Stockwell; a lie – he walked calmly through the concourse. His work visa had expired; a lie – the foreign secretary of the time could find no evidence to corroborate this. The state circled the wagons. No dignity was to be accorded the innocent victim and a blunder of dreadful proportions became a crime for which no one has been held answerable. Democracy, the cornerstone of which is the right to life, has been diminished and we are all of us the lesser for it.I did not know De Menezes but I use the number 2 bus on which his final journey began. It's difficult to travel that route without thinking of the events of that July day. It would be easier for the communal psyche if such happenings were left to the footnotes of history but that would be to do a disservice to him and to ourselves. In Brian Friel's play Translations, a character speaks of history as "images of the past embodied in language" and cautions that, "we must never cease renewing those images; because once we do, we fossilise". Let's hope that on this anniversary of his death the London that remembered the victims of those July bombs will remember De Menezes too.