The decision by Brazil's main television network to broadcast a video by a criminal gang who had kidnapped two of the station's staff continues to spark controversy.Over 200 people have been killed in a wave of attacks and counter-attacks by police and criminals in the city of Sao Paulo over the past few months. The attacks have been masterminded by Sao Paulo's main criminal gang, the First Command of the Capital, which has been agitating for improvements in prison conditions.The violence has come in successive waves which have spread terror in Brazil's largest city and has recently led to public buildings and police stations being barricaded after a number were attacked by Molotov cocktails and home-made bombs. Brazil's current president Lula has recently urged the deployment of soldiers in the Sao Paulo. Its former president, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, has warned of the threat of urban guerrilla war in the city.That threat seemed to come one step closer when on Saturday morning a reporter and cameraman from TVGlobo, Brazil's main TV station, were kidnapped as they left a bakery and forced to record a video in which a masked representative of the PCC outlined the organisation's grievances. The cameraman was freed but the journalist was held until Monday morning and the PCC threatened to kill him unless the statement was broadcast. Rede Globo agreed to air the three minute broadcast on Sunday and most of Brazil's newspapers have carried the text of the statement in their Monday editions.TV Globo announced that it took the decision to air the broadcast after consulting two international organisations, the International News Safety Institute and the AKE Group, which specialise in advising on security and risk issues. The company did not consult the Brazilian authorities and these have remained silent about the TV station's decision. The police criticised the action saying that conceding to the demands of criminal factions could lead to the media being further targeted. "They run the risk of turning into al-Jazeera," said an unnamed spokesperson, in reference to the station's notoriety for broadcasting footage of hostages.Yet most of the media's coverage has been largely supportive of TV Globo's actions. One of the station's best known journalists, Tim Lopes, was kidnapped, savagely tortured and murdered after his under-cover reports into Brazil's drugs trade were broadcast four years ago. Six more Brazilian journalists have been murdered since that date.A colleague of Lopes has noted that this is partly because the relationship between the media and criminal gangs has changed. Getting access to the favelas (shanty towns) where the groups are based often requires negotiating with those who control them and many journalists were once prepared to clear their stories with the "drug lords". However, increasingly TV crews and journalists have been following the police on raids to obtain sensationalist coverage of arrests. This has increasingly led the criminal groups to identify journalists with the police and the repressive state apparatus that they see ranged against them.The events of this weekend show that the criminals are prepared to act offensively as well as defensively against the Brazilian media. It remains to be seen how the media will respond to this new threat.