Police today arrested a teenager in connection with the fatal stabbing of Adam Regis at the weekend.The 15-year-old, the nephew of the Olympic sprinter John Regis, was killed as he walked home from a cinema in east London on Saturday night.He was the second teenager to be killed in a knife attack in the space of three days, raising fresh concerns over youth crime and putting it at the top of the political agenda.A Metropolitan police statement said officers went to an address in East Ham this morning and arrested a youth believed to be in his teens."He is now in custody at an east London police station," the statement added. "We are still appealing for witnesses and information after a murder in Plaistow. We stress that the investigation continues and that all our points of appeal remain. All lines of inquiry do remain open."Adam, whose headteacher yesterday described him as a "model pupil", had travelled back from a Showcase cinema in Beckton on a bus with friends.Police believe he got off the bus with two friends at around 9pm. One went her own way and he then walked with the other, a male, to his address before continuing towards his own home.Shortly after 9.30pm, police were alerted that a youth had been wounded in the street.Adam was taken to Newham general hospital, where he died shortly before 11pm. A post-mortem revealed the cause of death was a single stab wound to the chest and abdomen.Detectives are searching for two black men or youths, wearing grey hoodies, who were seen running from the scene of the attack.Police want to speak to anyone who saw Adam, described as tall and "quite distinctive", before he was attacked at the junction of Boundary Road and Kingsland Road, E13."Adam is black, with a shaven head, and wore a light blue three-quarter length jeans, a navy hooded top and white trainers," police said. "He was also wearing a rosary cross, which he wore outside his clothes, and studded earrings - one in each ear."We are also making enquiries to establish whether anything happened earlier in the evening between Adam and potential suspects that may have led to him being attacked."Throughout yesterday, a procession of schoolmates and friends brought floral tributes to the spot where Adam fell. One 15-year-old said: "He was a nice person, down to earth. When they say it's gang related, that just hurts me. He did sport."Police said one line of inquiry was a mobile phone call Adam made to his girlfriend, Rachel, just before he was stabbed.His death and the stabbing of 16-year-old Kodjo Yenga in Hammersmith, west London, on Wednesday were described as "horrific" by Tony Blair. Two youths aged 13, one aged 15 and one aged 16 have been charged with Kodjo's murder.The home secretary, John Reid, told the Commons that data on the use of knives in serious violent crime would now be collected across England and Wales.However, the shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "These measures are insufficient - the growing problem of knife crime is plain for all to see."Adam's murder followed a spate of knife crimes:· Police in Manchester launched three murder inquiries at the weekend. Seven people, aged 17 to 25, were arrested and bailed after Stephen Parkin, 21, was murdered in the Hattersley area during the early hours of Saturday.Three men were detained after Keith Platt, 30, was attacked in Farnworth, Bolton, on Friday night. One has since been bailed, and the other two remain in police custody.No one has been arrested in connection with the death of a 24-year-old man stabbed at Moss Side community centre early on Saturday morning. The man is expected to be named later today.· Last Wednesday, a boy aged seven stabbed a young woman 21 times as she fought with his mother in Norris Green, Liverpool. She sustained serious injuries.· Father Paul Bennett, 59, died from stab wounds last Wednesday afternoon in the village of Trecynon, south Wales. Geraint David Evans, 23, was charged with killing the father of two.· Police today charged a 47-year-old man with the murder of his disabled fiancée and her care worker. David Tiley will appear before Alton magistrates today, charged with the murder of 49-year-old Sue Hale and her carer Sarah Merritt, 39. The bodies of the two women were found at the flat Mr Tiley and Ms Hale shared in Southampton, Hampshire. Both had been stabbed to death. Ms Hale suffered from cerebellar ataxia, a rare degenerative brain disorder that caused her difficulties in walking and led to her using walking sticks and a mobility scooter.