Urban drug gangs dealing heroin and crack cocaine are expanding their operations from cities into rural and coastal towns in search of new customers and less intensive policing, according to a report.More than 180 urban gangs are active in rural towns, directing operations from outside the area and using children and vulnerable adults to move drugs and money around.The report by the National Crime Agency (NCA) and National Police Chiefs Council (NPCC) says the gangs often use a single telephone number for ordering drugs, operated from outside the area, which becomes the group’s brand.Ian Cruxton, NCA director of organised crime, said: “This ... approach puts vulnerable adults and children at risk. They are in an unsafe environment, and exposed to violence and fear.”The report says gangs are attracted to new rural locations by the lack of competition and because they are unknown by the local police force. Ecstasy is back – how will Cameron’s creaking drug policy cope? | Max Daly A mid-level gang member will first visit the area and assess the potential market and level of competition from local dealers. The gang will then take over a premises, sometimes by force, sometimes by using a house or flat belonging to local addicts who are paid in drugs, and sometimes by beginning a relationship with a vulnerable woman.Once they have a base, the gangs use common marketing tactics to become established, including introductory offers. Next they expand their workforce, often recruiting children, because they work for little pay, are easy to control, and are less likely to be detected. The report says most runners are boys aged between 14 and 17, who are frequently groomed with gifts and money. Where girls are used they often become the victims of sexual violence. The gang itself mostly stays away from the town. The model has been called “county lines” by the police, which refers to the use of the single phone number used for customers to order drugs. Unlike other criminal activities where numbers are changed on a regular basis, police say these ones are maintained and protected.Cruxton said: “County lines is one way for high-level members of criminal groups to try to distance themselves from law enforcement attention. The NCA and police forces are determined not to let them do that.”Police won't target pot smokers and small-scale growers, say commissioners DCC Dave Thompson, lead on gangs at the NPCC, said the police and other organisations were determined to crack down on a growing problem. He added: “With [police] forces working in close collaboration with the NCA, we can make a difference in tackling this insidious spreading of serious crime.”About half of the places affected are coastal towns with high levels of unemployment, mental health issues or crime. The rest tend to be more affluent areas with good transport links to major cities.The minister for preventing abuse and exploitation, Karen Bradley, said: “County lines is an emerging national issue, which involves the exploitation of vulnerable young people and adults by violent gang members in order to move and sell drugs across the country.“This trend has been recognised by the Home Office, NCA and national policing lead, who are improving the operational response to safeguard the vulnerable and target the most violent by ensuring that the more hidden elements of gang crime and exploitation are visible to the police and local partners.”