Pinned tightly to a tree on Bathurst Gardens, a pleasant, red-bricked suburban row in north-west London, is a single, fading red rose tied in a brown silk ribbon, and two neatly printed pieces of white paper. "REMEMBER Tom ap Rhys Pryce," one reads, "MURDERED on our doorstep." Then, just below: "NO MERCY for Delano Brown and Donnel Carty. JUSTICE NOW. BIG TIME."Justice came this week to Carty and Brown, jailed for life for ap Rhys Pryce's murder, with recommendations they serve a minimum of 21 and 17 years respectively. The 31-year-old lawyer was stabbed to death on Bathurst Gardens, just a few doors away from his own home, on 12 January last year, having been trailed by Carty and Brown from the nearby Kensal Green underground station and stabbed when he resisted their attempts to rob him. They made off with a pitiful haul comprising his mobile phone, his Oyster travelcard and £20 in cash. Next to his body was found a bloodstained copy of his wedding vows.The details of the murder are as tragically banal as the reaction of ap Rhys Pryce's fiancee was devastating. In a statement read to the court, Adele Eastman said her pain and horror following the murder was "literally indescribable". Carty and Brown, she said, "have ripped out my heart with their bare hands and torn it, very slowly, into pieces". Her words turned a ghastly family tragedy into one of those iconic killings that are held to embody a nation's worst fears. On Wednesday David Cameron called her statement among "the most powerful things I have ever read", and wrote an article mourning "the erosion of what used to be called the moral fabric of society".What drives two young men to kill another for small change - and then allows them to feel no regret for the devastation their actions cause? Should society blame their upbringings, a lack of opportunity for young black men, or a generalised culture of violence? Or is it simply, in the words of Mr Cameron, that Carty and Brown were "monsters", capable of arbitrary, inexplicable evil?The uncomfortable truth about Delano Brown and Donnel Carty is that they did not come from backgrounds of deprivation and chaotic family breakdown. Both boys' mothers separated from their fathers when they were young, but contrary to most of the reports this week, they each had a relationship with fathers who tried, to varying degrees, to keep them on the straight and narrow. Both were raised as churchgoers.The boys met when they were eight through the Kensal Green church that both families attended. Barbara Prince, Carty's mother, was just 17 when she had him and over time found herself unable to cope; the young Donnel went to stay with his father but as he got older decided to leave, according to a family friend, because Marcus Carty was "too strict". He moved to his grandparents in Kensal Green, just a few streets away from Bathurst Gardens, but would increasingly spend time with an uncle who described himself in court as a church minister. Clive Carty had certainly been involved in the church but had a string of criminal convictions including one for indecent assault. It was to his house in Kilburn that the two boys would run after killing ap Rhys Pryce.Shortly before the murder Carty had again been living with his father, according to Tunde Banjoko, chief executive of Leap, the local employment and youth charity Carty attended, who knew the young man well. "His father did the best he could. One of the ways he tried to do the best he could was by being quite strict and not giving Donnel the freedom that some of the other young people had."The young man did show signs of wanting to improve himself - "at one stage [he] wanted to find work, we helped him with his CV, and during that phase he was a really nice young guy," says Mr Banjoko. Because his reading and writing were poor, the centre referred him to a literacy course at a local college, "but everybody there was quite old so he felt ashamed and didn't go". Last year he attended a music production course, where he produced a track containing violent lyrics that boasted of his willingness to stab someone.Delano Brown, meanwhile, was growing up with his mother, Maureen Leo, and two sisters in Sudbury, Middlesex, and spending time in Kensal Green with his godfather and grandparents. Because his mother worked full time, the young Delano was responsible for cooking for his sisters and walking them to school. He passed GCSEs in English, maths and PE and was a talented footballer, working part-time in a sports centre. After he left school he completed a course that qualified him to teach sport to children, then worked for a period at his godfather's construction business.One associate says those who knew Brown still cannot believe he was involved. "He was so quiet and polite and softly spoken, brought up with real manners," he says. "He was brought up in the church from a very young age. There was never anything flashy and bling about him. Quite the opposite. His mum and dad were separated, but he saw quite a lot of his dad, Wayne, too. Wayne had a building company and did well for himself; he lives abroad now." Another relative said: "Everyone is just so shocked. Delano didn't want for anything."And yet, by December last year when Carty and Brown were just 18 and 17 respectively, they had become ruthlessly efficient violent robbers, key members of a gang that called itself the KG Tribe. Carty had become "Armani" and Brown "Shy". When police searched Brown's house they found a collection of balaclavas with eye slits cut out. Their preferred method was "steaming", hitting the underground in numbers to target commuters for their wallets and valuables. Anyone who resisted would be "juked", or stabbed, usually in the leg. Some police sources have speculated the gang may have been responsible for up to 150 violent robberies on the tube in a seven-month period. On December 23 last year, Carty, Brown and six other gang members attacked 10 victims on the underground, stabbing two. Only minutes before ap Rhys Pryce was killed, Carty and Brown had attacked Kurshid Ali, a restaurant chef, at Kensal Green station.In his first interview since the conviction, Mr Ali told the Guardian that he still thinks about the assault all the time and has trouble sleeping. "I was so very frightened. I didn't move at all. I just let them do what they wanted. When I think about them, I can't really tell them apart. The fear made them merge into one. When you think about what happened to the other man, I know I was very lucky. They were very violent. They just stood in front of me and didn't even bother to hide their faces. I didn't see a weapon but I knew they had one."Moments later they were lounging outside a convenience store when they spotted the smartly-dressed ap Rhys Pryce walking past. Carty whistled at Brown and the pair began to follow him along Bathurst Gardens.The key to understanding the motives of young men like Carty and Brown, according to Camila Batmanghelidjh, founder of the charity Kid's Company, is appreciating the alternative code by which many alienated young black men live, almost entirely at odds with the values generally considered to be aspirational. "They live in a culture that has its own rules and power ratings. The power currency is violence. How much violence you are able to commit makes your reputation and ensures your own safety. It is not about how much you harm someone for the sake of it, it is also about raising your credit limit. The principle especially applies to those kids who come from a relatively safe environment, because they have to up the ante even more just to survive."The "targets" of people who feel this way, she says, are anyone who looks "respectable, those who are seen to operate in the legitimate power structure" - few more so than Tom ap Rhys Pryce. "Those who are part of the illegitimate power structure see themselves as having been left behind. One of the things the kids are always saying to me is that they want to be legitimate. They don't like being on the periphery. But after a while they become immune: emotionally cold. This environment dictates the culture, one of emotional coldness and envy. This kind of kid doesn't happen overnight, they are a while in the making."Another London youth worker adds that proving physical supremacy is a key part of this kind of attack. "You have people who are told that all they have is their physicality. So they are not prepared to take any sort of opposition or dissent. A case like ap Rhys Pryce, where he fought back and there was a verbal exchange, is one where they would use extreme violence. They picked someone who didn't look particularly streetwise and then found he was fighting against them." Tragically, it may have been this decision to resist that sealed his fate.Rev Les Issac, who runs an initiative called Street Pastors, added: "The street culture has a pull and even some of the children we know who come from relatively stable backgrounds are being sucked into this lifestyle. We know the pressure they are under and for them to talk to parents seems, under their value system, a sign of weakness. They think they can handle it. But they can't."Young people need to be "incredibly strong-minded" to resist, says Mr Banjoko. "Donnel wasn't bad to the bone. There were times when he was a nice, respectful young man. But when he was around his peers and the jostling for position, you could see a change. It becomes about front and having to keep up appearances. He did a very evil thing, but he was not pure evil. If that makes sense." Brown seemed awed by Carty. "He was funny, he knows how to have a laugh. I respect him sort of thing," he said in court.Exactly what drove the two men to kill ap Rhys Pryce may never be known. Neither has shown any remorse. Minutes after the attack, entirely unconcerned that the call would be traceable by police, Donnel Carty phoned a girlfriend from the solicitor's phone. Ms Batmanghelidjh sees symbolism in that act. "The fruits of a robbery like this are a masculine triumph. Where else can these boys get their potency within the structure if it is not to take it like warriors?"The following morning, Carty walked from his grandparents' home towards the crime scene and sold the phone to a shopkeeper at the end of Bathurst Gardens, while police officers were yards away. When Brown gave evidence against him in court, Carty apparently arranged for him to be beaten up by three other inmates of the young offenders' institution where he was being held. Brown, meanwhile, collected press cuttings about the murder. As they were convicted, the two shook hands and embraced.One of the solicitor's former neighbours, sitting outside his home close to the makeshift memorial, said people in Bathurst Gardens remained mystified that someone could have died so needlessly. "Why would someone do something like that? It is almost as if they had ice in their veins.""Are the murderers still laughing now?" continues the poster affixed to the tree. "Hope not."Murders that shaped public debateStephen Lawrence The racist murder of Stephen Lawrence at a bus stop in 1993 has been one of the most significant crimes in recent British history. Five white men from south London have been widely named as his killers, though no one has been convicted. The Macpherson inquiry into the failed investigation found the Metropolitan police was "institutionally racist".James Bulger The murder of the toddler James Bulger by two 10-year-old boys, also in 1993, has continued to resonate, and was regarded by some commentators as evidence of a deep societal sickness. Convicting Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, Mr Justice Morland said an "informed and worthwhile" public debate about parenting and family values was necessary for "the public good".Philip Lawrence The 1995 stabbing of the headteacher Philip Lawrence by 15-year-old Learco Chindamo became emblematic of out-of-control youths fearless of authority. Lawrence had been attempting to stop his killer from attacking a younger pupil.Stephen Cameron Stephen Cameron, 21, was in a van with his girlfriend in 1996 when he was stabbed to death in a "road rage" murder on the M25. Kenneth Noye, who had previously been jailed for the Brinks Mat bullion robbery in 1983, was extradited from Spain and convicted of the murder in 2000.Jill Dando TV presenter Jill Dando was shot dead on her London doorstep in 1999, leading to frenzied debate about privacy and the dangers posed by stalkers. Barry George was convicted of the murder.Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman Ian Huntley killed 10-year-old Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman in 2002 after the two girls stopped outside his house while he washed his dog. Huntley was a school caretaker and had a history of having sex with girls as young as 13. The case led to stricter vetting procedures for those working with children and closer cooperation between police forces.