Gee Walker's face is unlined and unresponsive, yet her eyes betray a visceral grief. In the sitting room of her home in Huyton, surrounded by domestic paraphernalia, she is overwhelmed by events of the last 12 months.Tomorrow is the first anniversary of her son's death and Gee may or may not visit his graveside. If she goes to the cemetery it will only be her second visit since he died. "I don't know why people talk about moving on. Perhaps it's too early for me to understand what moving on means. We don't know what to expect from the first anniversary. We're sitting in great anticipation and anxiety."Anthony Walker was murdered on July 29 2005 when Michael Barton and Paul Taylor hunted down and ambushed him in McGoldrick Park, Liverpool. He was killed by a single blow to the skull.A year on from that night in Walton Hospital, where she willed her son to survive but had to watch him slip away, she is still in shock. Gee cannot bring herself to go to McGoldrick Park and will do anything to avoid it.She talks in half sentences and whispers, her eyes searching the room. They settle on the same spot - a photograph of her beaming son, the one reprinted countless times in newspapers and magazines - and she finds some kind of peace."You look up and you see love in his eyes. He would offer his seat to you, park your car if you were having trouble with it, help you with your shopping. He would befriend the vulnerable. He would have been a good father and a good husband."She was teaching him to be a man, by giving him adult responsibilities. He was learning how to pay the bills and fill the car up with petrol. Her youngest son Daniel, now 15, doted on Anthony. He was his role model, the father he never had.Before Anthony's death their home was full of laughter; they had good times. But the Walker house fell silent when Anthony died, and though Gee's five other children - Donna, Stephanie, Dominique, Angella and Daniel - will be at home for the anniversary it will still be quiet, so deep is the abyss of the family's grief and loss."When you have a pacemaker fitted it's because something is missing, your heart works but it's not your own. When they cut you open you will always have a massive scar. It never goes away. You just learn to carry it. It never heals."Gee's response to her son's death is intense and physical. There are quick fixes to the pain, but these are temporary. "It comes up through your gut and through your throat."Anthony, 18 at the time of his death, had spent the evening babysitting his nephew at home so his mother could attend a church service. Shortly after 10.30pm Anthony, his 17-year-old girlfriend Louise Thompson and 17-year-old cousin Marcus Binns walked to a bus stop a quarter of a mile away.As the three teenagers waited, Barton, his face covered by a ski mask, sprang out and started to scream racial abuse at the group. The trio moved on but Barton, 17, and Taylor, 20, followed them in a car.Barton and Taylor hid in the darkness, waiting for their quarry. Then they pounced, felling Anthony with a two-foot ice axe. Such was the ferocity of the blow that the murder weapon rendered him brain dead within seconds. The axe, which went in several inches, was still in place when Gee reached the hospital six hours later.The depth of Gee's love for Anthony is matched by her steadfast belief in God, her faith allowing her to forgive her son's killers and sustaining her through the bereavement."He [God] gives you the ability to cope. You have a higher power you cling to. When you can't sleep, want to cry out and become the child even though you are the parent you can because he is the Father. You have to rely on him to take care of you."She draws no consolation from the killers' convictions. Barton will serve at least 17 years and eight months for the murder of the promising A-level student while Taylor, who delivered the fatal blow, will serve at least 23 years and eight months."What is prison? They're not free to roam and repeat what they did. I don't know what life is like inside. But we're still living with our pain. What is justice? People say justice has been served. Your loved one is still gone and justice won't bring them back."