A former paediatrician has been jailed for 18 years after being convicted of carrying out a string of sexual assaults on girls while working at a hospital at the same time as the disgraced DJ Jimmy Savile abused young patients there.Eighty-year-old Michael Salmon, who sexually assaulted six girls in the 1970s and 80s while he worked at Stoke Mandeville in Buckinghamshire, will serve at least nine years before he will be eligible for parole. He carried out many of his attacks behind a screen in his consulting room, while his victims’ parents waited believing he was completing a legitimate medical examination. Salmon was also convicted of raping a girl on two occasions at his home after she turned to him for help because she believed she was pregnant.Describing Salmon’s behaviour as coldblooded and ruthless, the judge, Johannah Cutts QC, said she had to follow sentencing guidelines in place when he carried out the offences. If he committed the same crimes now, he would be facing a life term, she said. Several of Salmon’s victims, including the woman who was raped, wept in the packed public gallery as he was jailed. In moving victim impact statements, they spoke of the trauma they have felt, including the difficulties they have had in trusting doctors. One woman said she suffered nightmares and another said she could not get Salmon’s face out of her mind. Cutts said Salmon was a predatory paedophile who showed significant planning and a gross breach of trust in his grooming and abuse of young patients. She said he was intelligent, knew right from wrong but had acted in a cold and calculating way. “All the girls were ill at the time. They were treated as objects for your sexual gratification,” she told him. The prosecution made it clear there was no suggestion that Salmon, of Salisbury, Wiltshire, acted in concert with Savile but the case has once again shone a spotlight on what was going on at Stoke Mandeville when the television personality spent time there.Reading crown court heard Salmon raped the 16-year-old girl after she asked him for help. She had met him the previous year when he treated her for a digestive problem. He used to take her behind a curtain and – with her mother still in the same room – carry out intimate examinations without wearing gloves.Later, believing she was pregnant by a neighbour, she sought assistance from Salmon. He claimed she was indeed pregnant and took her to his home. She told the court he produced an instrument like a tube which he said would suck out the foetus. She went into the bathroom and cleaned herself up, jurors heard. He then told her to lie on the bed, said “one favour deserves another”, and raped her. A couple of weeks later he rang and said she may have been going to have twins and persuaded her to come to his house again, where he raped her again. In her victim statement the woman who had been raped, now in her 40s, wrote: “I still live with the effects every day of my life. Your personality changes when you are raped.“Your body remembers the trauma. I lost the ability to trust. It is something that I live with on a daily basis.“I became very withdrawn. He knew that I would have no one to talk to. He planned these rapes. He knew what he was going to do to me.”The court was told Salmon thought he was “bomb-proof” because no one would believe a child over him. But he was arrested by officers from Operation Yewtree – the investigation launched into Savile – after victims came forward following publicity about the late DJ. A prolific child abuser, Savile is believed to have carried out some of his worst offending at Stoke Mandeville, where he had his own office. During his trial Thames Valley police were contacted by more women who claim they were also abused as girls by Salmon at Stoke Mandeville.Speaking outside court, Jessica Standley, a lawyer at Slater and Gordon who represents two of Salmon’s victims, said: “The crimes he committed were among the most despicable imaginable. These were assaults on little girls who had no reason to suspect they were in any danger. The bravery of those he attacked in coming forward and securing justice must be recognised. His treatment of them in court suggesting they were lying and ‘gold diggers’ was frankly disgusting.“Yet again this case raises serious questions about the culture at Stoke Mandeville hospital at the time Jimmy Savile and Salmon were there. But whereas Savile’s victims will never see him brought to justice, today Salmon’s have.”Salmon was found guilty of nine indecent assaults and two rapes. 