The Hornsey and Wood Green MP, Lynn Featherstone, said today releasing the names of those responsible for the death of Baby Peter was necessary "for public confidence".The Liberal Democrat MP, who has been critical of the children's services in her constituency since the case broke, also said people would be "incensed" if Tracey Connelly, Steven Barker and Jason Owen served minimum sentences."The people need to know the names and see the faces for public confidence. I think the judge was right to release them," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.Wes Cuell of the NSPCC said it was "inevitable" they would be named, given the magnitude of their crimes. "You have to accept the Baby P case is extraordinary in terms of the interest it has generated," he told the Today programme.However, he voiced concerns that releasing the identities could lead to "prurient interest" among the media in Peter's siblings, exposing them to playground bullying and affecting their development.Featherstone said the publicity surrounding those responsible for Peter's death was right, but that she hoped the media would "just leave those children [the siblings] alone".Cuell warned that, despite the horrific details of the case, it was not a one-off. "There are thousands of situations and thousands of families where the situation is not dissimilar to Baby P," he said.Featherstone said the child protection services should have prevented the "out of the ordinary" depravity shown by Peter's parents. The MP renewed her calls for the government to publish the full contents of a report into the case, which she said revealed a "litany of failure" on the part of the authorities.She is one of a small group of MPs to have been shown the serious case review, which the children's secretary, Ed Balls, has refused to make public.Featherstone said she hoped long jail terms for Connelly, Barker and Owen would satisfy the public clamour for justice."If they serve 20 years, that's a punishment in itself," she said. "I don't think we should lean towards the lynch mob attitude."Connelly's mother today expressed anger that her daughter had not been named earlier, saying she deserved to "rot in hell" for her part in Peter's death."I haven't got any sympathy for her at all," Mary O'Connor, 59, told the Sun. "Maybe now she will feel fear and understand what my grandson went through as he was being tortured to death. She robbed me of my grandson. My heart is broken and I'll never forgive her for that. I can't."The father of Steven and Jason Barker said he was horrified by Peter's suffering at the hands of his sons."What they did was awful, and they deserve to be punished," he told the Mirror. "I don't care what happens to them. Everyone thinks they are monsters and I don't think any different."