Police investigating the death of a six-year-old boy continued yesterday to question a man who walked into a police station in north Wales, 260 miles from where the boy's body was found.Surrey police confirmed that the boy, found at a house in Farncombe, near Godalming, was Jethro Field.They did not name the man who handed himself into police in Tywyn, Gwynedd, on Wednesday, two hours after Jethro's body was found. But he has been named in newspaper reports as Dafydd Field, the boy's father.A post mortem examination of Jethro's body has been completed but Surrey police said that results could not be released because they were central to the investigation.Detectives had until early today to charge or release the man they are questioning at a police station in Guildford.Police said they were called at around 10.30am on Wednesday by a member of the public to a house in Farncombe, following a domestic incident. Officers found the boy's body inside.Two hours later the man walked into the police station in Tywyn. Officers from Surrey travelled to Wales to question him and escort him back to Guildford. Chief Superintendent Kevin Deanus of Surrey police said no one else was being sought in connection with the incident.A spokeswoman for the Surrey force said: "A postmortem examination has been completed at the Royal Surrey County Hospital, Guildford. The results will not be released as they form part of the investigation and the man has to be further interviewed. It is anticipated that the inquest will be opened early next week."Neighbours had earlier identified Jethro. One, who asked not to be named, said: "He used to visit the house next door to me to play."He seemed like a happy little boy. I did not know the family personally, but they have been living on this road for a few years."It is thought that Mr Field and Jethro's mother Stevie had recently divorced. Jethro was living with his mother but regularly returned to Farncombe to see his father.Neighbours laid cards and flowers outside Mr Field's house. One card, from three children pictured with Jethro at a fairground, read: "Jethro, thank you for being our best friend."We will miss you and we will never forget you. All our love."