In Tigers Bay they call them "loyalist blues". The tiny pills cost 50p each and are a synthesis of ecstasy and ketamine, a drug normally used to tranquilise horses.Inside the loyalist stronghold of Belfast's north inner city "loyalist blues" are openly on sale and, according to a group of angry mothers, were responsible for the death of a local teenager last week.Dean Clarke died in hospital at the weekend, six days after he tried to hang himself on railings near his home. The place where he tried initially to take his own life has since become a shrine to the 16-year-old, decked out with dozens of bunches of flowers as well as the flags and scarves of Liverpool FC, the team Dean supported.This latest shrine to yet another north Belfast teenage suicide has become a focal point for communal anger, most of it aimed at members of the loyalist terror group the Ulster Defence Association (UDA).The controversy highlights the difficulties in dismantling loyalist paramilitary movements such as the UDA, where individual units are involved in crime, particularly drug dealing. The organisation is scheduled to officially "stand down" as a paramilitary army this Remembrance Sunday. However its critics say the UDA in certain areas is so deeply embroiled in crime that it will maintain its structures and continue to profit from drug dealing.On Sunday around 50 women held a protest close to a UDA mural on North Queen Street. They carried placards with slogans such as "Drug dealers out" and "Get off our backs". All, like Dean's mother, are convinced those selling "loyalist blues" in the area belong to the UDA.One mother who asked not to be named said a local man who confronted one of the dealers was himself threatened. "People want these drug dealers out of the area. But when someone confronts one of them it's them that get the beating. There is a lot of anger in this community," she said.Alison Clarke said she was in no doubt that drug dealers under the UDA's protection supplied the drugs which she believed pushed her son into depression.Her claims were supported by the local Evangelical Presbyterian minister, the Rev Robert Beckett. "There are folks in the area who are making huge amounts of money selling drugs. Most people know who they are. While there have been a number of drug dealers put out of the area in recent days - for cases unrelated to the Clarke incident - the major drug dealer, who is supposed to be a leading figure in loyalist circles, remains untouched," he said.