The Lady in the Lake killer, Gordon Park, has died after he was found unconscious in his prison cell on his 66th birthday with a ligature around his neck.Park was convicted of the murder of his wife, Carol, in January 2005, 28 years after dumping her weighted body in Coniston Water in Cumbria. She acquired the sobriquet after a Raymond Chandler novel of the same name.Until his conviction, it had been one of the UK's longest-running unsolved murders. Park appealed against his conviction in 2008, but it was turned down. Prison officers found him in his cell at HMP Garth, Leyland, at 8.40am today with a ligature around his neck and a bag over his head. He was pronounced dead later. It is thought he hanged himself, but the prisons and probation ombudsman will conduct an investigation into the death.His son, Jeremy, who has campaigned to prove his father's innocence, said he still believed in his innocence "100%".At the murder trial five years ago, Manchester crown court heard how Park bludgeoned his young wife to death with a climber's ice axe and concealed her remains in a bag that he meticulously stitched from one of her pinafore dresses. She lay hidden for 21 years, until amateur divers stumbled upon the gruesome package in 1997.  Carol Park. Photograph: Cumbria Police/PAPark thought his 30-year-old wife's remains would never be found. But her body landed under the water on a gradually declining slope; a few metres further out and she would have been lost for ever at the bottom of the lake.The couple had a turbulent relationship. When police contacted Park, he was holidaying with his third wife in France. He reacted by saying: "Oh dear." On his return to the UK, Park was arrested and charged with murder, but the trial collapsed before it was committed to crown court.While on remand in Preston prison, he told fellow prisoners his wife deserved it, after he discovered her in bed with another man.After the first case collapsed, he sold his story for £50,000 to the Mail on Sunday, vehemently professing his innocence. Life went on; he retired from his teaching job and enjoyed cycling holidays with his third wife while spending time with his grandchildren.Meanwhile, Cumbria police were carrying out a renewed, covert investigation. The breakthrough came late in 2000, after the broadcast of A Very British Murder, a television documentary that told the story of the victim.Michael Wainwright, a former prisoner, saw the documentary and told his girlfriend about a conversation with his cellmate, Gordon Park. They contacted police.The police inquiry gained new impetus. Eventually, after consulting the Crown Prosecution Service, the case was reopened and Park was rearrested and once more charged with murder.During the inquiry, detectives recovered a piece of Westmorland green slate, which would not have naturally been found in the lake. It was very similar to slate which Park had used to build his bungalow.