Four teenage boys surrounded and trapped 10-year-old Damilola Taylor and in an "act of gratuitous violence, borne of cruelty and bullying", stabbed him in the left leg with a broken beer bottle, then ran away as he lay bleeding to death, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.One of the attackers later claimed that the weapon had been twisted deliberately to ensure that it left a gaping, open wound, said Mark Dennis, prosecuting. He alleged that the four had then put a marble in the schoolboy's mouth to stop him crying out as he "jumped up and down in pain". It lodged in his throat, frustrating an attempt by a police officer to perform mouth to mouth resuscitation. Three of the boys, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were later to confide to others that they had confronted Damilola in a dark side-street in Peckham, south London, intending to rob him, Mr Dennis claimed. One of the accused, a 16-year-old known as boy A, gave an explanation for the violence that was "somewhat chilling", the court was told. "To one youth it was said it had been 'done for a laugh'," Mr Dennis said. "To another ... because Damilola had ignored them; to another, that he had been 'getting mouthy'." Another of the accused, a 17-year-old known as boy C, seemed to think that the stabbing was "rather funny", Mr Dennis said. "He stated that Damilola had been killed over his jacket, adding that people have been 'stabbed for less'." The allegations were made as Mr Dennis opened the prosecution case against the four boys, who are accused jointly of murdering Damilola shortly after 4.30pm on Monday, November 27, 2000. They are also charged with manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The teenagers - one aged 14, two brothers aged 16, and one aged 17 - plead not guilty. Damilola, a smiling, cheerful boy who was 10 days short of his 11th birthday, had arrived in London from Nigeria three months earlier with his mother, sister and brother, the court heard. He had enrolled at the Oliver Goldsmith primary school in Peckham Road, Camberwell, where he had been unsettled by bullying. On the day he died, Damilola had gone to an after-school computer club at a local library, but had been asked to leave because he was clowning around with two friends. Walking home alone in Blakes Road to a flat on the North Peckham estate, he proved an "irresistible target" for four boys, all members of a local gang, who "stopped, surrounded and trapped him" just 200 yards from his front door, the prosecutor told the court. Damilola had nothing valuable to give them. "One of the boys fetched a beer bottle that had been discarded near a rubbish area just along the street," Mr Dennis said. "He broke the bottle and handed it across to one of his accomplices. Within moments, in what can only have been a deliberate and controlled act of violence, Damilola was stabbed in the left thigh, just above his knee, as he remained trapped and helpless, surrounded by all the boys. "The stabbing caused a gaping wound which, having severed a major artery and vein in the leg, caused immediate and profuse bleeding." The boys then fled, leaving Damilola lying on the pavement crying out for help. "Not one of the boys went to his aid or thereafter summoned help or displayed any concern for their hapless victim," Mr Dennis said. Damilola staggered to a nearby stairwell where he was found by a carpenter, Bill Casel. "The only words [Damilola] was to utter were 'I'm OK, I'm OK', words indicative of a rather plucky and brave young boy," Mr Dennis said. "He was, of course, far from okay." An hour later he was pronounced dead at hospital. The attack was witnessed by a 13-year-old girl who was initially too afraid and ashamed to come forward, the court was told. She knew the 16-year-old brothers, referred to as boy A and B, and the 14-year-old, known as boy D, who was 13 at the time of the incident. On the day of the murder, Mr Dennis alleged, she followed the boys into Blakes Road because she wanted to speak to them, but stopped when she saw them standing in a circle around Damilola. She told police that one of the boys was pushing Damilola and that boy C broke away from the group, then returned with a bottle which he had broken against the railings, Mr Dennis told the court. It was handed to either boy A or B. Boy C and D faced the other way, as if to keep a look out, he added. "[The witness] ducked down behind a parked car. She did not see who actually inflicted the fatal wound, nor was she able to see whether any other weapon had been produced during the final assault. What she did hear was the defendants running off and Damilola crying out for help," Mr Dennis said. Not realising the seriousness of Damilola's injuries, the witness then also left the scene. Mr Dennis alleged that the four teenagers had provided false alibis when they were first arrested, variously claiming that they had been elsewhere or implicating other youths in the stabbing. But during spells in young offenders' institutions on unrelated matters, two of the boys "repeatedly confided to others that they had been present and involved to varying degrees in the assault upon Damilola," he added. When police arrested boy B for the final time in June last year, they found a lyric he had written: "I went mad when I heard he was 10," it read. "But never fuck around with [me]". The case continues.