A senior nurse who murdered four elderly women patients began a minimum 30-year jail term yesterday without showing remorse or explaining what led him to take his victims' lives.Passing sentence on 32-year-old Colin Norris, Mr Justice Griffith Williams said months of evidence had left him no wiser about the motives behind a "thoroughly evil" betrayal of trust.Norris denied the killings, and a fifth charge of attempted murder, but refused to rise to suggestions that he was arrogant, manipulative and felt contempt and dislike for geriatric patients. During the brief sentencing hearing at Newcastle crown court, Norris showed no emotion.He had carried out the murders with increasing confidence over a six-month period in 2002 at two Leeds hospitals. The judge heard evidence from one patient, Bridget Tarpey, that Norris "was very nasty - he didn't like us old women".The judge described the phrase as "very telling", and told the nurse it was clear that he regarded the extra care demanded for geriatric nursing as a waste of time. "But only you know why that dislike was so much that you decided to kill," the judge said. "I suspect you enjoyed the power that ending a life gave you, choosing the elderly because they were defenceless. Emboldened by the fact that nobody suspected what was happening ... you embarked on a campaign of killing - a campaign which would, no doubt, have continued had not experienced medical staff been alerted to what was happening." The court and police praised Dr Emma Ward, who questioned an insulin dose given to one victim, 86-year-old Ethel Hall, and triggered the police investigation. But Hall's son Stuart, 53, said yesterday that the family and other victims' relatives were seeking talks with Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust about an independent inquiry into the case."We hope Colin Norris never leaves prison and is never in a situation where he can harm anyone else again," he said. "I do not understand why he pretended to be a caring nurse when he was really a cold-blooded killer who preyed on the vulnerable."Norris was convicted on an 11-1 jury vote of murdering Hall, Doris Ludlam, 80, Bridget Bourke, 88, and Irene Crookes, 79, and attempting to murder Vera Wilby, 90, who survived a prolonged coma after an unnecessary insulin injection. The judge said that none of the five had been terminally ill or in pain and there could not be any suggestion that Norris was "motivated to hasten their ends to spare them suffering".Det Chief Supt Chris Gregg, of West Yorkshire police, said he shared the judge's frustration at not knowing what led Norris to kill. He said after the sentencing: "Only he knows the answer to that, but I am convinced he would have gone on to kill more patients had he not been stopped in his tracks."