Campaigners against domestic violence have expressed concern that the comedian and presenter Justin Lee Collins escaped with a "derisory" non-custodial sentence after being found guilty of harassing his former partner.Collins could have been jailed for up to six months but was instead ordered to do 140 hours unpaid manual work in the community and meet prosecution costs.His victim, Anna Larke, said she was pleased with the jury's verdict and would campaign to have emotional abuse "properly" recognised in the courts.The police and Crown Prosecution Service said they hoped the case would encourage other victims to come forward.But the charities Refuge and the Women's Resource Centre said the sentence sent out the wrong message.Sandra Horley, the chief executive of Refuge, said: "We are disappointed with the sentence. Awarding a mere 140 hours of community service does not send a strong public message that domestic violence, or threat of violence, is as serious as any other violent crime."Derisory sentences such as this reflect the need for further training to increase understanding of domestic violence and its impact – domestic violence kills two women a week. Until the courts give sentences that fit the crime, men like Justin Lee Collins will get away with campaigns of terror and thousands of women, like Anna, will continue to be at risk."St Albans crown court had been told that Collins, 38, from Kew, south-west London, subjected Larke, also 38, to a "campaign of abuse" throughout their seven-month relationship.Larke alleged Collins compelled her to write down in a notebook all her previous sexual encounters in graphic detail. She said he forced her to quit social networking websites, always sleep facing him and throw away DVDs because they featured actors she found attractive.She claimed Collins attacked her while on trips to Miami and New York and said she had not shown anyone her bruises because she did not want to get "the love of my life" into trouble.The court was played a secret recording Larke made during a row shortly before the couple split in July last year. Collins told Larke: "You bring the fucking demon out in me" and called her a "fucking slag". He also allegedly told her she had had sex with "blacks" and "chinks".Denying the allegations, Collins claimed the relationship with Larke was "absolute hell". But he said he had never hit anyone in his life. He said the secretly recorded row was completely out of character and denied being a racist.Judge John Plumstead sentenced Collins to carry out 140 hours unpaid work within the next 18 months and ordered him to pay £3,500 in prosecution costs.The judge told Collins the "humbling" manual work he would have to do should make him pause and think about what he had done.Describing the crime as a "very serious matter", the judge said: "Any violence in any relationship when people should be able to rely on each other is a serious breach of trust."Larke and her family said in a statement they were pleased with the verdict. "We will not rest on our laurels in the wake of this good news and intend to go out into the world and use this experience to empower women to stand up to domestic abuse."We will also be campaigning to have emotional abuse properly recognised in law and do our utmost to end the much reported culture of celebrities using their positions to abuse people without fear of reprisal."Detective Inspector Justine Jenkins, of Hertfordshire police, said: "I hope the outcome serves as a warning to anyone who thinks it's OK to treat another person in this manner."Vivienne Hayes, chief executive of the Women's Resource Centre, described the sentence as "light". She said: "The problem is that it sends out a message to both men and women that domestic violence is not that serious, nor damaging, when in reality we know its impacts are devastating to individuals, to families and to society".The definition of domestic violence has recently been widened to include emotional and psychological abuse. Hayes said the Collins case offered a "powerful opportunity to send the message that domestic violence, in all its forms, will not be tolerated. That potential to benchmark for subsequent cases may have been lost."Deborah McIlveen, from Women's Aid, said high profile cases like this helped raise awareness of domestic violence. She said: "Perpetrators of domestic violence can be popular and influential people, who to the outward world seems friendly and charming, which can mean that victims don't want to come forward, as they are worried that they won't be believed."Bristol-born Collins, who rose to fame as a host on Channel 4's The Friday Night Project, did not react as the jury found him guilty of harassment causing fear of violence, an offence originally brought in to combat the threat of stalkers. Collins drove away from the court without commenting. A spokesman said: "Justin is extremely disappointed by the verdict. He will consider his position with his lawyers." He had been due to appear in a charity show at the Albert Hall next month but has pulled out.The television presenter and comedian Justin Lee Collins has been found guilty of harassing his former partner, Anna Larke, by a jury at St Albans crown court.Collins, who made a name for himself as a host on Channel 4's The Friday Night Project, was ordered to do 140 hours community service. He showed no emotion as the majority verdict was returned.Larke, a public relations worker, claimed during the trial that Collins subjected her to emotional abuse and actual violence.She alleged Collins, 38, compelled her to write down in a Pukka pad all her previous sexual encounters in graphic detail.Larke, also 38, said Collins forced her to quit social networking websites, sleep facing him and throw away DVDs because they featured actors she found attractive.She alleged Collins physically attacked her while on trips to Miami and New York and said she had not shown anyone her bruises because she did not want to get "the love of my life" into trouble.The court was played a secret recording Larke made during a row shortly before the couple split in July last year. Collins apparently told Larke: "You bring the fucking demon out in me" and called her a "fucking slag". He also allegedly told her she had had sex with "blacks" and "chinks".In his closing statement, Peter Shaw, prosecuting, claimed the Pukka pad list was used by Collins as a "rock" to dash Larke's self-esteem.He told the jury Larke was an alcoholic, bankrupt and suffering from depression. But he insisted she was not a fantasist.The couple met in 2006 when Collins was hosting an awards ceremony. They began an affair while Collins was married the following year but split up in 2008. They got back together after Collins's marriage broke down in 2010.Denying the charge, Collins claimed Larke was obsessive, jealous and possessive and would send him a "barrage" of text messages wanting to know where he was and who he was with.He said the seven-month relationship with Larke was "absolute hell". "I thought she loved me and was crazy about me," he said. "But it turned out only the second part was true."Collins denied attacking her in any way, saying he had never hit anyone in his life. He told the court he had only ever slapped Larke to calm her down when she was self-harming, which he claimed she did, once gouging her wrists and threatening to commit suicide.He said the secretly recorded row was completely out of character and it sounded "like someone else". He said he was in "meltdown" after his relationship with Larke hit rock bottom.Collins said Larke dictated the details of her sex life to him of her own free will as a form of catharsis.He denied being a racist. He said the recording showed him at his "absolute worst" and if he was racist his language would have been "far more colourful".Among those who gave character references for Collins was his former wife Karen, who told the trial they arewere still friends and he was a "lovely, genuine person" who was never violent to her. She said he was a "lovely dad" to their sons Archie, seven, and Harvey, four. Asked to describe him, she said: "Gentle, not aggressive, kind and generous", adding that he had never tried to control her.The journalist Boyd Hilton, who ghost-wrote Collins's autobiography, said he was "incredibly friendly, funny and down to earth".Add for Lee Collins: Larke and her family issued a statement in which they said they were pleased with the verdict and would campaign to have emotional abuse "properly" recognised in the courts.The statement read: "We are absolutely ecstatic with the verdict and are relieved the jury were able to see through the lies of an abuser."We will not rest on our laurels in the wake of this good news and intend to go out into the world and use this experience to empower women to stand up to domestic abuse."We will also be campaigning to have emotional abuse properly recognised in law and do our utmost to end the much reported culture of celebrities using their positions to abuse people without fear of reprisal."We thank the police and Crown Prosecution Service for their brilliance throughout and to the general public for their unwavering support and belief."We are overwhelmed by the messages from people, inspired by Anna's experience, who have left their abusive relationship. We hope this experience will empower other to do the same."Detective Inspector Justine Jenkins of Hertfordshire police said: "No one should endure this sort of behaviour from anyone least of all someone with whom they have an intimate relationship. My team has worked really hard to bring this case before a jury and I hope the outcome serves as a warning to anyone who thinks it's OK to treat another person in this manner."The victim was extremely brave in coming forward. I would urge anyone who is or has been in a similar situation to get in contact with the police as soon as possible. I can reassure you that you will be taken seriously and treated with sensitivity."