People are always saying that they'd like to see more bobbies on the beat. Well, this week there were 5,000 policemen all walking down one road in London. Unfortunately they still didn't notice that bloke smashing the car window and nicking the stereo.In what must have been the most unusual demonstration in living memory, no banners were confiscated, no police helicopters drowned out the sound of the speakers, no activists were covertly filmed and the only unpleasant incident was when one officer became so confused that he dragged himself out of the crowd for being lippy and then beat himself up in the back of the van. Some of the marchers from outside the capital were not sure of the route to Westminster; they were hoping to ask a policeman, but you can never find one when you want one, can you? A few anarchists did turn up to act as impromptu stewards, but the police were not willing to do as instructed. For goodness' sake, these anarchists are only trying to do their job, they are the thin multi-coloured line who prevent our society from collapsing into ... er, anarchy - no, hang on, that can't be right... Of course for every 5,000 policemen going on a march to Whitehall, there are another 15,000 filling out the relevant paperwork back at the station. (This situation is repeated in every area of police work. For every police sniffer dog searching for drugs, there are another four alsatians putting their paw marks on bits of paper.) The march's organisers claim that police morale is very low, although most policemen I encounter can never stop laughing. All I said was: "So is there any chance of getting my bike back?" The trouble is that new recruits go into the police force with an unrealistic idea of what the job involves. They've watched The Bill and Cops and they imagined it would be all kicking down doors and finding villains in bed with fortysomething peroxide blondes. Police dramas should be forced to be more honest about the more mundane reality. Scene one: Inspector Hooper is sitting in the youth magistrate's court waiting to give evidence. Scene two: He looks at his watch - it is an hour later. Scene three: He is still sitting there. In fact this new no-holds-barred police drama continues in this vein for a whole hour until the final action sequence, when the clerk of the court wanders in to tell him that the case has been adjourned because the defendant couldn't be bothered to turn up. Roll credits as the continuity announcer says: "And there'll be more real life inaction next week, when Inspector Hooper escorts an extra wide load at 10 miles an hour down the entire length of the M1."  It is partly to free up the police to spend more time actually solving crimes that the idea of civilian community support officers was conceived. But the police are also angry about other proposed reforms, including cuts to overtime pay. They don't blame David Blunkett for all this - apparently their chief suspect is a young asylum seeker who they say has just confessed to everything in a police cell in Stoke Newington. There are currently no plans for another march, although personally I think it would be an excellent idea. Except next time they should march in uniform and spread out much more, so that there'd be a couple of them marching through every major crime spot of the inner-cities. But it's hard to know where the police can take their protest next. They could try withdrawing goodwill and refuse to do some of the additional extras that so brighten up our lives. Imagine no more big yellow placards on the pavement saying: "Murder, rape, kidnap in your very road just the other day. Were you scared? Well come on, you must be now". Or in court they might resolve to only read out their evidence in a dull and monotone voice, making it impossible for anyone to listen to what they're saying. But if none of this worked, then perhaps they'd be forced to break the law and actually down truncheons. A national police strike could be this Labour government's greatest test. Hundreds of ex-miners would have to be recruited to prevent the striking policemen from travelling around the country. Pitched battles would be fought as the police formed mass pickets around Wormwood Scrubs, trying to prevent the delivery of convicted felons. "We are asking our comrades from the criminal fraternity to support our action by refusing to cross this picket line." "Oh, all right, I'll go home then." Conservative party activists would set up strikers' support groups, providing hot meals of roasted pheasant and donating cast-off clothing such as old Barbour jackets and green wellingtons. At which point the public would decide the police had suffered enough. But of course we could never really have a police strike - if we did there might be lots of crimes and most of them wouldn't get cleared up. And a scenario like that... well, it's almost impossible to imagine.  comment@theguardian.com