Festival-goers across the country are hitting back at a wave of violence and antisocial behaviour at events by setting up onsite neighbourhood watch-style schemes aimed at reducing trouble and protecting property.Although reported crime at festivals has fallen this year, the season has been marred by a number of disturbing incidents, particularly at some of the "high-end" events, which have traditionally been almost crime-free. Two rapes and a sexual assault were reported at Latitude in Suffolk last month, a family-orientated event, while stewards at this year's Camp Bestival in Dorset reported numerous incidents of vandalism and assault. The Womad festival in Wiltshire, another event with a reputation for being family-friendly, prompted a record number of complaints about antisocial behaviour.There were also two rapes and an attempted murder at T in the Park in Kinross-shire, Scotland. Some festival-goers say a major part of the problem is a changing demographic among those attending, with the music often taking a back seat to drinking and drug-taking.Thames Valley Police have placed a dispersal order on the Reading festival in an attempt to crack down on crime which rose at the bank holiday event last year. The order gives police the power to request a group to disperse and is aimed mainly at aggressive ticket touts.Next weekend's V festival sites, in Staffordshire and Essex, and the Reading festival the week after, are expected to use teams of volunteers to help guard property, encouraging campers to look out for one another so that strangers attempting to steal from campsites are more easily spotted. Organised tent theft continues to be a major problem at all festivals.The scheme is based on one first introduced at Somerset's Sunrise Celebration in June where, in a spirit of self-mockery, volunteers were dubbed Tent Watch Action Teams – or Twats for short. The Twats do not wear uniforms, but work alongside security staff to enhance safety without making the atmosphere overly oppressive. "It is a community-led activity that was developed [by victims] as a response to tent thefts in 2009," said the scheme's organiser, Dan Hurring. "We broadened it to establish a wider neighbourhood watch-type programme, encouraging the tented community to look out for each other, befriend neighbours and stay vigilant. We wanted to tackle the problem ourselves as this has traditionally been a police-free festival and we wanted it to stay that way."As a result of the teams, reports of thefts at Sunrise fell from 37 last year to four. Hurring has since been in touch with senior figures from other festivals with a view to introducing similar schemes there.The Association of Independent Festivals, which oversees Womad and Camp Bestival, is to expand its Festival Watch scheme in which details of troublemakers identified at one venue are passed on to others. A spokesman said that a small minority of festival-goers travel to several events and cause problems at each and it is hoped the scheme will help to stop them gaining entry."The whole binge-drinking culture seems to have invaded the festival circuit," said Rachel, a regular at Camp Bestival and Latitude for the past five years. "A lot of festivals started out quite small, and as they've gotten larger, so the number of louts has increased. It's a real shame, and there's no doubt that for some people these problems are going to put them off ever coming again."Womad attendees have expressed similar concerns in angry posts on the festival's website. "The teen element has significantly increased over the last few years, and their behaviour has sadly deteriorated," wrote one. "These are not just isolated incidents. Womad need to address this, otherwise true music lovers will be put off from attending."Womad's organisers blamed some of this year's troubles on "a minority of parents arriving with their teenage charges and not only separating from them at the outset… but providing them with large amounts of alcohol to get them through the weekend. This is neither acceptable nor legal. We are in discussion with both police and security to reconfigure the camping for 2011, enabling us to better manage antisocial behaviour and concerns over underage drinking."