British police have flown to Australia to investigate claims that a priest faked his death in order to avoid child sex abuse charges.Father Christopher Clonan was attached to a church in Coventry for 20 years until 1992, when he fled the city after former altar boys accused him of molesting them. He went to Australia, where he is believed to have posed as Christie Oliver, a property developer, in the town of Bendigo, 90 miles north of Melbourne, where his brother, Andrew, lives. Andrew Clonan said the priest died suddenly of a brain haemorrhage six years ago. But there have been sightings of him in Birmingham and Coventry over the past year, and claims that he is back in England, using a false name and posing as a teacher. A sergeant and a superintendent from West Midlands police are in Australia liaising with Melbourne police. Born in Clonard, Co Meath, in the Irish Republic, Father Clonan moved to Christ the King Catholic church in Coundon, Coventry, as an assistant priest in the 1970s. A part-time builder and property developer before he entered the priesthood, he was nicknamed "Father Fix It" for his abilities in church construction projects. But he vanished in July 1992 after eight former altar boys, aged between eight and 17 at the time of the offences, accused him of molesting them. In January this year Simon Grey, 38, received an out-of-court settlement of £330,000 - record compensation for a UK child sex abuse case. Mr Grey claimed that six years of abuse at the hands of the priest turned him into a violent alcoholic, who had spent time in jail and tried to set fire to himself. Four other cases are pending. Last year Andrew Clonan produced a death certificate, stating that Christopher Oliver Clonan died of a brain haemorrhage on October 22 1998, aged 56, and was cremated in Bendigo crematorium. Andrew Clonan said at the time that his wife identified the body in the presence of police, and that his brother was cremated - unusual for a Catholic priest - because the family was short of money. A source quoted in Birmingham's Sunday Mercury newspaper claimed several priests had spotted Father Clonan in the city on a number of occasions over the past year. The source claimed he had lost a lot of weight, but otherwise he had not changed much, and that he was using an Irish passport which stated his profession as a teacher. But Father Chris Fitzpatrick, the parish priest of St Dunstan's, told the Guardian: "I would know him instantly and I have definitely not seen him, I have no information about him, nor has any of my parishioners reported seeing him to me."