Alongside a parked car, an engine is being stripped down. The smell of petrol permeates the air. There is a routine clanking of spanners. Suddenly, the stationary vehicle splutters into life and there are smiles. The scene could be that of any busy garage. However, this particular workshop is located in the grounds of Foston Hall closed female prison in Derbyshire, and the mechanics are inmates.This scheme, the Toyota Technical Education Programme, is the first of its kind in a British women's prison. Inmates can study for certificates in motor mechanics at two of the four accredited levels and take a big step towards gaining the Institute of Motor Industry national vocational qualification.The course, run in conjunction with Derby College, which has supplied further education to Foston Hall since it opened in 1997, is just one of many education and training initiatives provided by the prison, which was recently cited by the Adult Learning Inspectorate (Ali) as "one of the best training providers in England and Wales"."The idea for this came about after we had been approached by Nissan," explains Paddy Scriven, governor of Foston Hall. "They wanted information on car theft in order to improve security devices. This got us thinking about cars and car mechanics. Since their site is nearby, we decided to approach Toyota, and they were only too keen to get involved."Each mechanics level comprises six months of full-time study. The maximum complement of 11 inmates have signed up. "It's proving very popular," says Scriven, who is also hoping to introduce an NVQ in car valeting.The workshop, which officially opened in December, boasts all the latest motor vehicle technology."The course is beneficial for two reasons," says Gary Harlock, Toyota's regional training manager. "First, it gives the women an operational knowledge of the motor vehicle, and second, it allows them access to national qualifications. And when they are released, we will work with them and provide them with interview opportunities with us or at other motor manufacturers. Either way, it's an excellent starting point for surviving in the market place."In the workshop, inmates divide their time between working on engines and studying theory. "The programme has taken off really well and the women have shown total commitment," says Paul White, course instructor at Toyota and Derby College. "And apart from gaining a good grounding in how a car actually works, the course also provides an introduction to all aspects of the motor trade."The course is proving more interesting than Maxine expected. "I'm really enjoying learning about engines," she says. "It's hard work, but I'm getting a lot out of it and would really love to be a mechanic when I get out.""There's more theory involved than I imagined," says Donna. "But I do feel I am achieving something. I left school without any qualifications but am now in a position to gain a recognised certificate."All the women are required to participate in formal education or training. This can range from attending a small business workshop for those interested in becoming self-employed, to courses in industrial cleaning, hairdressing, horticulture, art, textiles and cookery. Around 10% of inmates are also supported in distance-learning courses such as the Open University."Foston provides as broad an education as possible," says Catherine Gillions, education manager at the prison. "In this respect it is a pure education model that gives inmates a better chance of gaining employment on their release and reduces the chances of reoffending."Women students can also pass their skills, knowledge and attitude to education on to the next generation," Gillions says. Someone who has enjoyed a course and appreciated the benefits is far more likely to encourage their own children at school."Foston Hall's success is all the more striking in the light of the Ali report, which noted two areas of failure regarding the provision of education, namely, prisons and special needs. "We want to give the women every opportunity through education," Scriven says. "This means they can be re-socialised, as many of them have been excluded from the mainstream. It's also about teaching them to value themselves and to feel confident. Many inmates have missed out on formal education and value the academic and vocational study that we provide."