On a normal Saturday night, the G Bar, Liverpool's most popular gay club, is so rowdy you have to shout yourself hoarse to be heard. But midway through last Saturday's revelry, the dancefloor fell silent after a message went out over the club's PA: a popular local teenager had died after being brutally beaten in what police believe to be a homophobic attack.Michael Causer, 18, had been in hospital for nine days on a life support machine before he died on August 2. As the teenager lay in a coma, his friends and family had kept vigil by his bedside, kissing and holding him, singing his favourite songs.This weekend, these same tunes, including We've Got Tonight by Ronan Keating and Lulu, were played at venues throughout Liverpool in Michael's memory. The gay teenager, a trainee hairdresser who changed the colour of his hair as often as his socks, had been a regular at the club. In the days leading up to the attack, he had told anyone who would listen how happy he was, having just got back together with his first serious boyfriend, George.What exactly happened the morning Michael was attacked is unclear, but it seems that he had been out with friends, then gone back to a house party in a cul-de-sac in Huyton, Merseyside. Police say the initial assault on Michael took place there, but his body was found outside by the busy Tarbock Road at around 11am on Friday July 25. He was lying less than a mile away from where the body of black teenager Anthony Walker was discovered in 2005.Michael's friends say that he had never been attacked before. "If people had a go at him for being gay, he would just laugh," said Michael Donnelly, 18, a friend since primary school. "He would just say, 'So what?' He was proud of being gay."Whether or not the attack on Michael was a hate crime, the case has heightened concerns about homophobia in Merseyside. "There is an appalling level of endemic homophobia in Liverpool," said Steve Radford, a city councillor of 29 years standing, who is gay.Radford cites the Stormbreak report, which was commissioned by Liverpool council and made public last year, which found 59% of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people had experienced homophobic crime in Liverpool, compared with 47% in London.Ben Summerskill, chief executive of Stonewall, the gay equality charity, said: "Given the level of homophobic crime that there is in this country, it is tragically not surprising that this is still happening."Research carried out earlier this year by YouGov on behalf of Stonewall revealed that one in five of the estimated 3.6 million gay and lesbian people in Britain had been a victim of hate crime, and three-quarters of those didn not report the incidents to the police.According to Deborah Gold, chief executive of Galop, London's LGBT community safety charity, other research "shows that people avoid public affection, talk differently, dress differently, avoid certain areas, avoid public transport to minimise risk. Without this behaviour it is likely the rate of attacks would be far greater."In the past week the LBGT community in Liverpool has voiced a determination that things change. At a highly charged extraordinary meeting on Wednesday night in the Quakers' meeting house in Liverpool city centre, a group of around 40 people, including representatives from the police and city council, discussed the way forward. They agreed various initiatives, including a vigil for Michael, to be held in the coming weeks.Some saw homophobia as a particularly local issue. Gary Everett, artistic director of the gay theatre festival Homotopia, thought Liverpool's problem was its roots in Catholicism. "The city is still shackled by religion," he said.A disproportionate number (55%) of children in Merseyside attend faith schools. Some of these, Everett said, were reluctant to improve their teaching on LGBT issues despite Section 28, the controversial law which stopped schools "promoting" homosexuality, having been repealed in 2000 in Scotland and 2003 in England.But many gay Liverpudlians do not think their city is any more homophobic than anywhere else. There was anger at the near-silence in the media in the first few days after Michael's death."When Rhys Jones was killed, there was uproar in all quarters. But when another young lad in the city has been viciously attacked, and dies as a result, the only uproar is coming from the LGBT community," said James Prendergast, a student. Two men have been charged with grievous bodily harm in connection with the assault and are due to appear before Liverpool crown court on Tuesday. A third has been charged with witness intimidation.