The shotgun found near the body of barrister Mark Saunders was in the "broken" or "open" position, suggesting it was unable to have been fired, an inquest was told.Shortly before collapsing in a hail of police bullets, the 32-year-old divorce lawyer was seen apparently trying to operate a "switch or lever" on the top side of his "up and under" Beretta silver shotgun. The gun had a lever on top which had to be moved to "open" it and once "open" could not be fired, Westminster coroner's court heard.The evidence came as one firearms officer revealed he did not fire on the lawyer because he could not justify it and did not believe the Oxford graduate was taking aim at anyone.Saunders, who was very drunk, was killed by five bullets from seven officers as he appeared to take aim, but had not fired his weapon immediately before the fatal police volley, though he had done so earlier in the five-hour siege that ended with his death on 6 May 2008.One of the marksmen who shot him, known only as AZ4, said he fired as Saunders, who was hanging out of his kitchen window, looked as if he was "ready to shoulder it [the gun] and take aim" and he believed there was imminent threat to the lives of colleagues on a nearby roof.Nicholas Hilliard, counsel for the inquest, asked him: "Did you know that the gun, when found after the incident, was open or broken?". He replied: "Yes."Hilliard continued: "Did you know there's a lever on top that you would have to move to open the gun? In your statement you said Mr Saunders appeared to be trying to operate a switch or lever on the top side of the weapon. Did you think he was trying to open the weapon so that the gun would be open or broken?""No," replied the officer. He added Saunders, who had been seen holding his shotgun in a safe position inside his flat, was now behaving in a "completely uncharacteristic" way and could have been preparing the safety catch "in readiness to take aim and fire", he said.Another firearms officer present did not shoot because he said he could not justify it. Officer AZ14, who was stationed in a nearby basement with his MP5 carbine trained on the lawyer, told the hearing: "If I did not believe the firearm was pointing at anybody I wasn't going to pull the trigger. I have to believe there is a threat to life. That threat to life is going to come when I believe the firearm is pointing at someone … I could also not see his hand in relation to the trigger. At this moment I could not justify taking a shot."He did not believe Saunders was aiming at colleagues at another containment point: "I was quite certain as to where I believe the gun was pointing. It was pointing diagonally up at the rooftop of 45 [the neighbouring property]. I knew there were no officers present at that location so I could not justify taking a shot."He heard "a loud bang and before that had even stopped ringing out, a cacophony of noise". He did not think Saunders had fired. "I hadn't seen the gun recoil, nothing to suggest to my mind that Mr Saunders had fired at that point."The inquest heard Saunders had blood on his arm after police shot at him earlier when he fired. He was heard shouting: "You lied, you lied." The hearing has been told he was "terrified" of being shot by police, and negotiators had repeatedly reassured him "no one is going to shoot you". The hearing continues.