Ever since his arrest in November 2009, Delroy Grant has offered police no clue as to why he carried out a reign of terror spanning almost two decades.One of the few words he ever said to the detectives who came face to face with him, uttered immediately after his arrest, was: "What's it all about?", one officer told the Guardian.To answer Grant's question: it is all about a man who on the surface cared for his disabled ex-wife, a man friends and neighbours described as charismatic. But in reality he was a prolific offender targeting the most vulnerable, whose attacks terrorised his victims.Today Grant was convicted of 29 offences, just a fraction of the crimes police suspect he committed. On the indictment against him were charges for 18 burglaries, three rapes, one attempted rape and seven indecent assaults.Police believe he was responsible for 203 crimes targeting no one younger than 68 years old, while the eldest victim was 89.Grant began offending in 1991, carrying out his first sexual assault one year later, and his crimes stretched to 2009. Police believe the trauma hastened the deaths of some of his victims, seven of whom are now dead, and others were so traumatised that their final years would be haunted by fear that he would come after them again. Grant, 52, was dubbed the "night stalker" because he would strike in darkness, attacking his victims after watching them sometimes for hours, cutting phone lines and electricity, sometimes carrying out ferocious assaults, sometimes heeding pleas for mercy.Grant's conviction also means police failings in the case can be revealed. They missed the chance to catch him in 1999; the bulk of his crimes were committed after that date.Police say 146 offences were committed after they missed that chance to catch him. Among those offences were 23 sexual assaults.Delroy Grant was born in Jamaica and arrived in Britain aged 16 with his father. His first marriage was at the age of 19. In all he fathered eight children. He and Jennifer, his second wife, became separated, but Grant was employed as her full-time carer. She has multiple sclerosis and is severely paralysed. Jennifer is also a religious woman, a Jehovah's Witness whose church services Grant attended.Grant had a series of jobs. From 2003-06 he was a minicab driver and he has also worked in the building trade.One senior officer told of the positive impression Grant made on people: "People say he was a charming guy."Until today, he had only one criminal conviction. He was convicted in 1991 at Leicester magistrates court of handling stolen goods. Grant was not on the DNA database, nor were fingerprints ever recovered from the scores of homes he turned into crime scenes.Grant struck across south-east London, Kent and Surrey, including Bromley, Shirley, Addiscombe, Orpington, West Dulwich and Beckenham.Although the attacks began in 1991, police say between 1992 and 1996 there is no evidence of his offending. Detectives are not sure why he stopped, but theories given credence include his moving away from the south-east London area; another, possibly linked, is that he became involved in a serious relationship.By 1997 he had restarted his crimes, and police linked a series of attacks. They launched Operation Minstead, and the hunt for the "night stalker" began.The victims were all elderly and they lived alone. Sometimes he would break in by exploiting a flaw in a double-glazed window, allowing him to silently take the entire pane of glass out, and then enter the house.He researched the homes they lived in, sometimes stalking them for hours before striking. The homes were bungalows, built in the 1930s, and in some attacks he spent hours talking to the victims.Grant used a motorbike in his early attacks. Victims described their attacker wearing clothes such as a one-piece boiler suit with Velcro, consistent with someone who rode a motorbike. One victim heard a "deep throat of an exhaust pipe".Grant's choice of victims – elderly, living alone and all too often overcome by feelings of humiliation after their ordeal – helped him stay free for as long as he did.A psychologist concluded Grant was a gerontophile, who had a perverse sexual attraction to people of pensioner age. Some victims were told by Grant not to call the police, and were so terrified by him they did not, long after he had left.One senior officer said: "He was a prolific offender, he preyed upon a group of people who sadly would be very reluctant to call us. For some victims this was a shock that sent them to the grave. Grant's victims have suffered horribly as a result of their experience of what he did, the way he … abused them, abused their privacy."One victim, known as Rose, told police that Grant's attack on her at the age of 88 was so savage that it ruptured her bladder. She believed she would have bled to death from her injuries had she not been able to raise the alarm.As the investigation dragged on, police turned to profilers for help to provide any clue to narrow down their hunt. Over time they took advice from two behavioural profilers about the psychological makeup of the rapist, and also from a geographical profiler about where the attacker's ancestry lay.They recovered DNA from several crime scenes which linked the attacker's ancestors to the Caribbean, and the Windward Islands in particular. Detectives travelled to the Caribbean as they sought clues. In fact, Grant came from Jamaica.Black men in south London were invited to provide DNA. A total of 3,000 samples were taken and at one stage police had 21,000 names of people they were trying to rule out as suspects. Police say they kept up with the newest DNA-matching techniques. A senior office said: "We tried everything we could and we went to the edge of science."The investigation ran into controversy when black men who refused the request to supply DNA were sent what they felt were threatening letters.The story that can now be told is that the chance to catch and stop Grant was missed by police in 1999.On 28 May 1999, Grant carried out a burglary during which a member of the public spotted a car that seemed suspicious and noted the numberplate. On hearing that a nearby house had been burgled, the person contacted police.Police did investigate but linked the numberplate to a Delroy Grant living in east London, who was the wrong age, and whose DNA did not match that recovered from the crime scenes. The name Delroy Grant was marked down as having been eliminated from inquiries. Grant carried out at least three rapes after May 1999.Police deny that they missed another chance to catch him, in 2001. Using the Crimewatch programme they issued an efit picture of the suspect. One person called Crimestoppers. Police concede that one of two names the caller provided was Delroy Grant. But he also gave other details – considered crucial – that did not fit what they knew about the suspect.For a decade after the chance to capture him was missed, Grant continued his crimes. His capture came after a fresh look at the case, and was a mix of inventive police work, hard graft, and luck.In 2009 the investigation asked for and was granted more resources. The suspect had returned to offending at regular intervals. Around the area he had been striking in most, in Shirley, police mounted a large surveillance operation involving 70 officers.It would throw up vital pieces of a puzzle that, when put together, established that the "night stalker" was Grant. It kickstarted the process of gaining evidence to establish his guilt.It began on 29 October. Soon, detectives got a CCTV image of a car, although it was a couple of days before the blurry image was confirmed as a Vauxhall Zafira, the kind of car the suspect drove. It was a fragment and meant little on its own. The car was paid for by the Motability scheme, to help his disabled wife, Jennifer.For two weeks the intensive and expensive operation had been running and it was close to being ended. In this time Grant had struck outside the surveillance area, twice on the first night, and once the next evening, just one street away from where a police surveillance team was stationed. Luck had not been with the police or his victims.That changed in mid-November, when an officer spotted a parked Vauxhall Zafira at 10.30pm. It was a silvery grey colour, like the suspect's. At midnight a man was seen running to the car. It was followed by police to Penge, where Grant was stopped and arrested.In the car boot and glove compartment were found clothing worn by Grant during the attacks and a crowbar linked to a break-in. A police dog was brought in. Tracing the scent backwards from the car, it found police had seen Grant after he had attempted to break in and had tried to force a window.Other tests would also link him to previous crime scenes. These included DNA taken from an orange juice carton he had touched after breaking into a home.There is a thin line between success and failure. Scotland Yard has experienced both over the long course of the "night stalker" case. Detectives feel a professional satisfaction in having captured a man who blighted so many lives, eventually snared by imaginative and determined police work. But there is also embarrassment that a blunder meant a clear chance to stop Grant was missed before he went on to carry out the majority of his attacks. It was a failing that allowed pain to be caused to so many in their later years.