Inmates at an open prison are being exploited in the labour market and paid far below the minimum wage, the prisons watchdog said today. Anne Owers, the Chief Inspector of Prisons, said offenders at North Sea Camp jail in Lincolnshire were being told to take on "inappropriate and unacceptable" work placements.  Some inmates were paid "substantially less" than the £4.50 an hour minimum wage, she added, with some receiving as little as £15 a day.  A report on the jail said there was "worrying evidence of exploitative and inappropriate practices" in the work programme. Although all 300 inmates had "jobs", some of them were allocated just two hours' toilet cleaning duties a day, it added.  Inspectors also found that a minority of staff, including some senior managers, "behaved in an outdated, disrespectful and dismissive way towards prisoners, both verbally and in writing". Although a safe place overall, the jail was struggling to adapt to demands currently being place on the open jail system, said the report.  Ms Owers said: "Overall, this inspection found that North Sea Camp is in need of a fundamental and careful reappraisal of its purpose and direction.  "This reappraisal should be informed by a thorough needs analysis of the changing population, leading to an effective resettlement policy which is fully communicated to staff and the local community."  The 100-page report said the building needed modernising as little investment had been made since it was built as a borstal in the early 1930s.  Ms Owers added: "Open prisons have an important role to play in the successful reintegration of prisoners, particularly those serving long or life sentences.  "In our current overcrowded prison system, with a much more varied mix of prisoners, this is a much more demanding task.  "North Sea Camp has some way to travel to meet this challenge."  Prison Service director of operations, Michael Spurr, said: "I am pleased that the chief inspector has acknowledged that North Sea Camp is a safe prison and that relationships between staff and prisoners are good.