Major flaws in the way the police and the Crown Prosecution Service undertook the investigation into the murder of Damilola Taylor led to the collapse of the case, official inquiries into the death of the 10-year-old schoolboy have found.Two reports will say that mistakes in the 'post-charge process' were made by both sides and that there needs to be fundamental reform of the way murder cases are prosecuted to avoid such problems in the future. The limited number of police officers investigating the case once four teenagers had been charged with the offence, failure to provide rebuttals for defendants' alibis, reliance on 'cell confessions' and a lack of expertise in interviewing teenage witnesses all led to the case crumbling. The Government is now planning to announce new rules on financial inducements paid to witnesses after the key figure in the case, known as Witness Bromley, was heard singing 'I'm in the money' as she was questioned by police about her evidence. Defence barristers said that the teenage girl, who later changed her story and was revealed as a serial liar, had said she had seen the murder only because she wanted a £50,000 reward offered by a newspaper. The first time the CPS became aware of the flaws in Witness Bromley's evidence was during the trial itself when she was grilled by barristers representing the accused. Police had already privately admitted the case was 'weak' and that some of the officers were unaware of Home Office guidelines on interviewing teenage witnesses.Witness Bromley was only 12 at the time of the murder. The reports, one for the Met by the Rt Rev John Sentamu, the Bishop of Birmingham, and the other by Sir David Calvert Smith, Director of Public Prosecutions, will come as another blow to the reputation of the CPS. Last week crown prosecutors faced criticism following the collapse of the trial of Howard Brown, the butler charged with theft from the royal palaces. Paul Burrell, a member of Princess Diana's staff, was cleared of similar charges last month. Damilola was found bleeding to death in a stairwell in Peckham, south London, in November 2000. He had been stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle and had a marble stuffed down his throat to stop him breathing. His death became one of the biggest murder hunts by the Metropolitan Police and was seen as the force's first big test on the murder of a young black person since the debacle of the Stephen Lawrence case. Despite more than 120 officers being involved in Operation Seale, the trial collapsed in ignominy this year with the police and the CPS blaming each other for the failings. Home Office officials are planning a 'national roll-out' of pilot schemes to get the CPS involved in police investigations before anyone is charged with an offence.