Two Lithuanian men were being questioned last night by detectives investigating the death of a woman whose head was found by two sisters playing on a beach.Police identified the dead woman as Jolanta Bledaite, 35, from Lithuania, who moved to Brechin, in Angus, east Scotland, to work as a casual labourer.Her father, Sarunas Bleda, 60, paid tribute to his daughter yesterday. He said she had grown up at the end of communism and had always wanted a better life - "foreign holidays, fashionable things, pretty things".He said: "We were poor people as she grew up and she nurtured these dreams to better herself from the age of about 14. She worked in a couple of factories over here, and once in an office before she moved to Ireland and then on to Scotland."I hope she is at peace - and I sincerely hope they get the people who did this."Her severed head was discovered on Tuesday on a beach in Arbroath. Two hands were found nearby and more "items", believed to be human remains, have since been discovered along the coast. The head had been wrapped in a black plastic bag.Her remains were barely decomposed, prompting detectives to work on the theory that her body parts had been disposed of at sea hours before they were found in flotsam shortly after high tide.The two men in police custody are aged 19 and 40, and are believed to live locally. Officials made contact with Bledaite's father yesterday in Statybininku Gatve, her hometown near the city of Alytus in southern Lithuania.Speaking by telephone, Bleda said his daughter was bright but did not excel at school. He and his wife divorced in the 1990s. "She said to me about five years ago, before she went to Ireland where she first wanted to go, 'Don't worry, papa, I will get enough money to buy you a house.' I hardly ever heard from her, though. I guess she had her own life to lead. But we never fell out. She was always my beautiful daughter."I cannot believe someone would have done this to her. She was so kind, so gentle. Once she brought a freezing puppy home when she was a child because she couldn't bear to see it suffer ... and she ends her young life like this. It is too much to think about."Bleda went on: "I don't think she had enemies but then I wasn't privy to everything she was doing when she was abroad. I really cannot remember the last time I spoke with her."What sort of argument do you have to have with someone to end chopped up like a tailor's dummy and thrown away? My beautiful daughter, thrown away like a bag of rubbish."Those who knew Bledaite in Brechin described her yesterday as a shy woman who often spent hours in the local library. Soon after arriving in the rural town she moved into a caravan with two female friends. Five months ago the three women are believed to have moved to nearby Earlsdon House, a three-storey block of council flats known locally as the "Polish Palace" because of its large number of eastern Europeans. Scott Murray, the owner of Eastmill caravan park, said: "She was quiet and timid, always well-kept, and she went to the library all the time. She had been here two years, so she was well-known."Marek Kzeminow, another local who knew Bledaite, said: "She just disappeared and we didn't know where she had gone."Bledaite was allocated the caravan site by her employer, a local agency which provides farmers with casual labour. The agency is based at the caravan site. Phil Brown, who works for the agency, is understood to have contacted police after realising he had not seen Bledaite since Friday last week. A friend of Brown's said: "After she didn't turn up to work on Monday morning, Phil waited a couple of days. Then he heard the description and phoned the police. "He is absolutely devastated and had to identify a picture of her head, so he is a wee bit shook up."There are believed to be as many as 4,000 migrant workers living and working in the Angus area, mostly in agricultural labour. Like theirs, Bledaite's day often began early, waiting to be taken by a vehicle to one of the dozens of farms dotted around the countryside.Yesterday morning, migrant workers were picking carrots on a farm just outside Brechin. Ten miles south, on a different farm near Arbroath, workers were harvesting brussels sprouts and next door, at Windyhills Farm, another group of workers were placing plastic tunnels over rows of strawberry plants.Martin Cessford, chairman of Angus NFU, said the industry was well regulated. "The foreign labour is something we depend on, for farming vegetables, the fruit industry, the potato industry," he said.