"Sending hooligans on holiday!" screeched the headlines back in 2003 when it was leaked that delinquent children from Merseyside were being offered adventure holidays in Scotland to keep them out of trouble.Statements such as "rewarding bad behaviour" and "they'll be giving them Playstations next", resounded around middle England.Dave Davoll, project coordinator at Bods, would beg to differ. Bods (formerly Bermondsey Outdoors) is an educational charity which aims to increase social education and personal development through outdoor activities.From a bush-style base in Werndee Wood, 20 minutes from Hereford centre, Bods workers take some of the area's most disturbed youngsters and show them a whole new way of living.A 2005 report by the University of Essex found significant changes in mood after outdoor activities. Anger, confusion, depression and tension all decreased after woodland activities, suggesting an overall improvement in mood.The report also acknowledged that green exercise had clear mental health benefits for those people who engaged collectively with existing groups or new groups. It recommended that countryside and local authority agencies ensured their service provision at recreation and leisure sites focused on encouraging families and other groups.They suggested that crime and social services agencies should also consider the therapeutic value of green exercise.Mr Davoll agrees: "We see outdoor activities not simply as recreation. We emphasise participation and equality of opportunity as valuable learning experiences. Through adventure, we encourage people to value learning, increase their self-confidence and improve interpersonal skills."By placing young offenders and troubled teenagers in a survival situation, Mr Davoll says, you can reshape negative attitudes and instil confidence."In today's world of rapid technological evolution, many young people's lives become distant from nature," he explains. "That is why we offer them the opportunity to learn how to survive with minimal resources."The knowledge that a young person can have the presence of mind and self-belief to look after themselves outside of their regular comfort zone enables them to approach new situations with confidence."And, unsurprisingly, it's not that hard to get them interested. "Most young people have an evident primal interest in fire-making and we take that interest and introduce skills and context to build a constructive discipline and respect for fire and its uses," Mr Davoll says.Other activities include making shelters from found materials, hand-crafting tools and building boats. Formed in 1987 in London, Bods came into fruition when Mr Davoll began to bring young people to Brecon for adventure weekends on a voluntary basis."Then about five years ago we were given 80 acres of woodland in rural Herefordshire," he says. "This changed my world and the world of many others. By being based in the woods and going back to nature we try to help very hurt, abused people to get back their self-esteem and encourage them to become full members of society."Bods' volunteer Natalie Clifford is 20. She lives in supported housing and first came as a client with severe self-esteem issues and emotional problems."When I first started going to Bods I had never done anything like it before," she says. "I find the woods really helpful when I am upset about things as I go and find a quiet spot and think or cry or talk to someone/something."The charity has been such a success that other organisations now refer people with antisocial behaviour orders and criminal problems.Mr Davoll adds: "An 18-year-old lad came to us as a referral. He'd been in trouble with the police for violence and drug dealing. He came to the project with very low self-esteem and confidence and had no idea what he wanted from life."He spent four months with us, one day a week and over this period he became very involved in woodwork and adventure and his self-esteem and self-confidence grew. He became part of the team and started to think about what he could do with his future."He took part in a conference by the Learning and Skills Council and gave a presentation on Bods there. He went on to raise the money to go to Australia to travel. He later became a volunteer and secured himself a contract doing building work with the skills that he learnt."And it's not just about tiring people out so they can't complain says Mr Davoll: "We often spend time sitting around the campfire, which is a time where people are relaxed and they tell their stories. I have never met people so sad and so abused."He concludes: "We try and build them up to the best of their abilities but without nature we will never touch them as deeply as the combination of care and nature can."