Glasgow police last night issued an urgent appeal to the public for help in tracing a “highly dangerous” radio-active capsule - a radioisotope - which has disappeared from an atomic energy exhibition in the city. A police spokesman said: “This thing must be found. If a man is carrying it about in his pocket he is going to die. It is as bad as that.” Another spokesman said last night: “Every possible inquiry is being made because of the danger. A whole family could be affected by this thing. It could prove fatal to an entire family.” The official statement said: “Between 7 p.m. on Sunday, November 9, and 9 a.m. to-day, a Cobalt 60 alloy capsule was removed from a stand in the Kelvin Hall, Glasgow. The object appears like aluminium. It is one and one-eighth inches long overall. This object is radio-active and highly dangerous. Any person knowing the present whereabouts of the object should leave it alone and report it to the nearest police office immediately when the police will arrange for its removal. The police are more anxious to have the object traced than to ascertain the identity of the person who removed it.” Early to-day the Metropolitan Police said that Mr Thomas Robb, a shop-fitter who had been working at the Glasgow exhibition, had brought into Clapham police station a phial or capsule which he said he had picked up at Kelvin Hall. The description of the capsule tallied with the missing one, and the London police at once checked with Glasgow. A police spokesman said, however, that the capsule did not appear to be the one lost in Glasgow. “The missing one had a number, and this one has not. We are now awaiting definite identification.” Mr Robb, whose home is in Clapham Park Road, London, found the capsule among his tools. The exhibition is organised by the South of Scotland Electricity Board, but the Atomic Energy Authority co-operated in some of the exhibits. The capsule disappeared before the opening ceremony, performed by Mr J S Maclay, Secretary of State for Scotland, yesterday morning.After it had been reported missing the police, using a geiger counter, made a thorough search of the Kelvin Hall, even including dustbins in their examination. Police confirmed that the capsule had been found a day later. The perpetrators’ motives were not disclosed. Fears that the capsule was highly radioactive proved unfounded - a report confirmed that its radiation levels were similar to that found in a luminous wristwatch.