Nothing will happen until after the general election, but Liverpool is one step nearer to creating Britain's first legalised red light district. The city council voted this week to set up a designated area where prostitutes could operate legally. Based on a scheme in Utrecht, which has had some success, Liverpool would operate a zone in an industrial area away from residential districts. There would be a health and welfare centre, police and warden patrols, and the area will be easily accessible to public transport as well as cars - with ample parking. The plan would need legislation but last July, the former home secretary David Blunkett said that although he opposed such zones, if there was sufficient demand from local authorities he would give them the necessary delegated powers.Last July a Home Office consultation paper concluded that the current laws, largely unchanged since the Wolfenden reforms of 1959, are "outdated, confusing and ineffective". Prostitution is legal, but there is an unenforceable patchwork of 35 offences related to it. There is wider agreement now than there was in 1959 that prostitution will never be abolished. Similarly, there is more recognition of the need to address developments since the 1959 law: the rise of HIV and Aids, the increased links between prostitution and class A drug use, and the higher proportion of foreign women in the trade brought in by criminal traffickers.Tolerance zones for street prostitutes have had mixed results. They worked in Utrecht, but not in Amsterdam. Edinburgh's unofficial tolerance zone in Leith operated for years before being scrapped after complaints from local residents. Public support is essential and is a major reason why Liverpool's zone got the go ahead. A survey of 1,000 local people found 83% were in favour, with 91% saying the zone must be away from residential areas. Prostitutes need more protection from clients, pimps and traffickers. One change that would help would be to lift restrictions on women working together to provide an apartment-based service. It could be a less bleak solution than the one Liverpool proposes.