The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday August 13 2003 In reporting the rape case which is referred to at length in the article below, we intended to raise general issues about the traumatic experience in court of children who had been the victims of rape. We did not intend to criticise the conduct of the proceedings by the judge in this particular case (which took place before Sheffield crown court, in fact). Neither did we wish to suggest that the judge intervened insufficiently. On a night in July 2001 a half naked 14-year-old girl ran screaming out of an alley near Doncaster railway station. She had been raped. The rapist chased her and was seen by a passing motorist who dialled 999.In a unique agreement with South Yorkshire police, Charles Stewart, a Bafta and Emmy award-winning documentary director and cameraman, followed the case from the first police response to the arrest, trial and sentencing of the 25-year-old-rapist. It was Charles Stewart and Roger Graef's controversial A Complaint of Rape (1982), filmed as they followed Thames Valley police, that led to a major change in the way rape victims are interrogated. Victims who previously had to be questioned in a police station are now taken to unintimidating "rape suites" set up in a private house where they can tell their story to a specially-trained female officer out of uniform. Stewart's documentary, to be broadcast this month, is also likely to create controversy because it reveals that despite much-touted reforms, which have greatly improved conditions for adults, child-rape victims still have to go through a devastating court ordeal from which the provision of a video link offers little protection. In the Doncaster case, because of lack of forensic evidence, virtually the entire prosecution case had to rest on the ability of a brutally raped 14-year-old to withstand what many might feel is a merciless cross-examination. Stewart's camera was allowed to follow every aspect of the Doncaster investigation: the hunt for the rapist, the desperate - and frustrated - search for crucial forensic evidence; the discovery of witnesses, the interrogation of the rapist (re-enacted for the camera) and the cross examination on a video link-up of the victim, played from a transcript by an actress. The first major breakthrough in the hunt came from a 15-year-old boy on holiday from Edinburgh. He had been waiting at Doncaster station to be picked up by his grandparents when the rapist-to-be sat down and started a conversation with him. The boy then saw the young girl come past, the man begin to chat her up, and the girl reluctantly allow him to walk away with her. She was raped a few minutes later. If the boy had not accidentally glanced at the news on TV as he was playing chess- immediately recognising the man on the CCTV footage - this vital evidence might never have come to light. The rapist had come to Doncaster to find his ex-partner, whose name "Kim" was tattooed on his arm. Kim now contacted the police and gave his name. But he still had to be found. This time it was a prostitute who told how the man had asked her for "business". It was she who led the police to where the man was staying. The boy's evidence became all the more crucial in establishing a connection between the suspect and the girl because of a freak detail which meant that there was no forensic evidence. The rapist had used a condom, but had not ejaculated. He then went on to have sex with the prostitute 20 minutes later, during which time the condom split and he had unprotected sex. But, as forensic officers tell Stewart, efforts to link the rapist to the condom to the girl by way of the prostitute failed. There was no semen link. The rapist's first line of defence, that he was nowhere near the scene at the time, collapsed from the start. He then shifted to the classic defence that it was consensual sex. Because of this absence of forensic evidence the case would now stand or fall on the credibility and mental stamina of the 14-year-old. Because the victim was a minor, it was necessary for her part in the film to be played by a young actress. Working from official court records, Stewart reconstructs the questioning by the police and the interrogation by defence counsel. The issue in the 1982 film, A Complaint of Rape, was the insensitive way the police had questioned the woman. The male police officers acted on the rather crude theory, widespread at the time, that if the victim could not stand up to their interrogation she would not survive the court cross-examination. But what happened in the Doncaster Court makes it clear why so many women still refuse to face the sickening ordeal of a public trial and how impossible it must be for most children to survive the ordeal. In fact, a previous charge of rape against the defendant had collapsed because the alleged victim had abandoned the case. Defence counsel made much of the fact that the girl had bunked off from school and changed into a "skimpy sports top" to meet her boyfriend, with whom she drank some vodka. Defence also brought up the evidence of a painter at the railway station who remembered a "giddy" girl who had "tapped him on the bottom". The defence suggested she was that girl. The girl could take no more and ran from the room. At this point rape victims generally never return and the police were convinced they had lost the case. But, to their astonishment, the 14-year-old was able to summon enough courage to come back the next day and face an even more searching interrogation. Defence: "Is it not true that you [and the defendant] went off walking with your arms around each other?" Girl: "I can't remember that." Defence: "Let me put this to you. It was you who suggested to this man when you walked off that you went down the alleyway?" Girl: "No." Defence: "And you went down willingly." Girl: "Well, he told me it was a quick way and I thought it could be." Defence: "How was he able to get your trousers and knickers off?" Girl: "He pulled them." Defence: "Did you want him to take them off?" Girl: "I bent forward and tried to push him away. I was crying and screaming all the way and I told him I didn't want to do it." Defence: "He didn't put his penis inside you, did he?" Girl: "A little bit, yes." Defence: "You never saw it at any stage. How do you know it went inside you?" Girl: "I could feel it pushing." Defence: "I suggest you were not crying or screaming and you took your own tracksuit bottoms and knickers off and laid down on top of them." Girl: "No." Defence: "I suggest you heard the car and you stood up yourself saying you did not want anything else." Girl: "No." Defence: "That is when you started shouting and screaming you had been raped". Girl: "No." Defence: "He was telling you to shut up because you hadn't been raped." Girl: " No." Defence: "He didn't rape you." Girl: "Yes he did. I would not be here if he didn't." Sharon Hancock, who has been with the South Yorkshire sexual offences unit for six years, specialises in the cases of abused children and it was she who questioned the girl in the rape suite. What did she think of the attempted character assassination of the girl? "This poor 14-year-old," she says, "was slated for wearing a skimpy top. But it was summer - when everybody wears strappy tops. "The other problem we have in most court cases is that the barristers talk in unfriendly language to children. They don't use what I call childspeak; age-appropriate language is never used. And it is very, very confusing." What did she think of a child being obliged to prove that the rapist has actually penetrated her? "Most of them are actually frozen with shock," she says. "A 14-year-old, that time of night, stripped naked in an alley, it was like a rabbit caught in the headlights of a car. She wouldn't have had a clue. Later on she would realise the full extent of what happened to her." Since there was no forensic evidence - ie of the presence of semen - was there some way the defendant's rights could have been respected without putting the terrible burden of proof on a 14-year-old? "There were corroborative factors which were available at the time," says Hancock."There were signs of trauma on the body; there were signs of a struggle; she had grazes and cuts where she had been dragged to the floor and although we did not have forensic we actually had other corroborative evidence that was 100% correct. We managed to get [this] over to the jury on this occasion". Would you have expected the judge to intervene at the point where the defence tried to claim that he hadn't penetrated her and that it wasn't rape? "I really wish," she says, "and most officers would, that judges would intervene more. But they don't, unfortunately." "I was up in the gallery at the time and I was incensed," says Charles Stewart. "I was surprised at how much she herself was on trial that morning." "The defence lawyer is a highly respected man," concedes Stewart. "And the prosecutor told me that the judge would be watching very carefully to make sure that the defence cross -examination of the girl did not cross a line. The prosecutor felt that the defence did not overstep that line. "But it is tough," says Stewart, "that the victim becomes a victim twice. When a large proportion of women who have been through that procedure say that the court experience was worse than the rape itself, there is something wrong. Something needs to be addressed and a way needs to be found to address it without taking away the rights of the defendant." The girl is now 16 and in the process of leaving school. She still has nightmares about the rape and about the court ordeal and she is afraid to go out alone at night. At the sentencing it was revealed that the rapist had a violent criminal history and, unusually, also had a record for sexually assaulting men. He was given life, with a recommendation from the judge that he should not be eligible for parole for seven years. If the 14-year-old child had not had the courage to come back to the court that day the case would almost certainly have collapsed and he might be a free man today. · Doncaster Rape, part of the series Watching the Detectives, will be shown on BBC1 on August 20.