Anti-poverty charities and housing groups have questioned the government's "kneejerk" responses to last week's unrest, with one describing the suggestion that those convicted of rioting should lose their benefits even if they are not sent to jail as "destitution punishment" and "a recipe for exclusion and social division".At present, anyone who is jailed for an offence while receiving benefits automatically loses their payments. But on Monday, the work and pensions secretary, Iain Duncan Smith, said he was investigating whether the sanction could be extended to apply to those who are convicted of involvement in the riots but do not receive custodial sentences."I am at the moment looking to see whether or not someone who's convicted of a criminal offence but not custodial, that we would be able to impose a similar process on them as well, that they would lose their benefits for a particular period of time relevant to that process," he told BBC Breakfast.The proposal was attacked by the Child Poverty Action Group, which works to abolish child poverty in the UK. "Kneejerk plans to remove benefits from people convicted of less serious offences are dangerous and very likely counterproductive," said Imran Hussain, the group's head of policy. "How can a society that delivers double punishments for the poor, treating the rich and the poor differently, be called a fixed society – or the kind of world we want to live in?"Hussain said the move would create a two-tier justice system in which those convicted of involvement in the riots who were not on benefits would escape "destitution punishment".He added: "Even ignoring the administrative nightmare of removing benefits and dealing with the inevitable fresh claims by dependants, it's a recipe for exclusion and social division."Hussain accused ministers of "scrambling to show they're doing something tough" when they would do better to honour past promises about tackling poverty and social inequality.Duncan Smith's proposal came three days after David Cameron said people who "loot and pillage their own community" should be evicted from council housing, and two days after Wandsworth council in south London began eviction proceedings against a woman whose son appeared in court charged in connection with the riots in Clapham Junction, south London.Chris Goulden, policy and research manager at the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, also warned against a precipitate, populist response to the events of last week. "We need to be careful about the impact of sanctions and how well sanctions work," he said. "What are people actually going to do in response to this? Will they understand exactly what it means for their lives? And is it really going to help them in the long run? What we want is for people to be in the mainstream of society working and being able to progress in a good job."He said the proposals put forward by the government so far also risked provoking further trouble. "I would like to see a bit more time and a bit more thought given to the reaction to this.[By] reacting to it too quickly, you're just reacting to those single acts, rather than trying to look at what's behind it and what's caused it … Just kicking people out of their homes is not going to address the wider causes of these riots that we've had."Stephen Howlett, chief executive of one of London's largest housing associations, Peabody, also warned the measures could be disproportionate and unfairly stigmatise those in social housing."The people appearing in court are not exclusively tenants of social landlords and why should there be greater powers against those residents rather than people perhaps who are private tenants … or indeed owner-occupiers, or the children of owner-occupiers?" he said. "I think it's quite clear that moves like this could actually attract quite a lot of public sympathy, but I think we've got to be very careful."Others had similar concerns: "Eviction will cause other problems," said Grainia Long, deputy chief executive of the Chartered Institute of Housing, the professional body for people involved in housing."There is an issue around the behaviour of one person in the family causing punishment for the whole family; you end up then affecting the educational attainment or the opportunities of siblings for example. So there's a real risk that in seeing eviction as a solution, you end up causing more problems than you set out to solve."The Communities and Local Government department is already reviewing how to make it easier for councils and housing associations to evict tenants convicted of anti-social behaviour. The current definition requires the offence to have been committed within the locality or neighbourhood of the property."The government is looking to make changes because there's pressure for more action to be taken," said Marie Constantine, a solicitor with the law firm Judge and Priestley who has represented councils in possession hearings."Some councils may also take the view that because anti-social behaviour was committed within the borough, tenants should be evicted or at least sent a warning. The definition of 'locality' may be widened to include anywhere in the borough. Some courts take very different views."Eviction hearings are conducted in the county courts. If a tenant fails to appear, the council can ask the judge to grant a repossession order. Where contested, the case can often drag on for up to a year. Tenants faced with the threat of eviction are normally entitled to legal aid.Removing the benefits of those convicted in participating in riots is not yet legally possible, but there is a limited provision in the Welfare Reform Act 2009 for the suspension of entitlement to benefits for up to three months for those convicted of benefit fraud.