The government announced a policy u-turn yesterday when it unceremoniously dumped Tony Blair's plan to withhold housing benefit from anti-social tenants who disrupt their neighbourhoods by throwing rubbish in the garden, playing loud music or daubing graffiti.The Department for Work and Pensions published results of a consultation exercise showing that 75% of people and organisations that expressed a view were against the proposal. This included 81% of local authorities. Bowing to the will of the majority, the department said it would monitor the effectiveness of other measures for dealing with anti-social behaviour before trying new ones. The proposal to withdraw benefit was dreamed up by Frank Field, the former welfare minister, and enthusiastically backed by Mr Blair. They thought tough action against "neighbours from hell" would be popular on Labour-voting council estates. Malcolm Wicks, the welfare minister, said when introducing the consultation in May: "There is something specifically wrong about someone being able to make the life of their neighbour hellish and being able to do it courtesy of a subsidy from the taxpayer in the form of housing benefit." But the Local Government Association, representing councils, said the measure was "the worst kind of kneejerk reaction to a complex problem" and would discriminate against low-income tenants while doing nothing to control the behaviour of loutish owner-occupiers. Chris Pond, the minister for work and pensions, said yesterday that, although everyone agreed anti-social behaviour must be tackled, not everyone was convinced removing housing benefits was the right approach. Other government measures such as anti-social behaviour orders and acceptable behaviour contracts would give councils "a varied tool-kit to tackle the blight of anti-social behaviour in their own areas". "We want to judge the effectiveness of the range of existing measures before introducing a new one. But we have not ruled out using other means in the future as we learn from experience and establish what works," he said. David Willetts, the shadow work and pensions secretary, said the u-turn was a mistake. "Families suffering from anti-social neighbours will be disappointed that the government has abandoned this plan, especially since the prime minister set such great store by it." Mr Willetts said Mr Blair made the proposal the centrepiece of his Labour party conference speech in 2002, alongside on-the-spot fines for street offences and fines for parents of truants. All these policies had been abandoned. Charities welcomed the climbdown. Adam Sampson, director of the housing charity Shelter, said: "We've consistently argued that these measures don't get to the heart of why people actually behave unacceptably, but just create more poverty and more homelessness. The sheer scale of the opposition shows how many people are against the government's draconian measures that punish, but don't actually reduce, anti-social behaviour." Shelter urged the government to tackle anti-social behaviour through rehabilitation schemes similar to the one the charity has been running in Rochdale. Steve Webb, the Liberal Democrat work and pensions spokesman, said the government tried to bury the bad news of this "embarrassing climbdown" by announcing it in a written statement in the week of the tuition fees revolt and Hutton report. "There is no doubt that anti-social behaviour is a real problem, but we have said all along that these proposals were unworkable populist nonsense. Perhaps the government will now spend some time on developing sensible proposals rather than kneejerk ideas designed to grab headlines."