Joanna Yeates suffered a slow and painful death as her next door neighbour strangled her with his bare hands, a court has heard.Vincent Tabak was said to have used his height and build to overpower the 25-year-old's 5ft 4in frame.She fought for her life for some time as Tabak pinned her to the floor by her wrists, Nigel Lickley QC, for the Crown, told Bristol crown court."There was a violent struggle by Miss Yeates to survive," he said. "He might have let go but he did not. He knew that Miss Yeates was in pain but struggling to breathe."The jury has heard that tests showed her body had 43 separate injuries. Tabak, 33, has admitted manslaughter but denies murder.Yeates's body was found on a snowy verge with her jeans still fastened and her pink top partially pulled up over her head, the court heard. She was still wearing her bra but her right breast was exposed.Postmortem examinations showed she died of neck compression. There were also marks on her wrists, indicating there had been a struggle.Lickley went on: "It took some time and sufficient force was used to kill her."There was no sign of use of a ligature."The court heard on Monday that, within minutes of "squeezing the life out" of Yeates, Tabak sent his girlfriend a text message: "Miss you loads. It's boring here without you V xx."The court has also heard that he went shopping at a supermarket with her body in the boot of his car.CCTV footage showed him wandering the aisles at Asda in Bedminster, Bristol, less than two hours after the killing on 17 December.The court heard that blood stains on a wall where Yeates's body was found suggested Tabak had tried to lift her over the wall into a neighbouring quarry. Having failed to do that, Tabak attempted to cover her body with leaves and packed leaves around her body, it was claimed.Toxicology tests on Yeates's body were consistent with her having drunk between one-and-a-half and two-and-a-half pints of cider. Blood alcohol tests revealed a level of 67mg of alcohol in 100ml of blood. The legal drink-drive limit is 80mg of alcohol in 100ml of blood.Scientists were also able to confirm that she had not eaten the Tesco Finest pizza she bought on the night of her death.Yeates's last meal was the cheesy chips she ate with her boyfriend at lunchtime on 17 December.The court heard that Tabak first confessed to killing her during a conversation with a Salvation Army chaplain while he was in custody. He had previously disputed police evidence on a string of occasions after his arrest in January. But while in prison, he was said to have told the chaplain he was sorry.Lickley said: "Vincent Tabak went on to say that he was going to plead guilty." Tabak previously told officers that he had not known who Yeates was, the court heard. In one of a string of interviews with officers, he said: "I believe the DNA evidence is insecure and cannot be relied on."The trial continues.