Well, this is odd. It's odd to do something so small and so simple, and within hours to find a moderately sized media storm is swirling around you.Of course, these are the days of Twitter. Without Twitter nobody would have known what I had done – apart from the people in the car, my partner and my mother, whom I would have phoned about it.I tweet a fair bit, mostly about silly things – golf, work at Radio 4 and my totally sincere bid to become director general of the BBC in a job-share with my colleague Corrie Corfield. Most of my tweets get five or six responses, some from friends and others from loyal Twitter followers who, I suspect, spend a little more time on the website than might be good for their health.So when I got more than 100 responses to my tweet about throwing a plastic bottle back into the car from which it had been lobbed, I was surprised. I was even more surprised when the Evening Standard phoned my partner, Clare Balding, the next morning and asked to speak to me about it. That day the article was printed and I thought that would be the end of it. I was wrong.On Wednesday I headed off to TV Centre to read the news on Radio 4, and opened my emails to find more than 20 requests for media appearances – the Jeremy Vine Show on Radio 2, BBC TV Breakfast, the Daily Mail asking me to ghost-write a column, the Telegraph asking for a quote and Radio Coventry, quite determined to have me as a live guest.Vanessa Feltz, sitting in for Jeremy Vine, hosted a phone-in on whether any of her listeners had "done an Alice Arnold". It was surreal to hear her say to one caller, "So you are a real-life Alice Arnold!" I'm still laughing. It seemed litter had become the hot topic for the chat show.I turned down all these offers for several reasons. First, I am a Radio 4 newsreader. It's generally best if I stick to reading the news rather than making it. Second, I really didn't think what I had done was unusual or special, and certainly not "heroic".But the reaction of friends and colleagues has been interesting. I have had nothing but support for what I did. Not a single tweet calling me a "tosser", which, let's face it, would be tempting.Eddie Mair did lob a plastic bottle at me when I went to his studio to record the My News headlines for Radio 4's programme iPM, but it's always dangerous to enter Eddie's studio. You are never quite sure what will be thrown your way – it's just not usually physical.Nearly everyone has said they would love to do what I did, but would be too frightened. Or they have tried, and had abuse hurled at them and never done it again.This led me to do some soul-searching. Why did I decide to get out of my car and throw the bottle back, and why was I not scared? Am I different from other people? Odd? Stupid? Angry?Well, one thing I want to make clear. This was not a particularly angry incident. I was, as I said at the time, "a bit cross" – not furious; no red mist descended. I just saw the bottle fly out of the car in front and thought, "No, no, no, don't do that. It's not nice." I got out of my car, picked up the bottle and tossed it back through their open window. I didn't hurl it at them, and no angry words were exchanged. Perhaps that kept me safe. Perhaps that's why there was no retaliation – or perhaps I was just lucky.I wasn't brave to do what I did, because I wasn't scared in the first place. There are plenty of things I am scared of. A horse ran away with me once, and that was scary. I'm not keen on spiders, and I don't like going down steep hills much, which puts a bit of a dampener on our skiing holidays. But I'm not much scared of people.Part of the answer lies in fact. I am female, white and middle-aged – statistically, one of the safest demographics. I have had no serious experiences of violence or abuse in my blessed life. I am also fairly small. Andrea McLean described me as "really tiny" on Loose Women. I'm actually 5ft 2in and weigh 8 stone. It's not tiddly, but it is a bit small. I have to lower the microphone when I come into the studio after Kathy Clugston or Rory Morrison.I wonder, however, if some of the answers lie elsewhere. I was a magistrate in Tottenham for 10 years when I was in my 30s. I was one of the chairs of the youth court and saw my fair share of violent offenders. The court is a pretty safe environment. There were security guards ready to leap to our defence if someone got skittish. Some of the courts were not as you might imagine from what you see on television. They were small, intimate spaces, and when we broke for lunch we would all cross paths in the same sandwich bar down the road – magistrates, court officials, offenders and their families queuing together for egg mayo baps.Perhaps the experience of being a magistrate demystified crime for me. I heard about some pretty horrific cases, but I also looked into the eyes of those who had perpetrated the crimes. I heard them speak, and saw them up close, and realised that they were just human beings, not monsters in balaclavas.Clare and I got burgled a couple of years ago, at night, while we were sleeping upstairs. The dog was with us, and even he didn't wake up. Of course, we were very lucky. The thief took only impersonal items – phones, a laptop, an iPad and keys. It was a heck of a nuisance, but in the end these things are replaceable.At the time, lots of people were worried for us. They wanted to know if we would like to come and stay, if we were nervous at night. The strange thing was that neither of us was scared. We were a bit cross – annoyed we hadn't woken up – and not particularly surprised that our dopey dog hadn't raised the alarm, but scared we were not.I don't believe the couple who threw litter out of the car window were malicious. They were lazy and selfish. Likewise, I did not throw the bottle back in the car to damage them. The only thing I wanted to engender was a sense of embarrassment. I believe that, when this couple are older and have a bigger investment in society, they will probably remember what happened and do exactly the same to someone else.I am also quietly wondering if they have heard or seen any of this media coverage and are thinking, "Oh, golly, that was us!" The only person who has claimed the crime so far is the comedian Kevin Day, who said to Clare on Twitter: "Have a word with @alicearnold1, would you, she threw a plastic bottle into our car yesterday."I'm not rising to that one!Since my little deed, I have heard some horrific stories of people who have been abused, sworn at and threatened with violence for doing something similar. This is what is genuinely scary – the underlying rage in some individuals, those who will fly off the handle at the slightest thing, who live with their emotions so close to the surface that it takes little to evoke fury.There is, perhaps, a disregard for the consequences of any action, a carelessness about other people and an immaturity – like a two-year-old having a tantrum because the world is not revolving round them. What is missing, I suppose, is the greater sense of a civilised, respectful and considerate society. At the same time, the vast majority of people are not like that. They are calm, socially responsible and willing to help others in a time of need.I don't want to live my life in fear of others, or to live in a society where we can't try to correct people for doing antisocial things. I am not a crusader or a campaigner. I hesitate to recommend my actions to anyone else because of all the terrible stories I have heard, but I did what I did in broad daylight with many other cars and people around. I like to think they would have supported me had things gone wrong, but perhaps they would have been too scared.So would I do it again? Yes, probably, should the opportunity present itself. I won't go looking for it but, if I see a blatant disregard for the law and it's easy to do something about it, then I will. I won't ignore what goes on around me. If I saw someone's house being broken into or someone being attacked, I would do something about it and, if that gets me hurt one day, then so be it. I'm not stupid – I would not deliberately walk into a dangerous situation but, by the same token, I will not walk on by.Meanwhile, an action that took approximately five seconds continues to cause a furore. As I entered Broadcasting House on Thursday morning at 8am, the receptionist jumped out from behind her desk and said, "It's Alice Arnold, the litter lady!"We are used to a bit of media attention in our household – it's just not normally me at the centre of it. Frankly, the dog is probably more famous than I am. I am a voice on the radio, that is all. No one knows what I look like. I can go to work in my jeans and jumper with a bit of toothpaste down the front and no one is any the wiser. Actually, sometimes I think when I say: "BBC news at 6 o'clock," people may imagine me in a ballgown and gloves – and quite tall.So it's been an odd week. There has been more media reaction to my "litter crusade" than Clare got for the Boat Race and the Grand National combined, and in a moment a photographer is going to arrive and take my picture for this article, and Clare will probably make the coffee. Her reward? She gets to have lunch with the "real-life" Alice Arnold.We will laugh and next week all will go back to normal.