A mother whose nine-year-old daughter was strangled by her partner in his lorry cab today said she had thought he was her "Prince Charming".Stacey Lawrence's body was found on Saturday in the cab of a white Spar lorry parked in a layby in Warmington, Northamptonshire.She had been on a delivery run with her mother's partner Darren Walker. It is thought Walker, 40, strangled Stacey then hanged himself in nearby woodland.Speaking of her devastating loss today, her mother, Roxanne Lawrence, 38, said everything about her daughter Stacey was "brilliant".Lawrence said she had gone from loving Walker – her partner of one year – to hating him.She said: "I thought he was my Prince Charming. I never would have imagined this."He was brilliant with the kids, brilliant with myself, a family man. He did everything, I couldn't believe how lucky I was."He would never have been with me if I had ever had an inkling that he could do anything like this."Lawrence said she could not believe it when she heard the news of her daughter and partner's deaths.She said: "I hate him for what he has done to her."On Friday morning I loved him, now I just hate him for what he has done."But the man that I loved is not the man who did this. This is not the man we knew."Obviously the man who did this is an animal. No sane-minded person could do that to an adult or a child."Yesterday, police released CCTV images of Stacey and Walker at a service station on the A47 in Peterborough just before 3pm on Friday.It is believed they made a short stop before going on to Warmington, where Stacey was murdered on Friday evening. The footage showed the 40-year-old and Stacey browsing the aisles of the services, seemingly comfortable together and happy.Today, Lawrence, who sat with her eldest daughter, Emma Hammond, 17, fought back tears as she described how they used to call her daughter the "baby trucker" because she enjoyed going with Walker on his trips.She said she had a perfectly normal conversation with Walker on Friday evening – shortly before when it is thought Stacey was killed.She said: "She had been with him about four or five times before. I had a normal conversation with him. They were waiting to watch EastEnders."Lawrence and her daughter both said there was no way they would ever have felt uncomfortable around Walker."He was just a normal family man that seemed like they cared for their family and would protect us," Emma said.Her mother added: "He was there in times of trouble, when Stacey was in hospital he was there, he took time off work. He was a hardworking man. I met him because he was a friend of the family."