Special constable Nisha Patel-Nasri may have been stabbed to death with her own kitchen knife, police said today.Detectives believe Ms Patel-Nasri, 29, may have taken the knife and a torch with her when she went outside in her nightclothes to investigate a disturbance in the street on Thursday night. Officers said today it was possible that she had been disarmed by her attacker and then stabbed in the leg. A John Lewis Evolution stainless steel cook's knife, 33cm (13ins) in length, is missing from a block in her kitchen, and police said it had been in place earlier during the day. Police said that the knife matched the profile of the fatal injury she suffered to her upper groin. She bled to death after being stabbed outside her home on Sudbury Avenue, Wembley, north-west London.It is thought Ms Patel-Nasri, who ran a hairdressing business, went outside just before midnight after hearing thieves trying to break into two expensive cars that belonged to her husband, Fadi, aged 32. He runs a limousine business and officers are also aware of a threat made against him earlier this year. Detective Superintendent Julian Worker, who is leading the inquiry, said there was no sign of a break-in at her house during which the knife could have been taken. "The knife is missing," he told a news conference this afternoon. "I do not know how it came to be missing. It is a possibility that Nisha took the knife out."Police are seeking two men believed to have been involved in the murder of the volunteer police officer. One man, who was wearing a hooded top, was seen running away as she screamed for help; a second man was seen calmly walking away in the opposite direction from the hooded man.Police have also been trying to trace a young couple who may have seen the hooded man running from the scene towards Sylvester Road. The suspect could have injured himself in the attack, and police say he could have been heavily bloodstained. Detectives are also examining whether there was a link between the murder and an attempted burglary involving three black men at their home last Saturday.Mr Worker also revealed today that the Sun newspaper had offered a £10,000 reward to help catch Ms Patel-Nasri's killer. Anyone with information is urged to contact the incident room on 020-8247 7821 or Crimestoppers on 0800-555 111.