An "out of control" teenager and his mother may be granted legal aid to sue a local authority for negligence alleging social workers failed to protect the boy from himself, following a judge's ruling.Mr Justice Pitchford, sitting in the high court in London, yesterday overturned a decision by the Legal Services Commission - the body which decides who is entitled to legal aid - that it had no power to fund the negligence claim.He said: "The commission was in error in directing itself as it did, and the decision itself must be quashed and reconsidered."A key issue was whether the allegations against the local authority amounted to alleged "serious wrong-doing by a public authority".The judge said: "The social services department concerned owed duties towards children. Upon the factual assumption I am required to make, it was over a period of two years that it was repeatedly informed that it needed to take steps to protect a child from himself, but repeatedly failed to act on that information." The department might be able to disprove the allegations but that was not the issue the court had to decide today, he said.Lawyers for teenager "G", who is not being named, had argued that the failure to put the boy in a secure accommodation, despite pleas from his mother and others, led to a "foreseeable" head-on crash as he drove a stolen car while being pursued by police.The boy was left with serious injuries in the September 2001 accident which prompted the boy and his mother's claims of negligence and breach of statutory duty against the local authority, which is also not being named. The judge laid down guidelines to help the commission to decide whether the allegations could amount to serious wrong-doing by the authority, justifying granting G and his mother public funding to seek damages. He said G's mother first referred her son to the council's social services department in March 1999 on the basis that he was beyond her control and posed a threat to himself and others. The following year G was arrested for a number of offences, including theft, criminal damage, assault and burglary. A youth court remanded him to secure accommodation for three months in October 2000, but he was released on bail a month later. His lawyers contend that the appropriate steps were not taken by social services to deal with the danger he posed to himself and to others. In April 2001, G underwent an assessment for a place at a school and it was noted that he required secure accommodation to ensure his safety and to make any academic or social progress. A month later he was placed in a remand foster hostel, from which he continually absconded. During this time there were reports of him stealing vehicles and riding motorbikes without a helmet. In July 2001, his mother twice requested that social services place him in secure accommodation on the basis that he was out of control and posed a danger to himself and to others. He was permanently excluded from school in the same month, but it is alleged that social services still failed to act, even after his mother provided a detailed account of his behaviour. The Children's Society was among those who made representations to social services indicating that it was vital that secure accommodation be provided.