If buying sex is to be made illegal but selling it is to be met with "tea and sympathy" (Men who buy sex could face prosecution, September 10), can we not apply the same rules to those nice drug-dealers and the scum who exploit them by buying from them? Or loan sharks and their degenerate customers?This latest daft proposal to make buying sex illegal is not about solving the problem of prostitution but just another opportunity for feminist dinosaurs to criminalise men and canonise women. When the likes of Harman et al stop using this issue as a battleground in their pathetic boys-are-beastly-and-girls-are-lovely game we might come to an adult solution - highly regulated and policed brothels seem to cure a lot of the ills - rather than getting stuck in a gender snowball fight.By the way, my girlfriend has promised me something rather special tonight if I take her to Barbados for our next holiday... how do I stand legally? Bruno CroweLondonBefore the various MPs quoted in your front-page article get too carried away in their rush to punish prostitutes' clients, perhaps I could remind them of what the Wolfenden committee said in paragraph 225 of its commendable report published 50 years ago."Prostitution is a social fact deplorable in the eyes of moralists, sociologists and, we believe, the great majority of ordinary people. But it has persisted in many civilisations throughout many centuries, and the failure of attempts to stamp it out by repressive legislation shows that it cannot be eradicated through the agency of the criminal law. It remains true that without a demand for her services the prostitute could not exist, and that there are enough men who avail themselves of prostitutes to keep the trade alive. It also remains true that there are women who, even when there is no economic need to do so, choose this form of livelihood. For as long as these propositions continue to be true there will be prostitution, and no amount of legislation directed towards its abolition will abolish it." Allan HorsfallBoltonI am 100% behind any move to rid our society of these people who purchase sex. If there were no demand, hopefully there would be a stop to hateful human trafficking.These awful specimens of mankind have no compunction in discussing their exploits in public as I witnessed on a train last week. They were swapping stories in loud voices of the relative merits of a Czech girl in one massage parlour. Their discussion carried on until I could stand it no longer, and I shouted at them to shut their filthy mouths.They were talking about another human being - probably a poor little frightened girl - as if she was worthless. May all these MPs fight hard to deal with this issue as soon as possible. Heather SpratlingNorth Walsham, NorfolkYour article raises the key question of why women fall victim to trafficking or prostitution. No woman becomes a victim of trafficking or prostitution through free choice. It is the threat of physical force, trickery or dire economic circumstances that lead women to believe they have no other options.Women who are trafficked often face such appalling conditions that they believe they have nothing left to lose, including their liberty. Whatever criminal penalties are placed on women are bound to fail if they believe they have nothing left to lose.Only by addressing the supply side - and confronting men who have a lot to lose - can these twin trades of trafficking and prostitution be tackled. Mary Honeyball MEP Labour spokesperson on women in the European parliamentRecently Cambridgeshire's DCI Paul Fullwood urged brothel clients to report places they think are forcing women into prostitution. Yet ministers still ignore this important link in smoking out exploitation in prostitution.When will they listen and turn back from their counterproductive ideas about criminalising clients? Often clients are trafficked women's only link with the outside world. Throughout the Home Office review of prostitution from 2004 and beyond, ministers have ignored the fact that clients can help to free coerced women from abuse.Criminalising clients shuts down that vital source of intelligence, but in the UK we still hear calls to copy Sweden's failed and dangerous ideas about clamping down on demand by demonising clients. These ideas fuel the stigma and taboo around prostitution that keep exploited women vulnerable.M WarnerLondonProsecuting men for buying sex will deprive too many men and women of an income they would not choose to earn but for their extreme poverty. Will the government ensure that the poorest of them, who are paid for sex, have sufficient benefits, tax credits or minimum wage to ensure that prostitution is not a necessary survival strategy?Rev Paul NicolsonChairman, Zacchaeus 2000 TrustOh please - ministers are considering prosecuting men for buying sex. Are we opening a book on who will be the first minister to be prosecuted? Can we have a wall chart of disgraced ministers?Tom FrostLondonPresumably women who buy sex will have to face prosecution as well as men? Or do the "women ministers" behind this daft idea - like the Victorians who legislated against male but not female homosexuality - think that ladies don't do this sort of thing?Chris ParkinsLondon