Domestic burglary figures fell to a 35-year low in 2015, yet there were 785,000 offences reported to the Office for National Statistics by households in England and Wales. Not all were reported to the police though, as official figures recorded 411,425 crimes.There are a range of things you can do to avoid becoming part of the statistics. The police recommend burglar alarms and external lights on a site dedicated to providing advice. And Michael Fraser, a former burglar turned television presenter, says: “Burglars are looking for weaknesses, these are the things that attract a burglar to your property in the first place. “If they can see into the property and there are no window locks, and valuables are on show, a burglar will be attracted to that. It shows that people aren’t that careful with their possessions.”Fraser, who is the author of How safe is your home?, recommends the use of an additional five-lever mortise lock on the front door, because a Yale lock can be opened in seconds by a thief. He also advises fitting a letterbox cage to prevent a burglar using a pole to “fish” keys from the hall table, or opening the Yale lock from inside.The former burglar says the best place to store valuables is in the loft. A burglar will go into the loft if they are brave but not many choose to because once they do, they are stuck and there is no easy escape route. It’s also a good idea to store bags and suitcases up there, so the burglar can’t use them to carry away the things you store elsewhere. Fraser advises that you watermark all your valuables and advertise this with a window sticker. “If you don’t have window locks, if you don’t have a sticker saying you are Neighbourhood Watch, or saying your items are watermarked, if there is no cage on the letterbox to stop fishing through it – things like that attract burglars,” he says.Common sense also plays a part. He says people should tidy away garden tools and lock sheds so they can’t be used to break in. Don’t have a window-facing calendar with the dates you’re away on holiday, and if you have two locks on a front door, make sure you use them, he adds.Insurance requirementsAt Nationwide, whose home insurance is underwritten by Direct Line, there are no security requirements for most customers buying a home insurance policy. “We only require minimum security requirements to be implemented if the customer lives in a high-risk theft area or if they have suffered a theft in the past three years, for example,” a spokesperson says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Fraser, a former burglar, recommends using a fiver-lever mortise lock on front doors. Photograph: PR imageThese minimum security requirements include things such as key-operated locks on all accessible windows. On all final exit doors people should have a mortise deadlock with at least five levers, or a lock that conforms to British Standard BS3621:1998 or higher, or a key-operated multi-point locking system.Nationwide demands extra security if the contents sum insured exceeds £100,000, requiring an alarm that is connected to a centrally monitored station. Also, if a customer has an item of jewellery or a watch that is worth more than £7,500 or if they have a combined total of jewellery and watches exceeding £20,000, it asks that they have a safe installed. If a customer has these in place, Nationwide says they will get a discount on their contents insurance.Aviva doesn’t offer discounts on the premium but does encourage the use of security products, which help prevent physical entry, as well as home security devices that allow for remote monitoring using smartphone technology.Nationwide and Aviva’s stance are typical, according to the British Insurance Brokers Association (Biba), which helps customers locate appropriate cover via insurance brokers.Pam Quinn, communications manager at Biba, says: “Many insurers will have some degree of security requirement, depending on location, previous history and sums to be insured. It is vital that whoever buys the policy is able to adhere to them to avoid any issues in the event of a claim. If consumers are in any doubt they should speak to their broker, or if they don’t have one, contact us and we can help them find one.” How to protect your homeThere are lots of products you can buy that promise to deter burglars. We asked Fraser what he thought of them. Fake baked bean can       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A dummy baked bean that can be used to hide small items. Photograph: Monty RakusenDescription: This fake Heinz baked bean can double as a place to stash small valuables.Price: Around £3-£4.Fraser’s verdict: Burglars are wise to these.Canary system      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Canary wide-angle camera can be nestled among household items. Photograph: PR imageDescription: A wireless wide-angle indoor camera that resembles a hi-tech speaker. Using an app you can stream live HD video of your room remotely to your smartphone and receive alerts. Recordings are also sent to cloud-based storage so they can’t be damaged if someone steals or destroys the camera. You do need fast broadband though. If you want to watch a stored clip that is more than 12 hours old you need to take out a subscription service. It also has an alarm that can be triggered remotely. Price: £160.Fraser’s verdict: A great device for internal use.Logi Circle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Logi Circle indoor camera is small and compact. Photograph: PR imageDescription: A small, spherical wireless indoor camera. Although it is hardly disguised, it enables live streaming of HD video to your smartphone and offers 24-hour secure iCloud storage of recorded video for free. So if a burglar stole or smashed it you’d still have a recording. As the battery life is roughly three hours you’ll need to have the Wi-Fi on and leave it charging if you are away for more than a day. It also has eight times zoom.Price: £160.Fraser’s verdict: Similar to Canary.External CCTV (wired)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The CCTV kit includes security stickers and a mouse. Photograph: PR ImageDescription: Swann NVR4-7285 2 camera CCTV for those wanting full security that can be managed from home.Price: £299.99 at Maplin.Fraser’s verdict: It will deter burglars.Fake burglar alarm       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fake Yale alarm can be purchased cheaply online. Photograph: PR imageDescription: The Yale dummy alarm is designed to look like a real one.Price: £17 at Amazon.Fraser’s verdict: It won’t fool a burglar.DIY real burglar alarm      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The real thing will set you back just over £200. Photograph: PR imageDescription: The Yale easy fit telecommunicating intruder alarm kit is not alarmed to send a message to police if activated.Price: £239.99 at Maplin. Fraser’s verdict: Will scare off all but the most determined burglars.Combi-Line metal safe       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Combi-Line safe can secure a lot of valuables in a small space. Photograph: PR imageDescription: This safe can secure valuables up to £40,000.Price: Around £325 from Sterling.Fraser’s verdict: Does the job but must be secured to the floor.Post catcher       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A post catcher can be used to deter ‘fishing’ burglars. Photograph: PR imageDescription: Sits behind letterbox. Price: £37 from Sterling.Fraser’s verdict: A good piece of kit to avoid fishing.