Valentine's Day killer Paul Dyson was sentenced to life in prison today after pleading guilty to murdering his 22-year-old girlfriend following an argument about their laundry.Joanne Nelson's body was found dumped in woods near Malton, North Yorkshire, in March this year. Former club doorman Dyson had made a tearful plea for information on local television two days after he killed her on 13 February."I love her to bits. I just want her back. She was always smiling. She has not got a bad bone in her body. I just want to know where she is," he had said.But yesterday in a last-minute change of plea at a three-minute hearing, Dyson, 31, confessed to the crime. He held his head in his hands today as he was told he must serve a minimum of 16 years for murdering Ms Nelson.The court was told today it was Dyson's mother who went to police and turned him in, after being tipped off by a friend to whom Dyson had confessed.After Ms Nelson failed to turn up for work on February 14 the former club doorman reported her missing and told police that the couple had exchanged Valentine's cards in bed before parting that morning.But the court was told that instead, he had methodically disposed of her body the day before and taken steps to cover his traces. After strangling her he went to a nearby corner shop and bought bin bags, rubber gloves and disinfectant to remove traces of the death from the home they shared in Hull."He used string to tie together the hands and feet of the lifeless Joanne. He then bundled her body into bin liner bags and secured them with tape," said Paul Worsley QC, prosecuting.He collected a garden fork from his mother's house and drove 100 miles to the isolated wood where he buried her.The following day he told a friend, John Lofas, that he and Ms Nelson were planning to go out that evening to celebrate Valentine's Day."He said that he was going to speak to Joanne on his mobile phone and then appeared to dial a number and speak into the phone as if talking to Joanne, saying, 'Oh, you're up then.' By now she had been dead almost 20 hours," Mr Worsley said.Later that day Dyson sent a text message to Ms Nelson's mobile phone and made a call leaving a short message. "Those calls were made for one reason only: To convince the police that he had left her alive and well that day when he went to work," said Mr Worsley.During a police visit to the house he showed them an empty ring-box that he claimed had contained a ring he had given her as a Valentine's present. The visiting officer said that Dyson had appeared to be very upset, which she had thought unusual as Ms Nelson had only been missing for a few hours.On February 17 he had talked to a friend, David Coles, about feeling suicidal. "Coles sought to reassure him that Jo would turn up and return home," Mr Worsley said. "Dyson said, 'No, she won't.' He said, 'I know she is dead and gone. And she's not coming back.'"The court was also told about planned testimony from Dyson's former wife, who was to have explained how he had sometimes constricted her breathing during arguments by putting his arms around her neck.