Police investigating the shooting of a five-year-old girl have criticised a web and leaflet campaign urging witnesses not to "snitch".Leaflets have been posted through doors and placed on vehicles near the shop in Stockwell, south London, where Thusha Kamaleswaran and a 35-year-old man, Roshan Selvakumar, were shot and injured two weeks ago. They warn witnesses: "Remember the police are not your friend. Don't be deceived by promises of anonymity, protection and rewards. They will say and do anything to make you snitch, then destroy your life."The leaflets are linked to a website which features a video of youths discouraging people from co-operating with the police. It also features options to see a list of "snitches" or expose a "rat".The Metropolitan police, who are investigating the shooting, called the campaign irresponsible. A spokesman said: "Engaging with us is not snitching but about protecting your community. Information from communities is vital to solving murder investigations and we will continue to successfully protect our vulnerable witnesses."The Stop Snitching group has also targeted footballer Rio Ferdinand, who recently appealed for witnesses to help police find the murderer of 18-year-old Rio McFarlane, the victim of a drive-by shooting. In his video appeal, which was released on the Met's YouTube site last week, the former England captain said: "I remember what it was like when I was young, growing up in Peckham, having my whole future in front of me. A promising young footballer, Rio McFarlane was a lot like myself. On 6 September last year someone shot him dead in Peckham and took a bright future away. You might know who did it. I am asking you to come forward, stand out from the crowd and be the best person you can be."The Stop Snitching website, which was initially set up after the murder of Peckham teenager Sylvester Akapalara in 2010, told residents of the Pelican Estate in Peckham not to trust Operation Trident, the Met unit which investigates gun-related murders within the black community and had been urging witnesses to come forward."It [our website] is a campaign to silence people," the man who set up the site said in a phone interview. Declining to be named, he said he had a bad experience with a witness programme. "If you're going to snitch, you're going to be exposed on our website and there will be consequences," he added.Claudia Webbe, chair of Trident's independent advisory group, called the campaign "misguided, foolish and irresponsible" and said she was pleased that people had defied its message – as shown by the conviction on Tuesday of the men who murdered 16-year-old schoolgirl Agnes Sina-Inakoju in an east London pizza shop."Perpetrators of gun and violent crime rely on a culture of silence and a climate of fear in order to avoid detection. Consequently it is extremely important that as communities and individuals we come forward and give important information to the police to enable justice for victims and their families and to prevent further shootings or murders," said Webbe. "We are working hard in partnership with the police to ensure that witnesses of crime are properly supported and protected and we have helped to increase the opportunities for information to be given anonymously."