Former US marine Toby Studabaker today pleaded guilty to abduction and incitement to gross indecency involving a 12-year-old British girl he met via the internet.Studabaker, 32, of Michigan, flew to France with the girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, after meeting up with her at Manchester Airport on July 12, 2003. He pleaded guilty to both charges relating to the girl at Manchester crown court today and will be sentenced on April 2.Beverly Lunt, prosecuting, said Studabaker had "groomed" the girl "so that she would not object to the sexual activity that took place once they were out of the UK".The court also heard that Studabaker had sex with the girl in a Paris hotel. But the judge dismissed the allegation of statutory rape - which carries a maximum life sentence - because it is not an offence in this country for a foreigner to have sex with a child in another country.Mr Justice Leveson said: "It is important to underline that neither of these offences concerns an act of sexual intercourse. It is abundantly clear sentence will not be passed on the fact of his having sexual intercourse with a girl under 13."NCH spokesman John Carr said the case highlighted a loophole in existing UK legislation whereby a foreign paedophile can travel to Britain, entice a child to a third country and escape trial for statutory rape.He said Britons who abuse children in foreign countries can be brought to justice here under laws introduced to tackle the child sex trade in south east Asia, but these so-called "extra-territorial" laws do not apply to foreign paedophiles.Mr Carr told Guardian Unlimited that unless this loophole is shut by the government, abusers from overseas will see it as an "open season" to prey on British children.He said: "Paedophiles can take advantage of the fact that they can avoid the more serious charges. Now that we have seen it happen in the Studabaker case, we know it can happen. The law needs to be changed urgently to stop it happening again."After today's hearing, the girl's family also called for changes in the law.In a statement, they said: "First and foremost, we would all like to thank everyone who has supported us through this terrible ordeal. We are very happy with the outcome today, which hopefully sends out a strong message to the public about the seriousness of this case. "We feel that this is only the tip of the iceberg and in order to stop this from happening again there must be many changes, as we would not like anyone else to go through the things we have. "The time that our daughter was away from us was absolutely horrendous and we hope that we can now put it all behind us and move on with the rest of our lives. It's still too soon to know exactly how this is going to affect our family, but we are taking each day as it comes."The girl's disappearance sparked an international manhunt and triggered renewed concerns about the dangers of paedophiles using internet chatrooms to ensnare their victims. Studabaker, who was arrested in Germany and extradited to the UK in August, could now be extradited to the US where he faces four charges - three relating to the transport of a child abroad for the purpose of sexual exploitation, and one relating to the grooming of children via the internet.All four charges carry maximum sentences of at least 20 years and fines of $250,000 (£132,000) each.Studabaker was a former Bible scholar who was decorated for his military service in Afghanistan. He married in 1996, but his wife, Jenny Northrop, died of bone cancer in 2001, leading him into a bout of clinical depression during which he had harboured suicidal tendencies, his lawyer told the court. As the manhunt for him unfolded, it emerged that he had been accused several times in the past of sexually assaulting young girls. In 1998, Studabaker was accused by a family member of groping his 12-year-old niece's breasts during a game of play wrestling. Later he was accused of giving bubble-gum flavoured sexual lubricant to a nine-year-old niece and suggesting she use it on him. No charges were brought in either case. His father-in-law David said Studabaker began writing to girls via the Internet one year after his wedding.