The Commons last night reaffirmed its decision of 1964 that capital punishment for murder should be abolished permanently. On a free vote the House voted by 343 to 185, a majority of 158, that the Murder (Abolition of Death Penalty) Act, 1965, should not expire.Winding up the debate as midnight approached in a crowded and excited House, the Secretary for Scotland, Mr Ross, accepted - as the Home Secretary had done - that the Government's demand for outright abolition was against majority opinion in the country.He startled MPs by demanding how people would react if we had public executions - maybe shown on television. "Let's face up to the barbarity," he said.But all the House had to face, mercifully, was the free vote, which is a rare enough event in our public life. This resulted in 343 votes for the Government's abolition motion and 185 against. When it was announced a great cheer went up.Earlier, the Home Secretary, in what may rank as the crucial speech of his political life, called for the final abolition of Capital Punishment. Violent crime needed to be studied in depth, and Mr Callaghan was setting about it with the Cambridge Institute of Criminology and other expert assistance. This, he assured the Commons, offered a more hopeful prospect than a despairing return to the hangman.His quiet, weighty survey must surely have convinced any remaining waverers - though few seem to waver in this deadly field. No Conservative - however irritated by what some of them quaintly insisted on regarding as his rush tactics - could possibly have felt this justified a straight pro-hanging vote. However, a new technique had been discovered for evading the issue. Wavering, so to speak, had been codified.There were no longer two parties in this issue. There were three: the Abolitionists, the Retentionists, and the Postponers. Apparently feeling that the shadow of the gallows, if not the reality, is something our society dare not erase, there were scores of Tories who wanted the final decision put off for a few more years. They tried to move a massive amendment to that effect.The way the Home Secretary set about handling their fears was both calm and firm. Against the lurking spectre that still haunted them, he set another and more substantial one - the grisly warning that if they failed to make the Abolition Act permanent they would risk bringing back to life the 1957 Act with its intolerable categories of murder, some capital, some not. And nothing was more telling - though it failed to impress Mr Quintain Hogg - than Mr Callaghan's reminder that the Homicide Act, in its final period, was exacting only two executions a year.An annual blood sacrifice of two victims sounded like some dire ritual than any credible process of law. And even stronger than Mr Callaghan's insistence that the murder rate stayed remarkably stable after abolition, was the size of the figures involved.The "crude" figure for this year - up to yesterday, pointed out with some pride in his department's capacity for emergency homework - was 172, compared with last year's 208. In short, an improvement on 1967.The real significance, though it would have been tactless for any Home Secretary to put it like that was that fewer people are murdered in any year than can expect to die on the roads almost any weekends. The way Mr Callaghan did put it was that, murder-wise, we are "a relative oasis in a violent world," with the figures running much higher than in most other Western European countries and ten times as high in the United States.Police danger The special danger to police and prison officers? Here the figures were so minimal as to provide no vestige of evidence that hanging would be any protection. The police disagree; and Mr Callaghan is the last man to take their views lightly since he used to have the job of consultant to the Police Federation. However, they are sometimes at loggerheads, as he cheerfully confessed to the House. Nor were the police always right. For instance, they started by being bitterly opposed to his idea of having coloured policemen - indeed they "trampled him in the mud" on that issue - but now they welcomed the move.So perhaps the police may come round to the Callaghan view on hanging, though it is improbable that Mr Duncan Sandys ever will. Ignoring all the Home Secretary's patient figures, Mr Sandys regarded it as "self-evident" that the more severe penalty is a greater deterrent than the less severe. He produced some figures of his own, mostly in percentages, which always tend to sound more dire. He claimed that the behaviour of criminals had altered radically since suspension and that there were many more murders by shooting.