A former aircraft engineer who has spent most of his adult life in prison for murder spoke of his conflicting feelings as he was freed yesterday amid emotional scenes at the court of appeal.Andrew Adams, 36, struggled to find words to describe his first day of freedom as his conviction was quashed after nearly 15 years in jail. He said that "over the moon" would be an understatement.But Mr Adams, of Newcastle, who was 23 when he was found guilty of the gangland-style shooting of 58-year-old retired science teacher Jack Royal in 1990, said he was bitter at being "let down so badly" by his original defence lawyers.He smiled from the dock and his friends and supporters, who were packed into the public gallery, leapt to their feet, cheered and wept as the judgment was read out. They included his co-accused, John Hands, who was acquitted of the same crime, a decision described as "inconsistent" yesterday by the court of appeal.Mr Adams's conviction was quashed on the basis that incompetent legal representation deprived him of the right to a fair trial. Lord Justice Gage, Mr Justice Silber and Mr Justice Treacy ruled that "criticisms and failures" relating to the handling of his defence, particularly in pre-trial preparation, rendered the verdict unsafe.Lord Justice Gage said that the judgment did not amount to "finding that if there had been no such failures the appellant would inevitably have been acquitted. We are, however, satisfied for the reasons given that the verdict is unsafe."As a result of the defence failure to prepare properly, the jury did not hear "important" evidence about Kevin Thompson, the main prosecution witness, that would have undermined the prosecution case. Mr Adams, who has always maintained his innocence, had his case referred to the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) after an appeal in 1997 was rejected.The murder of Mr Royal was said to have been in revenge for a fatal attack by Mr Royal on David Thompson - no relation to the prosecution witness - during a street fight in 1987. It was alleged that Mr Adams, along with Mr Hands, had been persuaded by Catherine Thompson, the dead man's sister, to murder Mr Royal. But Mr Hands was acquitted of murder and Ms Thompson was acquitted of soliciting murder.The trial of Mr Adams, Mr Hands and Ms Thompson followed an unsuccessful prosecution of Walter Hepple for Mr Royal's murder. Mr Hepple was acquitted by a jury in 1991. In a further twist, Mr Royal had earlier been cleared of murder after two trials heard he had acted in self-defence against Mr Thompson, his son's 29-year-old former business partner.On the steps of the court yesterday, surrounded by friends, Mr Adams said his "one great sadness is that my mam cannot be here with me." His mother, Joan, died while he was in prison. He said: "I've been waiting for today for 15 years, and this is the result I ought to have had at my trial." With his arm around his long-term girlfriend, Clare Brayson, 35, he added: "I have very mixed emotions." Mr Adams thanked his current legal team and said he felt sad for the Royal family, as Mr Royal's killer was still at large.Chief Superintendent Steve Bolam, of Northumbria police, said: "We will not be making any further comment until we have had the opportunity to study the court's findings."