Police are using "Mosquito" devices at a village in Cornwall as part of their campaign against unruly public school children who visit the upmarket seaside resort every summer.The devices, which emit an annoying high-pitched sound that can only be heard by young people, will be installed at two popular meeting spots at Polzeath, north Cornwall. Thousands of youngsters, often dubbed "snob yobs", celebrate the end of their exams by heading to the surf beach at Polzeath and to nearby Rock. Residents have complained that their lives have been made miserable by the youngsters' antisocial behaviour, which includes all-night beach parties, drunken fights, vandalism and littering. One of the devices will be set up on a green close to the beach at Polzeath while the other will be in the village itself. Sergeant Robin Moorcroft, of Devon and Cornwall police, said the devices were designed to disperse teenagers by "annoying" them with the noise. He said: "It takes about eight to 10 seconds to be heard by the human ear, so if people are walking past it will not bother them, but if youths start to congregate in the area it will soon annoy them enough to move on. "Last year many of these youngsters were drinking and hanging around on the green opposite the beach."Teenagers from some of the UK's most famous, and most expensive, schools begin to arrive in the area at this time of the summer. In recent years police have been granted dispersal powers to break up outdoor parties and deal with general disorder. They have also set up alcohol-free zones at several beaches.In 2006 dispersal orders were issued to 274 people banning them from Polzeath for 24-hour periods. Shopkeepers and bar owners confiscated more than 400 fake identity cards from underage drinkers.This year, from the start of July until the middle of August, as many as 12 extra officers will be on patrol in Polzeath every night from 10pm to 3am, with the power to use their dispersal orders to break up beach parties. Teenagers who refuse police instructions to leave the beach, or who return with 24 hours, could be arrested. Moorcroft added: "We hope that these measures will help to prevent and reduce antisocial and drunken behaviour and that the youths and parents who should be looking after them will act more responsibly. The extra police presence is to make sure that there is no trouble and officers are not there to act as a babysitting service."Letters have also been sent to the Independent Schools Council requesting their cooperation and assistance to inform their pupils how to behave when in the area and to protect their reputation as a school."The Mosquito device has been criticised, with some people saying it infringes young people's rights. This month councillors in Kent decided not to install the devices in their buildings, explaining that there was a contradiction with their duty to represent young people and respect their views. They now plan to lobby the government for a nationwide ban.It is believed that about 3,500 devices have been used in shopping centres, parks and shops in England alone.