Sloppy standards of witness protection by a police force which had been infiltrated by a murderous gangland boss were condemned yesterday in a report by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.Better intelligence-sharing by Nottinghamshire police with a neighbouring force could have prevented the murder of a couple whose seaside hiding place was tracked down by revenge killers, the investigation found.But the problem was rooted in systems rather than failings by any individual officer, the IPCC's commissioner, Len Jackson, concluded. He said: "There were errors of judgment which, if more robust information-sharing had been undertaken, may have resulted in different decisions being taken. But I cannot categorically say that this would have changed the outcome of events."The inquiry was called after a supposed safe haven in Trusthorpe, Lincolnshire, was discovered in August 2004 through misuse of BT computers by a Nottingham gang headed by Colin Gunn, who is serving 35 years in jail for conspiracy to murder. The nondescript bungalow secretly housed a retired Nottingham couple, John and Joan Stirland, whose estranged son had shot and killed a friend of the Gunn family a year earlier.The Stirlands had escaped an attack on their home in Nottingham and fled to a bedsit in Goole before they were housed at Trusthorpe. They were shot dead within hours of a call by Mrs Stirland to Nottinghamshire police reporting prowlers.The report finds that she had to make a second call and it then took an officer an hour to fax the information to Lincolnshire police, who arrived at the bungalow to find the couple dead. Delays were compounded by the fact that the Nottinghamshire officers did not know about the extreme potential danger to the Stirlands, because senior officers had not included them in the loop.The chief constable of Nottinghamshire, Steve Green, accepted the report in full yesterday, but said no officers would be disciplined because the force at the time was "under pressure that most citizens would never experience". The struggle with the Gunn gang was compounded by fears about information leaking out from the force itself and a detective, Charles Fletcher, was subsequently jailed for seven years for supplying tip-offs. The Stirlands were ultimately betrayed by two BT staff misusing computer records at the request of the gang, without knowing or asking why they were wanted. Green said yesterday: "Every one of the officers involved with the Stirlands wanted to save their lives." He added that seven of the officers had been found to have breached the police code of conduct. Two had now retired. "The breaches by the other five were not serious breaches and they [the IPCC] accept that they were operating at the extremes of their resilience in respect of gun crime in Nottingham."