The police force whose blunders allowed Ian Huntley to become a school caretaker has been criticised over how it investigates crime, manages intelligence and communicates with local people, the Guardian has learned.A new inspection of Humberside police by the Inspectorate of Constabulary exposes concerns about fundamental policing methods and concludes that morale is low and some officers are disillusioned with its leadership. The inspection also suggests Humberside police has become "disengaged from the community", despite a radical reorganisation under which the force has been broken down into local teams designed to get closer to the neighbourhoods they serve. The results will intensify pressure on Humberside's chief constable, David Westwood, to resign. He is already facing being investigated this month at an independent inquiry over his force's failure to prevent Huntley working close to children after being linked with nine sex attacks when he lived on its patch. He will be questioned over why Humberside failed to collate intelligence on Huntley which might have saved the lives of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Following Huntley's trial, which ended last month, Mr Westwood provoked widespread criticism by attempting to blame data protection laws for his officers' failure to retain data about the former caretaker. He claimed his force had "learned from the past" and "adjusted and improved our work practices". His best chance of surviving the fallout from the Soham case appears to be to point out that most allegations against Huntley happened before he became chief constable - and to show that improvements have been made. However, the new inspection of the force's North Lincolnshire division found that the sort of problems thought to have allowed the double murderer to slip through the net still existed, along with many other faults. The inspection, carried out by a senior Merseyside officer, looked at policing in and around Scunthorpe, where Huntley and Carr lived together for a time before moving to Soham in Cambridgeshire. In her report, the inspecting officer highlighted that recorded crime was higher in the division than in similar ones across the country and that detections were down. The inspector found that because many detectives had been tied up in major incidents, uniformed officers ended up investigating serious crimes. Training within the division, which has about 300 officers and covers some 330 square miles, failed to impress the inspector, who noted "skill gaps" in many basic areas such as writing reports, taking statements and interview techniques. The report concluded: "Constables and sergeants described a feeling of hopelessness and disillusionment with the leadership." Some police officers described a "bullying culture" and a "siege mentality". Three specific areas which the Soham case brought into focus were highlighted. First, the inspector found officers had not been trained to understand the "national intelligence model", a system introduced across Britain in 2000 to professionalise the way intelligence was gathered and stored. The report said: "Staff had little understanding of the model and could not see how it would assist them in delivering policing." Second, the inspector concluded that the division could be doing more to tap into intelligence from local communities and from other agencies. Third, the inspectors found problems with the way in which crimes were recorded. They discovered that 847 crimes had not been put into the system and so had not been allocated to officers. This prevented the police having an accurate picture of crime in the area. In addition, officers had little understanding of the national crime recording standard, introduced to make sure forces recorded incidents in the same way. This was introduced partly to make sure that officers had more accurate intelligence.  Conviction details  Following the Soham trial the government highlighted its concerns over how effectively arrest and conviction details were being entered on computers by police across the unit. The inspector also examined Humberside's concept of "local policing units" (LPU), introduced in September 2001 during Mr Westwood's tenure as chief constable. The idea is that a team of officers is given an identifiable community or area for which it is responsible. Local police bases are being built across the force's area to serve 39 LPUs. But the report was damning about their impact. "It would appear that policing has become disengaged from the community." The conclusions of the inspection, carried out in September, echoed some of those reached in an inspection of the entire force 18 months earlier. The Guardian understands that some of the same problems, such as concerns over how intelligence data is managed, were flagged up yet again when an interim inspection of the whole force was carried out in the autumn. This report will be published in the spring. Chief Superintendent Graham Di Duca, who took over as commander of the division in April, conceded that there was a "lot which needed to be put right" but insisted the division - and the force as a whole - was moving in the right direction. He denied that officers were disengaged from the community and said work was being done to make sure problem areas such as intelligence handling were dealt with more effectively. Ch Supt Di Duca also denied morale within the force in general was low, but admitted that the aftermath of the Soham case was playing on officers' minds. But some of the faults found in the inspection did chime with local people. Tony Knight, a Neighbourhood Watch coordinator in the Crosby area of Scunthorpe, claimed that there seemed to be fewer officers on patrol in the town since the local policing teams were introduced. Councillor Frances Delaney, a former chairman of the local police liaison committee, said: "Rather than bringing them closer, the local policing teams systems seem to have put more distance between the community and local officers."