The trail which may lead to a serial killer was kicked off by a chance conversation. An investigator from a miscarriages of justice organisation was chatting to a friend about the notorious murder of the schoolgirl Pamela Hastie 23 years ago.The 1981 murder and rape of Pamela, 16, in the Rannoch woods in Johnstone, Renfrewshire, led to a life sentence for a local loner, Raymond Gilmour. But Gilmour always protested his innocence; he is now out on licence pending an appeal against his conviction. The investigator chatted to his friend about Gilmour's case. "He didn't do it," said the friend. "It was Robert Black. I know someone who saw him that night." Black, 56, is a serial killer serving life for the murder of three schoolchildren in the 80s and the attempted abduction of another. His name has been linked with many other child killings: it has been brought up in connection with 14 murders in six countries. Despite this, he has been convicted of only three murders. In Pamela Hastie's case, though, there appears to be one crucial difference: an eyewitness. "I know someone who saw Black coming out of the woods on the night of Hastie's murder," the friend said. He would not, however, say who that person was. Les Brown, a retired Strathclyde police detective who has set up the charity A Search for Justice - which investigates alleged miscarriages of justice - was not prepared to leave it there. "This guy told a story that he had a pal who was out driving on the night of Pamela Hastie's murder when someone ran out in front of him," Mr Brown said. "He got a good look at him and went to the police at the incident room the next day. "But they weren't interested. The guy saw Robert Black on the television a few years later and knew that was him." Since his friend would not reveal the identity of the van driver, Mr Brown decided to get on to the local paper, the Paisley Express. A few days later, it ran a spread with the new information, asking the driver or anyone who knew him to come forward. He did. "The reporter who did the story got a call from someone saying he was the van driver," Mr Brown said. "I arranged to go and see him and sat outside his house in my car thinking, 'This could really be dynamite.' When I left, I thought he was one of the most credible witnesses I've heard." Reverse to November 4 1981 and the witness - who does not want to be identified - is driving home. The man whom he identifies as Robert Black runs in front of his minivan and places two hands firmly on the bonnet to steady himself. "The next day he put on the television and found out about Pamela Hastie. He and his brother went to the police," Mr Brown said. "He says you could literally see the fingerprints on the car in the light. But the police chased him. They didn't want to know; they already had Raymond Gilmour in their sights. "Now he thinks if he had pushed them a bit harder some of those girls Black killed would still be alive today." Black is in Wakefield prison in West Yorkshire, where he is serving a minimum recommended sentence of 35 years. In the early 80s he was a delivery driver ferrying posters around southern Scotland and England. His job with the now defunct company Poster Despatch and Storage allowed him to tour the country, preying on young girls. He has already been convicted of the murders of Susan Maxwell, Caroline Hogg and Sarah Harper. Devon and Cornwall police and the Police Service of Northern Ireland are investigating the deaths of two other girls they believe are linked to Black. Gilmour, who was freed on licence this year after a review of his case by the Scottish Criminal Case Review Commission, is desperate to clear his name. He was convicted, aged 19, after he confessed, on November 9 1981, to Pamela's murder and rape. But there are many inconsistencies in his statement - and Gilmour claims he made it only after being threatened by two police officers. Two senior investigating officers who worked on the case have now come forward to say they have serious doubts about the conviction. The case review commission has also raised serious doubts. The witness's identification of Black will not clear Gilmour, but it is being investigated by detectives headed by Roger Orr, a chief superintendent with Lothian and Borders police who has worked on Black cases in the past. "It's something that really has to be looked at again," Mr Brown said. "We need to know why the report was ignored, why fingerprints were never taken from the van - that's basic detective work, basic procedure - and if it wasn't Robert Black who killed Pamela Hastie, who the hell was it? "Because it certainly wasn't Raymond Gilmour."