The "rule of law" is a familiar democratic refrain, but how can you have the rule of law if the people who enforce it are above it?Last year I wrote about the shooting dead of Harry Stanley by Metropolitan police following a "lead" from an "informant" who has never been identified. He disclosed the shocking facts that Mr Stanley was carrying something long in a plastic bag and had an Irish accent.The forces of law and order rushed to the rescue. They lay in wait for Mr Stanley as he walked home and shot him dead. Only then did it emerge, a) that the sinister item in the bag was a table leg, and b) that Mr Stanley was Scottish. For this utterly reckless murder no one will be prosecuted. In a brilliant article in last Wednesday's Guardian, Nick Davies exposed the equally reckless slaughter by armed police of Jimmy Ashley in January 1998. Ashley, who had not committed the offence in question, was unarmed and naked when he was killed. No one has been convicted of his murder either. Then there is the case, reported the previous week, of south London sixth-former Robert Scutts, who was hurrying to catch a bus at night when he was struck by a police car crossing a junction at 50mph, and hideously injured. A judge found the police 75% responsible. But the court of appeal, under Lord Justice Judge, an original prosecutor of the four men wrongly convicted of the murder of the newspaper boy Carl Bridgewater, reversed the decision on the ground that the young man should have known a police car was coming because it was flashing its blue light and sounding its siren. In what passes pathetically for "debate" on crime in the general election, all three parties unite in their demands for "more policemen on the beat", but none of them dares mention the shocking rise in the number of innocent people killed or injured by police, either in police stations or in their homes or on the streets. This mayhem is not the rule of law but the rule of lawlessness to which, apparently, the champions of Tory, Labour and Liberal Democrat parties all by their silence subscribe. • I started work 40 years ago as a reporter on the Scottish Daily Record, where I was treated by colleagues and public with generous and amused condescension. So I have been sad to watch the collapse of standards at the Record coinciding almost exactly with a similar collapse at its sister paper, the Mirror. The Record editor, Peter Cox, was subjected a year and a half ago to a stinging attack in this paper by Roy Greenslade for a revolting "exclusive" in the Scottish Sunday Mail, which Cox then edited, entitled "Daughter of Dewar's No 1 aide is a junkie". Though the piece was littered with mistakes, its main point seemed to be that the daughter of a principal adviser to the former Scottish first secretary had taken heroin. It was hard to imagine how any editor could survive Roy Greenslade's attack, but Peter Cox was promptly promoted to the editorial chair at the Record. Almost his first act was to sack Scottish Socialist party MSP Tommy Sheridan as a Record columnist. When the SSP called a demonstration to protest against the Record's hypocrisy on drugs, Cox responded with a sustained assault on Sheridan, culminating in a heroic decision, in the finest traditions of the free press, not to mention Sheridan or his party during the election campaign, in which the SSP is fielding candidates in all 72 Scottish seats. • It seems that the management of the Royal Mail, whose name has been so imaginatively changed to Consignia, should be consigniad to the rubbish heap. Determined to proceed relentlessly with privatisation and to break the spirit of the union, the Royal Mail decided last week to deal decisively with a dispute about shifts at Watford. They packed all the letters with Watford postmarks off to Liverpool and ordered the troublesome union representatives there to handle it, or be disciplined. The Liverpool workers responded with a strike. So intimidated were the union representatives by the management's threats that they lined up in front of the CCTV cameras spying on the picket lines. The strike spread like wildfire all over the country, and the issues were settled in the union's favour. Indeed the heroic management have now signed a new agreement forcing them to negotiate if they want to shift mail from one part of the country to the other. Into the bargain the "moderate" John Keggie, favourite to win the election for union general secretary, has been defeated by a leftwinger. Privatisation of the post office may not prove as easy as Blair, Byers and co imagine. comment@theguardian.com