The brother of a woman killed in the Cardiff hit-and-run incidents has paid tribute to her as a heroine who sacrificed her own life to save her children.Karina Menzies, 32, was walking outside the fire station on Cowbridge Road West with her children when a white van - which injured more than a dozen others in 30 minutes of chaos - careered towards them.Menzies bravely threw her children out of the way, her brother Craig said.He told Radio 5 Live the driver had targeted his family. "He went through the traffic, aimed for them and then just hit them head on," he said. "She just screamed and threw them out of the way as much as she could. He still clipped them but she took it head-on. She saved their lives."He said: "She was the world to me. She was my best friend. She was a lively, bubbly person. There's just so many good things you could say about her. We'll all be lost without her."Menzies' family issued a statement saying: "Karina was a lovely girl. She lived for her kids and her brothers and sisters and everything she did was for her family. She was a good friend to everyone and was well thought of in the community. She will be sorely missed by everyone."Murder squad detectives continue to question a 31-year-old man, while nine victims remain in hospital. Two adults are in a critical condition and five children are still being treated.On Saturday night, South Wales police were granted a further 36 hours to detain and question the arrested man.DS Paul Hurley said the suspect carried a weapon and left his Iveco van to physically assault people. Police want to identify and recover the weapon, which was believed to be a steering lock.There were unconfirmed reports that police were investigating whether the driver had been involved in a domestic incident before the hit-and-runs took place. Police said a key part of the inquiry was focused on establishing who owned the white van.Witnesses were urged to come forward with any information they might have about a black Renault Clio with a 05 registration plate, which was seen driving on the wrong side of the road of Western Avenue, not far from Cowbridge Road West.The first incident to be reported was in Crossways Road in the Ely neighbourhood at 3.30pm on Friday. This was soon followed by other reports of hit-and-run collisions in several locations in the west of the city, including Grand Avenue, Cowbridge Road West and the Leckwith retail park.A special church service will be held later on Sunday in Ely in support of the victims and their families.