Inmates threw a bucket of excrement over prison staff as government inspectors toured a privately-run jail, it emerged today. The chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, revealed the incident - known in jail lingo as "potting" - as she raised concerns about falling safety standards at Forest Bank jail, Greater Manchester. The 800-inmate men's jail, which is run by UK Detention Services, suffered 25 prisoner assaults a month and there had been 2,500 disciplinary hearings in just six months, she said. Drugs were "rife" with four out of 10 compulsory drug tests coming back positive, her inspection team found. "There was a series of assaults against staff, including one unsavoury incident when a bucket of excrement was thrown into an officer and over two staff who were in there, while we were at the prison," Ms Owers said. "This was by no means the first such 'potting' incident in the prison's recent history. We were told there were two or three others in the previous couple of months. She added: "We were concerned that a culture of tolerance of, and acquiescence with, inappropriate behaviour was becoming established at Forest Bank and this put both prisoners and staff at risk." Safety had deteriorated significantly since the jail's last inspection just three years ago, she added. Staff turnover was high, with many lacking the experience and confidence to challenge inappropriate behaviour. Forest Bank, a category B jail, opened in January 2000. The director of the Prison Reform Trust charity, Juliet Lyon said: "This damning report reveals a prison that has become all too comfortable with violence, drugs and bullying. When a bucket of excrement is thrown at staff, during the inspection itself, you have to ask whether anyone is in control at Forest Bank. "This is the latest in a series of worrying reports suggesting that high staff turnover and lack of control in some private prisons is creating a 'Lord of the Flies' environment that is dangerous for prisoners and staff, and almost guaranteed to increase the chances of re-offending on release." A Prison Service spokeswoman said of the "potting" described by inspectors: "These incidents are extremely rare, but where they do occur we treat them as an assault and always contact the police." United Kingdom Detention Services (UKDS) accepted that, at the time of the inspection, staff faced "an increasingly confrontational prison population willing to challenge staff". However, action implemented by the company had resulted in a reduction in incidents, assaults and positive drug testing figures, a spokesman said. "The prison is safe and stable," he added. The UKDS director of Forest Bank, Ivor Woods said: "We recognise that we still have work to do and I am personally committed to ensuring that the standards we set for ourselves are maintained. "We appreciate the value of an independent evaluation of our work, but I was sorry to see that there were some examples, which were quoted out of context and could lead the reader to the wrong conclusions. "All of us at Forest Bank look forward to continuing improvements at the prison."