Solicitors acting for Tony Martin, the Norfolk farmer jailed for life for shooting dead a teenage burglar, have lodged an appeal against his conviction for murder.In a petition faxed to the appeal court, Martin's solicitors claim that a fair trial was not possible because of the "atmosphere of intimidation of both witnesses and the jury", and that the judge failed to properly instruct the jury on several key points. Martin was jailed for life earlier this month for the murder of Fred Barras, 16, and for wounding another burglar, Brendon Fearon, 30. Details of the petition were posted on the solicitors' website yesterday. In a further development, Norfolk police denied claims by Martin's legal team that two potential witnesses had complained to the police of intimidation and death threats. A report in one newspaper yesterday claimed that two of Martin's neighbours had received death threats last autumn from people they thought to be travellers, and that as a result they had declined to give evidence. Defence solicitor Michael Ballinger said: "One of these men was close enough to Martin to be identified, and this [the intimidation] was reported to police at the time." Norfolk police however rejected this claim. "Officers close to the case received no complaints of witness intimidation at any time, prior too or since the case," said a source. Martin's solicitors also said that they may seek an injunction against Norwich crown court after receiving reports that court staff were discouraging trial witnesses and jurors from contacting the defence team. A court official said they had not been contacted by Martin's solicitors and declined to comment further. Earlier this week the Lord Chancellor's office said claims that jurors had been intimidated were unfounded. Despite widespread reports that jurors had felt threatened by members of the public during the trial, no complaints had been received. Publicist Max Clifford, who is acting on Martin's behalf without charge, has acknowledged that he helped stoke publicity for the farmer. Support for Martin in Norfolk is still strong, and yesterday friends and supporters of the farmer were working to fortify his home, Bleak House at Emneth Hungate. Contractors will work over the weekend fitting steel shut ters and an alarm system to the dilapidated farmhouse where Barras was killed last October. Supporters fear the house could be the target for a revenge attack, and want to ensure that if Martin is released he will still have his home. The work, costing £6,000, is being funded with money raised after the verdict. A friend who visited Martin in the hospital wing at Bullingdon prison, Oxfordshire, said he was in good spirits. "His mental state is very good but he is being kept in the hospital wing for assessment. "Reading between the lines, it is for his own safety." Relatives of Fred Barras, speaking for the first time since Martin's conviction, described Martin as "the devil" and condemned his image as a rural hero. "It should never have happened," said one family member. "That man should have kept Fred there until the police came instead of taking the law into his own hands... It has put all Gypsies in mortal fear of going near a farm."