David Cameron today called for young offenders to be barred from driving as part of a concerted programme to tackle crime and lawlessness.The Tory leader said that the country was facing a "real and growing problem" of violence and antisocial behaviour - from foul language on public transport to a doubling of knife crime over the past two years. Speaking at a community centre in Darwen, Lancashire, he urged the government to make wider use of powers passed in 2000 - but only enacted in 2004 - enabling judges to disqualify young offenders from holding or obtaining a driving licence.And he said that the use of these powers ought not to be restricted to driving offences, as current government guidance suggests. "Common sense suggests that with young people you need to hit them where it hurts: in their lifestyle and their aspirations," he said. "I'd like to see judges and magistrates tell a 15-year-old boy convicted of buying alcohol or causing a disturbance that the next time he appears in court he'll have his driving licence delayed. "And then I'd like that boy to tell his friends what the judge said." Mr Cameron also called for the adoption of powers passed in the Criminal Justice Act 2003 but never enacted, extending the maximum jail sentence that magistrates can hand down from six months to a year. The Tory leader said that Britain was facing a "crisis of order" because of the government's complacency over antisocial behaviour. Mr Cameron linked the failure to tackle yob culture to the spate of murders that have hit the headlines in recent weeks, including the murder of Garry Newlove, 47, a father of three who was killed after challenging a gang of yobs outside his Warrington home. "Violence grows in the fertile soil of antisocial behaviour and here we have a real and growing problem throughout society," he said. Mr Cameron criticised comments made earlier this year by Tony Blair asserting that such murders were part of a "specific problem within a specific culture" rather than part of a wider social problem. Pointing to the 17 children killed at the hands of gangs this year alone, Mr Cameron said: "To me that betrays a deep complacency." Mr Cameron cited the example of New York, a city which saw its murder rate halved after the police focused their energies on low-level disorder. He called for greater sentencing powers for magistrates, and less paperwork for police stuck in offices rather than being out on the streets, as well as measures to strengthen families. "At the moment police officers spend more time on paperwork than they do on patrol," he said. "That's utterly wrong. With its targets and audits and inspections the government is guilty of wasting police time." On families, he said: "We need to make men realise that having children is an 18-year commitment - not a one-night stand. "We need to make mothers realise that it's work, not welfare, that offers their family the best future. "We need to help couples stay together, not drive them apart with the tax and benefits system." By focusing on crime, Mr Cameron will hope to regain some of the initiative lost when controversy over the accuracy of his list of at-risk hospitals threatened to derail his attempt to tackle Gordon Brown on the issue. Several hospitals on the list insisted that the Tories had got their facts wrong. But Mr Cameron's speech on law and order sparked further accusations that the Tory leader was "lurching to the right" with soundbites designed to appeal to Tory hardliners. Beverley Hughes, the children's minister, said that the Tory leader's talk of "anarchy in the UK" was irresponsible scaremongering from an increasingly opportunistic and desperate politician. Ms Hughes said: "David Cameron is not proposing solutions for the future of our country, he is just lurching to the right to try to appease his divided party." The minister defended the government's record on tackling antisocial behaviour, including a £4m investment in practitioners to work with youngsters at risk of becoming involved in crime. She added: "The fact is that the Tories have no solutions and no family policies to speak of other than going back to a two-tier family tax policy that would disadvantage and treat as second class all children and families whose parents are widowed, separated or divorced." Sir Menzies Campbell, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, accused Mr Cameron of offering soundbite solutions to a complex problems. Commenting on Mr Cameron's views on strengthening families earlier today, Sir Menzies told GMTV: "He is right to emphasise the importance of family, but it is not just one factor. "If there was an easy solution someone would have found it. It's a very complicated issue and it won't be resolved by soundbites. "I'm in no doubt there is a solution but it's got to be right across the board, not by isolating one single area and saying, 'Get this right and the rest will follow.'"