Sir Stephen Lander, the head of Britain's elite crime-busting squad, is a paid director of a company that has IT contracts with every police force in the UK. He is also on the board of a second firm whose parent company has IT contracts with other law enforcement and intelligence agencies.Since taking up his post as chairman of the serious organised crime agency in September 2004, Sir Stephen, 58, has remained as a non-executive director of Northgate Information Solutions and StreamShield Networks, with a total remuneration of £60,000. As head of Soca his starting salary was £75,000.Northgate's IT systems cover software for tracking vehicles, crime location analysis and "information management and intelligence sharing". Part of one of these contracts is now being used by Soca.The firms and Sir Stephen - the former head of M15 - deny their relationships give rise to a conflict of interest and Soca insists Sir Stephen has declared his company links at every stage of his new career.Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, said yesterday: "Sir Stephen appears to have met every formal requirement to avoid a conflict of interest in his various roles, but as chair of an organisation playing such a vital role in our nation's security, I am sure he will want to make sure any perception of misconduct is tackled too. I look forward to meeting him soon where I will address these issues in person."Northgate said Sir Stephen's job was approved by Tony Blair after it was cleared by the advisory committee on business appointments. A company statement said: "The Home Office was made fully aware of Sir Stephen Lander's position at Northgate Information Solutions before his appointment to Soca. Appropriate measures have been put in place to ensure no conflict of interest issues arise."StreamShield was set up to develop a system for protecting internet networks from cyber attacks, which the company believes presents no opportunity for a conflict. It is a subsidiary of Detica which provides IT systems, including data interception to law enforcement agencies, the Home Office, Thames Valley police, and the defence and intelligence communities. Detica's chief executive, Tom Black, also sits on the Streamshield board.Detica's website says: "IT systems are increasingly being exploited to threaten the nation's interests, either as a means of attack or to support criminal or terrorist activities. As a result, the emphasis is increasingly on using IT-derived intelligence as a primary means of defence."Five months after leaving M15 in 2002 Sir Stephen was given approval by the advisory committee on business appointments to become an adviser to Detica. He stepped down two years later in order to take up his new appointment at Soca.Soca was formally launched by Tony Blair in April with the task of "making life hell" for a target list of the 1,000 organised gangs operating in Britain. It will have a budget of £400m and a staff of 4,200.