Relatives of murder victims will for the first time be able to address convicted killers with "victim impact statements" under a trial scheme that begins today. The move follows complaints by relatives of victims that they were sidelined during trials and, on some occasions, that victims were falsely portrayed.The pilots will be undertaken at the Old Bailey, and at Birmingham, Manchester, Cardiff and Winchester crown courts. Here, relatives of three murder victims explain what they would have said, had they been given the chance.Avril Sanders-Royle's stepson, Julian Sanders, 21, a welder, was beheaded with an axe in 2000. Three years later, John Latus, 33, of Wroxeter, Shropshire, was convicted of his murder and jailed for life. He has been granted leave to appeal. This is what she would have said to the court.I am told that whilst I have an opportunity to make this statement about the impact of this crime upon our family, I am, unfortunately, not allowed to make any comments about how we feel about the person who has killed Julian.Julian was murdered in May 2000. It was done in a way that is so horribly vile that we as a family cannot comprehend it. Was he still conscious? What was he feeling whilst he was breathing in blood?No matter how hard we try we find it impossible to come to terms with this horrendous end to his short life.The effect of murder is profound and wide-reaching, not just affecting the jurors and the other people in this courtroom, but reaching every single person who has ever heard of Julian. Our family has had to endure the investigation and three trials because this case has been so complex.We last saw Jules on the Thursday before he was murdered. He had visited us and was looking forward to going to the TT races. He also called in on the Saturday a few hours before he was killed and we were out at the time. How I wish we had been in. When we didn't hear from Julian again we became increasingly concerned, alternating with irritation. The day before I opened the door to the officers who told us the terrible news, I had spoken to someone who noticed how drawn and worried I looked and guessed something was terribly wrong.Then my family's life was turned upside down. Amidst the blur, the whole family had to arrange for a funeral a week before we should have been celebrating Julian's 21st birthday. We will now have to wait to see what is decided for the term of your sentence, but always remember that the people you have killed will be deprived of their lives for ever. I truly hope that you will not live long enough to ever be released, to walk through the fields with your dog, to go to the pub, to go to work, to be with friends, to celebrate anniversaries with your family.Whilst you have murdered Julian, he will always be alive in our hearts and minds and you cannot take that away from us. It has taken over three years to see justice done and you have changed the lives of Julian's father and me.You have aged us all and given us more stress than we knew it was possible for anybody to bear. Remember that whilst you are locked up for years and years and hopefully for the rest of your life, we will be picking up the tattered pieces of ours and taking pleasure in many simple things, even though we will always be grieving because of your depraved, murderous actions. Perhaps one day you will learn that if you are to have any peace with yourself you will tell about where you murdered our son so that we can have the peace of mind of being fully aware of the circumstances.Marie Ellis's son, Alan Hooper, was stabbed to death, aged 25, in Wavertree High Street in Liverpool on February 14 1992. His killer admitted manslaughter in July 1992 and was jailed for three years.Alan was young, vivacious and very handsome. He had left Gateacre comprehensive at the age of 16 and had worked very hard ever since.He had his hopes and he planned to go to Canada and start his own business. He wanted to make a better life for himself and I don't have a shadow of doubt that he would have succeeded.During the trial, nobody talked about Alan's hopes and dreams, which were all taken away from him and us in the flash of a knife. Instead it was as though Alan was on trial. [His] character was assassinated. To sit in court as I did and have to listen to lies being told about your son while you are still mourning is very painful. I lost all hope after he died. I was a psychiatric nurse and I had to retire. The trial left me angry and disillusioned with the criminal justice system. My son's killer is now 32 and he has his own security business. It hurts me so much to see him swanning around.Alan had an older brother and a younger sister and two adoring nephews. My eldest son, Joseph, has lost his younger brother. There was only 20 months between them and he has always blamed himself for not being with Alan on that night. His sister, Louise, shared the same birthday as him - she was three years younger - but now her birthday is a very sad occasion.Given that he had an impeccable character, his death was a great loss to society as he was an example to other young men that you can achieve your goals by working hard for them.I don't want revenge but I need to say these these things about my son which I have carried in my heart from the moment he was killed.Tracey Hill's partner, Ronald Hinkson, a graphic designer and the father of her young son, was murdered in Camden, north London, in 1997.My partner was murdered by a complete stranger after intervening in an aggressive argument taking place in a bar in Camden Town where he was celebrating a friend's 30th birthday in September 1997. Ron was the victim and yet it was possible for the defence to portray Ron's character and life in a totally negative, false and inaccurate way.To give an accurate and complete description of Ronald and his life with me and our baby, it was a very worthwhile life which would be admired by many. A strong man, hardworking, honest and warm with a strong sense of right and wrong which he applied every day to the way he conducted himself, and was in fact the reason for his involvement in a situation which would end in his needless death that night.As the partner of the victim of this crime the effect on my life has been immeasurable and impossible to put into words. The pain and unresolved anger stays with me.My son is left, at the age of nine, still crying for a father he has never met but knows faced a random, violent and brutal death at a very young age. I cannot predict the effect this will have on my son's life; I can only hope that with his father's character and family support he will continue to develop into a strong and positive person."