So the government is proposing to ban cigarette machines and packets of 10 cigarettes, on the grounds that each encourages the underage to smoke.Looked at coldly, they have a point. When I was around 11 or so, the abolition of the cigarette machine outside the newsagents would have severely compromised my nascent smoking career. The end of the 10-pack would have been a blow, if not as severe a blow; but still wounding, for, as even this dim government has realised, the packet of 10 cigarettes is exactly twice as affordable as the packet of 20. (And who made them so bloody expensive in the first place, eh?)Of course, the government is to be applauded for every assault on our civil liberties; that seems to be the deal these days. And is smoking even a civil liberty? Are cancer and emphysema civil liberty issues?Well, in this case, they are. Or smoking is, at least. One is not in favour of the diseases potentially attendant upon the habit but there are other things at stake here.Let us think for a moment why people smoke - or, to put it another way, why they might reach for a cigarette. If you have never smoked you might find this a bit of a poser, so I'll tell you: you reach for a cigarette when you need to calm down. What you're trying to calm down from might be nothing more alarming than a mild dip in nicotine levels; but it might be something considerably more stressful.And the adolescent and the poor - those two categories specifically targeted by this latest piece of inspired thinking - tend to live their lives more intensely, and value the cigarette more, than the sleek, health-conscious middle class. Deprive them of this solace and ... well, it is at this point that I begin to wonder whether the rise of knife crime might have something to do with this.A friend who watches EastEnders tells me that whereas, in the old days, characters would soothe themselves with a fag; now they do so with a drink. With, he informs me, reliably catastrophic results. The programme may at times veer sharply, I am told, from plausibility, but this has the ring of truth.And if everywhere people are being increasingly frustrated in their desire for a crafty fag, who knows what the consequences are going to be? There will be overall health benefits, sure. But we may find that these come at a price.Please note that from 2pm today, all comments will be switched off Comment is free, while we undergo technical work. Pending this, they will be switched on again later tonight. For more information, click here.