Madeleine McCann was seen in a car in Portugal two days after she disappeared from a holiday apartment in Praia da Luz, a Spanish private investigator said today.Francisco Marco, the head of the agency hired by Madeleine's parents in September, said he was certain the four-year-old was alive and claimed his agency was closing in on the abductor."We are very close. I am not saying maybe ... we are very, very close to finding the kidnappers," he told the BBC."We know, for example, that two days after the kidnapping, Madeleine was in a car and she was given to another person who was inside Portugal on a very small road."Madeleine was said to have been seen with a woman in central Portugal on May 5. The Sun and the Mirror today identified the woman as Michaela Walczuch, the girlfriend of Robert Murat, who - along with Kate and Gerry McCann - is an official suspect in the case."We continue to work very closely with the private investigators," Clarence Mitchell, the spokesman for the McCanns, said last night. "We are encouraged by any developments they feel are significant. "However, we would urge anyone with information to keep contacting our confidential phone line. We won't comment on individual lines of inquiry."Madeleine went missing on May 3, days before her fourth birthday, as her parents dined with friends nearby. Marco believes she was stolen to order from the family's holiday villa. In a video filmed by family friend Jon Corner in August, to be screened on Panorama tonight, Gerry McCann expressed his belief that a "predator" had been watching his family in the days before his daughter's disappearance. "I've no doubt that Madeleine was targeted, and that makes us sick to the core to think that someone was watching us and our daughter and then targeted her," he said. "I think the true word is a predator. In the same footage, Kate McCann discussed the pressures of the campaign to find Madeleine and spoke of her regret at leaving their children alone in the apartment on the night of the disappearance. "There's not a textbook about it, is there? Like what to do when your daughter gets abducted," she said. "It's awful and horrible for anyone to have to go through, and we are just doing what we think is best." On the same Panorama programme, Murat's mother speaks publicly for the first time to deny claims that her son could have been involved in Madeleine's disappearance. Jenny Murat said he had been with her throughout the evening of May 3 and accused three friends of the McCanns, who are understood to have said they saw him that night, of lying. Russell O'Brien, Rachael Oldfield and Fiona Payne reportedly believe they saw Murat near the Ocean Club complex after the alarm had been raised. "I just don't know why they are lying," Jenny Murat said. "On May 3, I'd been out taking the dogs out, which I do every single night of my life. "And I got home about eight o'clock, and Robert was already there and he was in all of the evening. We were sitting in the kitchen talking the whole evening. I would definitely have known if he'd gone out."