Restorative justice is an approach to crime that brings offenders face to face with their victims. It is a chance for the victims to describe the effect that the crime has had and an opportunity for the perpetrator to respond. The hoped-for outcome is that the damage and harm that the crime has caused will be, at least to some extent, repaired. It may at first appear to be something that might work in a far-flung corner of the world. Yet an example of restorative justice in action is currently being practised with some startling success in our own back yard.The Youth Justice Agency in Northern Ireland has been running a restorative justice programme since 2003. Youth Conferencing, aimed at all young people aged 10 to 17 who have committed every type of crime (except those warranting a mandatory life sentence), is now an aspect of the criminal justice process integral to the Northern Ireland juvenile justice system. By statute, all young offenders must be referred to the Youth Conference Service. At a time when the British government is calling for the criminal justice system to be balanced in favour of the victim, this approach would appear to offer a practical solution."Youth Conferencing seeks not only to encourage young people to recognise the effect of their crime and take responsibility for their actions, but also to devolve power by actively engaging the victim, offender and community in the restorative process," states an evaluation report produced by the Northern Ireland Office. Therein lies its strength. A study by Queen's University in Belfast found that eight out of every 10 offenders who took part in a restorative conference wanted to make up for what they had done and nine out of 10 offered apologies.One conference involved a young man, Connor, 16, who had been charged with involvement in a riot. He arrived with his father for support. His victims and inquisitors were various members of the community who had been affected by his rioting. In the large airy room they sat on low-level, soft-backed chairs and talked.Connor's father told the coordinator that it had nearly killed him when he heard. "His ma was devastated." Connor's face reddened as his father spoke and he looked down at his feet. A police officer explained that she had a young son. "What do you think I say to him when I go home covered in cuts and bruises?" she asks. Connor says he's sorry. He didn't think about that. A fireman tells him how the riot had put other lives and other emergencies at risk as he and his colleagues had been diverted by the riot. "Did you think about that?" Connor says he hadn't. "I'm really sorry," he says.At the end of it Connor agrees to attend 12-monthly sessions of "making it good". He also agrees to complete up to 240 hours of unpaid community work. And he shakes hands with a police officer. "That's the first time I've ever done that," he says, and he and the officer both smile. There's noguarantee that when Connor goes to court for the offence he won't go to prison. But he has made a commitment and the community have indicated that they want him back. For this young man, there is hope.