The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 12 January 2009The article below cited statistics from a 2003 study which said that the number of rapes increased by 50% and indecent assaults by 57% in the London borough of Camden after four lap dancing venues opened. According to the Lilith Report on Lap Dancing and Striptease in the Borough of Camden the statistics were based on information published by the Metropolitan police relating to the financial years 1998-99 and 2001-02. The Metropolitan police have provided us with the following figures: 72 rapes and 162 indecent assaults in the borough in 1998-99, and 96 rapes and 251 indecent assaults in 2001-02, which corresponds to a 33% increase in rape and a 55% increase in indecent assault. It's the kind of loophole the sex industry must have been dreaming of: in 2003, when the Licensing Act came into force, lapdancing clubs could suddenly be opened as easily as a karaoke bar or a Starbucks. Previously they needed a special nudity licence. The results are striking - the number of clubs in Britain has doubled, to 300, in just four years.Advocates of these seedy places are always on about no-touching rules, and how stripping just couldn't be more different to prostitution, but the evidence says differently. Research presented at the Kilkenny conference on human trafficking and the sex industry this year found that most women working as prostitutes start off at the legal end of the sex trade, and lapdancing clubs are like market day for traffickers. Dancers say those no-touching rules are a red herring, since the competition is too intense for such niceties; and furthermore, there is no taboo attached to punters offering money for full sex after one of these "no-touching" dances. And the evidence shows an increase in sexual assaults when a lapdancing club opens, affecting both dancers and women who happen to live in the area. In Camden, a report by the Lilith project comparing the three years before and after the opening of four lapdancing clubs found that incidents of rape rose by 50% and sexual assault by 57%.I'm talking in broad brushstrokes, but I think everybody has always known this about these clubs. It doesn't make sense for the legal sex industry to have no interaction with the illegal one. The participants are the same people: you don't get "nice men" who are only turned on by legal naked women and have nothing in common with "nasty men" who want to go the whole hog. So why did this change in the law slip through, without mention, as if it were the most natural thing in the world?It happened in part, I believe, because the visual language of stripping has been appropriated by mainstream culture. You'll see a lapdance referenced in a music video; you might hear a stripper of global renown - Dita von Teese, for instance - talking about how she wasn't objectified because her act is a work of art; women who are light years away from having to strip for cash might do a pole dancing class for a wacky hen night. I'm not getting po-faced about this. I couldn't give a stuff about middle-class women kidding themselves that pole dancing is a smashing experience. I am simply surprised at what I suspect has happened: that the mainstream cultural usage of stripping as just a way to be a bit saucy has impacted so profoundly on the way we see sexual commerce that the government forgot why it had regulated lapdancing clubs in the first place. Naturally, the stripping lite you might see on MTV has no more to do with lapdancing than "heroin chic" has to do with taking heroin. But these attitudes are never examined because of the way legislation has worked: rather than outlaw strip clubs, it has been traditional in Britain to complicate matters. Ethical debate is politically perilous - you might be wrongfooted into admitting you're against all of it, or conversely that you're in favour of prostitution. Neither position is a vote winner. Indeed, I don't think there exists a rigorous and consistent take on the industry that will win more votes than just staring at your feet and changing the subject.So one of the most ideologically charged matters a government could get involved in - selling sex - becomes a quiet, undiscussed sub-clause in a law about premises and licensing, and the safety of women can be compromised by a decision that passed without remark under the hubbub about 24-hour drinking. Political cowardice is behind this, and when you set that against the courage shown by lapdancers in simply going to work, it's more shaming still.mszoewilliams@yahoo.co.uk