Isn't it amazing what a slight change of colour does for the government's penal policy? A few months ago, Home Office minister Hazel Blears suggested that offenders sentenced to community punishments should wear bright orange donkey jackets so everyone would be able to spot them and realise that they were repaying their debt to society.How we laughed at this ridiculous suggestion, as Home Office spokespersons and ministers competed with each other to make it clear that Ms Blears was on her own on this one. Government policy? Beggar the thought.Last week Charles Clarke announced the latest scheme for dealing with offenders not serious enough to warrant imprisonment. They would have to do community punishments and - here's the really radical proposal - be made to wear yellow jackets. Well, now we're talking. How we praised this original, innovative idea. Yellow. That's the answer. You were close, Blears, but close doesn't solve crime.But hold on a moment. Doesn't half the population wear yellow for work, from lollipop ladies to AA rescue persons to the people who put up barriers everywhere? How will the public be able to tell which yellow-jacketed people are performing community punishments?The Home Office has the answer. The criminals will have the words Community Payback across the back of their jackets. So we're going to have a penal policy based on the constant need to peer at the yellow-garbed, to work out whether they are policemen, roads-works supervisors, a lifeboat crew, party conference stewards or - occasionally ("Come quickly, Doris, I think I've found one") - real-life offenders repaying their debt to society.Is this a way to run a criminal justice system? On second thoughts, we'd better find a less ubiquitous colour. Where has Ms Blears gone?When is an acquittal not an acquittal? When the accused is called Sion Jenkins and the tabloids think he did it. One of them even challenged him to take a lie detector test and seemed affronted when he failed to take up their offer.I don't know whether or not Mr Jenkins killed Billie-Jo. He does not seem to be a very nice person; he's been a liar and has a certain history of violence. None of that comes close to making him a killer. It is also true that many aspects of the case were not handled properly. Mistakes were made at various stages, from the police investigation to the presentation of the case in court; the process should not have taken nine years. But the final result was legitimate and understandable in the circumstances.One main issue divided the experts. How did the blood spots get on to Mr Jenkins's clothing? One expert view pointed to guilt; the other to innocence. The prosecution failed to persuade at least 10 members of two successive juries of Mr Jenkins's guilt. He was amply entitled to the formal acquittal that followed the jury's failure to reach a verdict. Yes, it was a messy end. That's what the jury system sometimes throws up. I'm so sorry the result didn't meet the tabloids' requirements.Judges who sit in the criminal courts are, quite rightly, obliged to undertake refresher courses. But who was that spotted on a three-and-a-half-day judicial studies board seminar last week, among the part-time recorders and circuit judges? None other than Lord Phillips, the lord chief justice. But surely he's the head of the criminal division of the court of appeal, the big chief of the criminal law? Why does he need teaching? Because neither at the bar nor as a judge did he dabble much in crime. Hence the need for extra lessons.