A coroner has written to Jack Straw, the home secretary, seeking permission to open inquests into the deaths of 23 women who could be victims of the serial killer Harold Shipman.John Pollard, the south Manchester coroner, said he was unable to proceed without Mr Straw's approval because the bodies had all been cremated. Shipman, a former GP from Mottram, near Hyde, Greater Manchester, was convicted in January of murdering 15 of his women patients with lethal injections of diamorphine. After the trial ended at Preston crown court, the crown prosecution service decided not to proceed with criminal charges against Shipman relating to the 23 patients because he could not be guaranteed a fair hearing. Mr Pollard will also reopen the inquests into the deaths of Sarah Ashworth, Alice Kitchen and Elizabeth Mellor, which were adjourned at the end of 1998 pending further investigation. He is now satisfied that there will be no criminal proceedings following from the deaths of the three women and the in quests will be held as soon as possible. Shipman, who is in Frankland prison, Co Durham, will be informed of the inquests by the coroner and notified of his right to attend the hearings. Mr Pollard has also decided that in all the other deaths which he investigated that there is either no evidence or insufficient evidence to justify him asking Mr Straw to make exhumation orders. Greater Manchester police investigated a total of 150 deaths of Shipman's former patients. "I have taken this course of action based upon the evidence which is presently before me and particularly based upon the fact that it is my understanding that the families and relatives of the deceased are anxious for the evidence relating to their deaths to be heard and tested by way of inquest," Mr Pollard said. "I would take this opportunity to reiterate that any coroner's inquest is a court of inquiry and not one of determining blame or liability, be that either criminal or civil." He said there would be a considerable amount of work involved in the investigation and inquests. The families of some of the 23 women named by Mr Pollard welcomed his letter. Sue McAlpine, whose mother Irene Heathcote is one of the suspected victims, said: "There are an awful lot of questions surrounding this that need to be answered. Due to the fact that the inquiry is going to be held in private, the only way I can get these answers is through an inquest." Helen Blackwell, whose mother Bertha Moss died in Shipman's surgery, said: "It's a crumb of comfort. We should have had some individual attention a while ago. But we still want to know how he was allowed to go on for such a long time. We don't want any cover-ups." An independent inquiry, headed by Lord Laming of Tewin, will begin hearing evidence in private in Manchester at the end of next month. The 23 possible victims are: Dorothy Andrew, Irene Berry, Edith Grady, Edith Brock, Elsie Cheetham, Erla Copeland, Lillian Cullen, Valerie Cuthbert, Elsie Dean, Joan Dean, Doris Earls, Elsie Hannible, Irene Heathcote, Hilda Hibbert, Bertha Moss, Nellie Mullen, Gladys Saunders, Mabel Shawcross, Marjorie Waller, Mary Walls, Ada Warburton, Amy Whitehead and Joyce Woodhead.