A "devoted" mother given a life sentence for murdering her severely disabled son with a shot of heroin launched her appeal yesterday.Frances Inglis, 58, from Dagenham, east London, killed her 22-year-old son Tom in 2008 after he was left in a vegetative state by an accident when he fell out of a moving ambulance.Though she has never denied deliberately giving him a fatal overdose in his hospital bed – and attempting to do the same on an earlier occasion – she is appealing against both her conviction and sentence, which saw her sent to jail for a minimum of nine years.She decided to end Tom's life "calmly and peacefully" because he was in "constant pain" after his accident in July 2007, her barrister told three court of appeal judges in London. She was horrified to learn that the only legal way to let him die was to apply to the high court for an order to withhold food and nutrition, which would result in a "slow and painful death".If Inglis's conviction were to be overturned, it could prompt a rethink in the laws around assisted dying.The importance of the case is underlined by the presence on the panel of Lord Judge, the lord chief justice and head of the judiciary of England and Wales, who said the case "raises issues of deep moral, ethical concern". But he added: "There is no law of mercy killing. It is not a defence, it is not an offence."At court today, her counsel, Alan Newman, QC, said Inglis was "a devoted mother, a perfect lady, a person of impeccable character" who had worked for many years helping children and adults people with disabilities.She fell apart following her middle son's accident, said Newman. "She was entirely taken up with the belief that Tom was suffering and that he was trapped in a sort of living hell and in pain," he said. "She was no longer the person her family, friends and colleagues had once known."Inglis, who was present in the dock of the appeal court and watched by her husband and two remaining sons, was ordered to serve a minimum of nine years in January after being found guilty of murder and attempted murder.Her case prompted public outcry and was widely compared to that of another mother, Kay Gilderdale, who helped her 31-year-old daughter to kill herself. Just a week after Inglis was sent to jail, Gilderdale walked free from court with a 12-month conditional discharge.Newman showed the judges a bundle of letters written to Inglis from "complete strangers" expressing their concern at her case. But the lord chief justice refused to let him read them to the court, saying that there could be just as many letters from intelligent people holding "a completely different view".Inglis's lawyers argue that the trial judge was wrong not to let the jury decide whether her defence of provocation was valid.One of the areas of provocation related to the signs of "pain and terror that she believed from start to finish that Tom was suffering". Newman said Inglis was repeatedly "provoked" by the awful sight of her son's pain. He compared her build-up of feelings to that of a "battered wife" who is driven to commit terrible acts after being subjected to repeated abuse.Tom Inglis suffered severe head injuries when he fell out of a moving ambulance in July 2007. He had been trying to get out of the vehicle because he did not want to be taken to hospital after being involved in a minor pub fight.The judges reserved their decision.