A 15-year-old girl was stabbed to death after a disturbance at a private party in Ilford, east London, early yesterday morning.Police were alerted to the incident when a patrol car was flagged down by people in a nearby street asking for help.The officers were directed to a house in Saxon Road shortly after 12.30am where they found the victim, who had suffered several stab wounds. The teenager was taken by ambulance to King's College hospital but pronounced dead an hour later.A search of the area near the party house led to the arrest of a 17-year-old girl. She was taken to an east London police station where she remained in custody yesterday afternoon.A postmortem examination was held at East Ham mortuary. The victim's family have been informed but her identity has not yet been released."We believe there was a party at the house consisting of a number of guests made up of mainly young people or youths," police said."During the party there was a disturbance inside resulting in the girl receiving the wounds."Today the quiet residential road remained taped off as forensics officers carried out a search inside and outside the terrace house.Friends of the murdered partygoer last night took flowers to the scene of the killing. Some were crying over the stabbing of the schoolgirl, whom they named only as Charlotte.Joy Corey, 38, from Goodmayes, Essex, had brought her 15-year-old son, Gavin, to lay a bunch of yellow roses in memory of his friend.As the pair both wept, she said: "This is terrible. It's really hard for us to take. It has had a really bad effect on Gavin."He and Charlotte were friends. She used to watch him play football. He was not at the party though."A neighbour, Sherman Anglin, 45, a service engineer, was shocked to learn that the girl had died."I woke up to flashing lights shortly after midnight, went outside and found a hell of a commotion in the street," he said. "There were about 50 to 60 people in the street shouting at each other and the police."If it's the house I think it is then I've been inside and I can't believe you could fit so many people inside it."A man came to use my toilet because police would not let them back inside and he said his niece had been stabbed in the neck."However, I was led to believe she was fine when she went off in the ambulance. I didn't realise she had died - I am shocked. This is tragic."Alan Massa, 40, who lives nearby, said: "There was a big crowd in the street. Police were taking names and addresses until 5am. This is terrible."Pramila Khodiyara, a 57-year-old quality controller who lives nearby, said: "This is very bad. That's so young to die. This is normally quite a quiet area."The investigation is being headed by Detective Chief Inspector John Macdonald of the Metropolitan police's specialist crime directorate east. Anyone with information is asked to call the incident room on 020 8345 3985.