The man wanted for questioning in London over the murder of a Norwegian student could be hiding in his family home in Yemen, the Guardian has learned.Local reporters were last night outside the high perimeter fence of 21-year-old Farouk Abdulhak's family mansion in the Hasaba neighbourhood of the capital, Sana'a. Detectives investigating the murder of Martine Vik Magnussen have said they "urgently" need to speak to Abdulhak, the last person to be seen with the 23-year-old student before she was killed. Her semi-naked body was discovered in the basement of his flat two days after she went missing, partially buried beneath rubble. Several of Magnussen's personal items - including snakeskin shoes, a pair of Christian Dior earrings and a pair of skinny blue jeans - were missing from the body, indicating her killer may have taken the items with him or her.The pair left the Maddox nightclub - an exclusive Mayfair nightspot popular with London socialites - around 3am last Friday. Police said Abdulhak travelled to Yemen on Saturday, the day before Magnussen's body was found at his West End apartment block. Reports from Yemen suggest he left on a private jet belonging to his father, billionaire businessman Shaher Abdulhak. A source close to the Abdulhak family said Farouk Abdulhak was believed to be either at his family home in the Yemeni capital, or at another property in a village four hours' drive away, in the al-Arooq district of the Taiz region.His father, founder of Shaher Trading, is well known in Yemen. His business empire was founded in the 1960s but stretches across the Middle East, with interests in petroleum, soft drinks, tourism and property.Though a Yemeni national, Farouk Abdulhak was educated and brought up in England. Until now he is thought to have visited his native Yemen only for occasional family events. He and Magnussen were both international relations students at Regent's Business School in Regent's Park and socialised with the same group of friends.In the early hours of yesterday - exactly a week after Magnussen's disappearance - officers returned to the Maddox nightclub to appeal for information. But what was a murder investigation centred around London's West End appears to have turned into an international manhunt.Detective Chief Inspector Jessica Wadsworth, leading the investigation, has confirmed that Abdulhak flew to Yemen, but said his precise whereabouts were unknown. Officers have not yet travelled to Yemen. They would require diplomatic cooperation to do so."We wish to interview Mr Abdulhak as a matter of urgency to further investigate what happened to Martine in her final hours and how her death came about," she said. "We believe he holds important information, which could assist us. He has many contacts in the UK and internationally and we are appealing for anyone who can assist in tracing him to contact the incident room." There have been conflicting signals over whether Yemen would cooperate with any future requests to extradite Abdulhak. The Middle Eastern country has no extradition treaty with the UK, and some reports have suggested that Yemen's constitution prohibits the country from extraditing citizens to foreign jurisdictions. However, there are precedents of extradition from Yemen: in 2001 diplomats offered to send terror suspects in the country to the UK in return for the radical preacher Abu Hamza, who was wanted in Yemen for alleged involvement in terrorist activities.The office of Dr Abu Bakr al-Qurbi, Yemen's foreign minister, yesterday confirmed the minister was "prepared to cooperate" with British authorities.The Yemen Observer newspaper said a spokesman for the family had said they "would not associate themselves with any member of their family connected with any wrongdoing"."Any loss of life is tragic and the family send their feelings and deep condolences to the Magnussen family and friends whatever the cause of these unfortunate events," a statement read.But it appears that Abdulhak's family have already undertaken efforts to prevent his extradition. His father met Yemen's interior minister, Rashad al-Alimi, on Thursday, apparently to seek guarantees that his son will not be returned to the UK. He has also been in talks with the London-based law firm Peter & Peters, experts in extradition cases. Magnussen's family, who this week flew to London to identify her body and collect belongings, were told a postmortem examination was inconclusive, though it found she suffered injuries to her neck, and detectives have ordered further tests to establish exactly how she died. Martine's father, Odd, said that she brought "pure sunshine" to the lives of those she knew and was an "exceptionally warm and charismatic personality". "Martine meant a lot to each and every family member. The loss has created an emptiness that will never leave us," he said. Now back in Norway, the family are communicating via a London-based Norwegian priest, Torbjorn Holt. He said that Martine's family wished to go home and "are now surrounded by people who will support them in all ways". He added: "Of course they are concerned that [Farouk] will be able to answer questions. It is in everyone's interest that he is found."