Joey Barton, the Manchester City footballer, today appealed to his brother Michael to give himself up to police investigating the murder of black teenager Anthony Walker."Michael, if you have any information about what happened you have to tell the police," Mr Barton said in a statement on ITV News. "You must do this for the Walker family so they can mourn Anthony and because you know it is the right thing to do."Detectives want to speak to Michael Barton, 18, over the racially motivated killing of Anthony, who was attacked with an axe in the Liverpool suburb of Huyton.Press reports say Michael Barton fled to Amsterdam with Paul Taylor, 20. Both men reportedly live on a council estate half a mile from McGoldrick Park, where the attack took place.Bernard Lawson, a Merseyside police assistant chief constable, declined to confirm reports that Michael Barton and Mr Taylor were in Amsterdam, but said they had left the UK."We are actively speaking with our colleagues in Europe," Mr Lawson told Sky News.He made it clear that there were others the police were interested in talking to.Two men, aged 26 and 29, from Huyton, were arrested yesterday in connection with the attack. A 17-year-old male was arrested over the weekend.Anthony's sister, Dominique Walker, said last night she forgave her brother's killers.Quoting from the Bible, she said. "'Seventy times seven we have to forgive', that's what Jesus said. So we have to, we have to forgive."For me, I know, it's hard. Every day, every day, it's an every day thing. That's what my mum says, it's an every day thing."Anthony was followed through a park by a gang who had earlier hurled racial abuse at him as he waited for a bus with his girlfriend, Louise, and his cousin Marcus Binns, who are both 17. Marcus and Louise managed to escape but Anthony was attacked in the park.A book of condolence will be opened today at the church Anthony attended, the Grace Family church in Aigburth. People wishing to pay tribute to him were asked to leave flowers and messages at the church.The church's pastor, Di Stacey, said: "Anthony was a very special young man; he was very sincere and always very willing. He wasn't a rebellious kid, he had a really sweet and good heart and all he wanted to do was help other people."Joey Barton has made news off the pitch recently. He was fined more than £120,000 by his club after hitting out at a 15-year-old Everton fan and team-mate Richard Dunne, who had tried to intervene, in a Thai hotel during a pre-season tour last month.Last Christmas he was fined £60,000 after poking former team-mate Jamie Tandy in the eye with a lit cigar during City's Christmas party.Mr Barton described Anthony's murder as "horrific" and "senseless" and added that those responsible "must be brought to justice".