A businessman who killed his former colleagues and their two school-age children after losing a lengthy and "acrimonious" legal battle has been found guilty of their murder.Anxiang Du, a practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine, was found guilty at Northampton crown court of killing Jifeng "Jeff" Ding, a university lecturer, his teacher wife, Ge, who was known as Helen, and their two daughters, Xing, known as Nancy, and Alice, stabbing them to death in their home on the day of the royal wedding.Du went on the run after the killings and was not found until the summer of 2012, living semi-rough on a building site in Morocco. The search for him was one of the biggest manhunts in Northamptonshire police's history, with more than 240 police officers deployed to try to track him down during the course of the investigation.  Anxiang Du went on the run after the killings and was not found until the summer of 2012. Photograph: Northamptonshire police/PADu, 54, had not denied killing the family, but his defence team had argued that a 10-year court battle with his former friends over a shared business venture had left him suffering from depression so severe it altered his judgment. His lawyers had argued he should have been found guilty not of murder, but of manslaughter on the grounds of loss of control or diminished responsibility.The prosecution rejected this claim, saying while Du may have had depression, the murders were a "cold-blooded" and "considered act of revenge". The jury of eight women and four men took just over three hours to find him guilty of murder on all four counts.William Harbage QC, for the prosecution, had told them that Du had come up with the plan after his legal appeals had reached the end of the road. The night before the killings, he had been served with an emergency injunction that prevented him from disposing of any of his assets.  Du travelling on a bus on the day of the killings. Photograph: Northamptonshire police/PAFacing "financial ruin", and an £88,000 bill for costs, he packed his passport and a knife before travelling to Northampton with the family's address written on a piece of paper. He left his wife a goodbye note in their shop in Birmingham that read "everyone has to say farewell one day".CCTV evidence during the trial – played to a silent courtroom – showed Du casually ambling around the bus station as he sought out the Ding's family home in the hours before they died, the knife hidden in his backpack. When he got there, he would later say in interviews, he entered through the back of the house, and asked Jeff Ding for the money he felt he was owed before pulling the knife from his bag.He killed Jeff and Helen in the kitchen, and then went upstairs and attacked the two girls after finding them, in the words of Harbage, "cowering in a bedroom". Postmortems showed all the family had suffered multiple stab wounds, with those to the chest proving fatal. Ding and his eldest daughter had suffered self-defence wounds as they tried to fight him off.Afterwards, Du later admitted, he slept for a while, before stealing the family car to try to hunt down a friend of the Dings who had helped fund their legal battle.While at first officers thought they may be dealing with a murder-suicide, and focused their search on London, Manchester and the Midlands, it later became clear Du had fled the country, turning a quadruple murder case into an international manhunt.Initial searches for Du at airports and on Eurostar services had drawn a blank, but police later established that he had driven to London and abandoned the car on a residential street. By 8am on 30 April, the day after the killings, he was on a coach to Paris, and soon after travelled undetected through Spain to the ferry port at Algeciras.It was a neighbour who found their bodies of the Ding parents, hidden behind a blue velvet curtain in the room that backed on to the garden, on Sunday evening, more than 48 hours after the family had been murdered.Du was later found after someone from the building site spotted his photograph in a newspaper.Detective Chief Inspector Tom Davies, who led the investigation, said Du had successfully evaded detection for months. "That's why I say he was a man with a plan. He did not hit any radar," he said, adding that it had been "one of the biggest and worst cases, in terms of the loss of life, the nature of the killings and the number of challenges" police faced throughout the investigation.The judge, Mr Justice Flaux, said after the verdict: "Anxiang Du, you have been found guilty of four counts of murder. No doubt your counsel will explain to you there is only one sentence I can pass for this."  Helen Ding's father Zuyao Cui and her brother Xin Cui. Photograph: Northamptonshire police/PAHe paid also tribute to members of Helen Ding's family who had travelled from China to be in Northampton for the case. "I have observed the dignified way in which you have conducted yourselves throughout this trial, which must have been truly horrendous for you in a way that the rest of us cannot understand."I know nothing I can say will assuage the pain of the deaths of your sister, daughter and family. I just hope that at least the fact the man responsible for their deaths has been brought to justice will provide you with some closure over these terrible events."He is expected to sentence Du on Thursday.Zuyao Cui, Helen's father, had sat at the back of the court room every day of the trial, listening to proceedings through a translator. He said his daughter had been "a good mother, a good wife and she taught the two girls very well", and said hearing the evidence in court had been "like a knife to the body"."When the two families heard about this it was like the whole sky has fallen down," he said. "We all cried together."Asked what he would say to the man who killed four members of his family, he said: "I would ask Du why you did what you have done? How can you be so cruel?"Steve Chappell, the chief prosecutor for the CPS in the east Midlands, said: "This was a brutal, shocking crime. Anxiang Du travelled to the Dings' home armed with a knife and killed the whole family in their own home. The evidence was clear that this was an act of pre-meditated revenge and Du knew what he was doing."The Ding family were honest, hard-working and well-liked people. It is a tragedy that their lives were cut short in this way. Our thoughts and condolences are with their family and friends."