The sale of some of London's prisons (Victorian jails face sell-off for development, January 7) has been rumoured in the past. However, the business case the home secretary would have to place before the Treasury would have to be a good one. Recent capital investment in Wandsworth includes a new kitchen, a gymnasium, cell-wing refurbishment and new workshops.Some years ago there was a proposal to relocate the Prison Service from Westminster. Now, if you really wanted to make some money in real estate and not send London prisoners and their visiting families out of the capital, perhaps a business case could be made as to whether we need the headquarters in London. As to other Victorian buildings in Westminster which are accused of failing the public, perhaps they too could relocate. Stewart McLaughlin Wandsworth branch secretary, Prison Officers' Association  · Brixton has a desperate problem of homelessness and the prison site could provide much-needed social housing to ease those problems. But the driving force appears to be that the prisons earmarked for closure are "in prime locations that have benefited from the capital's house price boom". So we will get even more expensive houses and use the receipts to build even bigger prisons. No doubt some of Brixton's homeless will end up there. Justin Horton London  · As a charity that works in 14 young offenders' institutions and provides crime diversion schemes for more than 600 young people at any one time, YMCA England has long been concerned about the number of young people who continue to be locked up (Curbing the courts, January 5). While you rightly point out the value of the new youth justice model and the progress it is making, especially the work of the Youth Justice Board, we must continue to push for more.Courts still lack alternatives to custodial sentences. Enabling all young people who come before the courts to receive a sentence that addresses the causes of their criminal behaviour, as well as being seen as a punishment, is critical if we are serious about reducing youth custody levels. Kevin Williams National secretary, YMCA  · It is not just the failure of the Prison Service to provide alcohol treatment to 50,000 "hazardous drinkers" in jail, but the failure of successive governments to implement an alcohol strategy that places treatment at its heart. Peter Martin Chief executive, Addaction 