Tensions caused by tough new prisoners moved from overcrowded mainstream jails have been blamed for a rooftop protest at a normally quiet and officially-praised open prison.Fourteen inmates yesterday went into their second night on the roof at Wealstun prison near Wetherby, West Yorkshire, where leisure and exercise sessions have also been disrupted recently by building work. Originally 20 inmates took to the roof, but after 19 hours four climbed down a drainpipe of their own accord and two more were brought down in a cherry picker by negotiators 30 minutes later. The protesters shouted to negotiators below but could not make themselves understood to journalists who were several hundred yards beyond a six metre barbed wire fence. Damage to the Category C jail's B and C wings appeared minimal, with only a few slates missing and windows broken. But the Home Office prison service described the action as "a more serious incident than usual" and said riot-trained "Tornado" intervention teams were standing by. The roof invasion followed a protest by two prisoners last weekend which is understood to have been sparked after Wealstun began housing overflow inmates from jails in Manchester and Liverpool. The former arms factory, close to the British Library bookstore on an industrial estate near Wetherby, was made secure as soon as the men reached the roof at 8pm on Monday night. Other prisoners were prevented from leaving for work placements which are part of the jail's rehabilitation regime. The national chairman of the Prisoner Officers' Association, Colin Moses, said that the problem stemmed from the record total of 73,000 inmates behind bars in Britain. Although Wealstun is only eight over its official capacity of 675, the mix of inmates appeared to have gone wrong. "Urgent action must be taken to reduce the current prison population before further disturbances like this occur," he said. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "Only a thorough investigation into the events leading up to the disturbance at Wealstun will reveal why this happened but there can be no doubt that the prison service is under intolerable pressure. "Chronic overcrowding and high levels of staff sickness, reduced activities for prisoners and more time locked in cramped cells are more like a recipe for disaster than a way of ensuring public safety." Tony Goodall, head of inmate activities at Wealstun, said the protesters had not yet made specific demands. He said: "It seems likely that recent changes have something to do with it. There has been a slight change to the regime with exercise being first thing in the morning rather than last thing, and we've also lost exercise space to the building work." The protest has involved the same group of prisoners throughout. They are thought to have stockpiled provisions under a roof nearby, where slates have been removed. Wealstun has been praised by the chief inspector of prisons as well as its own board of visitors in recent years. The rest of the jail was described as "calm and secure", although inmates barred from their usual jobs were said to be frustrated. A full inquiry will be held by the prison service. · In "an extremely depressing report" published today the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, says overcrowding has corroded standards at Parkhurst prison on the Isle of Wight in the last two years, writes Alan Travis . She says record numbers, an impoverished regime and insufficient staff training in dealing with bullying have turned Parkhurst into a prison where the safety of prisoners and staff cannot be guaranteed. The official inspection report says Parkhurst has failed to adjust to its changed role from high security to a training prison .