The mother of Stephen Lawrence today spoke of her devastation after the Crown Prosecution Service announced it had decided not to launch a new prosecution over the racist murder of her son.The CPS confirmed it had advised the Metropolitan police that there was "insufficient evidence" to prosecute anyone for the murder.The decision follows the Met's five-year reinvestigation of the killing of Stephen, who was fatally stabbed in April 1993 in a racially-motivated assault as he waited for a bus in Eltham, south-east London. His friend, Duwayne Brooks, was injured in the attack. In a statement, the CPS said a special casework lawyer had "thoroughly reviewed" all the evidence from the reinvestigation and previous investigations. It said it had also sought advice from senior counsel who reviewed the same material and independently came to the same conclusion as the reviewing lawyer. The CPS pointed out that although the reinvestigation did produce an eyewitness who had not previously come forward, their evidence did not provide reliable identification of any individual in relation to the attack. The material available did not provide "any clear, credible identification evidence" from any witness, nor was there credible forensic evidence that placed any specific individual at the scene of the murder, it said. The CPS said it had also studied alleged confessions, but that almost all had proved to be hearsay and unverifiable and therefore not admissible. None were sufficient to support a prosecution, it said. Stephen's mother, Doreen Lawrence, said today's decision was a devastating blow, but vowed to continue her campaign to bring the killers to justice.In a statement read out by solicitor Imran Khan, she said: "It has been a long 11 years since the murder of my son Stephen. For each and every second of those years, Stephen has not left my thoughts. "The decision today not to prosecute anyone in relation to Stephen's murder has been a devastating one for me. Whilst I expected this outcome, there was still some glimmer of hope that justice would prevail. My son Stephen deserved better.""It seems as if Stephen's life meant nothing to those who initially were responsible for the investigation for his murder. The failure of the police to properly investigate in 1993 has directly led us to the position we are in today. "I am angry it has taken such a long time to reach this conclusion. I have had to bear what has been an unbearable wait. Although the decision is not in my favour today and the authorities have given up, I have not and will not abandon the fight for justice in my son's name."Mrs Lawrence continued: "Whilst I am extremely saddened and disappointed that my family has personally not been able to secure justice, the irony is that society has benefited where we have not. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of those people who have supported me and my family over the years." Mrs Lawrence had been clinging on to a glimmer of hope that the case would be reopened but this has been "shattered" by today's decision, Mr Khan said. She will continue to look for evidence to bring her son's killers to justice. Mr Khan said: "We are seriously considering whether this decision by the CPS is a reasonable one, whether it is open to challenge and the high court and whether there is anything else we can do. "What we hope, and what we haven't yet had confirmed, is that the police file is not closed. We would expect it never to be closed. There is no time limit for criminal prosecutions - in some time in the future there may be evidence that comes forward that allows Mrs Lawrence and her family to prosecute those responsible. "She will not give up until her dying day as far as I'm concerned."The Director of Public Prosecutions, Ken Macdonald QC, said: "I realise that Mr and Mrs Lawrence and Duwayne Brooks will have hoped for a different conclusion to the review so that someone could be prosecuted for the terrible crime that happened. "Our policy is to prosecute racist crimes firmly and robustly wherever the evidence allows and we are fully committed to that principle. We all need to reflect on this dreadful murder and recognise the profound effect it has had on our national consciousness. "However, no matter how important or serious a case is, if on the strength of the evidence it does not pass the test that we apply, it must not go ahead. That is the position in this case." Claire Ward, CPS London's special casework lawyer, said: "We have conducted a very thorough review of every item of evidence relevant to this case to establish whether it would be admissible in court and would support a prosecution. "I have also had the benefit of looking through the papers from the private prosecution for which I am very grateful to Mr and Mrs Lawrence. "The police have carried out a very thorough reinvestigation: investigating officers have followed up all additional questions senior counsel and I have put to them, provided extra material as we've requested it and conducted further investigation wherever we have suggested it. "However, despite this, there is no reliable, admissible evidence which places any identifiable suspect at the murder scene at the time it took place."