In the days leading up to Milly Dowler's abduction she had enjoyed "one of the best days of her life", according to her family. The lively 13-year-old had been to a Pop Idol concert to see Gareth Gates and Will Young.She was excited as she ironed her jeans for the concert, and as it was the first time she had used the iron her mother captured the moment on camera. That happy home video was to prove the last footage of Milly, destined to be played endlessly on news bulletins during the desperate search for her.Just a few weeks before, the family had enjoyed a holiday in Mexico and Cuba, where she had swum with dolphins. And there was a boy she liked at school who she was hoping would be at a weekend gig she was planning to go to. She was a keen saxophone player, and enjoyed live music and writing song lyrics. But she was never to make that gig, disappearing the day before.There seemed nothing wrong at home, said her family. Milly was so close to her older sister, Gemma, she had taken to sleeping in her sister's room so they could enjoy girly chats.About 18 months before she vanished, she had accidentally found a pornographic magazine belonging to her father, Bob. She confided in her mother, Sally, and to friends who said she had been "weirded out by it" at the time but also had laughed about it.This incident had not seemed to develop into any long-term difficulties with her father, her mother said.But deep down, like many teenage girls Milly had her insecurities. She had been called "big nose", felt unsure about how popular she was with her peers and had been the victim of minor bullying in her first year at Heathside secondary school.These darker thoughts appeared to manifest themselves in notes and poems she wrote then hid in her bedroom. One seemed to be a goodbye letter, telling her parents she should have been aborted or adopted and that they deserved "a better daughter".For her family the letters found after her disappearance were at odds with the Milly they knew.It was as though she was leading a "double life", her mother told a relative at the time.Milly's friend, Hannah MacDonald, was aware of her self-doubts andsaid they had supported each other. "My downs were Milly's ups, and my ups were Milly's downs," she told the court.Describing them as the "clowns of the class", she said Milly was her normal self in the days before she vanished. "She was a joker. If you were down she would try to make you smile. She had funny voices. She would always make you laugh."