A man who was on bail has been found guilty of the attempted murder of police officers in a knife attack in a butcher's shop which left three constables with serious injuries.The attack in Kingsbury, north-west London, caused one officer to lose 23cm (9in) of intestines after Christopher Haughton "straddled" him and repeatedly stabbed the constable's protective vest. One eight-inch-deep wound to the officer's abdomen perforated his bowel.On Monday an Old Bailey jury convicted Haughton, 33, of two counts of attempted murder and the assault of six other officers.Judge Peter Beaumont, the Recorder of London, said Haughton would be ordered to remain at Broadmoor hospital without a time limit, when he was sentenced later this week.Haughton has paranoid schizophrenia and was arrested and bailed after attacking police in an earlier incident last year. A month later, in November 2011, he attacked the officers during a rampage in which he had been seen in the street chanting psalms and screaming at police: "God help me to kill my enemies".The ferocity of the attack and the injuries suffered led at least in part to the Metropolitan police decision to make Tasers, which discharge a large electrical current, more widely available to officers.Haughton's first attack happened after he was asked to turn the music down at his south London bedsit. He attacked neighbours and when police arrived he attacked them.In a statement after the verdict on that case the Met said one constable, Vicky Vincent, was bitten by Haughton "on her left thigh so hard he drew blood. He shook his head from side to side so vigorously that her trousers were ripped from waist to ankle. He had blood around his mouth and spat at officers whilst continuing to punch and bite them." He was arrested and later bailed.Weeks later police were called at 8.40am to Kingsbury, where Haughton was shouting in the street. He bit an officer on the arm, threw missiles at police and ran into a halal butcher's shop where he grabbed an 20-25cm knife from a counter.The court heard that Haughton later told psychiatrists he believed police had implanted a chip in his body that could control his thoughts.Haughton told the jury he had not slept the night before the attack because he was trying to fend off "ground reapers" using a sunflower. "I could hear a howl," he added, testifying in his own defence, before howling like a wolf before the jury."Every time the spirit was coming I had a sunflower in my hand as protection."In the butcher's shop officers sprayed Haughton with CS spray which failed to incapacitate him.Thomas Harding, who Haughton straddled and stabbed, needed a colostomy bag after the knife was plunged between his protective vest and shield."The look of his face was sheer terror," one police witness said of the attack on Harding.Alastair Hinchliff had his face and throat slashed open and Andrew Robb received a 13cm stab wound to his knee. As officers pinned Haughton back to try to handcuff him, he lunged with the knife at Sham Haque. Stephen Barker, who grabbed Haughton's wrist, said: "I could see the blade was millimetres from the side of PC Haque's neck. I'm almost certain he would have been seriously, if not fatally, injured – it was so close to his neck."Haughton spat blood at the officers and said he was HIV positive, boasting: "I love giving women Aids."Prosecutor Ed Brown QC told the court: "It was perhaps only a matter of very good fortune that some of the police officers escaped with their lives."