A young woman was dumped "like a rag doll" on the pavement outside a celebrity nightspot in London after being raped and beaten by a bouncer, a court heard today.The woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was "lured" into the toilet at The Collection nightclub in South Kensington by doorman Vasil Makaveev, 28, who forced her to give him oral sex, a jury at Kingston crown court heard.When the woman emerged "hysterical" after the attack on 6 June, staff picked her up "like a shop mannequin" and "unceremoniously dumped her" on the street outside, before shutting the doors.The woman had spent the day drinking white wine and champagne and watching sport before going to The Collection with friends.The club is a well-known celebrity haunt, once voted "best scene restaurant" by the society magazine Tatler. It is popular with A-List guests such as Princes William and Harry, Angelina Jolie, Jay-Z and Elton John.Lisa Wilding, prosecuting, said Makaveev, a bodybuilder, had carried out a "deliberate and calculated" attack on the woman, who is "5ft tall and very slender". She said the Bulgarian deliberately waited until the woman's companion had left the club before "preying" on her.Wilding said: "The club was closed, it was empty, she was the only person left. We say he targeted her and lured her into the ladies and he had his way with her."She added: "This was a deliberate and calculated attack by a man who had a responsibility for the welfare of everyone at the club, never mind a young, drunk, single girl. He preyed on her vulnerability by virtue of her drunkenness, seconds after her male companion had left, and lured her into the privacy of the toilet."When the woman was examined by a doctor the next day, more than 20 bruises and abrasions were found on her body, the jury heard. Traces of Makaveev's semen was also found on the woman's underwear and on the wall of the toilet cubicle.Wilding said the woman admitted she was drunk, but never consented to sex. She had gone to the toilet with Makaveev because she thought they were going to take cocaine together, Wilding added."She is adamant she would not and did not consent to him putting his penis in her mouth," said Wilding. "She told him no, she struggled and she resisted and found the whole episode disgusting … as soon as she could make good her escape, she ran from the toilets and into the bar."Makaveev denies rape, and says the woman had initiated the sexual activity. He told police she "turned from a horny sexual girl into a beast and went mad".CCTV footage shows the woman after returning from the toilet being restrained by Makaveev. She is seen punching and kicking and takes off her shoes to throw at him. When other staff came to see what was going on, they thought she was "drunk and a nuisance", and "literally threw her out", Wilding said.She told the jury: "You will see on CCTV that then she … was picked up like a shop mannequin and carried out by the defendant, helped then by his colleagues … before she was dumped unceremoniously like a rag doll".She added that the club staff then put the shutters down and left her "hysterical" on the street. A few minutes later they pulled the shutters back up and, finding her still there sitting on the pavement, flagged down a passing ambulance.The trial continues.