A former bouncer believed to have shot his ex-girlfriend and killed her boyfriend in a jealous rage only 36 hours after he was released from prison was on the run last night.Police were hunting for Raoul Thomas Moat, from Newcastle, after Samantha Stobbart, 22, was shot in the stomach at her home in Birtley, near Gateshead, at about 2.40am yesterday. Stobbart, who is in a critical condition in hospital under police guard, was hit when a shot was fired through her living room window. Her boyfriend, a karate instructor in his late 20s who has not been named, was killed 50m from the front door.Moat's Facebook page was updated on Thursday with a sinister warning. It said: "Just got out of jail, I've lost everything, my business, my property and to top it all off my lass of six years has gone off with someone else. I'm not 21 and I can't rebuild my life. Watch and see what happens." Moat, who had been in prison for assault, and Stobbart are said to have met when he was working as a doorman at Liquid nightclub in Newcastle. The pair have a three-year-old daughter, Chanel, but had a tempestuous relationship that often resulted in Stobbart leaving to live with her grandmother, Ann Hornsby.Hornsby, 69, said last night: "Raoul would come back, sweet-talk Samantha and then she'd go back. I kept telling her to leave him but she wouldn't listen. Raoul has threatened me. He's a bully. Sam's had a couple of operations so far to stop the bleeding. She's been shot twice, once in the stomach and another time in the chest. I just don't want Samantha to die." Asked about Moat's whereabouts, she said: "Raoul's mum is French and I would have thought he would have gone straight back to France."Investigators hunting for Moat believe the couple were targeted because of a grudge he harboured against them.Witnesses spoke last night of the shock at being woken by gunfire. Mary Hall, 63, a neighbour, said she had seen a man with a handgun and a woman in the house screaming, apparently on the phone to the police. She believed that this was Stobbart's mother. "The man shot through the window and shot the girl," she said.George Williamson, 50, said his son had come face to face with the gunman, who pointed his weapon at him before shooting the man who was lying outside the house. "I don't know the full details, my son has just clammed up," he said. "My son is in bits as he knew the girl."A 63-year-old neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "I woke up when I heard screaming. At first I thought it was just kids, but then I heard a gunshot. Me and the wife jumped up to the window and we heard another gunshot."I ran down the stairs to phone the police and when I was halfway down the third gunshot went off. We looked out of the window. There was a lot of screaming. We could see something lying on the ground. I said, 'I think it's a body', but no one was going near it. There was a couple of women screaming, 'He's got a gun, he's got a gun.'"Local councillor Neil Weatherley, who lives about a mile from the incident, said: "I am in total shock. By and large Birtley is quite a quiet backwater. We have issues like everywhere else, but to have a murder and a serious injury like this is horrific." Detective Superintendent Steve Howes of Northumbria Police said: "We would urge anyone who has any information about this incident or the whereabouts of the suspected offender to call police immediately. He should not be approached."