The home secretary, David Blunkett, today unveiled a new "coppers' contract" aimed at improving the speed and efficiency with which police officers respond to calls from the public.Speaking at the annual conference of the Superintendents' Association, in Warwickshire, Mr Blunkett said new minimum standards, which will be in place in every police force over the next two years, would ensure callers were dealt with "promptly and politely".The so-called contract, between the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), will set national minimum standards outlining the provision of clear information to the public about how to get in touch, how the police should deal with the initial call and follow it up, and how to measure feedback from the public about the service they have received.Plans to cut police red tape and introduce a new national police telephone number for non-emergency calls will support the push for improved customer service. The three-digit number, possibly 888, will be designed to take pressure off the 999 system and may also offer access other local services. Mr Blunkett said: "The experience of a member of the public contacting the police must improve dramatically. Under new standards agreed with the police, every force in England and Wales will ensure everyone contacting them gets a good level of service. "This is a vital part of my vision of a police service focused on serving the public. We have a record number of police officers - 12,500 extra since 1997 - who do a difficult and demanding job with skill and courage. "However, all too often the public's impression of the police service is poor because their initial contact with the police is disappointing. "These new rules will help ensure members of the public calling the police for non-emergencies will get a consistently high standard of service. HMIC's [Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary] work has found that call handling remains a challenge for most forces. "Not many organisations have to deal with the sheer range of calls for service that the police do whilst maintaining an emergency service at the same time. But things as simple as showing that callers are being taken seriously, keeping promises made about how soon an officer can attend an incident, and being dealt with professionally will increase the public's satisfaction at the service they receive."Above all, having the telephone answered promptly and politely would create an entirely different relationship, especially where proper training ensures that calls are given the appropriate priority."Mr Blunkett said the first stage of police reform under the present government had focused on modernising pay and conditions and introducing community support officers."The second stage will be driven by focusing the police on its service to the public when we publish our proposals this autumn. This will mirror our criminal justice reforms, which concentrated on making the criminal justice system focus on the needs of victims and witnesses. This isn't just about policing on behalf of the public: it is about policing with the public."On cutting red tape, Mr Blunkett told the conference: "We have made good progress in tackling the problem of bureaucracy in the police. "I am determined to further reduce bureaucracy, increase flexibility and slim down targets for police forces. Over 6,700 forms have been made obsolete, all forces are now undertaking video identity parades, and we have rolled out the use of fixed penalty notices across England and Wales."Mr Blunkett said that under the new process, called a bureaucracy "gateway", no new paperwork would be introduced to the police without first undergoing "a rigorous test to ensure it was absolutely necessary". "This will help ensure that officers are not tied up in back-room duties when they should be out fighting crime in communities and reassuring the public," he said.