This week's rooftop protest at Wealstun prison coincided with three scathing reports from the chief inspector of prisons showing that overcrowding has put paid to attempts to improve conditions at Britain's largest jails.The recent hot weather is probably directly to blame for the sudden increase in the volume of low-level disturbances inside the 135 prisons in England and Wales. But it is also a result of the relentless rise in the prison population, which now means that a record 73,000 prisoners are crammed into those jails. As the chief inspector, Anne Owers, puts it: "We are facing an acute problem in many of our prisons which are struggling on the edge of being able to provide a safe and decent regime. What we have in some of our prisons are a lot of frustrated prisoners who are hardly getting out of their cells and frustrated staff who are unable to offer a decent regime. That is a very volatile mix."So far the prison service has had a relatively good record in managing that ever-rising population, with only one major riot in recent years. But the bare figures suggest that a serious crunch is on the way.The population of 73,000 is already about 7,000 over the proper capacity of the prison system in England and Wales. With many prisoners doubled up in single cells, the jails are only 3,000 below the system's "bust limit" of 76,000 - which is why so many are being bussed around the country to fill every available space. The government is trying to build its way out of the problem with space for another 3,000 inmates to be constructed in the next three years, but it knows that is unlikely to match the growth in prison numbers. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has tried to ease the pain by repeatedly extending the early release scheme with more than 3,000 lower-risk prisoners out on electronic tags. It may be difficult to believe, but Mr Blunkett actually has plans for a far more radical criminal justice policy which would dramatically reduce the prison population. The introduction of two new schemes, custody minus and custody plus, would mean most of the prisoners now inside for 12 months or less will actually be punished in the community instead of being sent to jail.The necessary legislation is going through parliament now, the probation service is undergoing rapid expansion to accommodate them and the Treasury is being pressed to come up with the money to finance them. But, as yet, there is no timetable for their implementation and the danger is that an overcrowding crisis may arrive before they do. · Alan Travis is the Guardian's home affairs editor