Gay rights campaigners want police to ban a controversial Jamaican reggae artist from appearing in Britain today after the suspected "gay bashing" murder of a London barman.Detectives from the Metropolitan police's racial and violent crime taskforce have been analysing the lyrics of Sizzla, real name Miguel Collins, along with seven other dance hall artists, for several months over claims his songs incite people to kill gays and lesbians. As Sizzla starts his UK tour, Peter Tatchell, from Outrage!, demanded his shows be cancelled after the weekend murder of 37-year-old David Morley near a gay nightclub in London. Mr Tatchell criticised police for the slow speed of their inquiry into the eight artists. He said: "If a singer was inciting the murder of black or Jewish people there would be an immediate prosecution. "Police inquiries into these singers have gone on for over a year, why is it taking so long to get action against artists who explicitly incite the murder of lesbians and gays?" In September police stopped a gig in Manchester by another Jamaican artist, Buju Banton, amid concerns over his lyrics, which describe throwing acid over homosexuals. Mr Tatchell believes lyrics in songs such as Boom Boom, Sizzla's latest release, are serious enough to warrant a ban on his performances as well. In Boom Boom, Sizzla says: "Queers must be killed". In another, Pump Up, he sings: "Shoot queers." Mr Tatchell believes there is a clear link between these kind of lyrics and gay bashing. Following Saturday's murder on the South Bank he said it would be outrageous if the tour, which includes shows in Milton Keynes, Birmingham and London, went ahead. "This murder music encourages hatred towards homosex uals and hatred is what fuels queer bashing attacks," he said. Stonewall endorsed his view. A spokesman said: "These homophobic lyrics are appalling and we want something done to stop it. They are inciting violent acts on gay people." Mr Morley survived the 1999 nail bomb attack on the Admiral Duncan pub in Soho by David Copeland, in which three people died and 70 were injured. In the early hours of Saturday morning he was kicked and punched to death. Police are hunting a gang of teenagers who carried out a spate of attacks that night near the Royal Festival Hall, including an assault on another gay man. Mr Morley, who was the bar manager at the Admiral Duncan in 1999, was chatting with another man on a bench by the Thames for several hours when he was approached by several youths and two girls. After a brief conversation he and his friend were pulled to the ground and kicked and beaten. He died in hospital. Scotland Yard has been investigating the songs of a num ber of artists since allegations were made in June last year. They have passed papers to the Crown Prosecution Service, who are analysing and translating the lyrics from Jamaican patois, but there have been no prosecutions to date. A CPS spokesman said the inquiry was ongoing but had inherent difficulties. "One of the things that we needed to do in order to be able to have a proper full review of this case was to have a full translation of the lyrics and that has taken time to secure," he said. "Also the case has changed, new artists and new songs have become part of the investigation. It is not the case that we have just been sitting on this, we are continually looking at it." 