A Saudi Arabian student was stabbed 16 times in a "brutal and savage" attack as she walked alone to university, detectives said as they stepped up their investigation into whether she was targeted because of her traditional Islamic clothing.Detectives investigating the murder of Nahid Almanea, 31, appealed for calm over fears of reprisal attacks in Colchester, where the student was knifed to death on Tuesday.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A 52-year-old man arrested in connection with the murder was released on Thursday. Detectives said they were investigating whether Almanea was targeted because her full-length robe and headscarf marked her out as a Muslim.Police also declined to rule out a connection between the attack near Essex University and the killing of James Attfield, 33, stabbed more than 100 times in nearby Colchester Castle park in March.DCS Steve Worron, of Essex police, said at a press conference that there were obvious similarities between the murders of Almanea and Attfield."It is extremely unusual to see an attack of this type," he said. "We remain open-minded as to the profile of the offender or offenders, and we remain open-minded as to whether or not the two murder investigations would be linked."The murders were being treated as "separate but parallel" investigations, he  added.Ch Insp Richard Phillibrown appealed to people in Colchester to remain vigilant until police believed they had enough evidence to arrest the killer. "It's true we've had two knife murders in Colchester in recent months where the motive remains unknown and I would urge anyone to remain vigilant," he said."It is important that people are aware of their own surroundings, that they don't go out alone in isolated places, that they take precautions and don't go out isolated."This murder is an attack on the whole community of Colchester and it's important we all pull together."A post-mortem examination revealed that she died from 16 stab wounds to her head, neck, body and arms, including two stabs that would have proved fatal on their own.As police appealed for calm and urged the public to come forward with any information, Phillibrown said they were investigating online threats of revenge attacks made in the wake of the murder. "Some of those statements posted on social media are making various threats and the police service is looking at those with the relevant criminal offences in the UK," he said."I'd like to assure you that the police will take immediate action against anyone who commits an offence."Almanea had only lived in Britain since the turn of the year, moving to Colchester to live with her brother as she studied an English language course as part of a PhD degree at the University of Essex. She was due to graduate in August.She regularly took the same route to university with her brother along a secluded footpath, a short walk from the university's Colchester campus.However, on Tuesday her brother started lectures early, meaning Almanea was walking alone when she was ambushed and knifed to death shortly before 11am.Richard Barnard, head of the university's International Academy, paid tribute to the "very hard-working and conscientious student". He added: "She was a quiet, considerate and well respected member of the programme and had ambitions to move on to further academic study. She will be greatly missed by her teachers and her fellow students."Meanwhile, students at the Colchester campus where Almanea studied were left shaken by the attack.Dimitrios Andreou, 25, studying for a PhD in computers, called on police to be more visible around Colchester, claiming they "did nothing" when he was set upon by seven men in 2012 in an attack he believes was racially motivated."I think the police should increase their presence. That is a definite. Me and my friend got beaten up really bad – there was about seven people, all ex-military. And nothing happened [with the police investigation]. That was a racist attack. I know because one of them said to me friend, 'I hate fucking foreigners', then he received a punch. There was no conversation or anything."Andreou's friend, Al Muller, 39, said he didn't believe the latest murder was a hate crime, but said he was concerned about a potential serial killer in the area if the attack is linked to the brutal killing of Attfield. "It could be wrong place, wrong time. If you consider the two cases it's not an extremist or racist person it seems like a gang or a serial killer or psycopath going round," he said.Muller, who is also studying for a PhD in computers, used to live on the Greenstead estate where the student was killed. It has a feared reputation among students, he said. "Whenever I hear Greenstead I shrink. When I was looking for a place to live for me and my wife and kids I said I'm never living there. Ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. It's a very shady area."He said the council had recently switched off all street lights on the estate to save money. "I sometimes walk around there and these days I stop. It's creating this uneasy feeling like there might be some psychopath loose around there. You must know that place to go there. You can't be from out of the town and go to that place."Thomas Morse, a 26-year-old student of molecular medicine, said he didn't think Colchester was any better or worse than other parts of the country, and dismissed fears about a possible rise in anti-Muslim sentiment in the town."The EDL held a march here recently and only about 15 people turned up. There were about 100 anti-EDL people, so you have to consider that."A drama student, who declined to give her name, said: "Obviosuly it's awful it happened, at the start of the year as well. It makes you worry for a while."The student, who lives on the Greenstead estate, said despite its reputation it was still popular with students because of the cheap rents. She avoids using the footpath as a shortcut to the university campus because it doesn't feel safe. "Greenstead's pretty rough. I go past the footpath – it didn't look safe at the start."