In her speech to the Labour conference this September, the home secretary Jacqui Smith made clear her intention to criminalise clients of "trafficked" sex workers and stated that, from October, she will begin work to outlaw paying for sex with those who are "forced into prostitution at another's will, or controlled for another's gain".Stirring stuff, yet Smith seems coy about giving the actual figures for trafficked workers. The official figures for the police operation Pentameter 1 showed, that despite 55 forces hunting for them, only 88 women were trafficked. Since it is accepted on all sides of the debate that 80,000 work in the sex industry, then the number of those trafficked amounts to 0.11% of those in sex work. According to a recent parliamentary answer, Pentameter 2 improved on that performance with the recovery of 167 victims of trafficking – but that still represents only 0.21% of sex workers. In other words, the impression Smith gives that the sex industry is rife with trafficking is highly misleading. Meanwhile, criminalising the clients – who often tip off police when they have qualms about a worker's status – of that small percentage will only make things worse for the workers. Smith wants to remove the word "persistent" from kerb-crawling laws as, in her view, "once around the block is once too many – and so we'll make kerb-crawling punishable as a first offence". This will create a new sus-type law for police to stop anyone at will. Smith also wants to give councils and the police new powers to close down brothels and clamp down on exploitation. But this only displaces the trade and puts women on the street where they are less safe. Since the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, police authorities have been empowered to freeze and then sell assets of brothel-keepers and parlour managers, and this money is then split four ways, with the Home Office, CPS, Courts Service and police all getting their share. The Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005 extended powers for civil recovery of assets (see, for example, s245A, 245B). In s110, the power of arrest is extended to enable police or community wardens to arrest, without warrant, anyone for any offence, or on suspicion that an offence might be committed, however trivial, in connection with the so-called crime of brothel-keeping. It is wrong that the Home Office has provided the police with such a huge vested interest in the criminalisation of sex work. The home secretary wants to give communities a "stronger say" (whatever that is) in stopping lap-dancing clubs opening in their areas. Female government ministers have criticised lap-dancing clubs, yet the government's own licensing laxity that has made the prevalence of clubs possible. In fact, cases at court and tribunals such as Spearmint Rhino v HMRC (2007) (pdf) show that the women who work in lap dancing clubs are self-employed workers with agency. The vast majority of clubs offer good, safe working conditions, say many of the only people qualified to judge – the dancers. Smith talks of the "considerable support" of the public, but if she means the Ipsos Mori poll the government commissioned to ask mostly anti-sex work questions, the same Ipsos Mori poll found that 59% of people agreed that "prostitution is a perfectly reasonable choice that women should be free to make". Doubtless that figure would be higher if the question also included men, or transgender workers. Only 27% disagreed, and 37% of people would not be ashamed if a family member was working as a prostitute. Half of those questioned felt that the purchase of sex should be legal. Only 43% felt that it should be illegal. The government's proposals would not affect "sole traders"; and according to the sex workers' union, IUSW, the majority of sex workers are self-employed independents who never come to the attention of police or researchers, so the government should surely be doing more to empower this group of workers. Why, therefore, are they insisting that they work alone, rather than in groups known to make their work safer? There are three main policy approaches to prostitution. First, there is the regulationist approach, seen in differing forms in Nevada and the Netherlands. Second, there is the prohibitionist approach, which is formal policy in Thailand and in many US states, such as New York. Prohibition, of course, never succeeds in its primary aim and, in fact, usually institutionalises the criminality and corruption associated with the sex industry. The third way is decriminalisation, an approach that has recently emerged in New Zealand. In 2003, the Prostitution Reform Act in New Zealand decriminalised prostitution without "endorsing or morally sanctioning it or its use". The legislation safeguards the human rights of sex workers and promotes their health and safety. In a review of the act's operation, New Zealand's law review committee found that "the PRA has empowered sex workers by removing the taint of criminality from their occupation, and part of that empowerment is to take control of their employment relationships" and "over 90% of sex workers in each sector felt that they have legal rights under the PRA. Over 60% of sex workers in each sector felt that they were more able to refuse to provide commercial sexual services to a particular client since the enactment of the PRA". As regards violence "a significant minority thought that there had been an improvement since the enactment of the PRA. Of those feeling in a position to comment, the majority felt sex workers were now more likely to report incidents of violence to the Police." PRA has not increased underage involvement in prostitution, but the committee found that "the passage of the PRA has raised awareness of the problem of under age prostitution, and that this is a positive consequence". Yet the UK government has only discussed two sides of the debate, regulation and prohibition. When I met with government ministers Vernon Coaker and Barbara Follet separately this year and asked whether a ministerial group would be going to New Zealand (where they had been invited), the response was that it was "too far".None of the reports upon which the UK government depends has been through the proper academic peer-review process. Indeed, some of the government-sponsored reports have been criticised (pdf) by academics and researchers (pdf). For example, the absurd research methodology from the  equalities' office research (pdf), which involved over-interpreting advertisements in local papers on a single day to link services of foreign women advertised there to spurious, over-inflated trafficking figures of 10,000 (p 10); the research report Big Brothel, produced by the Poppy Project, which receives government funding, expressed horror at the prices being offered without pointing out this was at only one venue or that that prices ranged up to £250. Staggeringly, its researchers estimated numbers of workers by telephoning numbers advertised in London newspapers. Such calling results in massive over-counting as sex workers work from different flats on different weeks or days.In addition, ordinary police officers do not want this legislation. Research I carried out for my book The Price of Sex including interviews with male and female officers showed that ordinary officers do not want to make things worse for sex workers. So I have to ask whether the home secretary is playing populist politics for short-term advantage at the expense of policy making that might actually benefit vulnerable workers in the sex industry.