The final known steps taken by Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were yesterday retraced by the jury hearing the trial of Ian Huntley and Maxine Carr.Members of the jury were allowed to look around the house where the 10-year-old friends were allegedly murdered by the school caretaker Mr Huntley. They also visited the storage shed where the girls' partially burned clothing was found. Areas of the girls' hometown of Soham, Cambridgeshire, were sealed off by police as the Old Bailey's courtroom one effectively sat at the scene of the alleged killings. Prior to the visit, the judge, Mr Justice Moses, had told the jurors it would give them a chance to see at first hand "important features" of the small town. The coach carrying the jurors, escorted by police motorcycle outriders, arrived in Soham shortly after 11am. It drove past Brook Street, where Jessica lived, a police officer standing at the front door to mark it for the jury. The panel was then driven the 700 metres to Holly's house in Redhouse Gardens. Last week, during the prosecution's opening statement, the jury heard that Jessica had walked to Holly's house at 11.45am on the day the girls vanished, August 4 last year. The jury got off the coach, and, accompanied by four City of London police officers, the judge, counsel and court officials, began to walk the route which the prosecution claims the girls took after leaving a barbecue at Holly's house in the late afternoon. They were led into the town centre, where the girls were seen by a number of witnesses, and then to the Ross Peers sports centre. The girls were caught on CCTV cameras there a few minutes before they vanished. Police had thrown a cordon around the route and there were few people in the town. Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, had advised the jury it would be better if they did not talk in case they were overheard. An eerie silence was broken only by the clatter of a police helicopter hovering overhead and the occasional air force jet. The party walked two-thirds of the way up College Road, where the prosecution says the girls were last seen at 6.32pm or 6.33pm. Mr Latham, dressed in suit and overcoat rather than court robes, then paused as the jurors reached the home of Mr Huntley and Ms Carr in College Close, and said simply: "Members of the jury, number five." Green metal cladding which had been erected to protect the house in the grounds of Soham village college, where Mr Huntley worked as a caretaker, had been removed. Mr Latham reminded the jury that during a police search the house had been stripped of all interior fittings. Mr Latham drew attention to changes in the bathroom. The jury has heard that Ms Carr had claimed her boyfriend, Mr Huntley, told her that one of the girls had went into the bathroom because she had a nosebleed. The prosecutor has told the jury it may have to consider how the acrylic bath came to be cracked. The jurors spent 15 minutes inside the house while a court official stood guard. Mr Latham said the prosecution and the defence invited the jury to consider sightlines from within the house and just outside. He drew attention to the view to the "hangar" storage shed where the girls' clothes were found in a bin. After lunch, the jury - five men and seven women - was taken to the hangar, a two-minute walk from the house. They went into the college itself and the caretaker's office was pointed out. The trial continues today when the jury will visit the spot where the girls' bodies were found almost two weeks after their disappearance. Mr Huntley, 29, denies two charges of murder. Ms Carr, 26, denies two charges of assisting an offender and conspiring to pervert the course of justice.