The brother of gunman Raoul Moat has condemned tributes to the murderer on Facebook.In an interview with the Guardian today, Angus Moat said he has no time for those who think his younger brother is an anti-establishment "legend".He said: "I do not condone that at all, and I'm sure he wouldn't either if he was still here. People who celebrate the bravado to give some kind of outlet to the negative side of their feelings and their emotions and their lives."The RIP Raoul Moat you Legend page, which attracted more than 30,000 contributions and the condemnation of David Cameron in the Commons, was removed from Facebook on Thursday by its creator, Siobhan O'Dowd, amid growing public revulsion.But the R.I.P Raoul Moat! page is still active on the social networking site and has more than 15,000 fans.Moat became Britain's most wanted man after shooting his former girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart, killing her boyfriend Chris Brown and shooting PC David Rathband in the face. His crime spree came to an end a week ago, when he apparently killed himself following a six-hour standoff with police in Rothbury.Angus Moat, a tax officer, said he was furious with his younger brother for the crimes he committed but also heartbroken by his "suicidal and lonely" death."I'm furious with him for what he's done. But I'm heartbroken at the same time. I'm defending him, because I think I will defend him – I love him, he's my brother – but he's a bête noir as well. I accept what he did was wrong, but I would rather have seen an outcome where he was arrested and sentenced and treated accordingly, rather than an execution on a hillside. But to die on that bank, suicidal and lonely – it broke my heart."He added that it had been horrific to watch his brother's final hours on TV news. "It was the most horrific thing – I wouldn't wish it on anybody. My loved brother. Killed on TV."Stobbart, who has been under police armed guard in hospital since Moat shot her in the stomach, was today said to feel responsible for the death of her boyfriend. She had told Moat that Brown was a police officer.A relative, who did not wish to be named for fear of reprisals by Moat's former associates, said: "Sam is beside herself. She absolutely devastated at what happened to Chris and knows it was because of what she said to Raoul about having a new boyfriend."Sam only said he was a police officer because she was so frightened. It is not her fault he did what he did; she was terrified of him."The relative added that Stobbart still had feelings for Moat. "She still loves Raoul. She's just absolutely heartbroken at everything that's happened and knows it will be with her for the rest of her life."