Scotland Yard yesterday made an embarrassing climbdown by reinstating one of its most senior ethnic minority officers who had been suspended over a string of corruption allegations.Superintendent Ali Dizaei was cleared in September at the Old Bailey of criminal charges for the second time after a massive investigation by his own force. He and his supporters had damned the four-year, multimillion pound inquiry - which included telephone taps - as a racist witch-hunt.Yesterday Mr Dizaei wore his police uniform for the first time since January 2001, after getting his job back after a tense six weeks of negotiations brokered by the conciliation service Acas. Senior Metropolitan police officers had vowed that he would never return to work because he lacked the integrity to do so. Yesterday the force said Mr Dizaei was "returning with his integrity demonstrably intact". Within hours of the deal being announced, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, told an audience including Mr Dizaei that he admired him. Sources say the home secretary, David Blunkett, made clear his wish for a settlement to avoid years of expensive and embarrassing legal action. As part of the settlement, Mr Dizaei will drop all legal action and complaints, including a planned race discrimination claim against the force which could have led to a payout of more than £1m. He has admitted falling below the standards expected of a senior police officer by making a threatening phone call to a former girlfriend and by lying to officers about the location of his car when it was damaged. He will receive "words of advice" about his conduct, the lowest form of police censure. The force had accused the officer, an outspoken critic of police racism, of being a threat to national security, abusing drugs and using prostitutes. Despite an estimated £7m cost in investigation and two criminal trials, all the allegations proved baseless. "It's a complete victory for me," Mr Dizaei said. "A year ago I was an alleged terrorist, and now I'm back in uniform with my integrity intact." The superintendent, once tipped to become a chief constable, will take a strategic command course in April next year, the gateway to the upper echelons of the police. He predicted he would be involved in operational policing within a year. On rejoining the force formally on December 1, he will be seconded to the National Black Police Association as a way of smoothing his reintegration into the force's leadership after so long away. But he predicted that he might suffer a backlash from some in the force. "I'm sure it's not going to be an easy ride, but I've never had one in the police service," he said. He will also get about £80,000 in compensation. Pressure for a Met climbdown intensified after black officers became so incensed by his treatment that they boycotted police efforts to recruit more ethnic minority officers. Addressing the Met's Black Police Association, Sir John seemed to admit the boycott's impact: "There is absolutely no way we could police London properly without a proper cultural mix that reflects the population," he said. He said work to stamp out racism and recruit more ethnic minority officers "stood a chance of being lost". In a stunning turnaround, Sir John then praised Mr Dizaei: "The other thing I have to tell you, Ali, which I admire you for, you've admitted that you've done wrong... How often do we get police officers who are prepared to do that... and I believe that has allowed us to move on." Sir John said he had heard grumblings that the force was weak to take Mr Dizaei back. But he said: "To reach compromise, to move forward, to admit to mistakes from both sides is not a weakness, it is a strength." The deal also saves the Met deputy commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, from an investigation, after a complaint from Mr Dizaei about his role in the case. Sir Ian oversaw the team which investigated Mr Dizaei and pursued him for so long. As part of the fallout from the case, the Metropolitan Police Authority is to investigate the higher level of disciplinary action taken against ethnic minority officers. Furthermore, another force will investigate the saga for the Police Complaints Authority.