A mother accused of murdering three of her babies wept yesterday as she told a court how much she loved them, saying she still did not understand why they died.Trupti Patel denied suffocating Amar, aged 13 weeks, Jamie, aged 15 days, and 22-day-old Mia. The pharmacist, whose surviving child is eight, blames cot death for each tragedy. Mrs Patel, 35, told Reading crown court in Berkshire that she kept a "memory box" at home for each of her children in which she stored items of their clothing, locks of hair, and their birth and death certificates. She had been "extremely glad" when she became pregnant with her second child, Amar, who died in 1997. Both she and her husband Jayant were "over the moon" about the birth of their third child, Jamie, who died in 1999. Postmortem examinations initially found no discernible cause of death for Amar or Jamie. But when the couple's fourth child, Mia, died in 2001 she was found to have four broken ribs consistent with "adult hands squeezing the chest", the prosecution alleges. Asked by her defence counsel, Kieran Coonan QC, if she had deliberately broken the baby's ribs, she insisted she had been trying to resuscitate her. She said, crying: "I was trying to save her life." She told the jury that Amar had been "sniffly" in the days before his collapse but had otherwise been healthy. On the day he died, she had to get up at 4am to breastfeed him because he was having an unsettled night, then she let her husband put him back to sleep. When she went back to check on her baby later that morning, he had stopped breathing, she told the court. "Amar was lying in his cot, he just did not look normal," she said. "It was not anything specific I can tell you, I remember going over to him and he did not appear to be breathing." Mr Coonan asked Mrs Patel: "Amar died at three months old. Did you love him?" "Yes," she replied, beginning to cry. "Did you smother him?" asked Mr Coonan. "No," she said, breaking into loud sobs. Mrs Patel told the court she feared another tragedy after she lost Amar and became pregnant with Jamie. Before Jamie's birth in June 1999, she and her husband attended a conference in London on sudden infant death syndrome. They also researched cot deaths on the internet. "My anxieties were that I would experience the same situation again," she said. "There was a possibility that [the new baby] might die. I can't explain why I thought that. It was just a feeling." On the day Jamie died, she breastfed him as normal before setting him down in his cot. When her husband came home after picking up their first child from nursery, he went in to check on the baby and came out of the room carrying him. "He appeared to be quite floppy and lifeless," she said. "I started [resuscitation] and I took him downstairs. "I was breathing into his mouth and nose while going downstairs." Her husband dialled 999 and an air ambulance was dispatched to the Patel home in Maidenhead, Berkshire. Mr Coonan said: "At hospital the doctors and nurses did what they could to save Jamie but they could not and he died. Mrs Patel did you smother him?" "No," she replied, breaking down in tears again. "Did you do anything to hurt him?" asked Mr Coonan. "No," she said. After the second tragedy, the couple feared there was a genetic cause for the boys' deaths and discussed having tests to check. Mia was born in May 2001. "We were quite relieved that Mia was a girl, having had discussions about a possible genetic link to boys," Mrs Patel said. The baby appeared "perfectly healthy", but in June that year an identical tragedy appeared to have struck. Mrs Patel found the baby lying looking "drained" in her cot. Her reaction was one of "complete shock. I couldn't believe this could happen three times." After Mrs Patel was arrested in May last year, the couple investigated their family history for deaths in infancy. She discovered that her maternal grandmother had lost five of her 12 children in infancy. Her husband told police that on his side of the family there had been three infant deaths. The trial continues.