A paedophile who groomed a vulnerable schoolgirl who has been missing for eight years has been convicted of her murder.Robert Ewing, 60, killed 15-year-old Paige Chivers in Blackpool in August 2007. He was also found guilty at Preston crown court of perverting the course of justice by intimidating witnesses and providing false information to the police.Ewing was convicted on Tuesday, but the verdicts could not be reported until Friday because the jury was still considering the case against another defendant, Gareth Dewhurst, who was found guilty of perverting the course of justice.The jury also convicted Dewhurst on Friday of a second charge of helping Ewing dispose of Paige’s body. He was earlier cleared of a charge of having sex with the body after Ewing had killed her.Paige went missing on 23 August 2007 after a row on the phone with her father, Frank, about missing cash.He reported her missing on 26 August but the police botched their initial response. Her father clearly stated she was 15, but her date of birth was wrongly entered on the police system as 1962. As a result, the matter was dealt with as though Paige were an adult aged 45 who had moved on voluntarily, rather than a girl of 15 who was missing from home. It was not corrected until almost two weeks later, on 7 September.Ewing, formerly of Bispham, Blackpool, had developed an “inappropriate sexual interest” in Paige – who was described in court as “very troubled and vulnerable” – before he beat her to death.Bloodstains were found by a police forensics team in the inner hallway of his flat in 2007. The blood belonged to Paige, and Ewing was arrested a few months later in 2008. But he was not charged until last year.The murder was said to have taken place between 23 August and 27 August 2007. On 23 August Paige had packed two carrier bags with clothes and left her home in Bispham. Later the same day she was spotted at a nearby bus stop with an older man, said to be Ewing.An extensive proof-of-life inquiry found no evidence that Paige was alive and she never claimed a “significant” inheritance sum left to her after her mother’s death.Less than a fortnight before Paige went missing, Ewing was said to have anonymously contacted police to tell them that a “problem child” had turned up on his doorstep having been thrown out by her father. Prosecutors said he was effectively “testing the water” and there had been “very little reaction” by officials.The jury was told that Ewing’s friend Dewhurst, 46, of Blackpool, had been overheard in conversation saying he had used his car to dump the teenager’s body. Both men also took a keen interest in the police search for Paige.During the trial, the jury heard that a “highly stoned” Dewhurst had told a 16-year-old boy that Ewing had killed Paige and then made him have sex with her corpse before forcing him to use his car to dispose of her body.The botched initial handling of Paige’s disappearance has now been voluntarily referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission by Lancashire constabulary.A force spokesman said: “We fully recognise and accept that an error was made when Paige was first reported missing. Quite simply, her year of birth was recorded as 1962 and not 1992. While our focus quite rightly up to this juncture has been on the criminal investigation, this matter will now be voluntarily referred to the IPCC.”The jury deliberated for 30 hours and 37 minutes. As the verdict was read out, Dewhurst said from behind the glass dock: “I didn’t do it.” Ewing and Dewhurst will be sentenced on 28 July. Speaking on behalf of the family, Paige’s brother-in-law Robert McClelland said “not a day goes past” when they did not think about the murdered teenager. He said they longed to know where her body was so they could lay her to rest. He said: “That year we heard that Paige had gone missing, we thought that she was just out with her mates. Never would we think that she would become a missing person. Days turned into weeks, weeks into months and months into years with no sign of Paige. “Paige should be at home with her loved ones around her, being an auntie to all her nieces and nephews and enjoying life. She should now be making a family of her own and had her life ahead of her. We all have big holes in our hearts that can never be replaced.” Joanne Cunliffe, of the North West CPS, said: “At the time of her disappearance Paige had very little stability in her life and Robert Ewing took advantage of this. He was a middle-aged man who befriended her, not for any charitable reasons, but because he had an inappropriate sexual interest in her. “Although we will never know the exact circumstances, the jury in delivering their guilty verdict have found that soon after Paige went missing he killed her in his flat. Gareth Dewhurst knew about the murder and helped Robert Ewing dispose of her body. “Neither of the defendants has ever shown any remorse and over the years since Paige went missing they have done everything they could to cover their tracks to divert inquiries away from them and try to put the blame on other people. Robert Ewing in particular has attempted to lay false trails and obstruct the police investigations through a series of concocted explanations about the evidence.” DS Andy Webster said the case had been difficult to investigate and prosecute because of the absence of a body. He said: “The difference between 2015 and 2007/8 is that we were able to gather a large amount of evidence against Ewing and Dewhurst from our covert investigations and I think that tipped the scales in terms of us being able to mount a successful investigation. “The prosecution case has been largely circumstantial as Paige’s body has never been recovered. Her blood was later found in his flat. When she was reported missing he failed to assist the police and then repeatedly lied to them. He has repeatedly sought to implicate other vulnerable people in her murder. “For nearly eight years Lancashire constabulary have tirelessly sought to bring Paige’s killer to justice and today represents the culmination of that investigation. To this end, we remain committed to finding Paige and I would appeal for Ewing and Dewhurst to now tell us where she is so that she can be laid to rest with dignity.”