Nestled in the shadow of Manchester airport and just off the M56, the Wythenshawe estate is among the most deprived communities in the UK.In the last three-and-a-half years, 35 antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) have been imposed, mostly against young people. Manchester has the highest number of orders in the UK, with 184 orders brought against 140 individuals in the same period. The city has been provided with £600,000 funding over three years to work with 150 families as part of its status as a trailblazer area. But not all the residents of the Willow Park area of the estate share the view that the orders are a panacea. Young teenagers wearing baseball caps, tracksuits and hooded tops hang around outside a newsagent's shop in a small group. As a police officer approaches, they slink away. A passing funeral cortege snakes its way along the road as several of the mourners, wearing dark sunglasses, enthusiastically give v-signs to the police, who ignore them. William Coughlin, 18, who lives on the estate, is firmly opposed to antisocial behaviour orders. "I think they are bang out of order," he said. "There are others ways of punishing people - community service or maybe tagging. I think it is a bit harsh. "My mates have been locked up and everything and we have had leaflets come through the door with my mates' faces on it. It is humiliating for them." Superintendent Gerry McGowan, of Greater Manchester police, said 75% of cases never result in an order being instituted. "We get about 12 reports to us every week about breaches and they are predominantly attributed to one individual," he said. "At the present time we have a number of Asbos and the great majority are against juveniles. "It is not a draconian measure which breaches the rights of individuals; we don't go out and seek to recruit people. People come to us with issues and we deal with them. It is a seven-stage process and Asbos are a last resort. "Wythenshawe is a place which feels an awful lot better than it did a number of years ago. On this estate there has been a reduction of 30% over two years of reports of youth nuisance." Councillor Basil Curley, Manchester city council's executive member for housing, said: "The high number of Asbos is absolutely a sign of success. The expectation of people in the city is to demand a good quality of life and they are also very much aware of the new laws and they want us to use them." Next year, a Family Support Unit is being set up in Manchester, the second in the UK, where five problem families will live and be given intensive support. Bharat Patel, proprietor of Amba's newsagents, said: "There has been a little bit of change, but the teenagers still hang around the shop stopping other customers coming in. I tell them to move on, but just get a lot of abuse back. "People with Asbos are still out around here - they don't care. It has got a little bit better since the cameras went up." A taxi driver, who did not want to be named, pointed to a large deep scratch down the side of his car. "Asbos don't work," he said bluntly. "There is a family near me who are nuisance neighbours. They rob cars, smash your windows and they have scratched my car with a key. They took my taxi computer out and have attacked dozens of other cars. "They throw wild apples at your windows and cars and they set fire to things. The youngest is four years old and the oldest is in his late teens."