The Home Secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday announced a raft of measures to tackle racism, and he said he hoped that the Lawrence report would 'act as a catalyst for permanent and irrevocable change'. He said he wanted the report 'to serve as a watershed in our attitudes to racism', and that there was a need for a change in attitude throughout society to 'make racial equality a reality'. He accepted the conclusions of Sir William Macpherson's report accusing the Metropolitan Police of basic incompetence and institutionalised racism, but the Home Secretary stood by the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, saying he could serve out his remaining 10 months in office and help to introduce reforms. Mr Straw and Tony Blair met Lawrence's parents, Neville and Doreen, in private at Downing Street yesterday. Hours later, during his Commons statement, Mr Straw looked directly at them sitting in the public gallery as he paid tribute to the campaign they had pursued with 'dignity, courage and determination'. Mr Straw, who has taken a personal interest in the campaign since meeting the family in 1997, and who initiated the inquiry, told the Commons of his 'sense of shame' that the criminal justice system had failed the Lawrence family 'so badly'. Sir Paul shared that sense of shame. Mr Straw told MPs: 'The very process of the inquiry has opened all our eyes to what it is like to be black or Asian in Britain today. And the inquiry process has revealed some fundamental truths about the nature of our society, about our relationships, one with the other. Some of these truths are uncomfortable. But we have to confront them.' Mr Straw accepted the new definition of institutional racism set out in the report. It includes unwitting prejudice and racist stereotyping. 'Any long-established, white-dominated organisation is liable to have procedures, practices and a culture which tend to exclude or disadvantage non-white people. 'The police service in this respect is little different from other parts of the criminal justice system, or from government departments, including the Home Office and many other institutions.' Potentially the most far-reaching of the measures announced by Mr Straw was the extension of the Race Relations Act to the police force and other public services, including the civil service, immigration service and the National Health Service. The bill, which will mean that anyone accused of racism can be made to appear before a tribunal, is to be introduced in the Queen's Speech in the autumn. Mr Straw has asked the Law Commission to investigate the issue of double jeopardy - whether someone acquitted of a crime might be tried again if fresh evidence is found. A Home Office official said Mr Straw was 'open-minded' on the issue and would await the commission's findings. The official admitted that it was 'outrageous' that the police involved, all but one of whom has retired, escaped any disciplinary action, but said that nothing can be done in this case. Mr Straw told the Commons that changes would be made so action could be taken in the future. Police recruitment from ethnic communities will be stepped up to represent the balance in society. Mr Straw told the Commons he wanted 'a thorough scrutiny of unsolved murders'. Stop-and-search powers will be used 'more effectively and fairly'. Summing up, he said: 'This report must mark the beginning of this process.' He quoted Doreen Lawrence's evidence to the inquiry, in which she said: 'I would like Stephen to be remembered as a young man who had a future. He was well-loved and had he been given the chance to survive, maybe he would have been the one to bridge the gap between black and white'. Mr Straw concluded: 'This report was born of the courage and determination of Neville and Doreen Lawrence, of their desire to get the truth of what happened, of their desire to ensure that their son was never forgotten. 'This report is a testament to them. And upon this report we must build a lasting testament to Stephen.' 'The very process of the inquiry has opened all our eyes to what it is like to be black or Asian in Britain today. And the inquiry process has revealed some fundamental truths about the nature of our society. Some truths are uncomfortable. But we have to confront them'