From a hospital bed in Yorkshire, a frail old man is refusing to close the final chapter in one of the strangest cases in British legal history. Next month sees the 30th anniversary of the death in Saudi Arabia of Ron Smith's 23-year-old daughter, Helen. The former police officer hopes that he will be well enough to pay his respects - not at her grave, but to her remains, which still lie in the mortuary at Leeds General Infirmary.Now aged 81 and very sick, Smith has spent the past three decades trying to prove that Helen was murdered during an illegal drinking party in Jeddah on 20 May 1979, refusing to accept the official Saudi line that she and her "lover" fell from a sixth-floor balcony. He has refused to allow her body to be buried until justice is done."Unfortunately this has to go on. It's a part of what I've been fighting for all these years. I can't give up now," he said from the renal unit at Leeds's St James Hospital, where he has been for several weeks while being treated for kidney and chest problems. "I'm not sure they are telling me the whole truth about my condition; maybe I am sicker than I think," he said. "I know I could be running out of time."For Smith there can be no end to the story until he gets acknowledgement from the British authorities about what he claims was the cover-up of two murders - his daughter's and that of Johannes Otten, a Dutch sea captain - because of entangled British-Saudi politics.Helen Smith was a nurse working at the Bakhsh hospital in Jeddah when she was invited to a party being held by a British couple, Dr Richard Arnot and his wife, Penny, at their sixth-floor flat. Helen's body was found in the street close to that of Otten, 35, who was impaled on railings. The Saudi authorities claimed that the pair had been having sex - which is illegal for unmarried couples in Saudi - and had fallen to their deaths. Smith was suspicious of that account and the 62-page dossier he has since amassed on the deaths contains medical statements that show Helen's body had no injuries consistent with such a fall. Indeed, when her body was found her arm was at an angle above her head in a state of rigor mortis, an elevation that would have been impossible if she had fallen while she was still alive. None of her limbs sustained fractures and she had received a blow to the head which, a doctor said, would have rendered her unconscious. She also had bruises on her face and on her body that had been inflicted when she was alive and suggested a sexual assault.Smith has already managed to bring about a change in British law by forcing an inquest into Helen's death, winning the support of the court of appeal that a hearing should be held in this country, even though she had died abroad. It led to a sensational inquest in Leeds in 1982 that gripped the country. But the inquest jury returned an open verdict and Smith's demands for an official inquiry were snubbed. The fight to uncover what actually happened to Helen on a sweltering night in Saudi Arabia has cost Smith tens of thousands of pounds. He is now divorced from Helen's mother, who has since moved abroad, and he says he is estranged from his three other children, who found it difficult to deal with his obsession with the case. "They grew weary of the whole thing and I don't blame them for that. When I'm gone, others will make a decision about Helen," said Smith.Those who had hoped that Smith's medical condition would bring a change of heart have been disappointed. He has made it clear once again that he is not prepared to yield. "Over the years, some people have said it's a terrible thing to keep my daughter's body in a mortuary. With each anniversary, I've been asked why I don't call a halt. How can I when nothing has changed?"I've been under pressure from clergymen, among others, but I see it as my Christian duty to right a wrong on behalf of Helen, the man who also died that night and, yes, myself. "The hospital chaplain who came to see me this time is a smashing chap. I have the impression that there's now an acceptance that I'm not giving up just because I'm in here." There also seems to be an acceptance on his part that, when he dies, the Helen Smith case dies with him. When her body eventually leaves the mortuary, unanswered questions will almost certainly remain. It will also be the longest period of time that a body in Britain has not been buried or cremated.In attempting to bring an end to the saga, her father has prolonged it because his aims have not been met. When Labour came to power 12 years ago, the then home secretary, Jack Straw, agreed to re-examine the case, but his eventual response was that there was nothing more the government could do.The West Yorkshire police told the Observer that their officers had visited Saudi Arabia at Smith's insistence after Helen's death but had returned with "nothing of an evidential nature". The case remained on their files, they said, but no further action would be taken unless new evidence turned up.