One of the earliest signs of the rivalry between our current prime minister and his chancellor was their disputed claim to the phrase "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime". Although the prime minister was the first to say it in public, in 1993, the Brownites complained it was their coinage, pinched from under their noses by a brazen young offender. For a chancellor who has often struggled with words, "tough on crime etc etc etc" remains the most glorious thing he has ever produced, an aphorism of majestic, binary profundity, and each time it is listed as one of Blair's great sayings, the knife is twisted again.Which no doubt explains why the phrase is so cherished by the prime minister. We don't hear much about new young countries these days, or about the forces of conservatism, but for Blair, the appeal of "tough on crime" is evergreen, even though it invariably draws attention to his mixed record in this respect, not to mention the enduring vagueness about how tough tough actually is.Only this week Blair did it again, twice quoting himself (or Gordon Brown) in the introduction to his latest policy review, in which he promised that his government always had been, and would remain, "tough on crime and tough on its causes".Up to a point. Tough-ish, anyway. Depending on the context, and on what you mean by tough. Take stains; they can be tough to remove, can't they? Well, Blair's government has been tough on stains. One punishment for young offenders doing community service has been removing really tough stains from walls. And DIY: that can be tough, too. Particularly if you have never done it before. Which is why another tough punishment for a young offender sentenced to "unpaid work", or "community payback", might be laying decking. Or assembling a piece of flatpack furniture - a tough activity which, as anyone who has tried it will know, might have been designed for the government's new "simple, speedy, summary" strategy for enforcing justice. If it would not infringe their human rights, we can imagine the further benefit, for the young offender, of having not only to construct the flatpack item, but to fetch it from the nearest branch of Ikea, and insert the box into a car that is slightly too small, prior to exchanging it for another, complete flatpack, the following Sunday morning.On the other hand, the existence of people who voluntarily go to Ikeas and B&Qs, and who even choose to watch television programmes about home improvement, suggests that one prime minister's "community payback" scheme might be, for a few million others, a favourite hobby.In its policy review this week, the government stresses the need to "increase the visibility of unpaid work", presumably to ensure public confidence in the effectiveness and justice of this form of punishment. By coincidence, a couple of newspapers had just done exactly that, publishing photographs that showed a group of young offenders who, relaxed on a bench, and in one case, on a wheelbarrow, appeared to be doing nothing more than enjoying the sunshine in a park. In fact this is precisely what they were doing. But unpaid work takes many forms, and in this case, the young people also were being rigorously and publicly punished by being made to do gardening.Unfairly, perhaps, the newspapers did not specify which form of gardening was involved. Were they mulching? Weeding? Cutting back? Or was it too early for that, given the risk of further frosts? At any rate, although there is no reason why pruning should not turn lives around, the government does seem aware of the danger that some of these highly visible community punishments might, to the layman, seem indistinguishable from popular leisure pursuits. Or even unpopular ones. Glass painting, stippling, rag-rolling, toy-making and french polishing (all community sentence options) remain fairly minority interests.What, then, can these young offenders be made to do, that will not, when illustrated in the pages of the Telegraph or Daily Mail, resemble a Mail or Telegraph reader's idea of the perfect weekend? Graffiti-clearing is a good, symbolic activity, but one wonders if there is enough of it, even in this desolate day and age, to keep up with our output of young offenders. Not to mention the fact that most of it is by Banksy, or like Banksy, and thus, in all probability, listed.Of dog mess, of course, and of rubbish and of discarded chewing gum, there is an ample, limitless sufficiency waiting to be very visibly cleaned up by efficient young offenders in Naomi Campbell-style sequins. Not that a task need be dirty to be challenging, punitive, and in some small way, restorative. There are all sorts of demanding, yet clean and useful things the young offenders might do, from helping with roadworks and keeping libraries open, to trapping urban foxes, building (then later, dismantling) Olympic villages, training devil-dogs, taking children to school in rickshaws, learning French, offering de-stressing shoulder massages, catching other young offenders, or creating clean, green energy on giant treadmills.But anyone wishing to suggest a punishment under the community payback scheme is reminded that it must be "humane", and not as one probation service puts it, "humiliating/degrading to the offender". It must also be "worthwhile", "appropriate to the skills levels of our offenders", comply with health and safety requirements, and be "the type of work which would not normally be undertaken by paid labour". Which begins to explain why so many of the qualifying punishments do not resemble punishments but hobbies, or the forms of routine, domestic drudgery which enslave all but the richest housekeepers. Even if they have never stolen, or thrown, a mobile phone. Tough.· This week Catherine saw Tim Supple's lovely-looking production of A Midsummer Night's Dream: "Presented in seven different south Asian languages, and not much English, and thus largely incomprehensible to a London theatre audience. Which served it right, no doubt, for something or other. But it seemed a bit hard on guiltless children, trying to hear the story. And on Shakespeare."