The family of a 21-year-old man who was scarred by CS spray during a clash with police called yesterday for forces to be banned from using it.Dan Ford suffered first degree burns on his face, neck and chest after a Dorset police officer sprayed him in the face with the gas in the early hours of Saturday morning.Mr Ford, a gardener from Wareham, Dorset, has been told he cannot go out in daylight for over a year, which means he cannot work, and he has to avoid smoky places to allow his skin to heal. Doctors at Salisbury district hospital's specialist burns unit believe he will be scarred for life after the spray caused his skin to blister severely.His father Ray Ford, a gas engineer from Corfe Castle, Dorset, has taken legal advice and is considering launching a civil action against Dorset police.The family has called for Dorset police to suspend the officer responsible while the complaint is investigated and wants the substance banned by police forces.Mr Ford's cousin Donna Lewis, 22, had been drinking in the Red Lion in Wareham with Mr Ford and his sister Rachel on the night it happened. They walked on to North Street when Mr Ford saw his friend being questioned by two police officers. He went over to try to take his friend home but ended up pushed against a wall by a police officer. The group of two men and four women were then sprayed with CS gas.Miss Lewis said: "He had gone over just to try and defuse the situation. The gas canister was about three inches away from his face and it wasn't just a short burst - it was held there for over half a minute."Mr Ford was taken to Poole police station and kept overnight before being charged with a public order offence. "By the time my uncle got to him early next morning his face was severely swollen like he had extremely bad sunburn, very red raw," said Miss Lewis.A police officer has told the family that guidelines state CS gas should be sprayed from five metres (16ft) away.Miss Lewis, from Corfe Castle, said Mr Ford was not allowed to take off his clothes or get fresh air, which are both recommended police procedures for a victim of CS spray.He saw a police doctor at his father's request before he was released. He called his father later that evening and was taken to Poole hospital. The burns were too severe for the hospital to treat and he was transferred to the specialist burns unit in Salisbury, where he is expected to remain for at least another week.Assistant chief constable Adrian Whiting said it was an "unusually adverse reaction" and police were checking for any problem with the canister involved.Dorset police have referred the matter to the Independent Police Complaints Commission.A Home Office spokesperson said use of CS spray by police "must be reasonable in the circumstances". Home Office figures show an estimated 5% of CS spray incidents result in a complaint.