Andrew Rawnsley's thoughtful overview of the putative reasons behind the welcome overall reductions in the crime figures have, he notes, confounded criminologists and policy-makers ("A crime mystery. It's going down, but no one really knows why", Comment). His piece did, however, omit any reference to the attested success of the probation service over recent years in contributing to reducing reoffending. Ministry of Justice data between 2000 and 2010 demonstrates reductions in adult reoffending of over 3%.According to most informed opinion, justice secretary Chris Grayling's planned reforms of the probation service will, if implemented, lead to it being effectively dismantled.To paraphrase Mr Rawnsley, the probation service now looks like it is going down; perhaps he could tells us why.Mike GuilfoyleLondon SE4I was glad that Andrew Rawnsley noted that not all crime is going down, citing credit card fraud as an example. However, what all the surveys on crime fail to consider is the real extent of other sorts of crime – fraudulent behaviour in the City, for example; scams that deprive old people of their savings; business crime (the man who sold millions of pounds' worth of "bomb detectors" in court recently); advertisers persuading children to eat unhealthy and potentially killer food and the rest.None of these is on local crime maps. While I may find out whether there have been muggings in my street, I don't know whether or not I'm living in proximity to a guilty banker or other sort of fraudster. As ever, it depends on what you mean by crime.Gillian DalleyLondon N4The report that the rate of serious violent crime is falling is surely to be welcomed. However, the trend in family violence appears to be in the opposite direction, with serious pressures on child protection services and women's refuges. Could it be that violence, like other aspects of social life, is becoming "privatised" within the family?David N Jones (Dr), independent chair, Leicester Safeguarding Child BoardLeicesterOne reason for falling crime that Andrew Rawnsley did not mention is that there are more private security contractors operating in the UK than ever before. For every state police officer, there are now two private security guards protecting our life, liberty and property.The effectiveness of private security contractors was evaluated by two American criminologists in the 1980s. They studied Starrett City, a 153-acre, open complex home to 20,000 low- to middle-income residents in the high-crime 75th precinct in New York City.The site had its own separate security department, employing 54 private security guards. The service operates 24 hours a day and officers are deputised with nearly full police powers. Crime rates on the complex were (and still are) far lower than the national average.James PatonBillericay, EssexA recent academic study in America concluded that there is a straightforward link to lead in petrol and the rise in crime over a generation, and the gradual decline since it was stopped 20 years ago.Lead is a poison that particularly affects the brains of children, so the generation that is now coming up to 20 has not been affected in the same way.Katerina PorterLondon SW10The mystery of falling crime is no mystery. Apart from domestic violence and incest, crime is an outdoor pursuit. With a nice cheap takeaway, pizza or curry, and Midsomer Murders on the box, who wants to go out?David MansonLondon W1