Identity theft could become the next big crimewave to hit Britain because people have problems recalling their various passwords, pin numbers and access codes, an internet security company claimed yesterday. Customers frequently use the same numbers or names to access different types of services and websites, including email and bank accounts. They also frequently write them down in order not to forget them, or share them with friends and relatives. A survey by RSA Security - admittedly based on a small sample - suggested that 79% of people would be prepared, when questioned in the street, to give away some personal information which might allow a dedicated fraudster to steal their identity. "Around eight out of 10 people are prepared to effectively give away their passwords," said Tim Pickard of RSA. "They don't see a high value in that information. A worrying number of people actually have passwords stored within their wallets." The internet users questioned for the survey had created on average more than 20 different online identities by providing personal details to a website. "Every day we hear examples of physical identities being stolen, from credit and debit card slips thrown in the bin, or activities such as credit card skimming," said Mr Pickard. "However, there seems to be a huge disparity between the perceived risk of physical and online identity theft. Consumers need to be more aware that their willingness to hand over personal information to strangers is actually a greater threat - ultimately it could lead to their identities being stolen online." Around 11 million Britons have online bank accounts. Identity theft is rapidly becoming an issue across the industrialised world. "Access to online identities through personal information and passwords is the new easy target," Tony Neate of the national hi-tech crime unit told the RSA survey. "The British economy loses millions of pounds a year as a result of identity fraud. This can only increase if people do not become more aware of their responsibilities to protect their virtual identities." RSA has a vested interest in the problems of online security. It manufactures what are known as authentication tokens, which generate secure remote access codes for banks. They are used more widely on the continent and by some banks in the UK for high-value customers.