The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday May 9 2008Contrary to what is suggested in the article below, Mark Saunders is not the first person to be shot dead by Met police officers since Jean Charles de Menezes was killed in 2005. The Independent Police Complaints Commission has investigated four deaths since then. Two weeks ago Mark Saunders was found crying on the street outside his flat in one the smartest areas of Chelsea. Neighbours were concerned to see him rocking back and forth, kicking the pavement and muttering. He did not explain why he was upset, but it may have been a sign of the pressure he was under - and give a clue to the events that unfolded so tragically on Tuesday afternoon. Sometime before 5pm his wife, Elizabeth Clarke, was seen fleeing the Georgian terrace in tears after what is thought to have been a domestic row. The details of exactly what happened next were being pieced together by police yesterday. But the bare bones were clear: three times Saunders opened fire on police during a five-hour siege that only ended when he was shot dead by armed officers. Yesterday his parents were at a loss to explain how it could have happened. On the face of it, he had everything to live for. A highly rated, Oxford-educated divorce barrister in one of London's top chambers, he was already being touted as a future QC and judge. He and his wife had a flat in one of the most expensive areas of Britain. But just before 5pm on Tuesday, the first shotgun blasts reverberated around Markham Square, just off Kings Road, as Saunders opened fire on his neighbours.Jane Winkworth, who lives in the flat below the couple, was standing in her garden. She raced indoors, dodging the wild shots and called the police.At some point during the siege that followed a white cardboard box was thrown from the first floor flat where Saunders was surrounded by police. A message written in it said: "I love my wife dearly xxx." Neighbours said the barrister remained calm and composed, if uncooperative. Leslie Hummel, whose garden backs on to Saunder's flat, said: "He was standing at the window which he hadn't bothered to open, firing through a hole in it. "He was on the first floor of his place. I went to the ground level and discovered he had been shooting at my daughter's bedroom window. Thank God they were not there." She said his only reply to police questioning had been: "I can't hear you." By 9.50pm, Saunders was dead. He is thought to be the first person shot dead by Met police officers since Jean Charles de Menezes was killed at Stockwell tube station in July 2005.Until Tuesday, there had been little to suggest that he was capable of such behaviour. His parents, friends and work colleagues paid tribute yesterday to an urbane, persuasive and successful man. Educated privately at King's school, Macclesfield, Saunders went on to study law at Christ Church college, Oxford.For three years he had been a member of a Territorial Army regiment, believed to be the Honourable Artillery Company. But it was in law that Saunders had excelled.Having qualified 10 years ago, he was a member of the respected QEB chambers in the Temple, one of the leaders in family law, where he did a range of work including divorce claims, domestic violence and disputes over the custody of children. A spokeswoman said colleagues had been stunned by the manner of his death. "He was a very valued member of the chambers and obviously we are shocked and horrified by what has happened." Solicitors who knew Saunders also described him as a star of the family Bar who had been expected to rise to the top and was being earmarked to become a senior judge. "He was headed for the very top. I used to refer to him as 'Lord Justice Saunders'," said one. Alex Carruthers, a partner in the family law firm Hughes Fowler Carruthers, added: "He was one of the rising stars of the barristerial world, a well-liked and well-respected barrister."Saunders had a reputation as "a party animal in the family law world", until he had settled down two years ago, marrying Elizabeth Clarke. Eight years older, she is another leading barrister in his chambers. Saunders' father, Rodney, 64, of Alderley Edge, Cheshire, said yesterday that he and his wife learned of the tragedy in the early hours. "The police came round at 1.30 to tell us," he said. "We had seen it on the news and we both thought 'Mark lives in Chelsea' but we did not think it was him, obviously." He said that his son had sent his mother, Elizabeth Rosemary, an email at 7am on Tuesday morning."[It was] discussing a genealogy project that she was working on," he said. "There was no indication that there was anything wrong. We are desperately trying to understand what happened, it's an absolute mystery. In some ways it would help if we could find out what went on. My wife is obviously very upset and I'm trying to come to terms with it." Investigators from the Independent Police Complaints Commission will focus on whether the police used reasonable force to end the siege.They are also likely to examine the occasion when Saunders was outside his flat, clearly distressed. Steve Trainer, 42, a landscape gardener, said: "He was sitting on the wall or pavement outside his flat and he was sobbing. I have no idea what it was about, but he looked shaken. When he saw me he just wiped away the tears and hid his face. He was kicking the pavement with the toe of his foot, banging it really hard. I didn't like to say anything but he seemed to be muttering a bit." Before the shooting began, Paddy Renous, 48, said he noticed that Saunders had been drinking in the Phoenix pub nearby, and that he had been looking to buy some jewellery. What happened next remained unclear last night. Police were called to his flat in the late afternoon and when the first officers arrived Saunders, who appeared to be carrying a shotgun and owns a licence for one, took aim at a car containing armed officers, and opened fire. Officers from Scotland Yard's CO19 unit tried to talk to him on a telephone and a trained negotiator was drafted in to help. Police sources said that, at first, Saunders appeared rational but suddenly became unreasonable. He also appeared to be writing notes on paper and holding them up against the window - but he made no demands.Senior officers were preparing for a long standoff. But around 9pm Saunders, according to police, opened fire out of his second floor window again.Firearms officers from the CO19 unit had been given permission to return fire if they felt the lives of others were in danger. At about 9.30pm Saunders starting shooting for a third time, but was hit at least once when officers returned fire. Convinced that Saunders had been "incapacitated", officers decided to storm the building. They took no chances: stun grenades were thrown into the flat to disorientate anyone left inside; CS gas was also fired. Armed officers entered the flat in gas masks and his body was found. Amid the smoke it was impossible to give first aid, so Saunders was taken outside to waiting paramedics to see if his life could be saved. At 10pm the Met referred the case to the IPCC and sealed the scene. "Mark has a lot of close friends," his father said. "He and his wife married 18 months ago and seemed like the ideal couple. "We spoke to her at 2am and she could not throw any light on what has happened - it's just not sunk in."