Youth crime campaigners have criticised new regulations introduced today which extend child curfews to teenagers as virtually impossible to enforce.Changes under the Criminal Justice and Police Act mean curfews which could previously only be imposed on children aged under 10 can now be applied up to the age of 15. The government's first attempt at devising child curfews designed to crack down on disorder, crime and anti-social behaviour were seen as a complete failure: none have been applied for since their launch in September 1998. The curfews - which from today can be instigated by police as well as local authorities - also run the risk of breaching young people's human rights, opponents said. They are applied to "defined geographical areas" such as a town centre or part of a housing estate, rather than being imposed on individuals, and all children in a defined age bracket fall under their restrictions. The curfews can be imposed from 9pm to 6am for up to 90 days at a time. Chris Stanley, spokesman on youth crime for the crime reduction charity Nacro, said: "These powers could well end up becoming the Dangerous Dogs Act of the juvenile justice system, popular with no one and virtually impossible to enforce." "Enforcement could prove to be a nightmare, with tension and conflict between young people and the police increasing, not diminishing, as a result."Mr Stanley added: "I pity the police officer who has to spend his or her evenings working out which teenagers are under 16 and which are over 16." However, a junior Home Office minister, Beverley Hughes, said extending the age range of the curfews would mean the authorities could better protect communities and the young people themselves. "These orders are not designed to be used in isolation, but are another tool that police and local authorities can use to tackle anti-social behaviour," she said. She added that they would also better equip officers to "protect children from the risks of being unaccompanied on the streets at night - from adults such as drug dealers or pimps, or older peers encouraging them into criminal activities". The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said the new orders risked stigmatising whole areas and were another example of the government's "strong authoritarian trend". "As one teenager put it to me, it's punishing the whole class for the misbehaviour of one or two," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Ms Hughes told the programme the curfews were a short-term measure and critics had "grossly underestimated" the number of community police officers now in place across the country. Related articles10.07.2001: Court allows French city's child curfew09.12.2000: Where the street is a playground for bored youngsters07.07.2000: The implications of youthful drunkenness 07.10.1999: Councils hit back at ministers in row over unruly child curfews Useful linksNacro Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 Home OfficeSetting curfews for kids - Parentsoup