A former soldier who survived a notorious IRA bomb attack stabbed his two young children to death before killing himself after the violent breakdown of his marriage.Michael Pedersen, a sergeant in the Household Cavalry who was caught up in the Hyde Park bombing of 1982, told his doctor a month before the killings that he could be suffering from post traumatic stress disorder, an inquest heard on Wednesday.Pedersen, 51, survived the nail bomb blast that claimed the lives of four men and seven horses. His badly injured mount, Sefton, became a symbol of the fight against terrorism.The inquest in Winchester heard Pedersen's 10-year marriage to Erica had collapsed on 25 August after a row at a military reunion. He allegedly assaulted her and she reported the attack to police after being advised to do so by her doctor.Pedersen moved out of the family home and was served with an order stopping him from visiting. He was also arrested by Surrey police but not charged.At the end of September Pedersen was allowed to take the couple's children, Ben, seven, and Freya, six, to visit his father in Andover, Hampshire.All seemed normal when they left his father's home on the afternoon of 30 September. But that evening a dog walker discovered the bodies of the children and Pedersen next to his Saab convertible on a remote bridleway near Andover. He had armed himself with two knives to kill the children and stab himself through the heart.Giving evidence, Erica Pedersen said she suffered a broken arm and shoulder when her husband had pushed her and she fell at the reunion. She said she went to her GP for painkillers and he told her she would have to go to the police or the children would be put on a risk register. She said he was arrested and after she got a non-molestation order on 3 September, he moved out of the house in Ashford, Surrey.Pedersen's younger brother, Robert, told the hearing his sibling was very angry about the split and had financial problems because work as a lorry driver had dried up. He said his brother "worshipped the ground" his children walked on.Postmortem examinations found the two children died from multiple stab wounds to the chest. They also both had defensive injuries to their hands and arms. A knife was still sticking out of Ben's chest when he was found.Pedersen's father, Brian, told the inquest that everything seemed normal as his son left his house. He said his son maintained his wife had fallen over at the party and he had not assaulted her. "He had hard breaks in his life. But what really hurt him more than anything else was when he was told to leave his house and children and Erica, who he loved in his own way. I do not think he could bear to live without any of these things."Recording verdicts that the children were unlawfully killed and Pedersen took his own life, Central Hampshire coroner Grahame Short said: "What happened that afternoon is beyond comprehension. It must have been horrifying for the children to suddenly realise what their father intended and to be attacked in the way they were. There can be no justification for taking the lives of two innocent children in these circumstances."The coroner said Pedersen was angry "not just with his wife, but with the doctor, social services and Surrey police, all of whom he believed had led him to be in the situation he found himself". He said he had carried on a "charade" of normality but had planned the killings.Other witnesses said Pedersen was controlling and could be a bully. He was given a caution by police in 2004 for assaulting a man he suspected of having an affair with his wife.After the bodies were found Surrey police referred the case to the Independent Police Complaints Commission so the contacts it had with the family could be examined.