Two brothers of primary school age being questioned by police over a vicious assault on two other boys had recently been placed in foster care, Doncaster council said today.The council now faces a further inquiry after the incident, which followed three reports into problems and failings that saw five children in care die during a seven-month period in 2004-2005.Police are continuing to question the boys, aged 10 and 11, about the robbery and torture of an 11-year-old and his nine-year-old nephew in an isolated part of a reclaimed quarry and brickworks at Edlington, on the edge of the South Yorkshire town.The 11-year-old was found semi-­conscious and with life-threatening injuries after the younger victim wandered, dazed and covered in blood, on to a nearby housing estate on Saturday afternoon.Police questioning is also thought to have widened to include other recent incidents at the Brick Ponds site, including another brutal attack, on an 11-year-old local choirboy, Callam Reynolds. His mother, Kerry Reynolds, 37, said today she was sure the incidents were linked."They kicked Callam in the face, punched him and stamped on him," she said. "He was bleeding from where his teeth had ripped the side of his mouth. They threatened to hit him over the head with a brick and throw him in the Brick Pond."Callam said he had been lured towards the pond, a two-acre flooded quarry popular with anglers, by two boys who had asked whether he wanted to look at a dead toad. Reynolds said she contacted police immediately, and two boys allegedly involved had been supposed to attend a police station on Saturday morning, the day of the second attack, but had failed to turn up.The two other victims are recovering slowly in hospital with serious head and arm injuries. The older boy is stable and improving after coming off a ventilator in the intensive care ward at Sheffield children's hospital and being transferred to a high-dependency ward. The younger has had two operations on a deep knife wound to his arm at Doncaster royal infirmary.Magistrates gave South Yorkshire police a second extension yesterday afternoon to continue questioning the brothers. They are not commenting on details of the case.The children's secretary, Ed Balls, sent a new management team to take charge of Doncaster social services last month. The move followed two internal reports followed by a "diagnostic review" of alarming death and injury statistics in care, which Balls's deputy, Beverley Hughes, ordered in January.Paul Hart, the managing director of Doncaster council, said: "This is a truly shocking and upsetting incident, and we are working closely with our partners to assist the investigation. We can confirm that the two boys in custody have recently been placed into foster care. As this is an ongoing criminal investigation, we cannot add anything further at this time."