Exactly six months ago, Milly Dowler shared a snack with friends at a station cafe, then began walking towards home. She never got there.Yesterday the hunt for the popular 13-year-old girl ended in a dark forest 25 miles from the spot where she was last seen. Milly's parents, Sally and Bob, and big sister, Gemma, had long in their hearts suspected Milly was dead. They will now try to come to terms with the reality, and their attention will, no doubt, focus on the how and why. The missing persons hunt for Milly Dowler was one of the largest operations undertaken by Surrey police. The murder hunt is likely to be one of its most detailed. There will be huge public pressure for the killer to be found, and quickly.As usual, Milly left home at 7.40am on Thursday March 21 with her mother and sister, Gemma. Milly was still excited at having been to a Gareth Gates concert that week. The three listened to Chris Tarrant on Capital Radio as Mrs Dowler drove her daughters to the Heathside school in Weybridge, where she is a maths teacher and they were pupils. Mrs Dowler, 43, last saw her daughter at around 3pm when Milly came to her office and told her that she was going to get the train home. Milly, who was wearing her school uniform and carrying a backpack, got off at Walton station, one before her usual stop, Hersham. She had run out of credit on her mobile phone so used a friend's to phone her father to tell him where she was. Her last words to him were: "See you in half an hour, bye". When Mrs Dowler and Gemma arrived home at 4.30pm, everything seemed normal. Only at 5.15pm was Mr Dowler getting "quite cross" that Milly was still out. He rang her mobile and left a message: "Where are you? You should be home by now. Ring me straight away." The police arrived at 7pm. They searched her room and asked if any clothes were missing. Everything was as it should have been. Detectives put a trace on her mobile but it was switched off. Mrs Dowler said: "We kept leaving messages for her, begging her to contact us. I kept going to the front of the house, looking to see if I could see her coming home." During the hunt for Milly, codenamed Operation Ruby, police examined 250 CCTV tapes, searched 300 sites, took almost 2,000 statements and received calls from more than 3,000 members of the public. Many others volunteered their help. Posters requesting information about Milly were put up in shops, homes and cars across the region. Detectives spent hours piecing together Milly's last movements. After arriving at Walton station, she had a bowl of chips with friends. She was last seen by a friend waiting for a bus at 4.08pm. Then nothing. Nobody saw her being seized, nobody saw a stranger hanging around. Police had precious few leads. For weeks they kept an "open mind" but finally concluded she was probably the victim of a "chance abduction". Until this week's discovery, their best hope seemed to be a clip of CCTV footage which has been enhanced by the FBI and shows a figure, possibly Milly, talking to a car driver. Officers are confident they will eventually be able to make out details of the car. But their focus, for the moment, will be the area where Milly's remains were found. The remains were discovered in Yateley Heath forest. Though it is close to the M3, it is a lonely area, where public access is restricted. Whoever dumped the body probably knew the area well. The remains were found in the woods but not far from a layby on a B-road called Minley Road. Leading from the road is a gravel track, usually blocked with a gate. The killer may have driven up the lane. Local people were shocked. Marilyn Greentree, 30, a waitress at the nearby Crown and Cushion pub, said: "I had a phone call at 6am saying: 'Don't let the childminder leave the children alone.' "All the neighbours are petrified. You don't know if he may be around. It's frightening in there - it's always dark even in the day." Police were last night planning to widen the search area. Officers will carry out finger tip searches of the woods which may take many days. In an interview this week given to coincide with the six-month anniversary of Milly's disappearance, Mrs Dowler described how she still hugged her daughter's baggy, frayed jeans for comfort. Mrs Dowler, who has five mobile phones so she could instantly be reached, said: "I think in the beginning my brain went into overload and I felt in complete fear of losing my mind. I couldn't cope because there was no answer." But she has not been able to bring herself to think what might have happened after she was abducted. "I can't bring myself to think about that bit." Mr Dowler, a 51-year-old IT consultant, said: "I deliberately avoided her bedroom. We haven't even thought about doing anything about her room. There is still a large part of me that thinks she is just away on a school trip or she's out and she'll be back." The family closely followed the case of Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells. "Horrible as the outcome is, at least they do know," Mrs Dowler said. Now, at last, the Dowlers also know.