A 70-year-old Sikh grandmother was jailed for life yesterday for arranging the "honour killing" of a daughter-in-law she blamed for bringing shame on the family name by seeking a divorce.In what the judge described as a "heinous crime characterised by great wickedness", Bachan Athwal decided that Surjit Athwal, 26, was to be "got rid of".The mother of two was lured to India and murdered. Her body was thrown in the river Ravi, close to the Pakistani border, and was never recovered.Surjit's husband, Sukhdave, 43, who attempted to cover up the crime by forging letters to the Indian authorities, was also sentenced to life imprisonment and must serve at least 27 years.Bachan, who clasped her hands in prayer in the dock before sentence, bowed her head and wept as she was told she must serve a minimum of 20 years. She is one of the oldest women in criminal history to be jailed for life.Judge Giles Forrester told them they had betrayed Surjit. He said: "How you could commit this unspeakable act, I do not know. There was no motive worthy of the name. You did it because you perceived she had brought shame on the family name. In reality, however, you murdered her for no other reason than the existence of matrimonial difficulties and the likely breakdown of the marriage. You decided the so-called honour of your family name was more important than the life of this young woman." He said they had caused years of "uncertainty, anguish, lies and cover-up" for Surjit's blood relatives.Before the sentence, Bachan's defence barrister, Kalyani Kaul, said the grandmother, who suffered a small stroke during the trial, may die in jail.Yesterday's sentence marked the end of a nine-year struggle for justice for Surjit's family and brought renewed calls to the government to persuade the Indian authorities to bring the remaining suspect to justice. Sukhdave and Bachan were convicted of Surjit's murder in July.In a statement read out in court, her brother, Jagdeesh Singh, said his sister had had high hopes of escaping the "oppressive marriage" she had been forced into at the age of 16, before she was "viciously struck down" by her in-laws.He said: "Surjit was punished by the Athwals for standing up to their suffocating control and being assertive. As an incoming wife, the Athwals' perception was that she belonged to the Athwals and everything was to be done the Athwal way. She had no rights. Not even to complain."Surjit's disappearance in December 1998 devastated our entire family ... Surjit's children were left motherless, at the ages of nine months and six years."Yesterday, Mr Singh sent a letter to Gordon Brown, asking him to raise the case with the Indian government and urge the reopening of its investigation.Surjit, a customs officer at Heathrow, who had an affair with a colleague, is alleged to have been strangled in the Punjab by Bachan's brother Darshan.The police investigation was reopened in 2005 when members of the Athwal family agreed to give evidence.In her diaries, extracts of which were read in court, Surjit wrote how Bachan accused her of having an abortion and branded her a "murderer" and a "slag" following a miscarriage three months after the wedding.Surjit's two children, now nine and 16, are under the care of social services; both families are seeking custody of them.Detective Inspector Clive Driscoll has written to the Indian authorities offering the evidence British police have gathered. He said: "We have an obligation to ensure that everyone who can be brought to justice is brought to justice. From the evidence we have at the moment, we believe that the Indian authorities are best placed to investigate and we are offering our support."