Three men accused of helping the July 7 bombers travelled down to London with one of the bombers and met another in the capital where the group carried out a reconnaissance mission, a court heard today.Neil Flewitt QC told a jury at Kingston crown court that the defendants accepted they knew the London bombers but claimed their friendship "was entirely innocent and that they know nothing of, and took no part in, their plan to cause the explosions in the UK".Sadeer Saleem, 27, and Mohammed Shakil, 31, both from Beeston, Leeds, and Waheed Ali, 24, from Tower Hamlets, east London, all deny conspiring to cause explosions between November 17 2004 and July 8 2005.The men allegedly conspired with the four bombers - Mohammed Siddique Khan, Shezhad Tanweer, Jermaine Lindsay and Hasib Hussain – who murdered 52 people when they set off bombs on London's transport network almost simultaneously on July 7 2005. Flewitt said the three defendants did not make or transport the bombs but they did help the bombers "in one particular and important aspect of their preparation for the London bombings".In December 2004, the trio travelled from Leeds to London with Hussain, who went on to detonate his bomb on the No 30 bus in Tavistock Square.In the capital they met Lindsay, who killed 26 people on a Piccadilly Line underground train.Over the course of a two-day trip, they visited a series of locations which bore a "striking similarity" to the locations where the bombs were detonated on July 7 the following year, said Flewitt.All three defendants accept they made the trip, but deny they had anything to do with the London bombings, said Flewitt."Rather it is their case that the purpose of their journey was to enable Waheed Ali to visit his sister in east London. Further, Sadeer Saleem and Mohammed Shakil accept that they visited the Natural History Museum, the London Eye and the London Aquarium but maintain they did so for purely social reasons," he said.Flewitt said the strength of Ali's relationship to Khan was demonstrated by a text message Ali sent to the July 7 ringleader on December 7 2003. It read: "Gates of memories I will neva (sic) close. How much I will miss you no one knows. Tears in my eyes will wipe away but the love in my heart for you will always stay."In the remains of Khan's mobile telephone, recovered from the debris at Edgware Road, were numbers "attributable" to Shakil, saved as "SHAXMOB", and Saleem, saved as "Sads", the jury was told. Russell Square bomber Lindsay had a phone number saved in his mobile that the prosecution say belonged to Ali. The court heard that "a variety of material that provided a valuable insight into their attitudes and beliefs" was seized from the defendants' homes when they were arrested on March 22 last year. Flewitt said police seized a computer which Ali had used to visit websites with information about the activities of the Taliban in Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden, al-Qaida and suicide bombers in Iraq.When Saleem was arrested at his home, a computer was found that contained images of the 9/11 attack on the World Trade Centre, of fighters holding aloft AK-47 assault rifles and pictures of bodies in bags. Also on the computer were speech files extolling the virtues of jihad and martyrdom, the court was told.Police also discovered a letter written by Saleem which appeared to contain his answers to questions on marriage.When asked about children, he replied: "I want loads and have them with the intention of making them mujahids... and mujahidas [people to fight jihad] because the filthy kafir [unbelievers] have got big plans against the Muslims..." The jury was told police searched the Iqra bookshop in Leeds on July 15 2005 and found a pad on which Saleem had written: "I do not fear death as I am going to die but my fear is of the surrounding fire [hell]. May God save me from it. I am not going to show my weakness nor fear."Without doubt I am returning to my creator. When I am shaheed [martyr] as a Muslim I do not care in what way I receive my death." The court heard that following the arrest of Shakil, a computer was found at his parents' home which he had used to access a file relating to Afghan mujahideen shooting down a US spy plane in Khost. Police also found a long article entitled The Nineteen Lions, praising the actions of the men who carried out the 9/11 attack. The trial continues.