The home secretary, David Blunkett, is today accused by a Blairite thinktank of failing to use the political space created by the thoughtful approach of Oliver Letwin, his Tory shadow, to consider a new approach to crime in which prison and punishment no longer dominate.The report by the Institute of Public Policy Research accuses Mr Blunkett and the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, of lacking the political confidence to lead a new debate on crime. Its findings, including a call for all sides not to engage in a spiral of ever tougher policy announcements, were welcomed yesterday by Mr Letwin. The report, prepared with the help of chief constables, prison specialists and criminologists, recommends that hard pressed police and courts should be freed to pursue serious crime by decriminalising a vast array of the 8,000 different potential criminal offences. The change would also help petty criminals find work - the best route out of a life of crime. At the same time the age of criminal responsibility should be raised from 10 to 12, the report says. The report suggests a big expansion in non-custodial sentences, saying the British prison population should be cut to the European average of 85 per 100,000, resulting in a prison population of 49,000. Mr Blunkett backs greater use of non-custodial sentences especially for minor offences, but the population stands at 70,000 with projections that it will rise to 83,500 by 2008. It also says that it is staggering that only 5,986 prisoners who passed through prison service custody in 2000 com pleted an offending behaviour course. The IPPR calls on the government to be more explicit in its support for non-custodial sentences. "It cannot in the long run succeed with liberalism by stealth," says the report. It adds: "The reasoned and more thoughtful approach to crime now being pursued by the Conservative opposition provides greater political space than in the past." The report suggests the criminal justice system would have greater success if the public were more involved. "Criminal justice remains a service delivered by professionals to the public, inviting scant public involvement." The report proposes an extension of the lay magistracy by allowing them to sit alongside a professional judge whenever a defendant is contesting their guilt. This would allow a wider cross section of the public to take up the role of the lay magistracy. In a critique similar to Mr Letwin's recent speeches, the the IPPR accuses the Home Office of taking ever firmer central control of the criminal justice agencies, reinforcing the view that outcomes can be driven from the centre and so marginalising the role of the public in decision making. · The Howard League will today challenge the Home Office refusal to apply the Children Act 1989 to prisons, claiming that nearly 3,000 teenagers are being locked up in inhumane conditions. The penal reform charity will seek a judicial review at the high court in London. It claims children in prisons are routinely treated in ways that in other circumstances would trigger a child protection investigation for abuse.