The government is planning a "domestic violence register" to monitor men who have convictions for abusing their partners, it has emerged.It would be modelled on the sex offenders' register and could be used to warn women if they were at risk from a new partner. Campaigners welcomed the proposal but warned that it would tackle only "the tip of a very large iceberg" because most abusers are never charged. Katja Mahnkopf, the policy and communications manager for Women's Aid, said: "It sends a strong message that domestic violence is not acceptable. Clearly the intention is to ensure the safety of women and children but it also shows that the perpetrator is being held accountable." She said that it would help to protect victims who were followed by their abusers when they moved to a new area by alerting local police. But she warned that proposals to inform women that a new partner had a history of violence needed full discussion. "There are many other measures which need to be put in place to help women, such as access to information and support and advocacy services if they decide to take someone to court," she said. The Home Office confirmed that the government would publish its domestic violence consultation document next month, but refused to discuss its contents. Details of the proposals contained in a document drawn up by the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) and the crown prosecution service were published by the Times yesterday. The register would hold the details of anyone sentenced to six months or more for assaulting their partner. Signatories would have to inform the police when they moved.The register would also be available to doctors, nurses, social services and other bodies which could decide to warn a new partner. Some employers, such as the police and social services, could check job applicants against the register. Jim Gamble, the assistant chief constable for the national crime squad and Acpo's lead officer on domestic violence told the Times that abuse was "never a one-off". "If someone gets a custodial sentence we need to monitor them after their release and assess the risk to the wider community, to former partners and to new partners," he said. Domestic violence has one of the highest reoffending rates of any crime. Two women are murdered by a partner or former partner each week. There are thought to be 635,000 incidents of domestic violence in England and Wales each year. Experts estimate that only one in five of these is reported to police and many women subsequently drop charges. Richard Garside of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders said: "They are talking about tackling the tip of a very large iceberg by putting some people on a register. "There are many people who in the privacy of their own homes will hit their wives and girlfriends and will not get caught. If you are serious about tackling domestic violence you have to think beyond prisons and courts and judges." Mark Littlewood, director of the civil rights group Liberty, warned that a register would create peculiar contradictions: "A putative partner would be informed if I had beaten up my previous wife and done six months for it - but not if I had murdered someone." He argued that inclusion on the register should not be an automatic consequence of conviction but decided on by the judge in each case.