In the 1960s the east coast resort of Great Yarmouth became associated with violence when mods and rockers clashed on its sands. More recently has come to be regarded as a rather grim seaside town beset by crime and deprivation.But following a ground-breaking series of police operations and community schemes, holidaymakers and day-trippers spending time this summer beside the North Sea can probably look forward to a trouble-free stay. Such is the success of the efforts to improve the Norfolk resort that police forces from across Britain with responsibility for seaside towns, increasingly a target for drug gangs, have been taking note of what is going on in Great Yarmouth, sending delegations and adopting some of its methods. The town could become a model for resorts such as Rhyl in north Wales and Southend-on-Sea in Essex whose reputations have suffered in recent years. The nadir for Great Yarmouth - described by Charles Dickens's Peggotty in David Copperfield as "upon the whole the finest place in the universe" - came when a drug gang from Liverpool descended in force. Wraps of heroin and crack cocaine were being sold openly in parks, in the grave yard of St Nicholas church, on the streets of the Regent ward - the fifth most deprived in Britain - and even on the seafront as holidaymakers wandered past. During a 60-day period last summer it is estimated that around 7,500 deals worth the best part of £1m were made. The dealers were preying on a town that seemed in freefall. The decline of the fishing, oil and gas industries had led to high unemployment. Car crime, burglaries and muggings had risen sharply. There were ugly disputes between long-term residents and newer arrivals such as asylum seekers and migrant workers. Town leaders believed residents had lost civic pride and were giving up on the place. Not surprisingly, visitors had begun to drift away. Richard Packham, the chief executive of the borough council, said there was a "tension" in the town, potentially fatal for a holiday destination aimed at the family market. Last year the Regent ward was made a police priority area under the Home Office scheme to target resources on the country's most troubled areas. Most PPAs concentrate on particular estates - in Great Yarmouth's case it took in the town centre as well as residential areas. Chief Superintendent Ray Adcock said the PPA scheme helped police and other local bodies, particularly the borough council, to work more closely together. In March, for example, a huge spring clean of the Regent ward was organised. Rubbish was cleared from the town's historic network of "rows" or alleys; untaxed vehicles were towed away and crushed; almost 100 school children were stopped in an anti-truancy drive. The following month a rally was held for "cruisers" - motor enthusiasts who used to show off their souped-up cars by gunning them up and down the seafront. They had caused havoc, but by organising an event the police were able to contain them without stopping their fun. Representatives of 28 other forces attended a conference organised by Great Yarmouth police to explain how they had done it. Last month, despite the concerns of some conservationists, workers installed the first gate across one of the rows to deter drug users, burglars and fly tippers. Mr Adcock said: "Traditionally the police have been immersed in dealing with traditional crime. The things which simply annoy people have taken second place. We have realised that if we are going to get a feel-good factor back into the town we are going to have take a more holistic approach. But I think it's working. I think the town is beginning to buzz again." Stopping the activities of the Liverpool drug gang also helped. In April, 21 members were jailed. Other persistent offenders were taken off the streets, including a man blamed for a huge percentage of car crime. Local councillor Paul Garrod, who represents the Regent ward and has run a hotel on the seafront for 45 years, said: "There have been great improvements. A few years ago you would see people dealing drugs openly on the seafront. That has gone now. I think people feel much safer now." Alan Carr, the chief executive of the Great Yarmouth tourist authority, said: "I think there is a feeling of greater confidence about the town now." Mr Packham, of the borough council, agreed, though he said the resort also had to tread a fine line between creating a vibrant town with an exciting nightlife and making sure it remained family-friendly. Some things change little in Great Yarmouth. The horse-drawn cabs still wait for customers alongside the Britannia Pier, where Cannon and Ball are still playing. But most residents and visitors seem to agree that rapid improvements in law and order are being made. John Donovan, of the Middlegate Residents' Association, added: "There is still work to be done but things are certainly moving in the right direction. This place was in trouble a couple of years ago. Now the mood is much more upbeat. It's a pleasure to live here again."