Detectives hunting the killer of the landscape architect Joanna Yeates have launched a national Facebook campaign to appeal for help.An advert showing an image of Yeates headlined "Jo's murder can you help?" will pop up on the social networking site to encourage people with information to contact police online.Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, who is leading the inquiry, said: "The majority of people these days are spending time on Facebook and other social networking sites; this has become part of everyday routine for many people. This advert allows us to point people to special features on our website with all the latest information. It allows them to contact the incident room direct online rather than calling in."I would once again urge anyone who may have not contacted my team and may have information that could help this enquiry to contact us. Let us decide if this information is significant."Avon and Somerset police said using Facebook was "far more cost-effective" than poster campaigns and mass leaflet distribution. The "viral nature" of Facebook means the appeal will reach much further, the force added.The head of e-services for Avon and Somerset police, Scott Fulton, said: "Social media is growing rapidly and has become a daily factor in most people's routine."Details of the murder inquiry from the force's Facebook page has already been shared more than 24,000 times. There have also been more than 63,000 views of the news updates on Avon and Somerset police's website, a further 18,000 on the dedicated "Jo page" and more than 70,000 views of CCTV clips showing Yeates on the night she disappeared on the force's YouTube channel.Fulton added: "Through the website we have had 260 inbound messages to the incident room. We have been very pleased with information received via these channels on this investigation and we hope this advert will encourage even more people to come forward."Crime scene investigators continued to work at Yeates's flat in Clifton, Bristol. There was a sign outside the building saying: "Do not enter, dangerous chemicals."A number of uniformed officers entered her landlord Chris Jefferies's flat on the opposite side of the building. He was arrested on suspicion of Yeates's murder and held for two days before being released on police bail.Yeates's mother today described how quiet life was without her daughter and that she was waiting for her to return.Speaking at her home in Ampfield, Hampshire, Theresa Yeates, 58, said: "She just had this joy and vibrancy, even though she didn't live here. I am sat in the kitchen just wanting her to come through the door. It is just so quiet here without her."Police have not ruled out the possibility that more than one person was involved in the 25-year-old's murder in Bristol or that her killing was sexually motivated.Officers yesterday revealed they had received more than 1,300 pieces of information, which had generated more than 900 lines of inquiry. The investigation team has categorised 239 of these as "high priority". Police said they had so far viewed more than 100 hours of CCTV footage and were sifting through 293 tonnes of domestic rubbish seized in the area around Yeates's flat.Jones said the inquiry was complex and could be time-consuming. Speaking at the headquarters of Avon and Somerset police's major crime investigation unit, he said officers were exploring every possible hypothesis. "We are carrying out detailed forensic analysis of her flat and outcomes from this can take a considerable amount of time."Jones said he was "satisfied" that Yeates got back to her flat on 17 December. "But I am not going to speculate whether she let someone into the flat, whether someone was already there or whether someone broke into the flat."Yeates's body was found on Christmas morning on a roadside verge three miles from her flat, but Jones could not say where or when she was killed or when the body was left where it was discovered. Snowfall on 18 December had "considerable impact" on this line of inquiry, he said.Jones said: "I assure you we are determined to bring Jo's killers to justice." Asked about his use of "killers" rather than "killer", Jones said the plural emphasised that he was keeping an open mind.He said that there was no evidence Yeates had been sexually assaulted but he had not ruled out that there had been a "sexual motive". Jones said Yeates's landlord, Jefferies, was on police bail and was therefore still a suspect.