A Paris court today sentenced a British woman to four years in prison for running an international ring of call girls. Convent-educated Margaret MacDonald spent her 44th birthday hearing that she had been convicted of “aggravated procuring” for the purpose of prostitution. MacDonald, who speaks seven languages, was also ordered to pay a €150,000 (£105,000) fine.She sat impassively as today’s verdict was read out in court. During the trial, she had described herself as an “excellent businesswoman” who ran a legitimate escort service. She testified that she had, at most, 20 escorts on her books, and never forced them to have sex. Running an escort agency is also illegal in France.The prosecution, however, contended that MacDonald had 500 women and around 50 men working for her in Europe, Israel and the US, and charged clients around €1,000 per hour.Investigators said that she had pocketed roughly 40% of the prostitutes’ earnings and made around €20,000 a month.Her lawyer said that she would appeal the sentence. “She is very disappointed by this ruling. She is a fragile woman,” said Emmanuel Marsigny, noting that neither the girls who worked for her, nor her clients, had been implicated in the case. “It’s a double hypocrisy. Four years is a heavy sentence.” One of MacDonald ‘s former employees described the verdict as “scandalous, scandalous, scandalous”. “It’s hypocritical. The slaves you see on the street when you drive home tonight - they are prostitutes. I think it is totally unfair, and I am very unhappy,” she said. Prosecutor Hilda Gouineau had sought the maximum sentence of six years in prison in addition to the fine. MacDonald, originally from Bedford, was arrested in May 2002 in a hotel near the Champs-Elysées, and has spent 16 months in prison awaiting the court case. During her September trial, she acknowledged that some of her escorts may have slept with customers. “When people like each other, they want to move beyond the dinner table,” she told the court. MacDonald divided her time between Paris, Athens and Milan. She studied business at universities in London and France, and speaks French, Italian, Spanish and Greek fluently. Investigators said that she is also proficient in Arabic and Japanese.• This article was amended on 13 March 2017 to remove a name for reasons of privacy.