The gang behind Britain's largest robbery face the possibility of life sentences after being convicted yesterday at the end of a seven-month trial at the Old Bailey. Police are still trying to trace more than half of the £53m stolen in an audacious raid on a Securitas depot in Tonbridge, Kent, almost two years ago, and some key members of the gang are still at large.The jury returned their verdicts after 36 hours of deliberation over eight days and convicted Lea Rusha, Stuart Royle, Roger Coutts, Emir Hysenaj and Jetmir Bucpapa of conspiracy to kidnap and rob. The diverse team of criminals from south London, Kent and Albania will be sentenced today after pleas of mitigation have been made on their behalf.Royle, who has not been attending the trial and has remained in his cell in Belmarsh prison after dismissing his defence team, was being asked last night if he wanted to attend today's sentencing.Two other defendants, John Fowler, who was also charged with conspiracy, and Keith Borer, who was charged with handling stolen goods, were both acquitted. Michelle Hogg, the hairdresser who made the disguises used by the robbers, was acquitted last year and gave evidence against her former co-defendants. She is now under a witness protection scheme.The gang received the verdicts impassively, after the trial judge, Mr Justice Penry-Davey, warned the court that the jury's decision was to be received in silence. Some of the robbers shook hands with Fowler after he was cleared. Bucpapa, the young Albanian who was a key figure in the plot, laughed and smiled. The judge excused the jury from ever serving again.Outside the court, Superintendent Paul Gladstone of Kent police, which spent £5m on the investigation, welcomed the verdict. "I am extremely satisfied with the results," he said. "It was an extremely complex case."Nigel Pilkington of the Crown Prosecution Service said: "This crime was, at its heart, a crime of violence." He paid tribute to the Securitas depot manager, Colin Dixon, and his wife, Lynn, who with their child were kidnapped and held at gun-point so that the robbery could go ahead."The events of that night will no doubt stay with those people for the rest of their lives," said Pilkington of the Dixons and the 14 Securitas employees who were also in fear of their lives during the robbery. He added that attempts to reclaim almost £32m still missing from the raid would continue. "This is not the end of the matter for these criminals," he said. "We intend to seize their ill-gotten gains, wherever they may be."Roger Coe-Salazar, who headed the Kent prosecution service team, said of the conspiracy: "It was very clever in parts and very naive in others. There were some very sophisticated preparations and some very silly mistakes, but it's quite wrong for it to end up being romanticised in an Ocean's 12 way. There is nothing romantic about a child being held at gunpoint by a masked man."Sitting in the Old Bailey canteen after being cleared, Fowler, the car dealer whose farm was used by the robbers as a "flop" where they could share the money, said he was still trying to take in the verdict."I am shell-shocked at the moment," he said. "I will be having some champagne tonight - but watered down."Borer, who was also acquitted, said that he had been unable to sleep for the past week during the jury's deliberations.The defendantsGuiltyLea Rusha, 35, from Southborough, a suburb of Turnbridge Wells. One of the main plotters. A criminal with convictions for violence and theft dating from his youth, he organised the reconnaisance of the Dixon house, took part in the robbery and had a role in hiding the money, £8.6m of which was found in a garage near his home.Stuart Royle, 49, Car salesman, lived in Redpits near Maidstone, ex-business partner of John Fowler. In financial difficulties: his house was repossessed and he was living with his girlfriend. Told the police when arrested, "my life has been chaotic". He was in charge of transport for the robbery and found out where Dixon lived.Roger Coutts, 30, from south-east London. Previous convictions for affray, disorderly behaviour and theft. Linked to the robbery by his DNA on nine of the cable ties used for handcuffing Securitas employees. Also linked to premises in Welling where police found £9.7m in stolen cash.Emir Hysenaj, 28, Albanian, lived in Crowborough. The inside man who made a video of the depot using a tiny hidden camera. The plotters made inquiries about such equipment at two electronics shops in London and Chesterfield. Had a shoplifting conviction.Jetmir Bucpapa, 26, from Tonbridge. Also Albanian and a friend of Hysenaj, he helped to organise the video reconnaisance.AcquittedJohn Fowler, 59, acquitted on all counts. Owner of Elderden farm which was used for the 'flop', for dividing up the money. Hired the Renault lorry that was used and told police he was hardly likely to have done so under his own name if he was involved. Blamed Royle for his arrest and told police that the two men had a "give and take" relationship - "he takes and I give".Keith Borer, 54, a signwriter. Acquitted of handling stolen money.