Jack Straw has given his statement to the House of Commons on the Dano Sonnex and Nigel Farmer case. Dano Sonnex was on recall from release on licence at the time that he murdered the two French students, Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez.The justice secretary has concentrated on the failings of London's Probation services in the Sonnex case, and clearly mistakes were made – although they involved numerous agencies, including the prison service and police. As has been widely remarked, the probation service is so stretched that Sonnex's officer had little experience and was overwhelmed with casework. What has received little attention, however, is the degree to which this horrifying case shines an unedifying light on the prison system, in which Dano Sonnex spent the best part of five years as a young man.Dano Sonnex came from a family known for its criminal involvement. His father was erratically violent to the children and was involved in serious crime. The father drank heavily and, according to Sonnex, "would kick us all out onto the street in his rages". He told professionals that "people were always coming round asking for money and trying to get my dad". The police raided the house regularly looking for drugs and firearms.The family was well known to social services, and yet, when Sonnex's cousins were removed from their heroin-addicted parents, they were placed with them.Dano was excluded from primary school aged 10 and was told to go to a tuition centre for a couple of hours a day, but he never attended. Instead, as a young child, he spent his days drinking, smoking cannabis and getting involved in crime.Aged 17, he was sentenced to eight years for robbery, grievous bodily harm and possession of a firearm.Arguably, this lad could have been Baby P grown up; a child who experienced repeated violence and neglect, where social services and other authorities failed to intervene, a dysfunctional and unloving family, and who turned into the dangerous and angry teenager.Surely an opportunity to change his life came with the prison sentence. He was still young and was going to spend years in custody. Instead, what happened only compounded his problems.He told professionals that he knew he had anger and violence problems and that he wanted help. He asked to see a psychiatrist but somehow this didn't happen. He tried counselling but said that made him angry.While he was on remand he was not allowed to do any work, as he was told he was a security risk, and so spent months idle. When he was sentenced he was sent to a prison hundreds of miles from his mother, the family member who had shown the most support and care for him and who now could not visit. He got into a fight and spent the first of many spells in the segregation unit as a punishment.He was moved from prison to prison, sometimes spending only a couple of weeks in each. He admitted taking drugs in prison and getting into fights when he was placed on a wing with other vulnerable prisoners, including sex offenders. In prison hierarchy, sex offenders are subject to abuse, violence and vilification, and Dano was involved in a vicious fight with a convicted rapist. Fights were becoming more violent, with lads trying to cut each other with razor blades and throwing boiling water over each other. Gangs inside the prison would lay in wait for him. He was increasingly being held in solitary for weeks on end as a result of fights or drug taking. He was stabbed five times by other inmates. He spent months doing nothing, being locked in his cell with nothing to do all day.At one point, Sonnex had spent five months in solitary. He was allowed out for 30 minutes a day and got a shower every two days. He was allowed one book. His days were spent alone in a stone cell.He told professionals that he knew his mental health was deteriorating and that he felt increasingly angry and frustrated. He had talked to the prison doctor who was also deeply concerned about his mental health and he told the doctor: "the block makes me mad".For five years this dangerous and violent young man was held in these conditions. I cannot see how this was in any way designed to show him a better life, to turn his life around and make him safe for return to society.I don't know if intensive therapeutic intervention for five years, within a caring and supportive environment, might have changed him. I don't know if that could have saved the lives of the two students who he tortured and murdered. I do know that his treatment in prison made that tragedy more likely, not less.The terrifying thing is that today there are thousands of young men who come from similar backgrounds who are being treated exactly the same way in UK prisons.• This article was amended on Thursday 11 June 2009 for legal reasons.