A judge who gave a teacher a suspended sentence after suggesting he had been “groomed” by a pupil he was convicted of having sex with is to face an official investigation. Stuart Kerner, 44, was found guilty last month of two counts of sexual activity with a child by a person in a position of trust. But on Wednesday, he was given a suspended 18-month sentence by Joanna Greenberg QC, who said it was clear that his 16-year-old victim was obsessed with him.The attorney general’s office received complaints about the sentence and considered whether to refer it to a court of appeal under the unduly lenient sentences scheme, but yesterday said Kerner’s crimes were not included in the scheme. . The judge, however, faces an investigation by the Judicial Conduct and Investigations Office (JCIO).As she sentenced the religious studies teacher from Aylesford in Kent, Greenberg said: “[The victim] pursued you. Her friends described her, accurately in my view, as stalking you … If grooming is the right word to use, it was she who groomed you. You gave in to temptation.”But the victim was also young and vulnerable, the judge said, and Kerner was in a position of trust. “The law demands that you are the responsible adult and that you show restraint, and we know that you failed to do so.”The National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, along with End Violence Against Women and other groups, was quick to criticise Greenberg, a first-year circuit judge with more than 40 years’ experience.“This is the wrong use of the word grooming, it’s the wrong message to teachers, parents and pupils, and it’s wrong to suggest that a vulnerable child is in any way responsible for their own abuse,” said Barnardo’s executive director of children’s services, Sam Monaghan.A spokesman for the Judicial Conduct and Investigations Office said it had received complaints about Greenberg’s comments. The office considers allegations of misconduct, which may be dismissed or referred for further investigation. If a complaint is upheld, it can result in a judge being disciplined, suspended or removed from office.A spokesperson for the attorney general said: “After a number of complaints, we carefully considered whether Stuart Kerner’s sentence could be referred to the court of appeal for being too low as part of the unduly lenient sentence scheme. Mr Kerner’s crimes are not included in this scheme, meaning the law officers are unable to refer this.“However, it’s important that the public can challenge what they believe to be exceptionally low sentences. We have been looking at whether the scope of the current scheme is right.”Kerner had sex with the girl at school and at her home when she was 16. Jurors heard he had sex with her at Bexleyheath academy in south-east London, where he was vice-principal, the same week his wife miscarried. He later drove the girl to her home, where the pair had sex, Inner London crown court was told.Jurors heard that Kerner had told the teenager that their relationship was “written in the stars”. He had shown her a condom he had brought into school and told her he would use it when she became too “irresistible”, the prosecution revealed.In a video interview with police, played to jurors, the schoolgirl said: “It felt special. But, I dunno, it wasn’t really. And admitting that does kind of hurt.” She also told police she could say “hand on my heart” that Kerner would never have pursued her without her encouragement.Government guidance says the offence of sexual activity with a child by a person in a position of trust “is principally designed to protect young people aged 16 and 17 who, even though they are over the age of consent for sexual activity, are considered to be vulnerable to sexual abuse and exploitation from particular classes of persons who hold a position of trust or authority in relation to them”.