Britain's 30,000 prostitutes are more likely to be beaten or raped because of a new law aimed at deterring kerbcrawlers, a television programme will claim tonight.Nearly three out of four prostitutes surveyed said they had been sexually assaulted or seriously beaten in the last year. Makers of the Channel 4 programme, who spoke to 110 prostitutes in 18 towns and cities, found that a quarter of those interviewed would agree to unsafe sexual practices as clients decreased because of police crackdowns. The film, made by the Guardian newspaper's documentary arm, Guardian Films, will be broadcast tonight. New laws introduced last October mean that kerbcrawlers are at greater risk of arrest or having their DNA taken by police. The effect has been that punters spend less time in known red light areas, and prostitutes have less chance to assess how dangerous they could be. It also means they are performing their business in more isolated locations, which can be more dangerous. Three-quarters of street prostitutes (73%) said they had been attacked by punters in the previous 12 months, and 42% on more than three occasions. Six out of 10 said they had been badly beaten or raped in the previous 12 months, 44% said they had been strangled and 27% said they had been stabbed or threatened with knives. Eight of those interviewed said they had been threatened with guns, 17% had been abducted - taken somewhere in a car against their will - and over half reported that men had refused to pay them for their services. "The police interventions don't even have the major impact that they're supposed to have, which is to clear the girls away. It's also clear that the consequence of the police activity is to make [the women] much more open to attack and indeed to suffer more attacks," said David Canter, professor of psychology at the University of Liverpool, who analysed the research data. More than 90% of street prostitutes questioned work to fund crack or heroin habits that can cost up to £500 a week. Prof Canter said: "The people who are violent are not an unusual sample of the population of customers - people in their 30s, often local individuals, who seem to be reasonably well dressed. [These] people can include senior army officers, businessmen, doctors, pillars of the community." Glasgow is one of the few cities where the police have made the safety of prostitutes a priority after seven prostitutes were murdered in the city. Glasgow has a safe zone where prostitution is tolerated within agreed hours. The women work from well-lit streets with a CCTV system. Since the new policy was introduced, no prostitutes have been murdered. The CCTV system costs less a year than one murder inquiry. A former chief inspector, Nanette Pollock, said: "We don't condone the work they do. But they're part of the community and we've got to keep them safe like everyone else." Sixty-nine per cent of women said they rarely or never reported attacks to the police, because they did not think the police would be sympathetic. Dispatches: Sex on the Street is part of a Channel 4 season Prostitution - The Laws Don't Work. It is broadcast on Channel 4 tonight at 9pm.