Harrowing videotapes of rape victims being interviewed by police after the attacks would be shown to juries to emphasise their suffering, under government plans to boost conviction rates.The move would help women who steel themselves to appear in court in person - hoping to give clearer evidence than they could originally - only to find that juries think them insufficiently upset. Jill Saward, the Ealing Vicarage rape victim who made strenuous efforts to be composed in court, saw her attackers receive what were widely believed to be light sentences after the trial judge famously said that her trauma was 'not so great'. Two men were jailed for just three and five years for rape - less than the five years imposed on them for burglary. Saward, a 21-year-old virgin when she was brutally attacked in 1986, has said she was driven to suicidal thoughts in the months after the rape. Harriet Harman, the Solicitor General, is now studying plans for police routinely to film women when they first make a complaint - usually shortly after the attack - and show the recording when the case comes to court, perhaps months later, to underline the severe impact on the victim. 'She might look as cool as a cucumber when she gives evidence, but the recording might show her dishevelled and distressed,' Harman told backbenchers. Julia Drown, the Labour MP for Swindon who has campaigned for reform of the law concerning rape, said taping would help juries see the 'reality of the impact of those violent crimes'. Many people in the criminal justice system thought that it could lead to a dramatic rise in convictions, she added, and more guilty pleas which would avoid trials. 'If the tape was released to the defence lawyers beforehand, then they could say to the accused, "Are you seriously going to say, when this is the state she was in half an hour afterwards, that she was happy to go through with it and that she phoned you afterwards and so on?" This is an idea that should be seriously looked at,' said Drown. One possible problem, however, is whether the rules of admissible evidence would allow the tapes to be screened in court. Although vulnerable witnesses are now allowed to give evidence by video link to avoid facing their attacker in court, there is little precedent for showing recordings. The latest figures show that rape convictions have risen, but the percentage of reported rapes ending in a conviction has fallen. This means more cases are going to court, but a lower proportion of men are being found guilty. Now just 7% reported rapes end in a conviction. Some police forces already routinely videotape the first interview with a victim, allowing the woman to tell her story from start to finish with as little interruption as possible. Her statement is written afterwards from the tape, so she does not have to discuss distressing incidents repeatedly. A spokeswoman for the Attorney General's office said yesterday that the taping scheme was 'being looked at, and it is not that long before we will be in a position to make an announcement'.