A knife-obsessed drifter who was the subject of a far-reaching Asbo banning him from schools, colleges and universities was jailed for life yesterday after being found guilty of the murder of a 59-year-old cleaner.Jean Bowditch, a mother of two daughters, was stabbed nine times as she cleaned a bungalow in Carbis Bay, Cornwall. Gary Chester-Nash, 28, who had 18 previous convictions for burglary, had been identified as a serious risk to the public and was being supervised under a Multi-Agency Public Protection Arrangement. Yet he was able to board a train to Cornwall, where he killed Mrs Bowditch, from Lelant Downs, within a week of his release from Pentonville prison.He travelled to Cornwall the day after he was released last October, and six days later he burgled the bungalow, where Mrs Bowditch was working for 83-year-old Catherine Alexander. Mrs Alexander discovered her body when she returned home from a lunch meeting on October 12. Chester-Nash was arrested soon afterwards at Truro police station by dog handler PC Kevin Quick on suspicion of stealing a sandwich.Chester-Nash denied murder, claiming a fictitious squatter called Angel had confessed to the killing. Jailing him for life at Truro crown court yesterday, Mr Justice Owen said: "You displayed chilling arrogance, clearly believing you were above the law and were able to outwit the police. You are an extremely dangerous man."The judge recommended he serve at least 30 years in prison before becoming eligible for parole. As part of the terms of the Asbo, imposed in November 2004, Chester-Nash was banned from every school, college, university and hall of residence in England and Wales. He was also prohibited from entering sports clubs for women or pubs and clubs after 9pm.The draconian order was imposed after he had been hanging around New Hall College, Cambridge, and pestering women students for dates. He lied to get a job at a nightclub where he tried to chat up drunken students. Detectives are convinced he was responsible for four random stabbings in spring 2003. Cambridge police questioned him and found a diary in which he fantasised about rape, a knife, a pair of gloves and a rope. In January 2005, he was jailed for four months after being caught at a London train station with a large kitchen knife in his rucksack.Geoffrey Mercer QC, prosecuting, told the jury that days before he killed Mrs Bowditch, he met a 15-year-old girl on a train and boasted of his prowess with knives. "Gary said he had stabbed 24 people - two of which were near fatal," she said. The girl, who was with three friends, said he showed them a box containing three fish knives which he had stolen from a boat in Penzance. He told her the knives would be "good to kill someone with".The victim's widower, Michael Bowditch, punched the air as the killer was found guilty. Chester-Nash showed no emotion. Outside court, Mr Bowditch said: "This trial has been about a winner and a loser. Our Jean was the winner - kind, compassionate, caring, totally unselfish, always ready to help no matter how tough the going got."Andrew George, the Liberal Democrat MP for St Ives, said: "Authorities knew that Mr Chester-Nash presented a real and serious danger to others, but it appears that he had been released, and despite attempts to restrict his movements and activities, was able to travel freely to West Cornwall and to carry out this appalling act."A spokesman for the Multi-Agency Public Protection Arrangement said: "Members of the London MAPPA-responsible authorities - London probation, Metropolitan police, HM Prison Service London - have each conducted a thorough review into the management of Gary Chester-Nash. These three reviews have informed a special case review ... to determine if there are any lessons to be learnt."