Reports of the police case against Kate and Gerry McCann focused in the past week on DNA evidence allegedly discovered in their car and several other locations. Can they be sure the DNA is Madeleine's? And if so, what might it prove? Ian Cobain investigatesThe science of genetic fingerprinting has moved with lightning pace since the pioneering days two decades ago when scientists spent weeks poring over spots of blood the size of 5p pieces to match a suspect to a crime. But experts caution that every advance needs to be matched by improvements in the way crime scenes are secured to prevent irrelevant DNA from being introduced or relevant DNA being spread further afield.While no police officers or forensic science experts in the UK were prepared openly to criticise the Portuguese investigation this week, many must have been surprised by the realisation that Madeleine McCann's clothing had been transported across Praia da Luz after she disappeared - in the same vehicle around which the forensic investigation is focused - and at the manner in which the child's cuddly toy was taken to locations which would later be tested for samples of her DNA.A series of advances in the science of genetic fingerprinting has resulted in the development of precise techniques for the recovery of DNA, and in an ability to process with accuracy the ever-smaller traces which are being found at crime scenes.Rather than relying on a splash of blood or a semen stain, a fallen hair or the saliva taken from a discarded cigarette, scientists can now locate and recover invisible traces not much greater than a single cell. Forensic scientists will then look for a match of unique sequences of DNA at two sets of 10 different fixed locations on each sample. The results of this analysis are intended to give investigators a clear picture of the crime they are investigating. However, every scientific advance may deepen the danger of that picture being blurred by "adventitious contamination" - fragments of DNA being moved from one location to another.The Forensic Science Service goes to extraordinary lengths to avoid this happening at its laboratories in Birmingham. Samples taken from crime scenes and suspects are processed at different laboratories and nobody working at one lab is allowed to enter another. It is standard procedure in the UK for police to set up cordons at the scene of a crime, and only a small number of detectives and scientists wearing masks and clothing designed to reduce contamination will be allowed within its bounds. In Portugal, it can be assumed police have isolated DNA from Madeleine - rather than a member of her family - from hair, perhaps, or material from her toothbrush. Having failed to take steps to eliminate Kate and Gerry McCann early in their investigation, police last month began looking for matches with samples of DNA recovered from the car which the couple hired 25 days after her disappearance. There have been unconfirmed media reports that police have found both a "full match" and "an 80% match". If these reports are accurate, this would indicate that unique sequences of Madeleine's DNA have been found at a full 10 fixed locations on the first trace, and at eight locations on the second. This would mean that the chances of the first trace not being from Madeleine are many millions to one; the chances of the second not being from the missing girl remain at several million to one.However, there remains the possibility of adventitious contamination, perhaps from the missing child's clothing, which her parents loaded into the car boot when they moved from their holiday apartment to a rented villa in the town, or from family towels, or from the children's toys. So the presence of Madeleine's DNA may be meaningless, unless officers have also found tissue such as hair or body fluids.If anything is clear from the reported leaks about the forensic discoveries, it is that genetic fingerprinting still has the power to perplex the public, and perhaps also to leave some police officers puzzled.