The national crime squad has failed to attract women and ethnic minority recruits because the organisation is perceived as "macho, elitist and sexist", despite attempts to change its image, a report claimed yesterday.According to the inspectorate of constabulary, the NCS, which was set up three years ago to tackle organised crime, has only one middle rank woman officer in a staff that is more than 88% male. It has no senior women. The squad has faced "even greater difficulties" recruiting black and Asian staff - there are only 16 currently serving in a force of 1,318 officers. The fact that the NCS recruits from regional police forces - which themselves have difficulties finding minority candidates - exacerbates a difficult situation, acknowledged the report. However, the organisation must do more to tackle the view that it is "macho, elitist and sexist, which is more true in the past than it is today". "The squad has made significant progress in the last three years and now needs to grasp every opportunity to publicise that to the audiences from which it will try to recruit." The report praised the squad for the investigative work it has done since it was created and described it as a "can do" organisation, but inspectors warned that there was still a long way to go. It pointed to a "void" in investigations conducted at a regional rather than a national level, and said the squad needed "stronger central control and coordination". The NCS published its own annual report yesterday which focused on investigative successes. It has arrested 45 top criminals in the last 12 months, and 422 of their "first lieutenants". Overall, the squad made 938 arrests in 247 operations and seized drugs with a street value of £262m, including £162m of heroin and cocaine. The NCS has 320 operations in progress, including 110 focusing on cocaine, 84 on heroin and 22 on money laundering. The NCS director general, Bill Hughes, said the squad's "macho and sexist" reputation was "unfortunately built on misconception". He said: "There is a shortage of women officers and minority ethnic officers in the police generally, so there is a smaller pool for us to fish in. It's not looking too good for us but we have targets that we are aiming for. We intend to get there."