Detectives admitted today that they might never identify all the children featured in allegedly indecent images that triggered the arrest of a nursery school worker.Officers believe that some of the images of children as young as four were taken inside Little Ted's nursery but conceded that it would be very difficult to identify all the children as many of the pictures featured only the youngsters' torsos. Police said they had not identified any of the children so far and were talking to 95 families in connection with the investigation.Vanessa George, 39, from Plymouth, is due to appear in court tomorrow morning accused of four offences of sexual assault on children and one count each of making, possessing and distributing indecent images of children. George, a mother of two, remains in custody at Charles Cross police station in Plymouth.Speaking after she was charged, Russ Middleton, the head of Devon and Cornwall CID, said: "It's safe to say we believe some of the images were taken in the nursery."At this time we have been unable to identify any images of individual children and it is right to say some images may never be identified."He said a large team of detectives was involved in the inquiry. The priority was maintaining close relations with the families of any potential victims.Chief Superintendent Jim Webster, Plymouth district commander, added: "It is a significant and disturbing situation and the position is made even more difficult that identification of the children in the images is very difficult. There are many that contain the images of torsos."As we go through the painstaking task of identifying who may be concerned, we are focusing on communication with the families we believe are involved."Police said they had examined images on a camera phone but "hundreds, perhaps thousands" of images could be examined during the inquiry. They also said that George's employment history was an important line of inquiry.Social workers and police family liaison officers are visiting all parents of children who attended the nursery. A hotline has been set up, staffed by social workers and child psychologists, to help the families.Police were continuing to speak to staff at the privately run nursery and the parents of children who attend the centre.The nursery, which caters for 60 children, remains shut. George is understood to have worked at the unit for two to three years as a member of the 15-strong staff.One woman, whose three-year-old son attends Little Ted's, said: "Everyone is praying it's not their child that may be involved. The police have a lot of things to go through to try and identify children. It's going to be a long process. They have said they are going to try and keep us as informed as possible."