Gloria Okoh was so against her son taking up boxing that he would tell her he was off to a friend's house or the local youth centre when, aged 13, he joined Westram boxing club, south London. Even when he won the Commonwealth cruiserweight title in 1995, some 13 years later, she still had her reservations. Today, though, Chris Okoh has swapped the ring for the challenge of rehabilitating offenders, and his mum couldn't be prouder. "She's a nurse, so she's really pleased that I'm finally going into a caring job," says Okoh, 33, who is studying to become a probation officer. It is not the most conventional career route, but the former boxing champion has always taken a keen interest in youth development. Just before winning the Commonwealth title, he spent the summer as a volunteer with Camp America, coaching boys in soccer skills. "They came from difficult backgrounds and it was a very demanding role, but I loved it," he recalls. On his return from the US, he decided to dedicate his Sunday afternoons to organising outings and games for a youth club in Croydon, south London, where he grew up. When Okoh lost his title in 1997, in an unexpected third-round knock-out, he took some time out from the ring and worked with a drugs project, dispensing methadone to heroin addicts. He empathised with the clients, many of whom were on probation orders for crimes committed to feed their habits. "Just because they are criminals, they are not bad people," says Okoh. "There are reasons why they have done these things. They trusted me and poured out their life history. Several clients told me over and over again that I'd make a good probation officer. They told me theirs weren't so good." Encouraged by clients and work colleagues, he gave it a shot. An initial application was turned down, but, not easily deterred, he visited two probation open days, where he was able to speak to an officer about what the job entailed and whether his skills were transferable. The London probation area service is one of the exhibitors this week at the London Public Sector Careers Expo, which is supported by the Guardian. The office for fair trading, Metropolitan police and food standards agency are some of the other employers exhibiting at the two-day event designed to offer advice and information to people who, like Okoh, are thinking about becoming a public servant. He is now six months from completing a two-year course in community justice, combining university study with on-the-job training, and is guaranteed a probation officer post at the end. For someone who left school at 16, with a handful of CSEs, he does not pretend that it has been easy. Of the 60 students on his course, five have left. "At the beginning, I thought I might be the one that dropped out," Okoh says, "but I was really determined to see it through." Okoh, whose father died when he was a young child, admits that boxing channelled his energy and aggression from an early age. The person he thanks for this is boxing legend Muhammad Ali. "I was completely mesmerised by him," says Okoh. "He was such a huge motivating factor for a young black boy because he was articulate, eloquent and charismatic, and he broke the stereotypical image of the black boxer. I bought every book about him. I knew that was what I wanted to do. He had an amazing affiliation with young people and he loves children. Perhaps I got that from him as well." · The London Public Sector Careers Expo is at the New Connaught Rooms, 61-65 Great Queen Street, London WC2, tomorrow and Friday from 11am to 7pm. Admission is free. Further details at: www.hspjobquest.com