A fundamental overhaul of the entire working culture of the police is needed in response to next week's expected damning Stephen Lawrence inquiry report, one of Britain's most senior police officers said yesterday.The Chief Constable of Surrey, Ian Blair, who was sharing a platform with the Home Secretary, made clear that it was not just a question of race but of changing the mindset of the entire organisation if public confidence in the police service was to be restored. He indicated that the scale of reform of the police needed in the wake of the Lawrence inquiry had not been seen for more than 25 years.In particular he identified the "immensely powerful" working culture especially with its "mores of a white culture" that ran throughout the police. It was "quite frankly now old-fashioned" and had to be changed.And in a sharp and deliberate rebuke to some police organisations, Mr Blair also warned his colleagues that they needed to show some "real humility" in the face of next week's scathing report by Sir William Macpherson.Mr Blair is seen as a key moderniser inside the police force. He said yesterday he was more comfortable with New Labour's approach to policing than that articulated by Michael Howard, the former Conservative home secretary, and his speech will be seen as trying to ensure that the pace of change in the police does not falter in response to the Lawrence inquiry report. In the process he did no harm to his prospects of suceeding the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, when he retires next year.Mr Blair quoted the definition of the role of the service used by the former Met commissioner Sir Robert Mark 25 years ago, when he wrote: "The police are the anvil on which society beats out the problems and abrasions of social inequality, racial prejudice, weak laws and ineffective legislation."At a meeting of the Social Market Foundation Mr Blair argued there was no better image for the current state of the police: "The anvil is a very striking image. It is solid, old-fashioned, if not quite obsolescent, and is something which things are done to but which does not change as a result. There could scarcely be a better simile for the culture of the police. At its best, brave, sometimes heartstoppingly brave capable, imperturbable, offering equality of treatment before the law, a safe haven. We all know of examples of police culture at its worst, but even at its best it is not fitted to handle the disparate and shifting requirements of modern society."Modernisation had to include the fundamental internal culture of the police which was mirrored in the way they treated those who came into contact with them. The failure of the police to change was on the scale of a sleeping industrial giant that had not noticed seismic changes in the market place similar in scale to IBM refusing to accept the onset of personal computers, he said.Twenty-five years after Sir Robert Mark, the police service was still seeking to serve a multicultural and modern nation with a homogenous and traditional working culture. It was not solely about race but also about sexual equality: "Talking to women officers they clearly feel that they have to adapt to a male ethos. Only just now, in my force, are gay and lesbian officers feeling confident enough to come out. A recent forum for ethnic minority officers in Surrey revealed little about prejudice or abuse inside the force but quite a lot about an unspoken requirement to adopt to the mores of a white culture."Taking this on would be very difficult, as the internal culture had grown up "because of the dangers the police faced together", but it had to be changed and that included ways of "encouraging diversity in our staff".Mr Blair's intervention came as the Police Complaints Authority published a report into deaths in police custody in which it promised full disclosure of all relevant evidence to the families of the bereaved. New guidelines are also to be issued to end the "agonising delay" suffered by families trying to find out how their loved ones died in police custody.The report shows that the high-profile campaigns over several notorious black deaths in police custody have made an impact at the highest levels. Refresher training courses in restraint techniques are to be introduced for officers and it particularly warns the police against handcuffing detainees behind their backs while they are lying on the ground. This issue of "positional asphyxia" has been at the centre of several of the 12 deaths of black people in police custody in the past three years.The PCA goes out of its way, however, to emphasise that only 12 of the 147 people who died in police custody were from ethnic minorities: "The widely held belief that most people who die are black is not borne out by the figures."