All week the townspeople of Machynlleth have believed that there could be a happy resolution, that April Jones would be returned to her mum and dad safe and well.And on Friday still – even after the police announced that Mark Bridger was being treated as a murder suspect and said it was no longer appropriate for non-professionals to go out searching – the town refused to give up hope."We believe that she could be out there somewhere alive," said Kirsty Jones, 16, a friend of April's sister, Jasmine, as she handed out the pink ribbons that April's family have asked people to wear to show they still had faith that the girl could be found.By Friday night there was hardly a single person to be seen on the high street not wearing a splash of pink. "People still have hope," said Kirsty.The moment when the news broke in Machynlleth that the status of the investigation had changed was a dreadful one. Some were watching the police press conference – held 18 miles up the road in Aberystwyth – on big screens at the town's leisure centre, which has become the meeting place for the searchers.Volunteers who had gathered in readiness to go back out into the fields and valleys to help search for the five-year-old girl were then asked to meet at the Y Plas Machynlleth, a community centre and hall. They had to wait for 20 terrible minutes, not speaking, not really looking at each other, until a police officer arrived to spell out the situation.Carl Jones, from Machynlleth, who has helped co-ordinate volunteer searches all week, said police explained that they were now searching for a body. "We're trying to work out what to do next," he said. "I don't think we've all grasped the implications of what the police have said yet."What some people did was defy the police and carry on searching. "We've got teams out there. We continue to hope," said Jones.The dignity and resolve of the townspeople was illustrated by two women who learned the grim news when Kay Burley divulged it to them live on Sky News.One apologised for sobbing and as she walked away paused to check Burley had a pink ribbon. "Keep hope alive," she said.Precisely the same message came from the church and school.The Rev Kathleen Rogers, of St Peter's church, was at the leisure centre to offer words of consolation to the townsfolk. "This child has not been found, we still have hope," she said.At April's school, the gates were swathed in a giant pink ribbon. Inside the pupils had created a special, quiet area in the foyer and written messages of love to April.Headteacher Gwenfair Glyn said the days since the girl had vanished had been an "emotional roller-coaster"."This week has been the hardest in the school's history," she said. "But everyone has rallied around and provided tremendous support. We refuse to give up hope and are praying that April is still alive."Back at the leisure centre the police-led search continued. Here the message was that nothing had changed. "It's the same as yesterday and the day before," said Mark Moran, from the charity Mountain Rescue, "We are searching for a little girl."He said it was irrelevant whether they were looking for someone who was dead or alive and morale had not been affected by the police's announcement."If anything it makes us more determined. That mother wants her daughter back. That's still the aim."