It's a sunny October afternoon, and a group of regulars in the Millers Arms pub in Lincoln are engaged in an animated discussion about whether Gina Mallard should be jailed for breaching an antisocial behaviour order (Asbo). Mallard, a colourful, loud-mouthed 41-year-old mother of two, is notorious in the high street area for her outrageous drunken behaviour. And, until recently, no one seemed to know what to do about her. Everyone, it seems, has at least one outlandish yarn to relay. Mallard's exploits have become the stuff of folklore. Tales are told of how she is regularly spotted staggering drunk down the street, beer can in hand, swearing at passersby. Shopkeepers roll their eyes as they recall her prancing about in her underwear in public, or with her knickers on over her jeans. Others mention the time Mallard lobbed a brick through an off licence window after staff refused to serve her. The owner of the local newsagent lets loose a resigned chuckle. Grown men, she says, have been known to run into her shop to hide in fear of Mallard making a pass at them. "She's a big, strong woman, and forceful when she's drunk," another shopowner says. "She might not actually hit you, but there's always a worry that one day she will thump someone. I've seen her smashing up a phone box for no reason." The landlady of the Millers Arms talks of the last time she had to call the police to "sort Gina out". She had been "off her face", bothering punters and finishing their drinks when they weren't looking. The police eventually arrested her. "Jail wouldn't be enough for her," declares one man in the pub as he peers over a pint of bitter. "She's frightening and she scares the kids at the school across the road," says another drinker. "I feel sorry for her," a young woman standing by the bar says with a stern shake of her head. "She has problems. Yes, she gets drunk and shouts and is a nuisance. But shouldn't she be getting help for her drinking problems instead of being thrown into prison? What good will that do? She'll only be let out and start doing it all over again." The "Mallard question", it is fair to say, has divided the community. Some local people regard her merely as an irritant or public nuisance. Others believe she is an aggressive, violent terror whose antics make their lives a misery. Mallard's stepfather, Malcolm Pell, with whom she shares a house just off the high street, attempted to explain her behaviour in the local paper: "When she drinks, her anger and depression seem to come out." Mallard was issued with an Asbo in July last year following dozens of court appearances for petty crime, including criminal damage and being drunk and disorderly. The conditions of the Asbo stipulate that she cannot drink or be drunk in a public place for two years. But Mallard has breached the Asbo seven times. As a result, when she appears at Lincoln crown court for sentencing next Monday she could face five years in jail - the maximum penalty for a breach. She has been on remand for 14 weeks. Earlier this month, the Lincolnshire Echo ran a front page article questioning the logic of jailing Mallard for breaching the Asbo (to date, most local press coverage around the country has been in favour of Asbos). The article provoked a deluge of letters to the editor, some protesting at the harshness of Mallard's treatment, others - including a nurse who treated her at Lincoln county hospital - saying she deserves all she gets. "On several occasions she completely destroyed her room, throwing a television across the room and requiring hospital security to calm the situation," wrote the nurse. Lincolnshire police says it applied for the Asbo to help its officers protect the local community from what it describes as Mallard's "horrendous" behaviour. "She is not a loveable rogue, people are quite frightened and intimidated by her," says a police spokesman. With her persistent disruptive behaviour, and its obvious detrimental effect on the local community, Mallard is, in theory, exactly the sort of person the government had in mind when it introduced Asbos five years ago. The government defines grounds for Asbos as: "a manner that caused, or was likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress to one or more persons not of the same household". Asbos were introduced to act as a deterrent and to help rid local communities of troublemakers. They can be served on anyone 10-years-old or over. According to the most recent Home Office figures, 2,455 Asbos have been issued since 1999. They have been lauded by the home secretary, David Blunkett, and held up time and again by ministers as evidence of New Labour's "tough on crime" credentials. So far, the public and the media have tended to focus on Asbos dished out to young people. But Mallard's case - and a spate of orders against vulnerable groups such as beggars - has begun to fuel concern that Asbos are beginning to be applied inappropriately. The conditions imposed by some recent Asbos have attracted ridicule. There is the case where someone has been banned from being sarcastic (he challenged it saying he was being ironic). In another case, a boy has been banned from using the word "grass" in England until 2010. In each case, in theory, a breach could lead to a five-year jail term. On the face of it, Mallard's Asbo does not appear flagrantly ridiculous, but nor does it seem entirely rational. Critics allege that by imposing conditions like these, Asbos are setting people up to fail - especially vulnerable individuals - who, they say, need rehabilitation, not time inside. A spokeswoman for drugs and alcohol charity Addaction says she is bewildered by the government's belief that instructing someone with a alcohol problem not to drink will be effective, and calls it "pointless". She adds: "The problem is bigger than the person. I can see how Asbos might be effective in some circumstances, but there needs to be more appropriate help for people with drink-related problems." A spokeswoman for Alcohol Concern adds that there are worries about whether Asbos can ever be a long-term answer to "street drunks". There is no quick fix, she says, and more thought needs to go into how health services, local councils, police and the courts work together. The charities concede that for some individuals - perhaps those who continually refuse treatment - jail is inevitable. But they insist that, once in prison, people with alcohol problems are let down by the system. They point to a Prison Reform Trust report in January that concluded that only one prison of 138 in England and Wales has a recognised alcohol abuse programme. Civil liberties group Liberty says there are broader implications. Asbos are in danger of being used as a "back door" method of locking people up for minor offences because of the kinds of conditions applied, a spokesman says. Asbos come under civil law and are issued for offences that probably would not lead to a custodial sentence. However, as Liberty points out, breaches are a criminal offence. And, since some are for minor things (such as drinking in a pub), which would not themselves qualify for jail sentence in the criminal courts, the person being jailed need not have committed any serious crime. "There simply is not enough monitoring of Asbos and their effectiveness," the Liberty spokesman says. "There have now been thousands of Asbos issued. It allows politicians to sound tough, but do we really know how effective they are? We are not against Asbos, but there is an argument for a full-scale review of the policy." Rob Allen, director of campaign group Rethinking Crime and Punishment, says handing out custodial sentences for Asbo breaches appears to run "counter to the overall thrust of government policy, which is to cut prison numbers".In a statement, a Home Office spokesman points to the fact that two-thirds of Asbos are not breached as "a clear indication of their effectiveness", and this is backed up, he says, by research that shows communities "felt safer". Labour's alcohol crime reduction strategy, announced earlier this year, is also being promoted as evidence of a fresh focus on vulnerable people with alcohol-related problems.  The government is keen to get across that it has a "tiered approach" to antisocial behaviour. It says "appropriate interventions" by agencies and social services are made where necessary. Whether ministers will listen in the coming months to the growing number of voices challenging this remains to be seen. There are no plans to set guidelines for the conditions laid down by Asbos, the Home Office insists. They will continue to be left to the courts' discretion. Some 35% of Asbos are breached one or more times, and 18% of all Asbos handed out result in a custodial sentence. There are no figures available from government on the length of sentences. If Mallard is given the maximum sentence next week, more people may start to question the government's line. Back at the pub, people mull over the arguments. Life is quieter with Mallard on remand, they say. But one customer sums up a reservation shared by the group. "What good is jail going to do in the end? Don't people just come out having learned other stuff about committing crime?" The A-Z of Asbos·Total number of Asbos issued in England and Wales between April 1, 1999 and March 31, 2004: 2,455. ·Number of applications for Asbos turned down by the courts: 42 (1.7%). ·Total issued against 10- to17-year-olds: 1,169. ·Total issued to adults 18 and over: 1,286. ·Highest number of Asbos issued by a single region: 422 by Greater Manchester. ·15.2% of Asbos are issued to women. ·If the number of Asbos given out in the first quarter of 2004 is matched in subsequent quarters, the total will be almost double that of 2003. The following are from the most up-to- date breakdown of figures available from government (June 1, 2000, to December 31, 2002): · 50% of breaches result in a custodial sentence (18% of all Asbos end in a jail term).* · 35.5% of all Asbos are breached one or more times.** · Source: Home Office figures for England and Wales collected from courts. * The government could not supply figures for average length of sentences, number of jail terms served, or the maximum jail term served to date. ** The government counts multiple breaches as a single breach. There are therefore no figures for the total number of breaches.· More on Asbos at www.SocietyGuardian.co.uk/ crimeandpunishment