The three police forces whose officers were shamed as racists in the BBC's The Secret Policeman documentary are to review every case handled by the men involved. Hundreds of arrests, cautions and even fixed penalties such as parking fines will be considered.The process could lead to a wave of cases being brought against the forces for wrongful arrest and potentially to convictions being overturned. Greater Manchester, North Wales and Cheshire constabularies have confirmed they have begun the audit process, which will be co-ordinated by the Police Complaints Authority.The three constabularies will also be forced to disclose all records in any case brought by victims of their alleged racism. Barry Hugill, of the civil-rights campaigns group Liberty, said there was a clear case for members of the community who had come into contact with the officers to take action. 'We are very pleased that the police are taking such swift action.' A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester, which has suspended five officers, said an urgent meeting with the Crown Prosecution Service had been called 'to consider whether any charges will be made'. Disciplinary procedures against the five had already begun, as had a probe into whether any criminal offences had been committed. Four of the officers have resigned over the affair. The spokeswoman confirmed that a file had been passed to the CPS about Mark Daly, the 28-year-old BBC reporter who worked undercover for the programme at Bruche police training centre in Cheshire. He is accused of lying on his application form and obtaining pecuniary advantage. Greater Manchester police said the matter was now in the hands of the CPS. North Wales police said prosecution was 'a likelihood' in the case of the two officers from its force. A police officer serving with one of the three forces criticised was last night suspended over allegations of racism. The Cheshire Police officer was suspended after he was accused of using racist language, in a move that was not linked to the BBC documentary.