New forensic evidence involving microscopic fibres and blood traces ties Gary Dobson and David Norris to the group that murdered Stephen Lawrence 18 years ago, a court has heard.Cutting-edge science, the jury was told, would prove the guilt of the two defendants in the racist murder of Lawrence in Eltham, south-east London, on 22 April 1993.But barristers for the defendants at the trial at the Old Bailey closed by arguing that, over 18 years, the risk of exhibits becoming contaminated was so high that the evidence the prosecution relies on is fatally flawed.A cold case review, which began in 2007, used new scientific techniques on clothing belonging to Dobson and Norris which was seized by police in 1993 in their first investigation.The defendants' clothing, prosecuting QC Mark Ellison said, had textile fibres, blood and hair linked to Lawrence that meant "they must have been members of the group that attacked Stephen Lawrence that night".What ties Dobson and Norris to the group that attacked Stephen, said Ellison, was the forensic evidence produced by a new team of scientists.Forensic tests had previously failed to produce clear and compelling evidence.In 2007 a team from LGC Forensics was handed the exhibits and could apply the latest techniques, said Ellison, as well as a new attitude: "They were less ready to accept that there would be no evidence to be found; they thought more broadly about what types of traces to target … Experience had also shown them that even the most diligent of examinations could still fail to reveal all the evidence that was present."An initial test for blood using traditional techniques on Dobson's grey bomber jacket, seized by police, produced a negative result. It was then subjected to an examination by microscope.Dobson's bomber jacket is known by the exhibit number LH/5. It will be central to the case.In the weave of its collar, the new team of scientists found a blood spot, measuring 0.5mm by 0.25mm. Ellison said the traditional methods of examination would have missed traces of such a small size.Ellison said the jury would hear from experts who will say the chances of the blood on the collar coming from anyone other than Lawrence were one in a billion.Ellison said the evidence will show the blood came to be on Dobson's jacket from the attack and not, as the defence will argue, as the result of contamination from another forensic test. "A tiny bloodstain on what would have been the outside of the collar if turned down is far more likely to be related to wet blood shed in the fatal attack," said the QC.As part of the new team's approach, they examined clothing taken from the suspects, not just for fibres from Stephen's outer layer of clothing, but also for traces of fibres from any of the five layers of clothing he was wearing that night.Ellison said the scientists also examined debris contained in the crevices of evidence bags, used to hold exhibits, in case any residue had fallen off in the years they had been stored and moved around.Such a search, the crown said, produced another result. Three fibres were recovered from Dobson's jacket, encased in blood. The chances, according to the crown's experts, of this blood coming from anyone other than Lawrence, were one in 500.In all, 16 fibres from three pieces of Lawrence's clothing were recovered from Dobson's jacket, or from the evidence bag it had been stored in.Ellison said the jury would hear from an expert who had considered the significance of the blood and fibre findings. The expert's evidence would be: "The simplest explanation is that the wearer of the jacket was involved in the attack and the blood and fibres that were found were what remained of the evidential material transferred … the combination of blood/DNA and fibres provides extremely persuasive evidence to link the wearer of the grey jacket [LH/5] to the attack itself and/or to contact with the perpetrators soon afterwards."Ellison said Norris was tied to the murder by two hairs belonging to Lawrence that were found in the evidence bag containing jeans recovered from Norris's bedroom. Ellison told the jury: "Within the debris from the packaging of the exhibit … were two short, dark brown-coloured, cut hairs. They were 1mm and 2mm in length."They were sent to the US for mitochondrial DNA testing, which focuses on the genetic makeup of hair cells. The technique had not been available in the mid-1990s. They were found to match Stephen Lawrence's DNA or that of a maternal relative to a certainty of 999 in 1,000.Seven fibres were also found on Norris's blue sweatshirt which potentially came from two items of Lawrence's clothes, the jury was told. Ellison said: "Taking these seven fibres together, that matched fibres in two different Lawrence items, the expert's evaluation is: 'Based on the colour, type and physical properties of these fibres, and their relative rarity …when taken together this combination of fibres provided at least strong support for the assertion that they came from items of clothing relating to Stephen Lawrence, rather than being chance matches.'"Ellison said the hair and fibre evidence meant that "the only reasonable conclusion to be drawn is that David Norris, as well as Gary Dobson, participated in the attack on Stephen Lawrence".Dobson's barrister, Timothy Roberts QC, said his client was elsewhere when the murder took place: "At the time Stephen Lawrence was being attacked, Gary Dobson was at home at his parents' house. He is innocent of this charge."But Roberts's main attack was directed at the system for ensuring the exhibits were not contaminated, which he said was riddled with flaws. The crown's case relied on tiny fragments, so small they could have accidentally been transferred from other exhibits over 18 years. "If the items were to be placed in a teaspoon to be examined, you would not be able to see it because it can only be viewed and evaluated under a microscope. The charge is based on a pinch of material."Exhibits were kept in paper bags, closed by sticky tape, which could come loose, Roberts said. He also told the jury that a police officer in charge of authenticating the integrity and the proper handling of exhibits, had "tampered" with evidence about how the items had been handled.Roberts said the officer, Detective Sergeant Paul Steed, had also had access to, and handled, Dobson's grey jacket on 5 June 2007.Norris's barrister also said he would tell the jury that the risk of contamination made the scientific evidence unreliable.Ellison said Dobson, aged 17 at the time of the murder, claimed to have been at home on the night, apart from leaving at 11.45pm to pick up a Bob Marley CD from the home of Jamie Acourt. While Dobson was there, another visitor mentioned someone had been murdered in the area. Ellison said that when asked to list his male friends, Dobson made no mention of Norris.Ellison told the jury: "Gary Dobson did not mention, in his taped police interviews, his co-defendant David Norris, indeed he denied knowing David Norris, saying … he had heard the name mentioned once or twice, but did not know who he was and had not met him. Prior to their arrest in May 1993, Gary Dobson and David Norris had in fact been photographed together by police."So it seems that Gary Dobson was trying to distance himself from knowing David Norris in initial police interview."Norris, who was 16 at the time of the attack, had declined to answer questions during police interview. When rearrested after the new scientific findings emerged, the pair had again declined to answer questions, Ellison told the jury.The murder of Lawrence, and the accusations of police failings, have formed a key part of a chapter of modern British history. To open the case, the prosecution took the jury back to the events that played out around a bus stop on the night.Lawrence was out with his friend Duwayne Brooks, and were looking for a bus back to Lawrence's family home in Woolwich. Just after 10.35pm, they walked past the junction of Dickinson and Well Hall Roads.Ellison told the jury they were confronted by a group of five white youths: "One of the group was heard by Duwayne Brooks to say 'what, what nigger', at the same time as the whole group suddenly rushed towards them."The jury heard Brooks, who was ahead of Lawrence, urged his friend to flee, shouting "get up and run Steve". But by then Lawrence had been caught.Ellison said: "The group quickly surrounded him. One witness described how he was swallowed up by weight of numbers and forced to the ground. Then they were leaning over him, and there were hand and leg movements."Lawrence suffered two stab wounds to the upper torso, both of which severed arteries: "The position and angle of the wounds suggest that Stephen Lawrence was likely to have been upright when the wound to the right side was inflicted, but may have been lying on the ground when stabbed to the left shoulder."The jury of 12 people, including four women and three members of ethnic minorities, heard that Lawrence, "now mortally wounded", managed to get up and run about 220 metres, before collapsing. His attackers had fled.Passersby tried to help, but when an ambulance arrived at 10.54pm, Lawrence was showing no signs of life.Ellison said: "The only discernable reason for the attack was the colour of his skin. The way in which the attack was executed indicates that this group were a group of like-minded young, white men who acted together and reacted together. They shared the same racial animosity and motivation."