A drunken 15-year-old boy kicked and stamped a woman to death because she was a goth, a court heard today.The teenager was one of a five-strong gang who acted like "a pack of wild animals" as they "savagely and mercilessly" attacked Sophie Lancaster, 20, and her boyfriend, Preston crown court heard.Moments before the fatal attack took place, Lancaster, a gap-year student, had begged the gang to stop beating her boyfriend, 21-year-old art student Robert Maltby. The accused had started the violence, with a flying kick to the head of Maltby, the jury heard. The gang, "encouraging each other and laughing", punched, stamped and jumped on Maltby's head until he was unconscious, said Michael Shorrock QC, opening the case for the prosecution. Lancaster had pleaded with them to stop and tried to pull them away, according to witnesses of the attack which took place last August, in Stubbylee Park, Bacup, Lancashire. But as she knelt down, cradling her boyfriend's head on her lap, calling for help, the accused and another teenager, who has already pleaded guilty to murder, turned on her. The second boy, aged 15 at the time, kicked her in the head, with the accused joining in to kick and stamp on her head. Shorrock said the gang had targeted the couple simply because they were goths or "moshers" and dressed differently to them. When paramedics arrived, they could not tell what sex Sophie was because her facial injuries were so severe. She died in hospital nearly two weeks later, as a result of her brain injuries. Maltby survived, but has no recollection of the attack. The accused, and four other youths, two aged 17 and one 16, have already pleaded guilty to inflicting grievous bodily harm upon Maltby. But the accused denies murder, saying he took no part in the attack on Lancaster. None of the teenagers involved can be named because of their ages. Shorrock told the jury: "Shortly after midnight on Friday 10 August 2007, these five defendants, all teenagers from the Bacup area, acting like a pack of wild animals, savagely and mercilessly attacked and beat unconscious, first a young man called Robert Maltby."And then when his girlfriend Sophie Lancaster tried to help him, this defendant, together with another young man, attacked her and beat her into unconsciousness. "The attack was totally unprovoked. It would appear that Mr Maltby and Miss Lancaster were singled out, not for anything they had said or done, but because they dressed differently to the defendant and his friend."The other young man was the first to kick, aiming his blow to her head. Then he and this defendant launched into a sustained and vicious attack involving kicking and stamping to the head."At least six witnesses, aged between 14 and 17, saw part of the attack and would give evidence, the court heard. Shorrock read excerpts from statements given by these witnesses to police. A girl, aged 14, told officers that the violence began when one member of the gang said: "Shall we batter him?" They all then started saying: "Let's beat him up". The accused then allegedly kicked Maltby in the head.A boy, aged 17, told police he saw all five "stamping" on Maltby, with Lancaster crouched over him, trying to protect him, before the attack on her began. Another witness, a boy aged 16, said in a statement: "I think she had his head on her lap and they were all just still stood around, not moving anywhere, and the accused kicked the girl." Another girl, aged 14, said: "I started crying because I'd never seen anything like that. They were all just booting." A 15-year-old boy who attempted to stop the attack, said: "It looked like they were running over and just kicking her in the head, jumping up and down on their head or summat ... they were kicking her all over her head." Lancaster's mother, brother, relatives and friends sat listening in the public gallery, crying as details of her injuries were given. A doctor's report and postmortem results stated that she had been kicked and stamped to death, with the pattern of some footwear still on her head. The defendant read out a prepared statement to police, admitting punching Maltby but denying involvement in the attack on Lancaster. He told police: "The next thing I remember is that a lad shouted: 'Somebody hit him'. I don't know why — I was drunk and showing off — but I stepped forward and hit the male ... once. He did not fall over or even stagger. I remember that he started to laugh ..." After Lancaster died, the teenager was rearrested for murder.The trial continues.