The law lords gave a green light yesterday to the use of evidence from phone taps in criminal trials, a move encouraged by David Blunkett, the home secretary, but of concern to the intelligence agencies.In a unanimous opinion, five law lords said there was nothing in the European convention on human rights to stop such evidence being used in court provided the taps were properly authorised. More particularly they said that in law, there was no difference between private phone systems - notably, internal office extensions linked to a switchboard - and public systems such as BT networks. The law lords gave their opinion in response to a request by Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general. He sought their advice after a case involving allegations of police corruption collapsed following arguments about whether taps had been placed on an internal, private system or a public telephone system. This issue was one of the potential legal obstacles in the way of allowing the products of telephone taps to be used in criminal trials. The law prevents telephone tap evidence from being used in open court despite evidence from bugs in rooms, cars, or other premises, and video surveillance by the se curity and intelligence agencies, being allowed. "The United Kingdom practice has been to exclude the product of warranted interception from the public domain and thus to preclude its use as evidence," the law lords said. "But this has been a policy choice, not a requirement compelled by the [European human rights] convention." They said other European countries allowed such evidence to be produced in court, as did the US. Mr Blunkett told the Guardian last month that he wanted to lift the ban on using evidence from telephone taps which, he implied, would be used in terrorism cases in particular. "I am much more won over to the idea of the use of [telephone] intercepts than I was 12 months ago and believe that it is feasible in certain circumstances," he said. MI5, the domestic security service, has been more relaxed about the use of such evidence in court than other agencies, including the police. Civil liberties groups and defence lawyers in general welcomed the move, one reason why all the security and intelligence agencies remain concerned about Mr Blunkett's plan. They said that it could lead to lengthy pre-trial arguments over disclosure and over whether, and how, transcripts of intercepted conversations had been edited.