The recent arguments about the conflicting demands of freedom of speech and responsible restraint, which have preoccupied journalists during the past couple of weeks, have all been based on the same assumption: the only ambition of newspapers is to follow the truth wherever it may lead.That contention demands a moment's examination. To succeed, indeed to survive, newspapers must make circulation their first priority. Since most of my income depends on the success of that endeavour, I am not in a position to complain about popularity coming before principle. But I am entitled to be irritated by the bogus claims to high-minded objectivity that often surround attempts to sell more copies - especially when so many newspapers are pursuing that admirable objective by appealing to their readers' basest instincts.Saturday's example of that inclination was the amount of space devoted to murder. Sunday was even worse, and it seems that we can only expect more extensive coverage as the year moves on. Sion Jenkins, "the deputy headmaster" - as he is always described for added colour - who was recently acquitted of beating his foster daughter to death, is writing his memoirs. And the dead girl's aunts are said to be at the centre of what one newspaper called a "bidding war", as publishers compete for their accounts of the unhappy life and suddenly terminated times of Billie-Jo. Believe me, book deals that result will contain clauses about selling the serial rights to newspapers.Who are the people who want to relive a murder in which, according to the evidence given during one of the several intensely reported trials, the victim's blood was spattered all over her parents' patio? Presumably they are the readers who - as well as enjoying regurgitated details of the Jenkins case - spent Saturday morning poring over details of other violent deaths."I found wife and baby daughter dead says Briton," (Daily Telegraph) and "Entwistle agrees to US extradition but denies murder" (Independent) competed with "Lawyer who killed wife is cleared of murder" (Times) and, happily on a much smaller scale, "Lawyer jailed for five years for killing wife" (Guardian). That was just the coverage in what we call the quality papers.Earlier in the week we were regaled with genuinely harrowing news about a baby who was first missing from home and then found dead on nearby waste ground. Publishing that story simply pandered to the prurience of the voyeurs among us. And saying so shows no disrespect to the tragic child. Quite the opposite. In death, he deserved something better than to become the cause of carefully stimulated dubious emotions - each one of them stimulated not by a fearless determination to tell the truth but by a desire to construct another eye-catching headline.The newspapers' defence against the charge of aiming at the lowest common denominator is that they only publish what the people want to read. Everyone, they say, is fascinated by violent death. Perhaps they underestimate their readers. How many people do you know who, last Saturday morning, wanted to read a thousand words under the headline "Lawyer jailed for killing wife tells of shame and remorse"? And does anyone really welcome the chance to study the near life-size picture of the knife used in the multiple stabbings that the jury judged to be manslaughter? No doubt some Pharisees enjoyed the account of a rich and successful man falling from grace. But are there enough Pharisees - even among the readers of the Daily Telegraph - to make a difference to a newspaper's circulation?I do not accuse our great newspapers of popularising crime, encouraging a dangerous familiarity with lethal brutality or even creating a false impression about the depreciating value we place on human life - the complaints they make against each other. But it is reasonable to suggest that if they choose to sell their newspapers by aiming for the lowest common denominator, they ought to abandon the tone of moral superiority that so often characterises their comments on other trades.When you next read a leader that revives the old cliche "It is a moral issue", blow a metaphorical raspberry and remember that the morality in question is the morality of the marketplace. comment@theguardian.com"