The government's plans to merge regional police forces, the most radical overhaul of the service in 30 years, were in tatters last night after it emerged that they had been comprehensively rejected by many of the 43 police authorities in England and Wales.The Observer has learnt that 14 police authorities have privately informed the Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, that they would not agree to his plans to consolidate the police forces into 12 supra bodies - so-called 'strategic forces' - at any cost.Last night it emerged that the Association of Police Authorities (APA) has drawn up an alternative model to the government's merger proposals. The 'federal' model would see regional forces pool certain personnel - such as murder squad detectives - but would allow them to keep their own identity, name and control of local police officers.The APA said its proposal would also cut the costs associated with mergers which are likely to be borne by the taxpayer. 'It would mean a local force would still be locally owned. It would fill the gaps in protective services, but it would not involve the cost and disruption that you're going to get with mergers,' said Bob Jones , the APA's chairman.The face-off represents a significant blow to the government's plans to transform the police service and signals further problems for Clarke in the new year as he braces himself for a political backlash over the government's controversial terrorism and ID cards bills.The APA's plans have already been endorsed by 14 police authorities, some of which include those who have written to Clarke rejecting his merger plans. The development of the rival plan came after Clarke gave the authorities until 23 December to draw up their response to voluntarily merge. Not one authority complied with the deadline.Now, with many authorities in open revolt - and others signing up for the APA's alternative plan - the government faces the politically dangerous task of having to force the mergers through.The Home Secretary has the powers to do so, but only after a four-month consultation period. He would then need to present each merger before both houses of parliament for debate. Given the government's congested legislative timetable, it is unlikely this would be until next autumn. The APA says that, without the local authorities consenting to the plans, they cannot be implemented until April 2008 at the very earliest, a year later than the government had proposed.Local-level opposition to the mergers is likely to be exploited by the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats if the government opts to go to the polls in the same year. The prospect of a backbench rebellion by Labour MPs, worried about their electorate's opposition to the merger plans during election time, cannot be discounted.A Home Office spokesman said the government's position had not changed since the 23 December deadline expired. 'We recognise there will be a need for further discussions and we will be working closely with all police forces in January,' the spokesman said.The government believes merging the forces would help the police to tackle serious crime and the threat of terrorism more efficiently. A report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary last September concluded that the current 43-force structure in England and Wales was no longer 'fit for purpose'.In the long term, consolidating forces would also bring cost savings, although there are concerns over who will meet the short-term costs. The APA has suggested that Clarke was trying to 'bully' the police authorities into signing up to the plan by offering financial assistance to those who agreed to it. The Observer understands Clarke has fired off a letter to the authorities saying he 'strongly objects' to the accusation.