Anne Darwin, the woman whose husband staged his own death in a canoe accident, broke down today as she told a court that he forced her to take part in the elaborate ruse to claim £250,000 insurance money.Giving evidence in her defence, Anne Darwin described her husband, John, as a domineering and manipulative man who always got what he wanted.She said she had once thought about leaving him after finding out he had had an affair, but could not contemplate life without him.She described being so desperate at one stage that she thought about walking into the sea herself, and wished that her husband had drowned.The court heard that Darwin had not taken her husband seriously when he first devised the complicated plot to escape financial difficulties at the start of 2002. His plan, she said, had been to "resurrect" himself a few months after his apparent death."He said he was probably worth more dead than alive. I thought it was just a throwaway comment. He said he had a solution and it was to fake his death. I didn't take him seriously."She wept as she spoke about picking him up from North Gare beach in March 2002 after his faked disappearance in a canoe. He appeared in jeans, black jacket and black hat, carrying a rucksack, and told her to drive him to the station, she said."I was upset that he could do such a thing. I pleaded with him not to do it but it made no difference. He was the same as he always was. What John wanted, John got."Asked by the defence barrister, David Waters QC, what she had told the police, she replied: "That I believe my husband is missing, that he had gone out in his canoe and not come back."Waters asked the defendant whether she had been telling a "pack of lies". She replied: "Yes, it was a pack of lies but, as I said, John had told me to do it."She said she had not expected such a big rescue operation to be launched. "I think if I had, I would have thought differently about making the call. But I made it then and I had to follow it through."Waters asked her about prosecution claims that she had been playing the "grieving widow". She said: "I honestly felt like a grieving widow. I had lost my husband, not in the sense he was lost, but he had left me. I felt desperate, I felt ashamed about what was happening. The emotions I showed were genuine emotions." Darwin, 56, a former doctor's receptionist, is accused of organising the fraud with her 57-year-old husband. The prosecution told Teesside crown court that she put on a "great act" for five-and-a-half years to persuade everyone - including her two sons - that her husband drowned at sea on March 21 2002 near their home in Seaton Carew, near Hartlepool.After her husband had faked his death, Darwin said, she drove to the Whitehaven area to collect him and bring him back to the north-east when he said he wanted to come home. He had grown a beard, was wearing different clothes, and was walking with a limp and with the aid of a walking stick. "Yes, I was pleased to see him,'' she said. "But I was also very angry and I was angry for the fact I had been put in that position. I said to him now is the time to put an end to this. We have got to stop it. He said 'we can't because we have come this far'."Once home, he told her to start making insurance claims and became angry when he realised they would need a death certificate to claim the money, the court heard. She said she again tried to persuade him to end the scam, but he refused. "That's when he said that if I didn't carry it out, he would say I had been party to it from right at the beginning and I had helped him plan everything." Darwin said the strain of keeping up the deception was difficult to cope with. On one occasion, she said, she ran out of the house and went to the beach. "I sat on the beach looking at the sea," she said. "I wished that John had drowned at sea. I considered walking into the sea. I got so desperate but I couldn't do it because of the effect it would have on the rest of the family, particularly Mark and Anthony."The couple's two sons were in the public gallery to hear her testimony. She said: "I could see how hurt they were and I was hurt for the fact that I was creating this deception."Darwin said she had no idea about the level of debt they had been in before her husband staged his own death, telling the court: "John had always dealt with the finances and I had very little dealing with it."Yesterday, the prosecution read to the jury transcripts of emails between the Darwins in which she begged her husband not to leave her when he returned to the UK hours before he gave himself up to police.Today, the court heard details about when Darwin discovered her husband had been having an affair."I was quite obviously upset when I found out about the relationship,'' she said. "I did consider leaving him, but I just couldn't see a life without him. I didn't know how I would cope on my own, so I forgave him."David Waters QC, defending, asked her: "Did you still love him?" Darwin replied: "Yes."The trial continues.