A government minister yesterday admitted its new body to help health authorities and trusts root out failing and criminal doctors would not stop another Harold Shipman.The health minister John Hutton's comments came within hours of Tony Blair's assertion that the national clinical assessment authority (NCAA), and the new regular appraisals of doctors, would "make a considerable difference" and give the authorities "the best possible chance" of stopping someone like Shipman, who is suspected of killing more than 300 of his patients. "It is going to allow us to take action very quickly where either a hospital or a GP practice knows something is wrong or something is revealed about a particular doctor behaving in a particular way," the prime minister said on television. "We will be able to sort out very quickly whether there is a real and substantial difficulty and address the problem. "Along with the new annual appraisals for doctors ... this will make a considerable difference." But the NCAA, details of which will be announced today, will be only an advisory body. It can help health authorities and hospital trusts speed up action against suspect doctors, but it cannot initiate anything. It is a watered-down compromise from the assessment centres for dodgy doctors which the chief medical officer, Liam Donaldson, proposed 18 months ago, and which the British Medical Association rejected as "sin bins', saying they would stigmatise doctors. Although the BMA wel comes the NCAA instead, it does not believe it will help prevent doctors who are minded to murder. "It is nothing to do with Shipman. To pretend this announcement is something to deal with such cases is misleading," said a spokesman. Mr Hutton conceded on Sky News later that the NCAA would not be able to weed out potential criminals like Shipman. "Shipman was a mass murderer," he said. "What we need to make sure is that we have a better set of systems in place to detect concerns about death rates, patients dying in GPs' premises and practices." The NCAA would "help us deal more promptly with concerns that patients might be expressing about the clinical practices of GPs, and allow us to provide extra support to GPs. We will also be able to reassure public confidence in primary care. I think it is very, very important that we act now to reassure patients and the public about the competence of primary care practices". If health authorities or trusts feel they have a problem with a doctor, they will be able to ask the NCAA for help. The authority will attempt to speed things up, so that the doctor can be referred for a performance assessment to the GMC, for instance. But crucially, the doctor will not be publicly removed from his job. A spokeswoman for the Department of Health said the authority would "provide a single central rapid response to cases where concern is raised".But although the description "alert centre" is being used, those on the alert will still have to be the doctor's employers. Unless they realise something is wrong, then nothing will happen.