Former deputy head Sion Jenkins yesterday described his foster daughter Billie-Jo Jenkins as a "compassionate, sensitive, loving" child.On his first day in the witness box in his retrial at the Old Bailey for the murder of the 13-year-old, Mr Jenkins told the jury she had been in a "really happy mood" on the day she died in February 1997. "Billy wore her heart on her sleeve. She was very compassionate, very sensitive, very loving. "She was practical, and a bit of a tomboy sometimes. She liked climbing trees and drainpipes and playing football." The girl was bludgeoned to death with a tent peg as she painted the patio doors of the family home in Hastings, East Sussex. The prosecution alleges her foster father killed her when he lost his temper on returning home with his two eldest daughters from a music lesson. Mr Jenkins, 47, now living in central London, sat hunched in the witness box during more than three hours of questioning by his barrister, Christopher Sallon QC. Speaking in a quiet, hesitant voice, he denied an allegation made earlier by a family friend that he had seen Mr Jenkins kick the girl "with full force" while on holiday in France. Asked if it was true, he replied: "I have absolutely not ever done that." Mr Jenkins also denied the prosecution's claim that he had got into a "physical fight" with his foster daughter because she was painting in a messy manner. He said: "I can remember assisting her in painting. At some point she put her leg on my shoulder whilst I was on my haunches painting. I lost my balance and I got some paint on my sleeve." The prosecution has also alleged that Mr Jenkins could have killed her because he feared she would expose his past violence towards her. He was also under stress because he had lied about his qualifications in applying for head teacher at William Parker school in Hastings, where he was deputy head, it was claimed. Mr Jenkins denied to the court he had been "anxious" over his application, saying he had been told he had the job - though he admitted his exaggerated CV had become an "albatross" around his neck. "I regretted it, and having done it I was stuck with it," he said. Earlier, Mr Sallon warned the jury there were "grave doubts" over whether Mr Jenkins really had killed his foster daughter. "[The prosecution] argue that, in a time perhaps of no more than a few minutes, Sion Jenkins went on to the patio, picked up a tent peg, and then, in a frenzied if not psychopathic attack, injured her and left her for dead."He cast doubt on the prosecution's evidence of tiny pieces of flesh found on Mr Jenkins's clothing, saying they were mere pieces of skin, and he said blood spatters found on Mr Jenkins's trousers could have been breathed out on him by the girl as she lay dying. Mr Sallon also raised the question of whether a mentally ill man, with a fetish for plastic bags and clearing his nose, seen in the area on the day was the murderer - a black bin liner had been forced into the girl's nostril. He told the jury: "We believe that when you have heard the evidence in its entirety you will be of the view that the prosecution case against Sion Jenkins is deeply flawed." Mr Jenkins, who denies murder, was originally convicted of Billie-Jo's murder and jailed for life, but his case is being retried following an appeal last year. The trial continues.