The mother of Shannon Matthews was remanded in custody yesterday when she appeared before magistrates accused of repeatedly concealing information about the whereabouts of her daughter. Karen Matthews, 32, appeared in court at Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, flanked by security guards. The 32-year-old sat in handcuffs in the dock for the 12-minute hearing, briefly wiping her eyes as legal details were read.She spoke only to confirm her name and address. The public gallery erupted in a shout of "Yesss!" when her application for bail was refused for her own safety. Matthews is accused of willfully neglecting or abandoning nine-year-old Shannon in a manner likely to cause unnecessary suffering or injury to her health between February 18, the day before Shannon vanished after a school swimming trip near her home on the Dewsbury Moor estate, and March 15, the day after she was found hidden in a relative's flat in nearby Batley. She is accused of perverting the course of justice by "repeatedly concealing information in relation to the whereabouts of Shannon Matthews in interviews and other contacts with officers with the West Yorkshire police and claiming to have no knowledge of her whereabouts". West Yorkshire police, who mounted their biggest single operation since the Yorkshire Ripper inquiry looking for Shannon, have estimated the cost of the search so far at around £1m.A line of 35 police sealed off the rear of the court before Matthews arrived from Dewsbury police station. Outside the court a huddle of close neighbours and relatives waited in the cold, with a larger group of people from further afield on Dewsbury Moor and a very large media presence. Matthews will make her next court appearance via a videolink from jail to Leeds crown court next Wednesday. She joins two other members of Shannon's extended family in custody, while two more are on bail after being questioned on suspicion of assisting an offender and attempting to pervert the course of justice. Michael Donovan, a 39-year-old computer operator and Shannon's step-uncle, has been charged with abducting the schoolgirl and falsely imprisoning her at his flat. Shannon's stepfather Craig Meehan, a 22-year-old supermarket fishmonger, is remanded in custody on 11 charges of possessing indecent images of children. Meehan's mother Alice Meehan, 49, and his sister Amanda Hyett, 25, who lives next door to Shannon's family, are both on bail.Shannon is in the care of the local Kirklees council's social services, and is still being gently questioned by police.Police distributed leaflets in Dewsbury Moor telling residents "not to jump to conclusions about people who may be involved in the inquiry" and promising that the force would find out the truth.