A schoolboy was convicted today of murdering a fellow pupil outside a classroom.The 16-year-old, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was found guilty of knifing Luke Walmsley, 14, at Birkbeck secondary school in North Somercotes, Lincolnshire, by a jury verdict of 11 to one.As the verdict was delivered, the teenager, who will be sentenced tomorrow, stood expressionless in the dock while Luke's parents wept in the gallery.During the two-week trial, the court had watched the CCTV footage of Luke collapsing moments after being stabbed and being given first aid by teachers. The court heard that his attacker had armed himself with a knife and threatened another pupil with the weapon earlier that day. In the weeks leading up to the attack, he had also told other students he intended to stab Luke, a keen sports player.Yvonne Coen QC, prosecuting, said it was no secret the pair had disliked each other but that it was unclear what had motivated the defendant to stab Luke. Mrs Coen told the jury: "Luke Walmsley had no idea it was going to happen and certainly could do nothing to avoid what happened or defend himself from what happened. "As he walked past [the defendant] to get to his next lesson, [the defendant] stepped forward and, without saying a word, stabbed Luke in the chest." Luke was flown by air ambulance to a hospital in Grimsby, where he underwent emergency surgery and was pronounced dead later that morning. A postmortem examination revealed the teenager had suffered a single stab wound to the heart. The defendant initially tried to hide the weapon behind his back when challenged by a teacher but was persuaded by another pupil to hand it over. He admitted stabbing the teenager but denied intending to kill him, when questioned by staff and police. He said he had only intended to scare Luke and did not mean to harm him. In his evidence, the boy said he was upset when he heard Luke had been passing notes to his girlfriend. He also said he had never got on with the younger pupil, who he believed had been making threats to fight him and saying things about his mother in the weeks leading up to his death. He said he had held the knife out to scare Luke and he had walked straight into it. He said: "I didn't want to fight Luke. I thought if I showed the knife, it would prevent him from fighting. I was just going to say something to him just to scare him. "I thought I would confront him. Just by saying something like 'back off me or [my girlfriend]' or something. He just walked straight into me. "I didn't intend to harm him." Dr Mark Rouse, a pathologist for the defence, said the wound was not consistent with an impaling injury and must have been caused by a forceful blow. The teenager insisted that if he had ever made threats about Luke, he must have been drunk. Ms Coen said: "You hadn't liked Luke for some time before this Tuesday morning. "You felt strongly enough about him to say you threatened to kill him on a number of occasions." The boy replied: "That might have been when I was drunk, not when I was sober - an empty threat." Ms Coen replied: "Well, it didn't turn out to be so empty, did it?"