The Jay report’s description of the collective political and leadership failures in Rotherham as “blatant” could not be more stark. Accountability is of course important, but we are fooling ourselves if we think this child abuse scandal is all about individual failings and that the dispatch of key individuals is a sufficient response. The patterns of sexual abuse and exploitation described in the report are not new, unique or specific to Rotherham. Nor are the inadequate responses. Similar patterns and responses have been well-documented in reports concerning other areas, cities and towns, none more compelling than those published by the children’s commissioner in recent years.In Rotherham, the abuse and exploitation uncovered by Prof Alexis Jay went on for 16 years, involved at least 1,400 victims and was the subject of a number of previous reviews that barely improved matters. To attribute this to the failings of a handful of individuals is to miss the bigger picture and to risk a repetition. At the heart of the problems identified by the report, the commissioner’s reports and the work I did as director of public prosecutions in issuing new guidelines on prosecuting child sexual exploitation in 2013 is a deeply embedded cultural issue about how we deal with vulnerable victims.First, the majority of victims do not report what is happening to them to the relevant authorities. Of the 1,400 cases in the Rotherham report, only a third were previously known to the relevant services because of child protection or neglect. Elsewhere, the percentages are even lower.Vulnerable victims rarely have a positive (or any) relationship with those in authority, do not think they are likely to be believed and have no confidence that things will change for the better.The second feature common to cases of child sexual abuse and exploitation is that when individuals do pluck up the courage to come forward they are often met with a wall of disbelief. Sometimes this is a disbelief about what they have been subjected to. More often, it is a disbelief that they are really “victims”. A 2002 Home Office research report into activities in Rotherham, which was “suppressed” because senior officers did not believe the information in it, recorded that the police were reluctant to respond to missing person reports.They saw them as a waste of time and regarded the young women concerned as “deviant” or “promiscuous”, and took the view that if the young people concerned were not prepared to help themselves, no further action should be taken. Precisely the same problems litter the other reports into child abuse in recent years.We need raw honesty about the cultural change required in relation to vulnerable victims. We have allowed a series of myths and stereotypes about how “real” victims behave to creep into our institutions and our decision-making. The assumption that real victims would contact the authorities, be prepared to support necessary intervention and never return to the perpetrator are only recently being challenged.The case for some form of mandatory reporting of child sexual abuse backed up by criminal sanctions is also overwhelming. The need for such a scheme is at its most acute where there is a conflict of interest between reporting and some other interest, such as reputation, risk of exposing previous failed responses or fear of being clear about the ethnicity of the perpetrators. A mandatory reporting scheme needs to be devised that complements good safeguarding policies, where they exist, and provides clarity about the obligations of those in positions of authority over children.Individual accountability is important. But unless it is accompanied by a cultural shift in thinking, we risk another Rotherham.