The parents of Sarah Payne are soon to meet Home Office ministers to urge them to introduce a public register of sex offenders. This seems almost unbearably reasonable of the Payne family. If I thought that a convicted sex offender had brutally murdered my eight-year-old, I wouldn't rest at public notification. I'd want them all chopped up into little pieces, starting at the extremities, and in full knowledge of what was happening. I'd want painful and certain death. There wouldn't be a glimmer of forgiveness.I consider that a pretty healthy reaction to elephantine grief. But I would not consider it a proper response if Home Office ministers took account of my fresh, raw, enormous emotions. Legislation should not be enacted because we feel sad or mad, but because it furthers justice - because it will lead to a more fail-proof, just and equitable legal system.The Paynes are not the only people whose impassioned views are being sought. Earlier this year, the lord chief justice promised to let James Bulger's parents have a say in the fate of their son's teenage killers. Lord Woolf declared that their views would inform his final decision on how long Robert Thompson and Jon Venables should serve. But there is a bigger agenda here beyond the rare cases of murdered children. Within a month of announcing that he would consult the Bulger family, Lord Woolf expanded his commitment to involve the victims' families in the review of all 140 sentences of juvenile offenders detained indefinitely. This urge to take account of the feelings of those who have suffered, lies behind much new and proposed legislation. Last month the home secretary told an assembly of Labour lawyers: "Too often the victim feels that their needs and opinions have been ignored or relegated to a distant second place at key stages in the process." This week Jack Straw reiterated: "I want victims to feel that they are at the heart of the criminal justice system."  An equitable criminal justice system, however, should not put anyone at its heart - neither the complainant nor the defendant - but should be heartless. If any juror is found to have any interest or knowledge of any of the parties involved in a case, he or she is quite rightly dismissed. The wigs that judges wear depersonalise them, emphasising their role as detached assessors able to deliver unprejudiced opinion. Impartiality is what a fair trial is all about. Victims are not voiceless. Measures are already being implemented to make sure they are heard. A "victim personal statement" scheme is to be introduced early next year to "give victims a greater say in the criminal justice system". Modelled on the American system of "impact statements", this will enable victims to record the effect the crime has had on them, in a statement closely resembling that provided by witnesses. The statement will be taken into account by the police, crown prosecution service and the court. The introduction of this scheme is to be broadly welcomed. It is clear that within such a system, if well regulated and checked, the Bulger and Payne families, among others, could have an input in the course of a trial. But in their drive for a "victim-led" criminal justice system, the government is not content to rest there. Just this week it was announced that, from next month, men accused of rape will no longer be allowed to cross-examine the alleged victim, a stark exception to the established right of defendants to defend themselves. In order to give a voice to the victim, the accused is being summarily silenced. There are many other proposals under consideration for increasing "victim involvement". These include clearing the public gallery when witnesses and complainants are likely to be distressed by the defendant's supporters. (The fact that a complainant's supporters could just as easily intimidate a defendant does not seem to be countenanced.) Giving victims legal aid for their own representation independent of, but in addition to, the prosecutor, is also being investigated. A victims' charter is to be introduced. One unexpected voice of reason in this rush to right so many wrongs was heard this weekend. The Bishop of Dorking, who will preside over Sarah Payne's memorial service, advised against allowing our hearts to rule our heads. He warned that rash decisions on public policy should not be made so close to the crime. The Paynes may feel that a so-called "Sarah's law" is what is needed just weeks after their daughter's murder, but neither we nor they can truly tell what they will feel like in months, or years. Perhaps then, they will have very different views on what should happen to convicted sex offenders. Should victims be consulted by government on a regular basis? Should ministers adjust the law according to the immediacy of their grief? One tabloid newspaper called Sara and Michael Paynes' "the only voice that counts". But all of our voices should be heard, not only those in the throes of immeasurable pain, and not only those who have suffered. We do not need a "victim-led" criminal justice system. We need a fair and impartial one.  comment@theguardian.com