Britain's most senior police officers last night threw their weight behind the creation of a new FBI-style law enforcement unit and a separate border police force to tackle serious and organised crime.The Association of Chief Police Officers said its members were also pressing ministers to make identity theft and people-trafficking specific criminal offences, and to give authorities new US-style anti-racketeering powers to compel witnesses to give evidence in the most serious cases.Tony Blair has made clear that the cabinet will decide in the next few weeks whether to set up a British FBI to tackle organised or serious crime. The debate inside the government is believed to be finely balanced, with ministerial sceptics arguing that the process of setting up the new body could prove too disruptive and costly.But Acpo yesterday threw its weight behind the creation of a new "national law enforcement unit". It would have the national crime squad and the national criminal intelligence service at its core, but would also draw on investigative expertise from customs, immigration, the Serious Fraud Office, the Financial Services Authority and, in some form, the security services. "It would be a law enforcement agency and not a policing agency," said Acpo's president, Chris Fox, the Northamptonshire chief constable. "At the moment there are a number of players who have different objectives and means of accountability." He said the first requirement would be for all those involved to have the same system of intelligence gathering, so they could share information on the main serious-crime gangs. The move towards an FBI-style state security force to deal with organised crime is expected to be accompanied by proposals for a more neighbourhood approach to local policing, and a possible regional amalgamation of some forces. The chief constables agreed that the world had changed since 1964, when the boundaries of the current 43 forces were set, Mr Fox said. Acpo did not back the creation of regional forces, but left the door open to the possibility of some smaller mergers. The police push for new powers to compel witnesses to testify is likely to intensify if the House of Lords throws out the government's proposals for judge-only trials in cases where there is a risk of witness intimidation. The Home Office has just issued a consultation document on whether witness orders should be introduced, which would give the police the powers they seek. Mr Fox said the police would be keen to see such anti-racketeering measures, to get the "top tier" of those involved in serious crime to give evidence against their bosses. "We are talking about the big players, the accountants and computer professionals," Mr Fox said. "At the moment the system allows them to say nothing."