The senior judge who presides over the six court circuits in England and Wales has castigated the Prison Service for "absolutely disgraceful" delays in getting prisoners to court which have led to the collapse of some trials.In a letter, leaked to the Guardian, Lord Justice Thomas warned that the situation would worsen this month as major trials start after the courts' long vacation. The letter, sent to the senior judge at each crown court and the presiding judge for each of the six circuits, sets out the outcome of a meeting two weeks ago between the Prison Service and judges over the Prison Escort and Custody Services (Pecs). Pecs, part of the Prison Service, has contracts with private security companies to collect prisoners from jail and take them to court for trials and hearings. Lord Justice Thomas says in his letter, dated September 24: "We made quite clear to them [the Prison Service] that the position in several parts of the country is absolutely disgraceful and that when major trials start on October 1 the pressures will be much greater. "There are serious delays in many courts and, on occasions, ineffective trials; docks are not being manned properly, prisoners arrive late or not at all and prisoners are being kept in cells [at court] until 8, 9 or even 11.30 at night." There is a "pressing need" for an immediate improvement, he says. The three main problems are "grossly insufficient staff", lack of vans and a change to the system for collecting prisoners in London. Lord Justice Thomas adds: "We have said that, at present, we want to concentrate on getting a viable service going again and not seek reasons as to why this has happened. The Prison Service welcomed this approach and have agreed to provide a full explanation in due course. "We made clear to them the contract must be enforced with full rigour, and compensation sought." He says some contractors are "not providing information as to when prisoners who were late would arrive". The Prison Service "are to insist that this information is provided, so that the court can work around the problem and tell those concerned what is happening". He also says "the computer systems are not working properly, and we made it clear that these problems must be rectified as soon as possible". One judge who has seen the letter said the situation could force judges to release prisoners who should be kept in custody if a trial was fixed on a day when the custody time limits were due to expire. Judges can extend the time a defendant spends in custody without being brought to trial only if there is "good and sufficient reason". The judge added: "The question is whether the inability of the state to provide a body to be tried is good and sufficient reason. Sooner or later people will be granted bail who maybe shouldn't be." A spokesman for the Prison Service said: "There have been difficulties experienced by the contractors. We wouldn't dispute that. "While we acknowledge there have been problems getting people back and forth to prison, public safety has not been compromised. "The prison service has required contractors to implement urgent action to improve their performance. Where contractual obligations are not met, penalties will be enforced. "We're encouraged that in a number of areas improvements have been reported." Problems have been exacerbated by a change in contractual arrangements. From August 29, the number of contract areas were reduced from eight to four, with contracts covering larger areas. Three companies hold the four contracts: GSL has two, one for the north and one for the east; Premier has one contract covering London and the southeast; and Reliance one covering the southwest and Wales.