Economics plays little part in the debased British debate about law and order at the best of times. During election campaigns it is ignored entirely as politicians strive to ensure that they are not vulnerable to the Willie Horton treatment, the rapist exploited by George Bush senior in the presidential race against Michael Dukakis.Memories of the case of Horton - who reoffended after being let out of prison on weekend parole - were conjured up by the Conservative "attack" party political broadcast this week. In a straight lift from the Republican party's ads in 1988, the Tory PPB showed smiling criminals leaving prison, ready to do more mischief.Negative it may have been, but it struck a nerve because crime is one of the issues, like defence, where Labour feels vulnerable. It fears being branded as weak, showing too much sympathy for the criminals and not enough for the victim; it has tried to shed the idea that it is the party of social workers prepared to forgive and forget and is now the party that will give muggers and burglars their just deserts. Jack Straw's mauling by the Police Federation was a sign that no matter how tough Labour talks, there will always be calls for it to be tougher. It will no doubt hearten those in the party who believe that when it comes to crime Labour should dress to the American right rather than to the European left. A second Labour term, it transpires, will preside over another big expansion in the prison building programme, already the biggest in Europe, to provide an extra 9,500 prison places. This may be good politics, but it is rotten economics. Gordon Brown please note: Spending £1bn on building and running more prisons is a flagrant waste of public money that could be far bet ter spent on some of your other pet projects. Consider the evidence. The government has a 10-year plan for reducing crime, but it also has a 10-year plan for reducing child poverty. Public funds are not unlimited, even with the economy in fine fettle, so where would it be better to spend the extra cash - on providing accommodation for offenders at double the rate that it costs to board a child at Eton, or in creating jobs, improving the quality of education, or increasing the value of in-work benefits? There are clear links between the state of the economy and crime rates. Although the trend rise over time suggests that jobs, wages, poverty and skills are not the only factors, they are certainly important factors. Richard Freeman, a Harvard economics professor, says that less educated young men and minority young men, who are disproportionately involved in crime, were big beneficiaries from the long American boom of the 1990s. Indeed, the unemployment rate for this group fell by more than for the population as a whole. What's more, after falling for 20 years, real wages started to rise for all male workers. Does this matter? Professor Freeman says it does, because crime is not just a question of whether we happen to be good or bad, but whether we have the incentive to commit an offence. The likelihood of being caught and punished would certainly be one factor in the equation, but so would the state of the legal job market. Judged by this measure, it is absolutely no surprise that crime has been falling in the US over the past few years, 20% lower in 1999 than at the start of the decade. Britain's record is similar, again a bit of a no-brainer in the light of the fall from almost 3m to 1m in the number of people out of work and claiming benefit. Labour's manifesto notes that car crime is down by 20% and domestic burglary down by 28% since 1997, and while part of this is due to better security measures, the buoyancy of the economy has also played an important role. To be fair to Labour, it does not see prison as a silver bullet. It has plans to beef up the probation service and make community penalties more effective, while also making provision about the fact that 60% of those in prison lack the literacy skills for 96% of jobs. Yet the American experience shows that governments are rather better at planning and building the prisons than they are at funding education and skills programmes for inmates. In last year's spending review, the Treasury, that great custodian of the public purse, said it expected "reconviction of offenders punished by imprisonment or on probation" to fall as a result of providing offenders with the skills to lead a decent law-abiding life. But if this is so, there seems little point in building more prisons. At root, Britain's crime problem is a poverty problem. It could take a 25% increase in the prison population to bring about a 1% cut in the crime rate. A better strategy would be to use the money for banging up criminals on a big increase in the working families tax credit, continuing to increase the value of the minimum wage, and keeping up the pressure for better security to homes and property. A government that had a crime policy that was really working would be able to call for fewer police not more. But don't expect to hear much of that sort of talk over the next three weeks.  Interactive guideElection countdown: the key dates up to June 7Interactive quizzesCan you be bothered?Election? What election?Party manifestos  Labour party: part one (pdf file)  Labour party: part two (pdf file)  Liberal Democrat party Lib Dem manifesto: the main points Conservative party (pdf file)  Tory manifesto: the main pointsThe candidateSign up for our daily election emailWeblog election specialThe best election journalism on the netRelated articles16.05.2001: Labour launches 'ambitious' manifesto16.05.2001: Secret reform agenda revealed16.05.2001: Leaked report will annoy publicly and privately16.05.2001: Tories in scare tactics row16.05.2001: To the North to grease palms16.05.2001: Voters unmoved by Tory tax plans16.05.2001: Lib Dems target disaffected Tories16.05.2001: Pledge on raising tax for sake of public services16.05.2001: Britneygate: the emails16.05.2001: Figures, targets and not much elseVideoWatch the party broadcastsMy electionTara Palmer-Tomkinson Talk about it What do you think of Labour's manifesto?Is a big Labour win good for democracy?Should we kick the Tories while they're down? Which issues are being overlooked? Are the Liberal Democrats irrelevant?Picture gallery16.05.2001: On the campaign trailWho are my candidates? Ask AristotlePolls Latest pollsAudio16.05.2001: Michael White at the Labour manifesto launch (3mins 25)Party campaigns Labour campaign Conservative campaign Liberal Democrat campaign Other parties' campaignsMore election links Conservative party Labour party Liberal Democrats Plaid Cymru Scottish National party More political links Tactical voter.netBritish Democracy CampaignLight reliefWho do I vote for?Am I electable or not?My Little TonySpinOn.comYou are Tony BlairElection invaders