Victims of miscarriages of justice will have to spend longer in prison before their cases are reviewed because of government spending cuts, the head of the body that reviews such cases said yesterday.In the week in which attention focused once more on the wrongful conviction of Stefan Kiszko, it emerged that staff who leave the Criminal Cases Review Commission are not being replaced, which will lead to inevitable delays in cases being investigated."We are suffering from budget restraints," said Professor Graham Zellick, the CCRC's chairman. "We are not replacing people when they leave. It does not have the slightest impact on the intensity of the work but it will have an impact of how quickly we get round to dealing with cases. That's terribly upsetting for us."He said that over the last few years, the CCRC had made great strides in dealing with a large backlog of cases. "Now that's all going to be reversed, I suspect."It emerged this week that Rough Justice, the television series that exposed miscarriages of justice for more than quarter of a century, has been scrapped by the BBC for cost reasons. Such cases are now more likely to happen than ever, according to lawyers and campaigners.This week, Ronald Castree, the man who killed schoolgirl Lesley Molseed in 1975, was finally jailed for life. The wrong man, Stefan Kiszko, spent 16 years behind bars for her murder before being cleared in 1992 and his case became a cause celebre.Campbell Malone, Kiszko's solicitor, whose tireless work helped to clear his name, said that he was profoundly pessimistic about the future for other cases. "There will be more miscarriages rather than less. I just hope, with Stefan's case back in the news, that it would give people the opportunity to think about the widescale misery that can be caused and remind people that the real perpetrator can be free to carry out other offences."The philosophy of this government seems to be that miscarriages of justice don't matter any more," said Malone. "I think Tony Blair said that we had to 'rebalance' things in favour of the victim. The climate is changing and the thinking seems to be that, if you go on interviewing people long enough, they will eventually confess. We are back in the climate of the mid-70s [at the height of the IRA campaign in England] when it doesn't matter too much if there are some miscarriages for the sake of our greater safety. It is very dangerous. The government is also wanting to reduce the compensation paid to victims of miscarriages of justice. It is very depressing." Since the Birmingham-based CCRC opened its doors in 1997, it has received 10,288 applications for cases to be reviewed. Of these, 376 were referred back to the court of appeal and 241 convictions were quashed.Chris Reddick, of the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC), said that allegations of miscarriages of justice had peaked in 2005-06, with claims that many defendants had been poorly represented. Their best-known referral, that of Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi, the man jailed for the Lockerbie bombing, followed a three-year inquiry.The week in which the BBC announced the end of Rough Justice, one of the programme's cases came to court. Barri White and Keith Hyatt, jailed five years ago over the murder of teenager Rachel Manning, had their convictions quashed by the court of appeal. White will have a retrial."This so perfectly illustrates the need to do work on those type of cases," said Simon Ford, executive producer of Rough Justice for its last seven years. "As a direct result of the decision to get rid of Rough Justice many people will spend time in prison for offences they have not committed." In its 27-year history, the programme covered 33 cases, which led to 15 convictions being quashed.John McManus, who has been involved in the setting up of the campaigning organisation Miscarriages of Justice Organisation (MOJO) in England and Scotland, said that the vast increase in prison numbers made miscarriages more likely. "The prison population has doubled in the last 12 years," he said. "And no one has ever been held responsible for the high-profile miscarriages, like Kiszko. You can only deduce from that there are going to be more miscarriages in the future."One new development has been the flourishing of "innocence projects" at universities, whereby teams of students investigate alleged miscarriages. Dr Michael Naughton, founder and director of Bristol University's project and author of Rethinking Miscarriages of Justice, sees this as a significant sign. There are now projects at 15 universities, including Sheffield, Cardiff, Bradford and Oxford, and a national network (INUK). He also believes that there has been a change in the political climate on the issue."We have this rhetoric going on," said Naughton, referring to Tony Blair's claim that the greatest miscarriage of justice was the number of guilty people going free. "In fact, 96.5% [of people charged] are actually convicted."Questionable cases: Cases which campaigners and lawyers claim are wrongful convictions:Errol 'John' Heibner Convicted of the murder in 1975 of Beatrice "Biddy" Gold, who was shot in the basement of the clothing business she ran with her husband in Clerkenwell, London. Heibner, a South African, served more than 25 years and is still trying to prove his innocence. He is not short of prominent figures who believe in his innocence. The Rev Nick Stacey, former director of social services for Kent, met him in Maidstone jail and became convinced of his innocence. Lord Ramsbotham, former chief inspector of prisons, has also pressed his case. But 32 years after the crime, it is hard to come up with new evidence.Eddie Gilfoyle Convicted of the murder of his wife, Paula, who was eight months pregnant, in 1993. The previous year she had been found hanging in the garage of her home in Wirral. Campaigners say there was no murder. Now 45, Gilfoyle told the Guardian this year: "People who know I'm innocent ask me what the worst part of this is. I tell them: 'My wife and unborn child died and I can't grieve for them until I'm free.'"Raymond Gilbert Convicted of murdering a young bookmaker, John Suffield, in Liverpool in 1981 during a robbery. Gilbert, then 22, and John Kamara, then 25, were convicted of the murder. A key factor in the case was a confession, later retracted, by Gilbert in which he implicated Kamara, who had always protested his innocence. During the trial, Gilbert changed his plea to guilty and both men were jailed for life. Kamara was cleared on appeal in 2000. The murdered man's father, also John Suffield, has called for Gilbert's release, saying: "I don't know whether Gilbert is guilty or not but I would like someone to look at the evidence again."