Curfew schemes for children up to the age of 16 came into force yesterday amid a political row about whether they will prove any more effective than did those for under-10s.The government's first attempt to launch the child curfew scheme in September 1998 proved a flop, with no local authority applying the powers designed to keep children off the streets at night and out of trouble. The extended scheme, which came into force yesterday, will give the police power to apply for a curfew order as well as the local authority. The court orders would cover "a known trouble spot", such as a town centre or part of a housing estate, and last from 9pm to 6am for a maximum period of 90 days. The Home Office minister, Beverley Hughes, said she believed the extended curfew powers would prove useful, as they gave police and local authorities clear powers to take a child found in breach of a curfew order home to their parents or to a safe place. She added: "When people find they have had their car sprayed, or their windows broken in, those are the issues that make life very difficult for people living on some of our neighbourhood estates. "I think this scheme can help, not to impose in a draconian way restrictions on children, but to help the local community feel empowered to take responsibility for their own children." But opposition politicians and penal reformers were more sceptical about their value. Chris Stanley, of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders, said the curfew powers were popular with no one and were virtually impossible to enforce. "They will apply to any child living in the area, not just to those who are causing trouble. Enforcement could prove to be a nightmare, with tension and conflict between young people and the police increasing, not diminishing as a result." Paul Ennals of the National Children's Bureau expressed a similar fear. "We will end up with young people feeling worse about authority. We may end up with more trouble on the streets than before." The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said the powers were "untargeted and unnecessary". David Lidington, for the Conservatives, argued that the orders were unwieldy and there were still insufficient police to enforce them. The curfew orders are not designed to be used in isolation but as part of an integrated effort to tackle crime and disorder in a particular neighbourhood. There are no criminal sanctions for a child refusing to obey the order. The Home Office said that a similar scheme has been successfully run since 1997 in Scotland. An evaluation of the Hamilton child safety initiative showed that 87% of parents of children who had been returned home by police approved of their action, and crime associated with juveniles, including theft and vandalism, had fallen by 40% in some parts of the town.