Scotland Yard arrested a 61-year-old man, believed to be the former News of the World executive Greg Miskiw. He became the 12th person to be arrested by Operation Weeting officers.Miskiw, a former assistant editor (news), was arrested by appointment at about midday on Wednesday at a central London police station. He was at the heart of the newspaper's news operation for many years and signed the £105,000-a-year contract with Glenn Mulcaire, the private investigator who worked for the NoW. Mulcaire pleaded guilty to intercepting voicemail messages in 2006.Miskiw worked under the former editor Rebekah Brooks and her successor Andy Coulson, who were both arrested and bailed last month. Both deny they knew that phone hacking was taking place.Miskiw's name also appeared on a separate document, dated 4 February 2005, in which he offers the investigator a £7,000 bonus for information about Gordon Taylor, the chief executive of the Professional Footballers' Association, for use in a possible story.Mulcaire subsequently pleaded guilty to intercepting voicemail messages left on Taylor's mobile, along with those left on phones belonging to three members of the royal family and four others. He was sentenced to six months in prison in January 2007. The paper's former royal editor, Clive Goodman, also received a jail term.Miskiw ran the paper's news operation until late 2003, when he moved to Manchester to oversee its office in the north. He left the title six years ago and founded a news agency in the city before moving to Florida, where he worked until recently for the Globe, a supermarket tabloid published by the owner of the National Enquirer. Miskiw lived in an affluent coastal town called Delray Beach.He said last month that he was preparing to return to the UK. Miskiw's former partner, Terenia Taras, 39, who wrote stories for the NoW as a freelancer, was arrested and bailed in Leeds in June. Miskiw's arrest came 24 hours before James Murdoch is due to write to MPs on the Commons culture, media and sport committeeto answer questions about conflicting statements he and other News International executives gave to the committee about its internal inquiry.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.