The drink-driving limit should be lowered to less than a pint of beer and brought into line with the rest of Europe, according to a motorists' poll. The findings in a survey of Automobile Association (AA) members increase the pressure on the government to reduce the limit from 80mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood to 50mg.The Department for Transport is expected to publish a consultation paper on a drink-driving crackdown, including whether random breath tests should be introduced later this year.According to the poll of 17,500 drivers, two-thirds were in favour of lowering the limit, with more women than men choosing this option, while nearly a third of all respondents called for a zero limit. Edmund King, the AA president, warned that lowering the limit was unlikely to have a significant effect on drink-drive-related deaths, which totalled 540 in 2006."It's not the entire answer to the problem of drink-driving. Many people are way over the limit and if we just lowered it, it would be no help at all in preventing those who are so far over," said Mr King. "There is probably a hardcore who have a drink problem rather than a drive problem."Drink-drive deaths have fallen in recent years, after an upward trend in 2003 and 2004, when the number of fatalities reached 580 each year. However, the total remains higher than nearly 10 years ago, when there were 460 drink-drive deaths in 1999. According to a study by University College London, a 50mg limit would prevent 65 deaths annually and 230 injuries. Ministers have argued that there is no point in reducing the limit until the 80mg level is properly enforced, otherwise drivers will ignore the new law. King said one way of introducing a lower limit could include offering a nine-month amnesty to drivers when the 80mg limit - equivalent to one and a half pints of beer - is reduced. He added that a rule change would also provide an opportunity for a renewed publicity campaign against drink-driving. "If limits change, there would be a lot of publicity and it would send out a very strong anti-drink-drive message," he said.Robert Gifford, head of the parliamentary advisory council for transport safety, said the findings would increase the pressure on the government to bring drink-drive guidelines in line with major European countries, whose limits are between 20mg and 50mg. "This is yet another indication that the public mood is ahead of the government, and it is another reason why the government should lower the drink-drive limit." The UK is among the harshest penalisers of drink-driving in Europe, with a 12-month ban being the minimum punishment. Ministers have said they will retain the year-long ban if the limit is lowered. However, enforcement of drink-driving regulations has been criticised in recent years. The number of breath tests in Britain fell from 765,000 in 1999 to 578,000 in 2004, a slump that the government hopes to address by introducing random breathalyser tests. The Home Office is also working on a "drugalyser" project to catch out drivers who get behind the wheel while under the influence of drugs. A spokesperson for the DfT said: "We are currently considering a range of options to further cut the toll of deaths on the roads, including looking at drink-driving. A consultation is planned for later this year."