Lenient sentences in cases involving stalking, terrorism and the sexual abuse of children could be challenged by victims under a law reform that is receiving cross-party support following a series of high-profile cases of so-called soft justice.The courts’ treatment of a man who obsessively stalked the BBC Newsnight journalist Emily Maitlis for 25 years is one of the cases that inspired the proposed change. Other cases include the five-and-a-half-year sentence given last month to hate preacher Anjem Choudary, who could be out of prison within two years, despite courts hearing that he had encouraged at least 100 young people to turn to terrorism in Britain and Europe.Judges in the court of appeal can increase sentences for a range of crimes, but this power does not apply to convictions involving stalking, coercive control, incitement to support a terrorist organisation or possession of indecent images of children.Last month, “obsessed” stalker Edward Vines, 46, was jailed for three years after bombarding Maitlis with letters and emails. The pair had met in 1989 at Cambridge University, where they both studied.Vines was found guilty at Oxford crown court of breaching a restraining order. However he had previous convictions, including for breaches of restraining orders in 2008, 2010, 2013, 2014 and also earlier this year, for which he was not given a custodial sentence. Before being sentenced at the beginning of September, Vines refused to commit to a pledge made earlier in the trial that, if convicted, he would never contact Maitlis and her family again. He told the court: “I will never contact them again if I’m defeated rationally in court – and I cannot say I have been today.”The Plaid Cymru peer Lord Wigley is proposing an amendment to the policing and crime bill, due to be debated next month in the Lords, to increase the powers of the attorney general to refer such cases to the court of appeal. Wigley said: “The laws on leniency in sentencing need updating. There have been a number of disturbing instances recently of such leniency, but at the moment they are not offences that can be referred. The amendments would make that possible.”It is understood the government has privately offered support to the change.Harry Fletcher, director of Voice4Victims, who drafted the amendments, said that in cases of stalking, where the convicted person showed no remorse for their behaviour, it was crucial for the courts to keep them off the streets. “The law on the ability of the attorney general to refer such cases to the court of appeal needs urgent revision”, he said.Claire Waxman, a mother of two who was aggressively harassed by a former classmate for more than a decade, was also involved in drafting the change as founder and director of Voice4Victims.Her stalker, college acquaintance Elliot Fogel, 40, was prosecuted five times, jailed three times, and given a suspended sentence and a community order for his crimes in the past.Yet it was only in April last year that Fogel, a former Sky Sports news producer, was sentenced to three-and-a-half years in prison after being found guilty of breaching a restraining order that banned him from ever contacting his victim.Waxman said: “It takes a lot of courage for a victim to come forward and face the ordeal of the justice process. When an unduly lenient sentence is then passed and the victim cannot have their case referred to the attorney general, because the scheme is outdated, justice has failed.“This is devastating for a victim, especially when all perpetrators have the right to appeal against their sentences, but it’s not the same from the victim’s side. This imbalance of rights must be addressed.”