"Excuse me," says the young man politely as he stops the stranger on Bethnal Green Road in east London on a windy Saturday morning. "I wonder if you could help me with this problem ... "The "problem" is a complex one: the young man has a successful retail clothes business in Essex but his car has broken down and has had to be fixed. Unfortunately, he has come out without money in his pocket and the garage won't take his credit card. He is just £19 short of the bill. If the stranger could just see his way towards giving him the money towards paying off the bill, the stranger can then help himself to any item of clothing - including shirts worth £60 and so on - in the back of the car which is just around the corner ..."Excuse me, sorry to bother you," says the agitated middle-aged man who rings the doorbell in north London just after 11pm. "My daughter has been in a car accident and is in the Whittington hospital. Can you possibly lend me £15 for the minicab. I live just round the corner at number 33 and I'll pay you back tomorrow ... "The "con" in "con trick" comes, of course, from confidence, as in winning the confidence of the target who is sized up for the trick. The key to the trick is appealing either to a person's best or worst nature - that is, either their wish to help someone in distress or their desire to get something for nothing. The most obvious example of the latter is the "419" (named after the relevant number in the Nigerian criminal code) internet crime which originated in west Africa and has cost some of its victims millions of pounds. These have been around for years but people are still falling for them across the world in vast numbers - and London appears to be a new base for fraudsters. While the majority of such frauds are initiated in Nigeria, the addresses now used span the globe from Malaysia to Iraq with London, Madrid and Johannesburg "the current hotspots", according to the Metropolitan police. Officers report how an operation in Leytonstone, London, led to the arrest of a suspect who had defrauded two victims. The two had travelled to London from the outback of north-west Australia and from Sitka, Alaska, believing they were speaking to the Central Bank of Nigeria in Lagos rather than to the occupant of a bedsit in east London. This week, the Home Office published the latest crime figures for England and Wales showing that crime in general is on the decrease but fraud remains high at 317,000 offences a year. Police believe that many victims of cons are too embarrassed by their stupidity to come forward. Criminologists believe the "crime-lite" cons and stings, with their low risk of arrest, have become an increasingly attractive option. In April, Ian Bussey, 37, was sentenced to 150 hours' community service after being convicted of a fraud which involved writing to 28 football clubs claiming to be the single father of a son dying of cancer. He asked the clubs to send him items to auction so that the boy could have a "final holiday" in Disneyland.He was caught only after police raided his house for another reason.The Met also reports the success of a con in which the victim is shown a suitcase of "genuine" money, usually US$100 (£54) bills, which are all black.The victim is told that the notes have been coated with a special substance in order to smuggle them out of Nigeria. He or she is then offered the chance to buy a special cleaning solution for between $20,000 and $500,000 to clean the notes. A demonstration is given by the conman which works magically well on the notes. However, the remainder of the notes are, of course, counterfeit.Last month, Chris Fox, the president of the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) noted in the John Harris memorial lecture in London that "the gangs who used to organise armed robberies for cash in transit, moved on to drug dealing because it was more profitable [now] look at fraud of all sorts. While this has been happening has the service responded to it? I am not sure we have been quick enough." The latest variation on the 419 takes advantage of the current Iraq situation thus: "Reliable sources revealed that the account owner, an oil merchant, died in one of the terrorist attacks in his Basra residence." The kind person making the offer on this occasion is anxious to point out that "you are the first and only person that I am contacting for this business". The rewards are spectacular: 40% of $114.2m. The Met are warning people to be on their guard against this new approach. "People are very inventive and we have been much busier over the past year," said a spokeswoman for the national hi-tech crime unit which was set up in 2001 and which has also noted an enormous increase in the world of scams. "After 9/11, there were a lot to do with stories that somebody had died and left a lot of money. "Organised crime has also seen the value of the internet. Organised crime will always chase the money and there is this 'little risk v great reward' feeling involved." The other most frequent internet cons, she said, were the bogus lottery wins - "You have won $100,000 in a prize draw, please send $6,000 for administrative costs" - and "phishing", in which someone's online banking details are extracted from them by criminals and used."People are not as vigilant as they would be face to face," said the unit spokeswoman. The Met's unit working on the scam explains that "the letters are often littered with spelling mistakes and bad grammar. This is a deliberate ploy by the fraudsters to induce the victim to believe that he is dealing with uneducated people who not have the ability to defraud him or her. Nothing could be further from the truth. The majority of victims prove to be professional business people, doctors and lawyers."Michael Levi of Cardiff University's criminology department said the reasons for the growth in deception crimes were obvious. "Unlike burglaries, the risks you run are are quite low," he said. "There are no penalties for a failed attempt. For people who are risk-averse, it makes quite a difference." Of the internet frauds, Professor Levi said: "Those are virtually no cost, you just wait for the hit."