Two men were arrested today on suspicion of violent disorder during the student fees protest, Scotland Yard said.The men, both aged 19, were arrested in Yorkshire. Yesterday, officers investigating the Millbank riot released images of 13 protesters suspected of committing criminal offences.The images were captured on CCTV cameras inside the office complex and on its roof as dozens of demonstrators stormed the building. They were also filmed by officers in the forecourt as more than a thousand people gathered outside the headquarters of the Tory party. Police have now arrested 61 people in relation to the demonstration.During the National Union of Students' march against proposed rises in student tuition fees windows were smashed, graffiti daubed on walls – and missiles, including a fire extinguisher, were thrown from the seventh floor roof. A four-hour stand-off ended when police brought in more than 100 extra officers to clear the building and the road outside.The Metropolitan Police have launched Operation Malone in an effort to trace those responsible for the violence and vandalism. A spokesman said 54 people were arrested on 10 November, the day of the protests, and were bailed pending further inquiries. Since then seven men have been arrested on suspicion of violent disorder.A Scotland Yard spokesman said of the 61 arrests 40 were male and 21 were female. He said 12 were juveniles, 48 were aged between 18 and 26 and one was in their early 30s.Earlier today, Edward Woollard, 18, appeared in court accused of throwing a fire extinguisher from a seventh floor rooftop during the protest.He was charged with violent disorder after being interviewed by Metropolitan police officers.Woollard, of Dibden Purlieu, Southampton, appeared in custody at City of Westminster magistrates' court.Wearing a long-sleeved white T-shirt, he spoke only to confirm his name, age and address.His solicitor, Matt Foot, described the case as "unique" and asked for an adjournment to be allowed to view video footage. He said: "There are complexities from our view. It does require some time to consider the position."District Judge Catherine Tubbs released Woollard on conditional bail, banning him from Westminster and ordering him to stay at his home address. She adjourned the case until 24 November at the same court.