Claire had no reason to be worried. It was 10.30 on a bright summer morning and the 30-year-old fitness fanatic was following her regular exercise routine, 'power walking' her way past dog walkers and other joggers along a busy path by the common at the edge of Redhill, Surrey.The attack came from behind: swift, unseen and without warning. Claire was seized around the neck and dragged backwards towards some nearby woodland. She tried to scream but the grip on her neck tightened, squeezing the breath out of her. She used the last of her strength to try to fight the man off but he was too strong. Then four hard punches smashed into her face, leaving her reeling in agony. In a gruff voice with a trace of a north-east accent the attacker told her not to look at him, then ordered her to remove all her clothing. He first sexually assaulted and then raped her. Once he had finished, half an hour later, he stole several items of her clothing - a white long-sleeved top, a pair of black knickers and her white sports socks - and vanished. At first the attack on Claire, not her real name, which took place in July, seemed like the latest brutal assault in a rising tide of sex crimes. But it has now become part of the biggest manhunt since the search for the Yorkshire Ripper in the early Eighties, with more than 100 officers from four police forces in a desperate race against time to track down the man before one of his victims ends up dead. Detectives working on the case are now investigating an attack in the early hours of yesterday in which a 15-year-old girl was seized in the Surrey village of Fetcham. She escaped but police fear it may be linked to a long line of attacks by the same man. Just five days after the assault on Claire, an 18-year-old Asian woman was raped in almost identical circumstances while walking along a footpath in Woking, Surrey. The attacker stole her T-shirt and bra. Three weeks later a 26-year-old woman was raped close to woodland in Epsom, Surrey, again in similar circumstances. The three attacks in Surrey were soon linked. Then an earlier attack in Kent and two attacks in London were found to have startling similarities - both in the description given of the attacker and the language he used during the assaults.Before this weekend, eight rapes and one serious assault had been linked to the same man, dubbed the Trophy Rapist after his habit of taking property or clothing from his victims. Chillingly, each new attack - all of which have taken place in daylight and close to woodland - showed increasing levels of violence and boldness. After raping a 26-year-old woman on Putney Common in south London, the attacker stole her mobile phone and then, selecting the number from the list stored in the handset, called her mother. 'I've just raped your daughter,' he boasted. 'Somebody must know who this man is and it is almost certain that he has carried out these kinds of attacks before,' said Detective Chief Inspector Colin Murray, who is leading the hunt. 'You don't just wake up one morning and decide to rape a 10-year-old. These things don't just spring out of nowhere.' The task of those hunting the rapist has been frustrated by the fact that they have only a partial description, and the attacks follow no pattern: his victims have included prepubescent girls and grown women; they have been black as well as white; and the attacks have taken place across such a wide area of south-east England that four police forces have had to pool resources in their attempts to track him down. Although a DNA sample has been obtained, it does not match any on record. More than 3,000 fresh DNA samples have been taken as part of the inquiry - called Operation Orb - and the police expect to take hundreds more before the rapist is finally brought to justice. Following two televised appeals last week in which victims recounted their ordeals, more than 500 calls were received and more than 50 names submitted, all of which will be followed up. 'It is not as if we are getting the same name coming up again and again, but we are getting lots of different names and now we have to go and check them all out,' says Murray. 'It's going to be a long slog - we're looking for a needle in a haystack - but we have always been aware of that.' Many calls came from police and probation officers who believe the perpetrator may be someone they have dealt with in the past. Others were from women abused by partners who they believe fit the profile. 'It's only when you start working on an inquiry like this that you realise just how many incredibly dangerous men there are out there,' says Murray. More calls have pointed to men whose work takes them around the country and who may have been in the areas the rapes took place at around the same time of year. Although seven of the victims have been blonde, police believe this is just a coincidence. Rather than choosing and stalking his victims based on their appearance or age, he appears to first choose a location where he is certain he will not be disturbed and then attacks the first female who passes by. The potential danger is so great that last month the Chief Constable of Surrey Police, Denis O'Connor, took the unusual step of sending a personal email to thousands of schoolchildren warning them to be vigilant as three of the rapist's nine victims had been schoolgirls aged between 10 and 13. The Trophy Rapist first struck in Ashford, Kent on 15 November last year, when a 10-year-old girl was abducted from outside a sports centre and raped in nearby woodland. The attacker took her T-shirt before letting her go. Then there was a nine-month gap until 1 July, when a 12-year-old girl was dragged off her bike and raped in Bracknell, Berkshire. The girl returned home covered in blood and told her mother she had been raped. 'I took her indoors and I said, "Do you know what rape means? Tell me what it means" and she told me exactly what it meant and I knew then that she had been raped,' the girl's mother said. 'I don't think she'll ever get over it. It'll always be there. You think at 12 years old she's too young to understand the full impact of what has happened, but that's not the case.' On 6 September, a 13-year-old girl was raped in a wooded area near Woking, Surrey while she was cycling home. Another attack took place in Ripley Green, Surrey, 10 days later. A 22-year-old woman was attacked while walking her dog on Dunsborough Park, but escaped being raped when her collie dog scared the attacker off. Speaking publicly for the first time last week, one of his victims said she could no longer live a normal life. 'I get really paranoid about everything - even being at home. If you are by yourself and you hear things, you just start wondering if there is someone there. I'm afraid to go out by myself. I'm OK to walk in a town where there's lots of people, but anywhere where it's more quiet I wouldn't go. Also, I have nightmares almost every night.'