It would be "quite incredible" if the 15 alleged victims of Dr Harold Shipman had died natural deaths, the GP's murder trial jury was told today.Prosecuting counsel Richard Henriques QC told the jury at Preston crown court that it could not be coincidence that all the women patients had died on the same day as he had seen them.Mr Henriques said in his closing speech to the jury that Dr Shipman had breached the trust that the victims and their relatives had placed in him. "It is a quite incredible proposition that these 15 ladies could have died a natural death having regard to their state of health prior to facing Dr Shipman," he said.The 53-year-old doctor denies killing the women with injections of diamorphine. He also pleads not guilty to forging the £386,000 will of one of them. The trial, which started in early November, resumed today after a break of 22 days.Mr Henriques told the jury that Dr Shipman had "duped" the relatives of his victims "in order to save his own skin". He had falsified medical records to cover his tracks."He took advantage of their grief and their lesser knowledge of medicine and procedures," said Mr Henriques. "As they grieved this determined man employed every device to make sure no post-mortem examination took place." He said Dr Shipman would "overbear, belittle and bamboozle" relatives until they accepted his word that they should not put their mothers through a post-mortem examination.A meeting between relatives of three of his alleged victims would have exposed the "incredible" fact that the doctor was claiming that they were suffering from serious illnesses known only to him and treated by him, yet unknown to their families.Mr Henriques said each of the alleged victims had died a sudden and unexpected death. "While of course sudden deaths do occur, Dr Shipman faces the problem he saw each and every one of these deceased patients on the day that she died."He said that in some cases the patient was found dead later, but the act of diamorphine being administered must have coincided with Dr Shipman visiting them. "They would not have submitted peacefully to [being given diamorphine by] any other person," said Mr Henriques.He said that the reason why Dr Shipman had been so determined to avoid post mortem examinations in any of the cases needed no elaboration. There was the danger that if pathologists had become involved, the coroner would have been informed.In four cases Dr Shipman had lied about the alleged victims telephoning his surgery before they died. This had given him a pretext of visiting them.The doctor had not tried to resuscitate any of the patients. "There was of course no point - he knew they were dead," said Mr Henriques.In all of the 15 cases there had not been a single post mortem, a single ambulance called by Dr Shipman, a single proper examination of the patient by him or a single attempt at resuscitation. "And in case you had the slightest doubt what was going on, there are seven patients in respect of whom the defendant falsified medical records," he said.