Prisoners are to be asked to sign "going straight" contracts, with rewards and sanctions to cut their reoffending, after a report published yesterday by the government's social exclusion unit and endorsed by Tony Blair.Inmates will also be asked to contribute from prison wages to a reparation fund for the victims of crime which would also help pay for their rehabilitation after release. In a foreword to the report, Reducing Re-offending by Ex-prisoners, Mr Blair said the measures were needed because public safety was not safeguarded when prisoners were released into homelessness, with no prospects of employment. "People who have been in prison account for one in five of all crimes. Nearly three in five prisoners are reconvicted within two years of leaving prison. Offending by ex-prisoners costs society at least £11bn a year. This all tells us we are failing to capitalise on the opportunity that prison provides to stop people offending for good." The social exclusion unit report also highlights the financial difficulties of newly released prisoners and recom mends increasing the discharge grant and giving more help to new inmates to hold on to their homes, without giving specific details. A leaked draft of the report, which attracted criticism, suggested raising the discharge grant from £40 to £100 to cover the first fortnight after release when benefits cannot be claimed. It also suggested that the payment of housing benefit for the first 13 weeks of imprisonment be extended to six months so offenders do not lose their homes. But the report failed to include specific figures. The Cabinet Office minister, Barbara Roche, said that was because the amounts involved were subject to negotiation in the Treasury's comprehensive spending review. There was also an argument about whether keeping a home empty for up to six months was the best use of the accommodation. The social exclusion unit suggests a pilot scheme for the "going straight" contract among 18- to 20-year-olds. They would be asked to sign a contract which would set out what was expected of them in jail and after release. It would include rehabilitative programmes, including education and training courses and programmes designed to break a drug or crime habit. Those who failed to participate would face further sanctions. Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, welcomed the report but said a much better package of support that ensured newly released inmates had a home and a job to go to would be more useful than signing contracts promising they will go straight. Paul Cavadino of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders said the report demonstrated that arrangements were patchy, underfunded, and for many short-term prisoners virtually non-existent. "A national rehabilitation strategy is badly needed. We hope that the government will now implement the report in full, without delay."