The England international footballer Joey Barton yesterday admitted assaulting a former team-mate during a training match argument in which the other player was knocked unconscious and punched repeatedly while on the ground.The Premier League player, 25, who signed for Newcastle for £5.8m last summer, is already serving a six-month prison sentence for a "violent and cowardly attack" outside a McDonald's in Liverpool in December while on bail for the assault. Barton had been due to go on trial for assaulting former Manchester City player Ousmane Dabo, 31, but changed his plea to guilty at Minshull Street crown court, Manchester.Richard Vardon, prosecuting, said the case involved "a rather explosive combination of football and violence" at Manchester City's training ground in Trafford after a practice game ended in May last year.He said Dabo and Barton had been on opposite sides, and there had been a "degree of unpleasantness" and "unnecessary physical challenges". Vardon said: "At the end, the defendant continued to be aggressive towards Mr Dabo and shouted at him: 'You're fucking shite'." Barton walked towards the player and continued shouting and swearing, the court heard. "In the words of Ousmane Dabo, [Barton] was snarling at him and he believed he might attack him," Vardon said. He said Dabo pushed Barton by the shoulders to get him out of his personal space. Dabo was then punched to the right of his face and lost consciousness. The attack was seen by a number of Manchester City players. Defender Sylvain Distin said Barton had "hardly moved back" as a result of Dabo's shove. "Joey lashed out with a clenched fist and punched him in the face," Distin's statement read. "He continued to punch him two or three times and he started to fall to the floor. Joey grabbed hold of him and continued to punch him in the face." He thought Dabo was punched five times.The prosecution said striker Paul Dichov had seen Dabo lying on the floor with Barton on top of him. He put himself between the two men, taking a blow to the face. Another player, Michael Johnson, saw Dabo with Barton on top of him, with his left arm "as though in a headlock". Johnson said he had been punched and he "looked knocked out, with his eyes shut". Greece forward Georgios Samaras was "shocked by what he saw," although his view was partially blocked. "He saw Ousmane bleeding heavily from the nose and face. He had never seen such a violent incident on a football pitch all his career and he will never forget it," Vardon said. The team's manager, Stuart Pearce, also saw Dabo being punched and lying on the floor, where he "didn't respond and appeared dazed".Dabo was taken to hospital, where he was found to have a trauma injury with severe bruising to his eyelids. He could not sleep for a week and suffered from headaches for three weeks, the court heard. Dabo was in court to see Barton plead guilty to assault occasioning actual bodily harm. Barton will be sentenced today. The judge indicated he was likely to get a suspended sentence if he pleaded guilty.