Attacks by vandals and the seizure of vast illegal stores of fireworks in the run-up to bonfire night has prompted a campaign to crack down on black market sales.A senior police officer is calling for legislation to restrict the sale of fireworks to the public, after a nightclub in Liverpool, telephone kiosks and cars were attacked using gunpowder from fireworks. Bomb disposal teams have been called out to deal with devices made from adapted fireworks, and there is concern about hooligans setting off powerful fireworks in public places. On Wednesday night, vandals in the West Midlands detonated fireworks inside four unattended cars, including a police patrol car parked outside a police station, while earlier in the week youths in Cardiff threw a firework on to a bus packed with passengers. Merseyside police's chief constable, Norman Bettison, is urging the home secretary to restrict the sale of the most powerful fireworks to holders of a special licence. Mr Bettison said anti-social behaviour involving fireworks had escalated in recent years from "a banger tied to a cat's tail", to the use by vandals of high-powered devices known as air bombs. "There was a BMW 520 blown to smithereens using six of these devices," he said. "The army bomb disposal team said they had not seen anything like this on the mainland since the IRA campaign. "If anyone on the little cul-de-sac where it happened had opened their door in the time it took to light the blue touchpaper and retire, it had the potential to kill them. The shrapnel went up to 200m." The Merseyside force is compiling a catalogue of attacks involving fireworks which in cludes the destruction of 33 cars, 29 telephone kiosks and eight post boxes. Police and legitimate retailers fear that the unregulated distribution and sale of fireworks is fuelling the problem. "The legal firework retailers are working with trading standards to ensure that they comply with British standards," said John Woodhead, chairman of the British Fireworks Association, which represents the legitimate trade. "These other people are selling from pubs and car boot sales." The illegal trade has reached "epidemic proportions" this year, Mr Woodhead claimed. Raids by trading standards officers have uncovered huge hauls of fireworks illegally stored in private houses. Dave Roderick, a spokesman for the Trading Standards Institute, said: "The danger lies in how they are stored. Fireworks have been found in places that are totally unsuitable." In Blackpool, powerful display fireworks worth up to £30,000 were seized from three premises, including a shop next to one which had been gutted in a fire the previous day. At another of the raided premises, fireworks were found crammed into a lift, while at another they were stored next to a high voltage electrical supply. On Merseyside, more than 1,200kg of fireworks were found stored in a private house, while in Warwickshire trading standards officers confiscated fireworks being sold by a market trader. New legislation clamping down on the anti-social use of fireworks was passed in September, but will not come into force in time for this year's bonfire night celebrations. The Fireworks Act, originally a private member's bill introduced by the Labour MP Bill Tynan, imposes a noise limit of 120 decibels on fireworks available to the public, bans the use of fireworks during anti-social hours and introduces licences for retailers. The law will allow local authorities to refuse licences, or to revoke them if retailers act inappropriately. There are also plans to make it an offence for children to possess fireworks. Mr Tynan is due to meet the consumer affairs minister, Gerry Sutcliffe, on Monday to discuss the illegal distribution and storage of fireworks. "I will be pressing him to make sure that the Health and Safety Executive realise that there is a major problem with importation and the way fireworks are being stored."