Two teenagers were today convicted of the manslaughter of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor on a south-east London housing estate six years ago.Danny Preddie, 18, and his 19-year-old brother Ricky, of Peckham, were found guilty at a retrial at the Old Bailey after an earlier jury could not reach a verdict.Earlier this year, they were acquitted of Damilola's murder and assault charges.Damilola's father, Richard Taylor, looked calm as he heard the verdict. The schoolboy's mother, Gloria, looked down, one hand held to her cheek, as the day she had waited for finally arrived.In a statement read by Mr Taylor outside the court, they said it was "a great comfort that justice has finally been done for Damilola," adding: "We pray that his gentle soul can now rest in peace."The 33-day trial - the third into the schoolboy's stabbing - was told that new and "compelling" forensic evidence linked the brothers to the "cruel and callous" killing.The pair were aged 12 and 13 when Damilola died after being stabbed in the thigh with a broken beer bottle in November 2000. They were arrested a few days after he bled to death in a stairwell on the North Peckham estate.However, a forensic laboratory and investigators missed vital leads, and they were released without charge.One was being monitored by the probation service at the time, and the other was on bail and detained at a children's home.The brothers were re-arrested last year when a second forensic laboratory re-examined clothing seized at the time, and discovered spots of Damilola's blood and fibres from his school uniform.Victor Temple QC, prosecuting, told the jury: "Crucially, detailed forensic evidence concerning blood and fibres was recovered from items of clothing and footwear attributable to these two defendants."The totality of evidence now available points with certainty to the criminal involvement of these two defendants."A trainer from Danny Preddie's room was found to have a bloodstain from Damilola and in it a fibre indistinguishable from his school trousers."It was missed by the laboratory staff who originally examined the trainer," Mr Temple said. He added that whether this had been due to "technical difficulties or human error" was not a matter for the jury.He said four teenagers had at first been charged with Damilola's murder, but no fingerprints, DNA or fibres linked them to the killing, and they were cleared after an Old Bailey trial.Subsequently, he said, the evidence was re-examined. He alleged that, on November 27 2000, the brothers approached Damilola following an after-school club."One of the Preddie brothers had broken and/or had possession of a recently broken beer bottle," Mr Temple told the court."The brother holding the broken bottle thrust it into Damilola Taylor's inner left thigh. Both the brothers were streetwise beyond their age, but neither chose to come to his aid. Instead, both - after a brief pause - walked off."After today's verdicts were announced, Ricky Preddie began shouting in the dock. "You are corrupt. You are nothing," he yelled at the jury before being surrounded by security officers. The judge, Mr Justice Goldring, said: "Take him down."Both brothers were remanded in custody to be sentenced later. Another defendant, Hassan Jihad, 20, also of Peckham, was cleared of all charges following the three-month trial held in April.The trial heard that a friend of Damilola told police he thought Danny Preddie may have come off worse in a fight with Damilola, breaking his gold chain. The youth, who is now 18, told the court he once saw him asking Damilola whether he had a cigarette before taking a swing at him. Damilola, who came to Britain from Nigeria three months before his death, was surrounded by a gang of youths in Blakes Road as he made his way from an after-school club at Peckham library to his home on the estate. Someone broke a small, green beer bottle, leaving a shard of glass that was used to "juk" Damilola in his left thigh. The bullying act of cutting or jabbing with a twisting motion, was intended to hurt Damilola, but not kill him. However, the sharp weapon cut through his flesh and blood vessels, and by the time he limped along the road and up two flights of the stairwell, he was near death. He was found slumped against a wall on a landing by carpenter Guillermo Casal, who had following a trail of blood. After collapsing into his arms, Damilola's last words were: "I'm OK, I'm OK."