A new style of intensive neighbourhood policing in which residents' petitions can trigger action by their failing local police divisions was unveiled yesterday as a key part of the government's five-year anti-crime plan.The new powers for local people are to be backed by a new neighbourhood policing fund to finance 20,000 extra community support officers - 5,000 more than announced last week. Home Office sources confirmed that any future growth in police numbers would come in the form of the cheaper community support officers, who are more visible on the streets, rather than uniformed constables. At present there are 4,000 community support officers. But the growth will more than match Tory election promises to expand the number of uniformed officers. The Home Office strategic plan published yesterday also put firm numbers on how Mr Blunkett intends to spend the £2.8bn extra his department won in this year's annual spending round, in pursuit of his ambitious target of cutting crime by 15% by 2008. Despite Tony Blair's rhetoric yesterday, promising to bury the "1960s liberal consensus on law and order", the anti-crime package with its menu of youth inclusion projects, community policing, and alternatives to prison is one of the most liberal criminal justice strategies for a generation. The home secretary talked about the policy of "prison works" in the past tense: "If prison had worked ..." The Treasury appears to have accepted the argument that simply building more and more prisons is too expensive. New community penalties, such as "custody minus" to replace short-term prison sentences, will be introduced next year as part of a programme to arrest the growth in the prison population at 80,000. The document confirms the expected expansion in electronic tagging and using new satellite technology to keep track of offenders on community penalties, as well as those who have come out of jail. The capacity to tag offenders, including juveniles, is to be doubled to 18,000 by 2008. A further £140m is to be spent expanding the probation service and developing community sentences next year. The next phase of the drive against anti-social behaviour will see 50 areas designated as "trailblazer" schemes, with new powers for the police such as curfews, specialist prosecutors and anti-social behaviour courts to deliver fast-track community justice. In the past the government has missed its target to "narrow the justice gap" - the number of offences for which an offender is brought to court and convicted. The original 1997 target of 1.2m offences "brought to justice" each year has never been met; the latest figure is 1.07m, but it is to be raised to 1.25m a year. It seems the intention is to fill the gap by expanding fixed penalty fines for anti-social behaviour, to include children between 10 and 15. The decision to launch a "prolific offenders programme", targeting the 5,000 criminals considered to be responsible for almost 10% of all crime, is an extension of the persistent offenders programme which has been running for several years. It appears this has now been judged to have to be "too inflexible" and too narrowly focused only on those who already had serial convictions for serious offences, also known as the usual suspects.Main Points· Neighbourhood policing teams for England and Wales · Local petitions to trigger police action · 20,000 extra community support patrol officers · 50 areas to pioneer antisocial behaviour drive against prolific offenders · Expand fixed penalty notices to 10- to 15-year-olds · New alternatives to prison · Electronic tagging capacity to double to 18,000 by 2008