Detectives hunting a serial rapist believe they have linked him to nine attacks in the south-east, eight of them committed in the past three months.One hundred officers from four forces have been drafted into the investigation, which has become one of the largest of its type in recent years. Assistant chief constable David Kelly, of Kent police, warned yesterday that the man they were looking for was prepared to take risks to attack his victims, who were aged between 10 and 52, and that women living in the areas where he had struck should take more than the usual precautions. Many of the victims had been attacked in daylight. Two were walking their dogs and two others were riding bicycles. All the victims were grabbed from behind and restrained while they were attacked. After raping a 26-year-old woman in woodland on Putney Common in July, the man stole her mobile phone and rang her mother to boast about what he had just done. He brandished a knife at one woman, and in most of the cases he has taken clothing or property from his victims, possibly as trophies. He told one victim: "I don't want to be caught again." Mr Kelly said: "Clearly this man is dangerous and violent and needs to be caught as soon as possible. Rape is always a dreadful offence and in this series we have victims aged 10 and 12. All of the victims have been traumatised. Some of them are dealing with it better than others." Last month police said they thought the rapist was responsible for five attacks in four counties since November last year. But a review of other cases and fresh evidence has led them to conclude that another four assaults - including three rapes - were committed by the same man. The latest assault took place at 7.30pm on September 16. A 22-year-old woman was attacked while walking her dog near a cricket pitch in Dunsborough Park, Ripley Green, Surrey. Detectives believe he was thwarted by the woman's collie dog, which may have bitten him as he tried to take her into nearby woodland. In all cases, the man has struck in urban areas and on a weekday, forcing his victims into undergrowth. One mystery for detectives is the eight month gap between the first attack, last year, and the second, in July. Police believe that the rapist may have struck in the intervening period without them knowing, or may have moved temporarily from the area. "There may have been other attempts or near misses, and, for whatever reason, the victim has not reported it yet," Mr Kelly said. "I would appeal to anyone who recognises this to come forward. You may just provide the vital clue." The rapist struck first in Ashford, Kent, on November 15, when a 10-year-old girl was abducted from outside a sports centre and raped in nearby woodland. There was an eight month gap until a 12-year-old girl was dragged off her bike and raped in Bracknell, Berkshire, as she cycled home on July 1. On July 11, a 30-year-old woman was raped on a footpath in Earlswood, Surrey, and six hours later a 26-year-old woman was raped in woodland on Putney Common, west London. Five days later an 18-year-old woman was raped on a footpath in a park area of Woking, Surrey. On August 6, a 52-year-old woman was raped on Wimbledon Common, south London, and the next day a 26-year-old was raped in a wooded area in Epsom, Surrey. On September 6, a 13-year-old girl cycling home was raped in a wooded area near Woking. The latest attack, in Ripley Green, was 10 days later. The victims' ordeals lasted up to half an hour. Victims said the attacker might have had a north-east accent and was white, aged between 30 and 50, between 5ft 5in and 5ft 10in, with tanned, leathery skin and a gruff voice. Several victims said he smelt of smoke and sometimes of drink and one said he might have scars on his forehead and below one eye. Detectives insisted there was nothing to link the rapist to the disappearance of Milly Dowler in Walton-on-Thames. They have liaised with the Dowler murder squad and concluded there were few, if any, similarities in the two cases. · Anyone with information should call 0845 601 8109.