A Volkswagen car and four casually dressed men were the focus last night of police attempts to locate a Leonardo da Vinci masterpiece stolen yesterday in an audacious raid on a Scottish castle.The tiny but hugely valuable Madonna with the Yarnwinder was taken from the staircase hall of Drumlanrig Castle, Dumfriesshire, at about 11am. Thieves posing as tourists overpowered a female guide, plucked the painting, which experts say is worth up to £30m, from the wall ,and made off with it in an ageing, white Golf GTi. Drumlanrig Castle is the home of the Duke of Buccleuch, one of Scotland's wealthiest men. He has one of the finest private art collections in Britain, including works by Rembrandt and Holbein, but nothing as valuable as the stolen Renaissance painting. The security arrangements at the castle were under "intense review" last night. But the Earl of Dalkeith, the Duke's son, said it was extremely difficult to guard against determined and skilled thieves when the painting was in its castle setting. "We are shocked and deeply saddened by what has happened. This is a wonderful painting that has been in the family collection for more than 250 years. It is an enormous treasure and it has been brutally removed from the castle," he said. Drumlanrig is open to the public, and it seems that two thieves paid the £6 entrance fee and made their way to the staircase hall, where they overpowered the guide and took the painting from the wall. Waiting for them outside were the Volkswagen and at least one other, but probably two, accomplices. The Golf - registration H596 VRP - was last seen heading north on a nearby road at 11.15am. The guide was not hurt but the earl said she was deeply distressed by the raid. Inspector Phil Stewart said: "These people may have been here before and visited the premises, and that is a thing I want to reinforce. Anyone who has been at Drumlanrig Castle over the last two or three weeks or month and has noticed anyone acting suspiciously or recognises the description of this vehicle please contact us." The painting shows the Madonna gently pulling the infant Jesus away from a wooden yarnwinder, shaped like a cross, symbolising that even her love could not save him from the Passion. Although it has been disputed whether it is a genuine Leonardo or the work of a pupil, most experts now agree that it can be attributed to the Renaissance master. As such it is immensely valuable, but utterly impossible to sell. "You simply can't sell something as famous as this," a spokeswoman for the Art Loss Register, which monitors stolen works, said. "There may be a criminal collector who does not care about the provenance of the picture but it can't sold on the open market."The Madonna was painted in 1501 for Florimand Robertet, secretary of state to Louis XII of France. It was once thought to have been lost in France, but, since scientific work at the National Galleries of Scotland in 1986 experts have generally concurred that the painting bought by the third Duke of Buccleuch in Italy in the 1750s is one of the few Leonardos that can be definitively attributed. The Earl of Dalkeith said the possibility of its theft had always hung over the castle, but the family had wanted to keep it in what had become its natural setting. "We have always been concerned about theft and we obviously have security measures in place," he said "But what we are trying to do is share this wonderful building and our art collection with people who come from all over the world. I don't know if you can ever fully guard against the most determined thief." Even without an open market for such famous work, guarding against art thieves is a notoriously difficult business. It took thieves just 50 seconds to steal Munch's the Scream from the National Gallery in Oslo in 1994. They used a ladder to reach a window, smashed it and entered the gallery. The theft was captured on CCTV and the £37m painting was recovered three months later by a police officer posing as a Getty representative prepared to pay a £300,000 ransom. Many art lovers imagine that such thefts are carried out at the behest of criminal collectors, but the reality is generally more mundane. "The old conspiracy theory that it has been stolen to order will rear its head again, but it is just as likely that it was no more than a bungled heist," said Ossian Ward, editor of Art Review magazine. It might have been stolen for ransom, however. Raids on British galleries and stately homes net thieves art works and antiques worth up to £500m each year. Globally the sum is up to £6bn. "Serious and organised criminals will be attracted by the size of the global art market, the involvement of private dealers and the ease with which stolen items can be moved both nationally and internationally with a low risk of detection," the national criminal intelligence service said. The police released descriptions of the two thieves who entered the red sandstone castle. One is in his early 40s, 5ft 10in (178cm), clean shaven and slim built. He was wearing brown shoes, cream trousers with a black belt, a cream T-shirt, a brown, nubuck leather jacket, a brown baseball cap and round-framed glasses. The other was in his late 40s, 5ft 10-11in, of slim build and clean shaven. He was wearing black trousers, black shoes, a cream, long-sleeved shirt, a sleeveless, taupe, safari-type jacket and a light cream, wide-brimmed hat. Last night police helicopters were circling over Drumlanrig Castle in search of the men, the white Volkswagen car and their priceless Renaissance cargo.  Art's legion of the lost   Rembrandt, Storm on the Sea of Galilee, and Vermeer, The Concert  Stolen in March 1990 from Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston. Thieves dressed as policemen and convinced security they were checking the museum  Value Both priceless  Klimt, Portrait of a Woman Stolen from gallery in Piacenza in February 1997. Burglar gained access via skylight  Value £2m  Pablo Picasso, Head of a Woman (Dora Maar) Stolen from yacht in Antibes in March 1999  Value £4m-plus  Paul Cezanne, Auvers-sur-Oise  Stolen January 2000, Ashmolean, Oxford. Thief entered by skylight  Value £3m