A railway worker went on a "campaign of rape" against women and girls aged between 10 and 52, a jury at Maidstone crown court heard yesterday.Antoni Imiela, 49, of Appledore, Kent, denies raping eight victims in around the M25 in south-east England. He also denies counts of kidnapping, indecently assault and attempting to rape a 10-year-old girl in Birmingham, two days after police visited him to take a DNA sample. Mark Dennis QC, opening the prosecution, said doctors believed that there was a only a billion-to-one chance that DNA taken from the first victim belonged to someone other than Mr Imiela. Samples taken from other victims had one in 114 million and one in 3 million chances of belonging to someone else. "He was a dangerous sexual predator," Mr Dennis told the court. "He was not an opportunist who acted on the spur of the moment, but someone who went looking for victims - often travelling long distances." Had he not been arrested, "his campaign of rape would no doubt have continued". The jury heard that Mr Imiela had used one woman's mobile phone to call her mother and tell her he had "just shagged" her daughter. He allegedly promised a teenage victim that he would not rape - then said he had changed his mind. He reportedly told another teenager: "I'm not going to hurt you physically. This will just leave you emotionally scarred." After his final attack, he dumped a 10-year-old girl on the street with a £10 note, telling her to get a taxi home, Mr Dennis said. "The motivation would appear to be purely sexual, coupled with the excitement of the risks he was taking and the sexual domination involved." The QC outlined striking similarities between the attacks. The assailant had struck on land close to residential areas, grabbing his victims from behind and dragging them into woodland or undergrowth. He warned them not to look at him, although several gave descriptions matching Mr Imiela, and he punched and slapped victims who resisted. He threatened to kill several victims if they screamed, and showed a knife to two of them. But when one teenager was too frightened to put up any struggle, "the defendant took advantage of that" and raped her anally as well, Mr Dennis said. His victims said he sometimes seemed "detached from reality". He kissed them and tried to force them to act as if they were enjoying the attacks. At times, he made crude sexual comments, but at other points tried to make casual conversation. He would then leave them tied up, warning them not to move until he had got away. Mr Dennis said the rapist had first struck in November 2001, attacking a 10-year-old girl he had grabbed from outside a youth club in Ashford, Kent. But extensive publicity would have made the attacker realise that he had made a "potentially fatal mistake" by leaving DNA evidence in semen recovered from the victim. Eight months later, the rapist struck again. But he ensured that future attacks took place well away from Kent, said Mr Dennis, and he told victims not to worry because he was wearing a condom. He attacked victims in Surrey, Hertfordshire and London, and on two occasions women saw him "prowling" areas close to where women were later raped. One gave a description matching the defendant and another picked him out in an identification parade. But the DNA sample from his first victim meant that he was "in effect, living on borrowed time", the jury heard. The court was told that in November 2002 police visited Mr Imiela to take a DNA sample. He agreed that he resembled a description given by one victim, and officers noted his nervousness. Two days later he struck again in "a final act of defiance", driving to Birmingham solely to find another victim, the 10-year-old girl. Police arrested him 11 days later. The case continues on Monday.