A Muslim demonstrator who took part in a protest march against cartoons of the prophet Muhammad was found guilty today of calling for the murder of American and Danish people.There were shouts of protest from the public gallery as Umran Javed, 27, from Birmingham, was found guilty of soliciting murder and stirring up racial hatred during the demonstration in London last February. He was recorded on a police video shouting "Bomb, bomb Denmark. Bomb, bomb USA" to fellow demonstrators.At the Old Bailey, David Perry QC, prosecuting, said that Javed used a megaphone to address around 40 people outside the Danish embassy in Sloane Street, Knightsbridge."He appeared to be one of the leaders," said Mr Perry. "He addressed the crowd in terms which encouraged killing and incited racial hatred."Javed continued with his speech as the crowd were joined by 200-300 other Muslims who had marched from the central mosque in Regent's Park.He condemned the cartoons as dishonouring Muhammad and accused "non-believers of declaring war against Islam and the Muslim community", said Mr Perry."He said disbelievers would pay a heavy price... and said Denmark would pay with blood," said Perry. In a reference to the dead Iraqi al-Qaida leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Javed told the crowd that Denmark should watch its back, because Zarqawi was "coming back". Javed also told his audience to take lessons from the slaughter of Jews and the murder of Dutch film director Theo van Gogh.Mr Perry said the case was not about freedom of assembly or freedom of speech. "The words used were straightforward and plain. If you shout out 'bomb, bomb Denmark; bomb, bomb USA', there is no doubt about what you intend your audience to understand."The prosecution case is that the defendant was clearly encouraging people to commit murder - terrorist killing."Javed told the jury: "I regret saying these things. I understand the implications they have but they were just slogans, soundbites. I did not want to see Denmark and the USA being bombed."He remains in custody until April when he will be sentenced.