A youth crime tsar has been temporarily suspended from duty following allegations she had a relationship with a married former councillor.Kerry Boyd became the youth crime commissioner for Kent in March after her predecessor Paris Brown, then 17, resigned over offensive comments she made on Twitter.The 20-year-old former London 2012 torchbearer is reported to have had a close friendship with the former Kent county councillor Robert Burgess.A spokeswoman for Kent's police and crime commissioner, Ann Barnes, said she was "supporting Kerry at this difficult time".She added: "We are concerned that Kerry did not feel able to disclose the full extent of her personal circumstances earlier but as further inquiries are taking place it would be inappropriate for us to comment further."As part of our support for Kerry she is not undertaking any public engagements for the time being."Burgess, an electrical engineer who represented Margate West from 2005 to 2013 and is a former technology teacher, told the Sun newspaper: "I have been very close with Kerry for a period of time, a good few months. I have helped her with her work and she has helped with mine. She won't contact me. She is obviously quite upset by all the allegations and stuff going on."She is a dear friend. I care about what happens to her. If she lost her job because of a friendship with me, that would be a shame. I am devastated. I care for her a lot."Boyd started her part-time role as Kent youth commissioner before taking up the £15,000-a-year post full time. The former head girl said she did not hesitate in accepting the role despite the exposure it would bring her.Despite the controversy over Brown's use of social media, Boyd said she intended to be visible "both online and offline".Barnes said there was no problem with checks on Boyd as it emerged that her social media accounts were vetted before she was shortlisted and again afterwards.Speaking at the HQ of Kent's police and crime commissioner in March, Boyd, from Margate, said: "I think it's very important that young people should be aware of what they are writing online and how it can affect them in the future. I'm most looking forward to getting out and about and seeing as many different people as possible throughout the county."Hopefully I will be as visible as I can, both online and offline, using Twitter and the blog and websites and stuff like that, so that young people know where I am and know how to contact me in order to get their views and opinions across."Barnes said Boyd, who has taken a gap year from her degree in education studies and business studies at Canterbury Christ Church University, stood out from a strong list of candidates and was confident she would do a good job.She said: "The county of Kent has hundreds of thousands of young people who have no voice in policing because most of them don't vote. I wanted somebody who looks like a young person, talks like a young person and who is a young person to actually get into the youth community to bring their ideas to the fore."This is the latest controversy to hit Barnes, who was accused last week of damaging the reputation of Kent police force in the Channel 4 fly-on-the-wall documentary Meet the Commissioner.The Kent police federation said she had made the force a "laughing stock" after ignoring advice not to go ahead with the show.Barnes struggled to explain what her £85,000-a-year role involved and was filmed having difficulty explaining an approach to policing priorities called "the onion".Ian Pointon, chairman of the Kent police federation, said: "It was a disaster and Mrs Barnes was ill-advised to do this fly-on-the-wall documentary. I know she was advised by Kent police not to do it, so any responsibility must lie elsewhere. It was always going to end this way, with a mockumentary."