Tudor beggars were subject to whipping that reduced clean skin to a "pulpy, blood-smeared lump of living human flesh", while nagging women were silenced with an iron bit fitted into their mouths. In describing such practices, the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, this week provided an interesting (if gruesome) history lesson, but, more importantly, also provided valuable perspective on the contemporary criminal justice debate. For, as he explained, such cruelties arose when rational consideration of how to design punishment to balance the demands of protection, retribution and rehabilitation were drowned out by a "sadistic desire for vengeance". The pillory and scold's bridle are consigned to the past, but Lord Phillips suggested that a similar imbalance is today manifesting itself in a prison population that is running out of control. His provocative intervention brought predictable denunciations, but critics have failed to engage with the strong arguments that the judge set out.Public discussion is distorted by a tabloid narrative, which emphasises the prospect of convicts walking free and downplays the immediate reality of severe punishment and minimal rehabilitation. In truth, as Lord Phillips argues, to be confined in prison for a prolonged time is "a very weighty punishment indeed". Prison population figures released last week showed that the system has reached breaking point. The home secretary responded on Monday with expensive emergency proposals to use police cells as jails. He also reaffirmed plans to build 8,000 new prison places as the "longer term" solution. Experience shows that they will provide no such thing. The last 15 years have seen much prison building, which, as John Reid boasted, has stepped up to "twice the rate" under Labour. Yet overcrowding remains. The underlying drivers of incarceration mean that places fill up as fast as they are built.Ministers claim to have addressed public anxiety by insisting that serious criminals be locked up for longer, but this is far from the full picture. More petty criminals are being jailed too, with the number of short sentences up by over half in the decade up to 2004. True, two former home secretaries, David Blunkett and Charles Clarke, both quietly acknowledged that short sentences might be replaced by community punishments which, on average, produce less reoffending. But attempts to promote this have ran into the ground as magistrates and judges have instead sought to maintain the relative severity of punishments and respond to the government's unremitting tough talk. John Reid has put less emphasis on community punishments than his predecessors while Conservative comments have stressed individual schemes that have not worked well. Since politicians have proved unwilling to make the case, the lord chief justice has taken it upon himself to do so - even going under cover to do hard graft in a community service scheme.A higher prison population might be less of a concern if it were matched by improved rehabilitation. But crowded conditions help make reoffending more likely. Government plans to scrap the independent prisons inspector, which the House of Lords rightly rejected on Tuesday, do not suggest a focus on ensuring conditions in jails that are either humane or conducive to rehabilitation.Lord Phillips has no need to worry about re-election, which makes it easier for him than a politician to withstand tabloid assaults. But ministers can and should be braver. As home secretary, Winston Churchill argued in favour of the rights of convicted criminals, and while this was controversial, it did not prevent him going on to much greater things. He argued that the "mood and temper of the public" in regard to the treatment of criminals was an "unfailing test of civilisation in any country". If that is right, it is surely a test that contemporary Britain is miserably failing.