More than 40 alleged victims of child sex abuse at a detention centre for teenage boys in north-east England have come forward in response to a police appeal, as part of a new investigation into serial abuse at the centre during the 1970s and 80s.Detectives from Durham received the calls within less than a week of asking for victims to come forward, following an investigation by the Guardian revealing that a prison officer at Medomsley detention centre may have abused hundreds of boys during a 17-year spell when he was in charge of the kitchens at the centre.The investigation will examine claims that the police covered up complaints of abuse made by victims after they were released from detention. Durham police appealed for victims who had not come forward previously to do so now.Previous investigations carried out by police in 2002 and 2005 resulted in two men being jailed for crimes committed at the centre, near Consett.Neville Husband, the main perpetrator, abused boys on a daily basis. He was eventually jailed for 10 years and left prison in 2009. He died the following year. Leslie Johnson, a storeman at Medomsley, was jailed for six years and also died after being discharged from prison.The new investigation will examine claims that Husband and Johnson were part of a ring which abused detainees, at Medomsley and other locations. Police will also look at allegations that staff turned a blind eye to Husband's abuse.Last Wednesday, Det Supt Paul Goudray, head of Durham police safeguarding unit said: "This investigation will put victims at the heart of the enquiry, but at the same time we would like to hear from anyone who has new information about Medomsley and the abuse that occurred both inside, and when inmates were taken off-site."Over a dozen men telephoned police in the first two days after that announcement.A spokesman for Durham police said on Wednesday a further 30 men had contacted them and that the information was being assessed by investigators.The Guardian revealed Husband converted a kitchen storeroom into a bedroom, where sex aids were later found. The paper also learned staff were forbidden to search the kitchen area. At Husband's trial, one officer said: " We knew something was going on, he – Husband – used to keep a boy behind in the kitchen at night, we always felt sorry for that boy." In 1969, while working at Portland borstal, Dorset, Husband was arrested and charged with importing pornography. The material seized and which he admitted showing to boys in his charge – included sado-masochistic images of teenage boys.The charges were dropped after Husband claimed to be conducting research into homosexuality. Details of that arrest were written across the top of his employment record and went with him throughout his career.Dr Eli Godsi, a former senior psychologist for the Home Office, described Husband's sexual abuse as one of the worst cases he had come across in "17 years of working with some of the most prolific sex offenders in the country".Following the Guardian report, another victim, John McCabe, contacted the paper and said he had been abused by Husband, both on and off the premises at Medomsley. He said he had been raped by another man at a location Husband had taken him to.