 Human remains were found in a Yorkshire river yesterday by police investigating the suspected serial killings of three women in Bradford by the man who calls himself the "crossbow cannibal".Divers made the discovery just 200 yards from the spot where police found the dismembered body of Suzanne Blamires, 36, on Tuesday."At around midday today officers from West Yorkshire police's underwater search unit recovered from the River Aire what are believed to be human remains," a police spokesman said. "The remains will now be forensically examined to identify them and at this stage it is too early to speculate who the remains belong to."The find came on the fifth day of the hunt for mother-of-three Susan Rushworth, 43, and Shelley Armitage, 31, both from Bradford.All three of the women had been working as prostitutes and disappeared from the few streets of derelict warehouses and commercial property near the city centre that make up Bradford's red-light district. Blamires vanished on Friday 21 May, Rushworth has been missing since June last year and Armitage was last seen on 26 April.Other prostitutes still out on the streets of Bradford this weekend said they all knew there was something sinister going on. A 28-year-old woman who had been working on Friday night in Rebecca Street, where her friend Armitage was last seen, said: "Everyone around here knew the disappearances were as bad as it gets and something was going on since Susy [Rushworth] went missing. You could tell the police were getting twitchy and they were down here saying 'Where is such and such?' if anyone wasn't seen for a few days, so they knew something was going on."A police spokesman insisted that initially there had been nothing to suggest the first two disappearances were anything other than missing persons cases, although they had been deeply concerned about both as neither woman had collected benefit cheques or used their telephones."Full and detailed investigations into the disappearances of all three women were carried out," the spokesman said. "They were treated as missing people as there was no other evidence to suggest anything sinister had occurred."Yesterday police searches were focused both on the Aire at Shipley and around an old mill in the Victoria Road area of Bradford.Officers were also maintaining cordons around the sandstone block of flats overlooking the red-light district where the man arrested on Monday lived. Digging work in the drains outside was continuing and bags of material were being removed by police.Former public schoolboy and criminology student Stephen Griffiths, 40, who announced himself as the "crossbow cannibal" when he appeared in court on Friday, has been charged with the murders of all three women.Residents are checked in and out of the building and have been advised not to speak to the press. Several have already talked of Griffiths as a loner and oddball who wandered around in a long leather coat, spent long periods of time on dating websites and kept lizards, rats and mice. He seemed to have had few friends and his father, also called Stephen, from Batley in Yorkshire, yesterday but said he had not seen his son for more than a decade.No other missing or murdered women were so far being connected to the case, West Yorkshire police insisted yesterday.Angela Hall, the mother of Becky Hall, a 19-year-old whose battered body was found in 2001 just streets from where Armitage went missing, has not been told that the cases are linked or that the same person could be responsible for her death, a friend said yesterday. Mrs Hall is raising Becky's son Jordan, now 10, who was four months old when his mother was dragged off the streets where she was working as a prostitute and murdered. A neighbour said: "Of course she is really upse. It brings it all back and they never caught anyone for killing her daughter, which means she has a lifetime's sentence. Just like the families of these women now."In Bradford we've never learnt, not from the Ripper, not from any of these terrible cases. Girls left to work the streets are just prey for any psychopath who wants to pick them off. Everyone talks about moving the girls on, [but] it's the men they should be worrying about."