"The Churn, we call it," says Kirk Robinson, 29 years in the prison service and paid £29,000 a year. He is talking about the dizzying turnover of admissions and discharges at Leeds prison which he helps to supervise."On a normal day we start at 6am, getting prisoners up who've got to go for court appearances, then straight on to doing breakfasts and unlocking the others at 7am, to cope with the timetable."The sudden walkout, which started at seven, was almost a lie-in for some exhausted staff, although the entire day shift was in uniform on the picket line until clocking-off time, honouring a commitment to return to work if any emergency blew up. There was almost a return to duty when fire alarms sounded, but the incident involving a small fire in a cell wastepaper basket was dealt with by some 20 management and other staff and two West Yorkshire fire tenders.The strain of growing commitments and thinning ranks has sapped patience, says Mr Robinson, who with his colleagues has to get used to up to 100 inmates coming and going in the Victorian prison every day. Churning through the relentless tally of remands, temporary holdings and some men serving a year or more, has grown ever more cumbersome because of paperwork."The bureaucracy has to be seen to be believed," says Mr Robinson. Legal papers, suicide watch checks and personal data form small piles for prisoners who may be in the prison for under a week. "The strain is increased hugely in my time because of drugs and mental health problems. When I started here we were locking up criminals. Now it's mostly people with a drug habit or psychiatric disorders. I'd guess 80%."When the huge former West Riding asylum up the road in Menston closed its doors three years ago the word at the jail was: "They've come here instead."Mr Robinson, who chairs the local Prison Officers Association branch, said: "Sorting out methadone and other medication usually takes until noon, when we start getting them their lunch." The work needs care and sometimes an expertise which strains the officers' resources. "We've got a very good relationship with prisoners and management, not the old adversarial system. But national policy means that we are forever doing more with fewer people."Once a grim old fortress with a terrible suicide record, Leeds was turned round in the 1990s by a succession of governors, notably one of its first women in a senior post, Stacey Tasker, who won the POA's support. But in 2000 consultants called in by the Home Office recommended £2.5m cuts as "sustainable" out of a budget of some £22m. That, says, Mr Robinson, was when the seeds of fresh trouble were sown."Our in-house bid successfully fought off the prospect of privatisation, but at the price of losing 68 jobs. They recognised the value-added we give."Officers have always stayed enthusiastic about all the good things we do here - there isn't one of my members goes into work thinking their job is to punish people," says Mr Robinson. "But local management, and our pay packets, just aren't being given enough to keep it going."