I could hear her crying softly from 50 yards away as I walked back from my local corner shop. She was sitting on the pavement in the full glare of the sun, leaning her back against the wall of the London terraced house where, as it turned out, she lives. She was young – early to mid-20s. Her feet were bare, her toenails painted red. There was red on her face too, and down her front. It was obvious that she'd been attacked."Are you all right?" I asked. A stupid question, as she so obviously wasn't all right, but it seemed about the least bad place to start."Yes," she said, hopelessly. The blood had come from a cut low on her forehead, almost right between her eyes."What happened?""My boyfriend hit me."I wasn't surprised by her foreign accent – east European, I think – but I was surprised by her candour. As I'd walked towards her, resolved not to walk on by but uncertain about the most suitable line of conversational approach, I had expected to be rebuffed. I am right, aren't I, that embarrassment or shame often causes people in public distress to clam up, even if they are grateful for your concern? And with domestic violence – which the woman's demeanour had signalled from way off – there can be very powerful and frightening incentives for victims to positively fear some types of offer of help.It had already crossed my mind that her attacker could be nearby. What further punishment might be inflicted on this young woman if she was seen speaking to me? The question crystallised my dilemmas about how best to conduct my intervention. In these particular circumstances might my offer of help be the last thing the young woman needed? Her identifying her boyfriend as the culprit, though, helped settle my mind about what to say next."Do you need an ambulance?" This seemed the least alarming way of suggesting involving the authorities."No," she replied."Shall I call the police?""No," she said, perhaps despairingly."Are you sure?""Yes."Another conundrum. Would I pick up the phone to an emergency service when I got home?"Where do you live?" I asked.That was when, with a jerk of her head, she revealed that she was practically on her own doorstep. She said, "Do you live near here?""Just round the corner."Why had she asked me that? Was it because some sort of comfort could be taken from knowing that a sympathetic person lived nearby? Was she, perhaps, just being polite? I don't know. And neither did I know with certainty what to do next as I trudged on with my shopping, wondering if I could and should have done more there and then, and if so what. I felt uncomfortable about calling the police when she had explicitly said she didn't want that.My compromise was to ring my Safer Neighbourhood team, rather than dialling 999. As I explained to the officer who took the call, I thought it might be better for the young woman if a local beat bobby just happened to walk by, as it were, rather than a car arriving, sirens ablaze. I gave a description and a location and was promised that the matter would be dealt with.I'm sure it was, but I'm afraid I don't know how. I've not heard back from the police and haven't chased them up either. I intend doing that, but still feel I ought to do something more. A vulnerable neighbour has been assaulted and it might not have been for the first time, or the last.Reports of domestic violence to the police are on the increase – it seems related to the recession – and the Met commissioner has publicly expressed concern. In times like these, it's more important than ever that we look after each other. It is my duty to help look after that young woman. But how should I go about it?