Playing the race card is a phrase we understand. It's a dangerous thing for a politician to do, risking social cohesion for the sake of political advantage. In its common meaning it is always anti-black and/or anti-Asian, and usually involves a political party finding sneaky ways to legitimise such sentiments among white voters. Though the playing of it, these days, is seldom if ever overt, the code may not be hard to crack. It assumes racist sentiments exist, knows the dangers of playing the card face-up, yet reassures the observant voter that his or her sour ethnic feelings are being heeded.But there's another way to play the race card. This is to accuse the other side of playing it when the card is so firmly face-down that hardly anyone would otherwise notice it. That such a tactic may work politically is, in a way, a mark of Britain's social advance. A couple of decades ago, when racial tolerance was less embedded in our society than it is today, there wouldn't have been so much mileage in charging a politician with exploiting covert racism. Perhaps we should applaud the truth exposed by William Hague's inept dabbling in the tragedies of two black boys in south London: that the merest hint of card-playing is utterly unacceptable all round.Yet accusing him of playing it has now had more impact than the words he originally spoke. By calling him "disgusting" and "disgraceful", Jack Straw did as much to play the card as he did. It was a different suit, but had a worse effect. As well as giving voice to Straw's sound anti-racist record, it was designed to have a political result, namely the portrayal of Hague as a crazed extremist who will stop at nothing to retrieve his desperate situation. The hair-trigger alertness of both prime minister and home secretary, and the hyperbole of their righteous language, was their own playing of the race card. Their purpose was benign. But that, among other things, is what they were doing: making a wild, intemperate noise about race, thereby reminding ethnic and liberal minorities which side they should be on as the election comes closer.  Hague's speech was not racist, either in text or, I would say, sub-text. For Straw to call it, on that account, disgusting matches the level of rhetorical subtlety Hague himself achieved when he said the Macpherson report stigmatised all policemen as racists. Macpherson did no such thing. But neither did Hague say anything to justify Bill Morris likening his speech to Enoch Powell talking in 1968 about the rivers of blood that would flow through English cities because of immigration. Morris's charge was grotesquely irresponsible. It was a lot more likely than Hague's words to stir up antagonisms which many good people, including Bill Morris, have spent years working to reduce. On the whole it is the left, by recklessly interpreting Hague as racist, who have raised the temperature more than he did. The Conservative leader is no philosopher-king. He is insensitive and ill- informed about law and order. Some of the things he's prepared to say about the causes of crime, and the remedies he has to offer, are crude in the extreme. His indifference to evidence, scorn for research, and braying confidence in the simplicity of solutions that are being impeded only by the liberal elite, reveal the philistinism of a desperate man. His contention that Britain, with the highest prison population in Europe, has been soft on crime for decades is an assertion too grimly absurd for even the man himself to make any coherent sense of. He merely gesticulates and roars, eyeing opinion polls which say that this may be the one social anxiety voters think Tories are more likely to appease than Labour. Hague is also cavalier with the Macpherson report. Though the Tories were originally supportive, they now misrepresent the report in order to attack it. The finding of institutional racism was a lesson not a threat, and didn't say that every policeman and woman was a racist. It identified an attitude, often unconscious, which police forces as institutions are prone to have, and which many, as a direct result of Macpherson's work, are now doing their best to eradicate. Police leaders have accepted Macpherson. When Hague cites the whinges of individual policemen as proof of a wholesale collapse of morale, he seems to justify their complaints rather than urging them, for the sake of society, to help reform their own social order. Here's where a vestige of racial insinuation could be said, at a stretch, to touch his remarks. But the logical path is tortuous. Stop-and-search, in the wake of Macpherson, has come down: so street crime has gone up: most street crime in south London is done by blacks: therefore, by impeding stop-and-search, the liberal consensus is assisting in the growth of crime and refusing to acknowledge blacks' part in that: and therefore William Hague, by pointing all this out and arguing that it must stop, is pandering to white instincts and showing himself to be a racist. Add the substantial error he made in the use of statistics, and what you have is a leader who has shown himself to be the most sinister and disgraceful politician under the sun. What you have, actually, is a silly man who, when in a hole, doesn't know when to stop digging. With his paragraphs of impeccable political correctness on racial murder and black mistrust of the police, he resembles neither Enoch Powell nor Margaret Thatcher, who played the race card in 1978 by saying it was time to stop the country being "swamped" with immigrants. He makes a valid charge about the shortage of policemen, from which people on housing estates, including ethnic minorities, suffer disproportionately much. But he's not alert to the inflammation already set off by his remarks. He ploughs on, gratuitously adding Damilola Taylor to Stephen Lawrence, appropriating their names in his own defence, guaranteeing one more twist in the cycle of outrage. His complacent defiance, in face of the trouble he provoked, is offensive to behold. But it wouldn't have happened if the left, for their part, hadn't fallen into instinctive exaggeration. The most important quality any politician can bring to public discourse on racial issues is scrupulous care with words. That applies both to comment on reality and to the depiction of other people's good or bad faith in dealing with reality. Because, mercifully, racism has become the least acceptable of all modern prejudices, spraying such a charge around needs to be done with a little more care for society than the government propaganda machine, eager to seize its moment, has showed. An attraction of this to ministers was, in a coarse way, political. Leaping to attack Hague as a racist, they could distract attention from their own failures as liberals. They may not have done much for civil liberties, but they're clean on this one. A feeling of virtue grips them. So, they must hope, will the constituency that deplores their reactionary record. But hyperbole, in this tinder-box, exacts a high price. hugoyoung@compuserve.com