Sometimes I'll go to my car and have a cigarette and cry. I see real sadness in my job - as a vulnerable person's case worker for Berkshire Victim Support - like I can never imagine. A lot of sadness, anger and hopelessness. Families bereaved by homicide, people who've been raped, assaulted, and victims of attempted murder. Most people have never had anything to do with the justice system before. Families don't know about postmortem examinations; that it may be five months until they can bury a loved one. I provide them with information and liaise with the police. It's not tea and sympathy. I'll phone every other day initially and see them once a week. I'll provide non judgmental support. Husbands and wives grieve in very different ways. It puts a strain on their relationship. I won't say: "You're not crying enough." I'm not a counselling service but Victim Support does respond within 72 hours of a referral and we're free, whereas you can wait two months for counselling and you have to pay. So I'm there when people want to off-load, and they off-load on me. They can phone me if they need to. When the trial comes up, which can be two years after the crime, I go back and support them through the process, working closely with the court witness support service. This month, I have 16 clients. About 60% of them are victims of serious crime, such as the middle-aged woman who has allegedly been date raped. She's having to deal with the fact that she had non-consensual sex. It is very difficult. She's very scared. Other people keep telling her she did this and that during the evening and she remembers nothing. She has 15 hours of amnesia. However much friends try to be supportive, they say the wrong things. I'm seeing her one hour a week, gathering information for her about the date rape drugs, and I've put her in touch with a 24-hour helpline called the Roofie Foundation. All victims of serious crime have given their permission to the police to be contacted by Victim Support, so I never cold call. Usually I'll visit people in their home, but if an incident takes place there, like in the case of the alleged rape, they often prefer to come to the Victim Support office in Reading police station. My post is funded for three years by the Community Fund [national lottery money]. I'm specifically employed to do long-term work. Soon after I began in May, an elderly lady in her 70s was referred by the police. She'd been the victim of a distraction burglary. Two men posing as council workers had forced their way into her bedsit, blocked the kitchen sink so it overflowed and, while she was preoccupied with the flooding, they stole her pension book and £102.70. She could see them rifling through her stuff but was unable to do anything. I thought she'd need help to fill in forms to get her pension book back, but when I got to her home my alarm bells went off. Her bedsit was the most appalling thing I've ever seen. The smell when I walked in, and the flies. There must have only been a tiny area that wasn't covered with piles of rubbish. There was an infestation of something. We got a new pension book sent in a couple of days, but I knew I had to build up a relationship with the woman. I saw her twice a week and with her permission spoke to social services because she said she was receiving no help. They told me she wasn't on their books. I got her allocated a social worker. They informed environmental health about the state of the building. They carried out a visit and sent recommendations to the private landlord. But sheltered housing seemed the best option for my client. She had failing eyesight and was a diabetic. I helped with the move a few months later. I got her bags into my car, put up curtain rails and put together her flat-packed furniture. I also taught her how to use a vacuum cleaner. Now that she's in warden-controlled accommodation and has the support of other residents, I've been able to phase out my help. I work jointly with social services, not instead of. Another client, one with learning disabilities, has been assaulted a couple of times and is afraid to go out. He has a community worker, but I am helping him to build up his confidence and to support his family. I've got a bit more time than other professionals. I initially helped him give a statement to the police. I'm also working with a 12-year-old who has been assaulted, with the parents' consent. Again, it's about building up confidence. My degree in occupational therapy helps with certain aspects of the job. I previously worked in a women's refuge, but had no experience of working with people who'd been bereaved. Victim Support sent me on training courses. I give out free panic alarms, and if people need help with home security I refer them to the crime reduction team in the police station. I work a lot of evenings - visiting clients or attending meetings with local agencies such as the racial attack forum and Berkshire anti-homophobic group, so they know to refer people to me. They don't appreciate the services that we can offer.