The country's continuing failure to teach prisoners and disabled people is "economic and moral madness", a report said today. Most work-based training courses, such as apprenticeships, are improving, said David Sherlock, the chief inspector of adult learning for England. But people who need the most help are getting "a uniformly raw deal" as the system consigns them to permanent joblessness, according to his annual report. The £4bn of taxpayers' money spent on education offered outside schools and universities needs to be put to better use, it said. Mr Sherlock condemned the failure to train prisoners and people with learning difficulties or physical disabilities. "That the lowest-skilled members of our society should be the most likely to receive a bad learning experience, which routinely fails to enable them to achieve their goal of greater economic independence, is economic and moral madness. "Improving the educational provision for the least able is a priority." The report is based on evidence from 700 individual inspections. It found that the government's Workstep scheme, which aims to help disabled people find and keep a job, was performing badly. In more than half of the Workstep cases inspected, the training was "inadequate" and failing to meet the needs of the people on the courses. The report said training in prisons was similarly grim. Few offenders receive the right kind of help, and there is a shortage of staff to teach them basic reading and writing skills. Mr Sherlock said it was worrying to think that there would be no jobs for unskilled workers in the UK within 10 years, as business groups had warned. This is "an alarming thought when you consider that up to 7 million adults struggle to read a telephone directory". "All the evidence now shows that British businesses are increasingly moving their unskilled work overseas and that the market for workers with low skills is rapidly diminishing in the UK. "Adult learning urgently needs to make a difference here," he said. The higher education minister, Kim Howells, said the report showed "significant improvements" since 2001, when the Adult Learning Inspectorate began work, but conceded there was "still more to do". "We will continue to work closely with a range of partners to drive up standards in all parts of the sector and for all learners."