Robert and Sally Dowler craved justice for their "darling Milly". But claiming it exacted a high personal price. Milly's father and then her mother broke down in the dock as they gave evidence during Levi Bellfield's trial.Robert Dowler, now 59, was forced to admit he had been an early police suspect. He was stripped of his paternal dignity as details of his sexual proclivities were extracted.The wail of Sally Dowler as she finished her evidence and collapsed into her husband's arms, haunted a stunned court long after she was helped from the room.Waiting outside for her turn as a witness, Milly's sister, Gemma, 25, broke down on seeing her mother shaking and overwrought. Court officials and family liaison officers flustered round helplessly as she too convulsed in sobs."Harrowing" was how someone described the scene as a first-aider was summoned. No one disagreed. In the end Gemma was spared when lawyers consented to her statement being read to the court.Her parents faced question after question. Did Sally Dowler know Milly felt her mother favoured Gemma? "No, no," she cried, distraught at the idea. "And it wasn't true. Not true," she wept.And what did Milly's father think of the fact that his young daughter had once found pornographic magazines belonging to him, and that further bondage magazines and paraphernalia were hidden in the loft? Had he told the police that had Milly found those too it would have been "a complete betrayal of her as a father?""Yes, I did say that," he replied quietly, his humiliation complete.There was scrutiny of verses and letters Milly had written and hidden in her bedroom. Discovered after her disappearance, nothing indicated when they had been written.Laced with self-loathing, questioning of her looks and her peer popularity, they could have been the all-too common jottings of a typical teenage girl on the brink of young womanhood. Taken in isolation, though, subjected to the analysis of lawyers, and dissected word by word in the environs of a courtroom they are capable of darker interpretation.She should have been "aborted or adopted", wrote Milly of herself. She could only dream of being like her sister, "Gemsy", who was "pretty, smart, intelligent, wanted, loved".Milly was a talented musician who loved writing song lyrics. But she "was  always way below" everyone else, and she should "just go", she wrote in a goodbye note to her parents – which she signed "Your little disappointment, Amanda [her given name]" – but which she never gave to  them.Heartbreaking for any parent to read, the words are unimaginable if your daughter is dead. Little wonder Robert Dowler broke down as they were read aloud, his shoulders heaving as he sobbed in the witness box."A lot of young girls pour out their deepest thoughts into diaries," said Sally Dowler, a maths teacher at her daughter's school, who added that she taught girls of the same age. She knew what girls were like."We were a happy family," she kept repeating, bewildered at the thrust of questions.It probably did not matter what was thrown at her in the witness box. She had suffered a nervous breakdown, she told the jury. Whatever the legal system might inflict, was, it can be imagined, nothing she had not already tortured herself with.After their ordeal in the witness box the couple found the strength to sit through the rest of the trial, listening as the case against Bellfield was laid out over four weeks.Ludicrous theoryBut in the trial's closing hours, Milly's mother and sister again left the court in tears as Brian Altman QC accused Bellfield of trying to blame her family for her death."The grieving parents are not on trial here. That fact may have been forgotten when they came to give their evidence to you," he told the jury.Altman said that the defence implication was – might Milly have run away, to meet her tragic end somewhere other than Bellfield's backyard? The  implication was that the disappearance was somehow to do with her father's lifestyle. He dismissed that as a  "ludicrous theory". Or perhaps it was to do with aspects of Milly's character, he added.The defence, he said, was "desperate to put as much clear water as it can between Bellfield and the prosecution allegation that Milly disappeared on his  doorstep".He added: "No one, absolutely no one in this court other than Mr and Mrs Dowler and their daughter Gemma can possibly know or understand what it is like to have a child or a sister in dreadful circumstances. Not knowing, month after month, what had become of her – only years later to have their lives laid bare in this court."The Dowlers did know. And nine years on from the loss of their youngest daughter, they know their scars will never heal. It cannot have helped, though, to have had those wounds prodded and poked by the legal process, leaving them as raw as the day they learned she had died.But as her family limped away, one message was clear. What price justice for Milly? For her parents, no price could ever be too high.