It is Saturday morning and Lord Chief Justice Woolf is thoughtfully watching a role-play of what could be a model for a British courtroom of the future. There is no judge's bench. No robes or wigs. No formal submissions from prosecution and defence to influence the judge's sentence. Yet this is a model advocated for some cases by a chief constable. A circle of between 20 and 30 people is discussing the appropriate sentence for "Mr Green", a physiotherapy student. He has pleaded guilty to robbing a petrol station and threatening the young woman attendant with a knife - a crime for which he could normally be jailed for three years. The circle includes his wife and other family members, a fellow student, his football coach and his legal representative. Also present are the victim, her parents, boyfriend, other supporters and her counsel. The policewoman involved in the case has a say; so do a representative of the local victim support group and an alcoholism and drugs counsellor. Facilitating the circle is a red-haired, elf-like figure - Bria Huculak, from the Canadian province of Saskatchewan. She was appointed a judge in 1992 at the early age of 40. That same year, she and two fellow judges shook the Canadian justice system by beginning to consult the community about appropriate sentences for certain defendants pleading guilty. "After 14 years as a defence lawyer," says Huculak, "I'd become increasingly cynical about the ability of the criminal courts to prevent re-offending." Offenders often came from isolated communities with significant social problems, such as drugs, drink and lack of work. Many young reoffenders were poor, unschooled, and/or had suffered sexual or physical abuse. Although aboriginal Canadians - or so-called "first nation" Canadians - account for only 8-10% of the population, a far higher percentage of them proportionately were in offenders' institutions. A prison sentence often seemed counter-productive. And in the usual court procedures, there was no opportunity to hear about the detailed social background and circumstances of the case; to evaluate the real impact on all those affected; to allow for the victims' voices to be heard, or their feelings to be acknowledged; or to facilitate an apology or other personal reparation to be made. So Huculak and her colleagues began using sentencing circles, building on an experiment by another judge in the Yukon. "In the first year," Huculak says, "we made it up as we went along, learning from our mistakes." What they now have is a process that is a mixture of aspects of victim/offender mediation, ancient aboriginal traditional peace-making circles and democratic discussion. The aim is to identify the harm done and to work out appropriate ways of responding to it, and, if possible, repairing it. The key ingredient is a safe atmosphere in which people can discover the real issues and needs. Anyone from the public can observe. The judge relays the bare facts, and asks the offender to respond. Then, one after another, everyone in the circle has an equal opportunity to say what they wish. "My role is broadly like that of a facilitator," says Huculak. "I'm in control, but I say very little. I strive for consensus - not total agreement." At any stage, people can choose not to comment, but at a later point they are always given an opportunity to speak. Sometimes, a "talking piece" is handed round - an object held by the person talking, until they are ready to hand it to their neighbour. "It's not a linear process," Huculak says. "It's more like a spiral. Or like peeling the layers of an onion. What happens is very demanding on the accused. The idea that they're getting off easy is not realistic. They have to account for their behaviour in a very direct way." But what about the vulnerability of the victim - particularly in more serious cases such as rape or other violence? Sensitivity is crucial, says Huculak. "The victim often feels a sense of shame for being victimised. The offender and their family mayalso feel ashamed. People need to feel that they are being treated with respect and consideration. But they also often want to ask questions of the offender - to ask, for instance, 'Why me?' " Deep feelings often emerge, and Huculak does not see her role as reining people in. "I tell participants that no one is required to cry, but if they feel they want to, that's OK." The process may take six or seven hours. Sometimes, sentencing circles recommend to the judge novel forms of sentence. Prison sentencing is much reduced. One offender, whose drunk and dangerous driving had caused the death of his father, had to spend the next year or so explaining his crime and waywardness to public meetings of young people as part of his punishment. A variety of penalties may be imposed, including close community support and accountability. The judge can overrule the proposed action plan, but rarely does. Even in cases where offenders may not have not seen their family for years, family members do turn up. The process helps make better connections. The family realise they could have a role. Today in Saskatchewan only a small percentage of cases are dealt with by sentencing circles, but a new courtroom in Saskatoon has been designed specially to adapt for them. Several other Canadian provinces are now using similar approaches. Huculak says: "At the end of a day in a traditional courtroom, judges may leave disappointed. In circles, I usually leave feeling hope for the offender, hope for their rehabilitation, hope for the victims, and hope for a safer community. "Sometimes the experience of listening to the experience of others evokes even sympathy, though not necessarily. It's not unusual to see a victim's family offering support for the offender." In some cases, astonishingly, victims and offenders eventually become friends. It was just such a case, combined with evidence of the effectiveness of alternative forms of sentencing in reducing re-offending, and reducing the fear of crime, that caught the interest of Sir Charles Pollard, chief constable of Thames Valley Police. On a trip to Canada, he was introduced by Huculak to a victim and offender who had become friends. Last year, Lord Justice Auld invited the chief constable, among others, to provide information and comments to assist the criminal courts review. Pollard urged that the sentencing processes of the criminal courts in England and Wales be broadened to allow sentencing circles as one of three alternatives to the traditional methods of sentencing. Recently, Pollard invited the Lord Chief Justice to an international conference in Winchester on restorative justice. It was here that Woolf watched Huculak and others role-play a sentencing circle, after taking the same case through a conventional process. Although there was insufficient time for the circle to reach a sentence, informal voting by observers indicated a clear shift towards a non-custodial penalty. Woolf was plainly moved by what he saw. It was a small, but significant, development. Step by slow step, sentencing circles could have a future here too.