The first casualties of happy hour are stumbling on to the dark streets when Shirley Stark and Rhiannon Prys-Owen step into Bridewell police station in central Bristol. Identity cards are flashed at officers on the front desk as they sweep into the cramped cleanliness of the custody room. "Three in, and one's just being released," an officer tells them. Cell four, she says, is "moaning" about the food, hasn't eaten and wants a doctor. "One juvenile, but he's about to see his solicitor." The pair say little, sign in and follow the escorting officer down the winding staircase into the bright light of the cells. Stark and Prys-Owen are here to check on the welfare of the station's detainees. Their visit is unannounced, unpaid, independent of the police and just one of hundreds conducted around Britain every week. The custody visitor's order is a tall one: impartial, informed and constructive in often fraught situations out of sight of the general public. For some volunteers, the order is steeper than ever following Home Office guidelines earlier this year - the first concerning custody visitors in a decade - which aim to standardise the methods and management of each police authority-run scheme. Stark, a retired recruitment executive, and Prys-Owen, a team leader for children's charity Barnardo's, are both trained and have four years' visiting experience. When the escorting officer opens one of the 12 cell doors in the unit, and tells the detainee that members of the public are here to see if he is OK, they stand out of the detainee's view. Visitors are taught not to shake hands, or sit down, and to dress down. Officers should not disclose detainees' names or charges. The escorting officer stays outside the cell and out of hearing. Stark and Prys-Owen stand in the cell while a sleepy and disorientated man on the bed gets his bearings. An untouched meal, a cold, scummy cup of tea, and a metal toilet are the only other things in the room with its bare, cream- coloured walls. Stark explains why they are here. Has he been read his rights? Did he understand them? Has he had access to a solicitor? The man wants to telephone his family, he doesn't feel like eating, he is cold and wants blankets. He then begins to say that he should not be here; it's all a mistake, he's been set-up. Quickly and firmly, the women tell him that they cannot comment on the details of his arrest. "We're here to discuss your welfare," they say. In cell four, a boyish man tells them that he has eaten but now wants something to read and to phone his girlfriend. Back at the custody desk, Stark and Prys-Owen file the visit report on the condition of the cells; what the detainees requested and what officers agreed to grant; and the way officers received them. They ask to check the custody report of why the detainee had been refused a phone call. The exchange between the volunteers and the officers is functional and respectful. Copies are forwarded to the custody inspector responsible for the unit and the police authority; a third remains at the station and another goes to the volunteer coordinator. Four years ago, Prys-Owen says later, the cells were like "something out of Dickens". The food was never hot, walls were covered in graffiti and the floors laid with poison to stem the influx of rats when the cells flooded. The visitors' relentless nudging - through their reports and quarterly meetings with senior officers - has brought change. The cells have been redecorated, the poison is gone, graffiti is routinely painted over, a microwave heats detainees' meals and washing and toilet facilities have become more private. In addition, the duty room - previously cold, and "demeaning" with nowhere for officers to take a break - has been updated. But above all, attitudes towards the basic care of detainees have been modified. "We invariably see detainees drunk or upset," Prys-Owen says. "I always think, if that was my own son or daughter, how would I expect them to be treated. It's about basic care." She thinks visitors have raised awareness among officers about how they communicate with detainees. "But we also have a duty to be respectful to the officers," she says. "We're there at their invitation. Custody is the window of the police force and we just get to look into it every now and then." But with the onus on individual authorities to set up a scheme, there are huge variations in operation and outcome. Harmonisation of the 43 schemes outside London, and the 44 within the new Metropolitan police authority, is the crux of the government's guidance. As well as changing the name of the scheme from "lay" to "custody" visiting, recommendations are broad and encompass recruitment, training, visiting procedures, and the working relationship between the police and volunteers. Guidelines include recommendations that police authorities should review and monitor visitors' performance; visitors' findings should be included in constabulary reports; the application process should be standardised to make visitors more representative of the community they serve; there should be a probationary period for newly appointed visitors to build experience; the frequency of visits in busy stations should be at least once a week; and volunteers must visit in pairs. Meeting the guidelines has given some police authorities considerably more work to do than others. While Avon and Somerset has been operating their scheme in line with the recommendations for several years, authorities such as West Yorkshire were "quite removed" from the guidance, says Elaine Shinkfield, the authority's finance and administration manager with responsibility for the scheme. Volunteers were visiting alone and, she says, were unrepresentative of the community. As a means of encouraging best practice, the guidance is "a godsend". She says: "We're rewriting the handbook." In London, after 20 years of independent, borough-led schemes, the newly installed Metropolitan police authority is now responsible for their administration. In Lambeth, scene of the Brixton riots, where there has been a surge in the number of immigration and asylum detainees, visitors are uncomfortable with the new arrangements. "I'm all for change," says Claudette Kenlock, who chairs the borough's panel, "but how can we be independent from a body that we have to report to, that reviews us and gives us money?". However, such is the government's determination to create consistency, that it is currently considering making custody visiting in England and Wales compulsory, following Northern Ireland's lead, in response to evidence presented to the Patten report into police reform. Ian Smith, chief executive of the National Association for Custody Visiting, which trains and supports the schemes, says most police authorities favour the move - a shift illustrating the extent to which public and police attitudes towards transparency have shifted. "When Scarman made his recommendations, there was clearly a decision that each authority could choose whether or not to have a scheme. At that time, there was deep suspicion among officers as to whether there would be any value in the public coming into stations. The proficiency of the volunteers has helped erode that view." Police openness and accountability is now not only acceptable, but desirable, Smith says. "If custody visiting ceased, the police, not just detainees, would have so much to lose." Scarman's legacyIndependent custody visiting has its genesis in Lord Scarman's inquiry into the Brixton riots of 1981. Scarman recommended that deep-rooted mistrust of the police, particularly within the black community, should be addressed by "random checks . . . to ensure that procedures are properly observed". The revised guidance adds that they should "reassure the local community and improve citizens' understanding of procedures" at police stations. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, believes boards of visitors in prisons would benefit from adopting the ethos. "The purpose of lay visitors is to support and protect detainees and to ensure the police are accountable," she says. "They deal with detainees as people. Too often, boards of visitors think they're doing an environmental inspection." The first schemes began in 1983 and, three years later, the Home Office encouraged all police authorities to establish visiting systems.