Ronnie Biggs, the man at the centre of Britain's great train robbery, will remain in prison after the justice secretary, Jack Straw, refused to grant him parole.Speculation had mounted that Biggs would be freed within days, in time for his 80th birthday.But, announcing his decision today, Straw said Biggs was "wholly unrepentant" about his actions and had "outrageously courted the media" while on the run from prison. The great train robber would have been a free man "many years ago" if he had complied with the sentence given to him, he added."I have informed Mr Ronald Biggs today of my decision regarding his parole," said Straw."Mr Biggs chose to serve only one year of a 30-year sentence before he took the personal decision to commit another offence and escape from prison, avoiding capture by travelling abroad for 35 years whilst outrageously courting the media. Had he complied with his sentence, he would have been a free man many years ago."I am refusing the parole board's recommendation for parole. Biggs chose not to obey the law and respect the punishments given to him - the legal system in this country deserves more respect than this."It was Mr Biggs's own choice to offend and he now appears to want to avoid the consequences of his decision. I do not think this is acceptable."Mr Biggs is wholly unrepentant and the parole board found his propensity to breach trust a very significant factor. He has not undertaken risk-related work and does not regret his offending."Biggs, who is being held by Norwich prison, is in Norfolk and Norwich University hospital after breaking his hip in a fall at the weekend.Biggs's release had been on the cards since a parole board hearing was postponed in April to consider where he will live on his release. His friends and family had been hopful that the parole board would recommend his release when it reconvenes on 4 July on the grounds that he is unlikely to reoffend.Giovanni di Stefano, Biggs's lawyer, said in April that his client would need round-the-clock care that would be provided at the taxpayer's expense.Biggs had been entitled to apply for release because he will have served a third of his sentence by this summer.Biggs has suffered a series of strokes and his family say he is unable to walk and can communicate only by using an alphabet board. They say that the chances of him committing another crime are "zero".He was jailed for 30 years for his part in what remains the best-known robbery in British history. The great train robbery, as it came to be known, was a media sensation. The gang stopped the train in rural Buckinghamshire, uncoupled the carriage containing high-value items ‑ mainly money being sent by registered post ‑ and used the mail train's own diesel locomotive to move the carriage to a bridge, where the sacks containing the money were transferred to a fleet of waiting vehicles. The gang made off with stolen cash valued at more than £2.6m ‑ about £40m at present-day values.The robbery of the Glasgow-London train in 1963 led to some of the heaviest sentences ever handed out to robbers at their trial the following year. The train driver, Jack Mills, was beaten unconscious during the robbery. He died of an unrelated illness in 1970.Biggs escaped from Wandsworth prison in 1965 and fled first to Australia, then to Brazil where he appeared to live the good life for three decades, safe from extradition because he had fathered a child by a Brazilian woman.He returned to Britain in 2001, impoverished and ill, after suffering his first stroke in Brazil. His son was given British citizenship after his parents married in Belmarsh jail, south-east London, in 2002.Biggs's lawyer said in a written submission to the parole board earlier this year that Biggs was a different man from the one who went on the run. "Mr Biggs has changed and changed for the better," Di Stefano said, arguing that Biggs had voluntarily returned to Britain "to face the music".