A government under attack for failing to defend family values must have blenched when it received the report published yesterday on the reform of sex offences. How will the tabloids - and reborn Tories - respond to a report calling for the abolition of the offences of buggery and of gross indecency, and the cottaging laws? It is going to be easy to maliciously misrepresent this sane and sensible report, so it is important for progressives to set out clearly why it is so urgently needed. Our current laws are in a mess: illogical, discriminatory and incoherent. This is the most comprehensive review since the present patchwork - a mixture of statutes dating back to 1861 and common law cases even earlier - evolved. The 30-strong committee has produced a new framework, based on two principles: the need for stronger and more coherent laws to protect children and vulnerable people from non-consensual sex; but no interference with sexual activities between consenting adults in private.It would sweep away the discriminatory laws on buggery and gross indecency in a bid to make our laws gender neutral. Men could not be prosecuted for chatting each other up - even in a public lavatory - but there would be a new offence against engaging in sex in a public place, to protect people from offence or alarm. In this new liberal age, gay men would have even less reason to go to public lavatories to find partners. On rape and the shamefully low proportion of cases leading to a conviction (a miserable 9%), the report refuses to reverse the burden of proof on the issue of consent. Campaigners will be unhappy, but reversing the proof would be ruled out by the European Convention on Human Rights. Instead the report spells out a much clearer definition of consent and proposes that the law should include a list of examples where consent is not present: such as being deceived, drunk, or unable to resist from fear. This should make it easier for juries. It also proposes to lift the sentence for using drugs to stupefy victims from two up to seven years. A new and more serious offence of persistent abuse would catch child abusers within families and staff in residential homes or schools. The law of incest would be extended to include adoptive, foster and step relatives. There will be no legislation this side of the election - consultation will continue until March - but yesterday Home Office ministers were encouragingly bullish.