A barrister whom police shot dead during a siege at his London home wrote notes pleading to speak to his wife and threatening to kill himself during the five-hour standoff that ended in his death, an inquest heard today.Mark Saunders, 32, was a regular cocaine user and was three times over the drink-drive limit at the time.In handwritten notes read out at Westminster's coroner's court, Saunders, who had been firing his shotgun from the kitchen window, wrote: "Please, I want to talk to my wife." Others read: "I don't know how this happened. I'm not a bad lad;" "I want to say goodbye and kill myself;" "Mum"; and "I can't hear."Michael Bradley, a friend and fellow barrister, told the hearing he and Saunders's wife had asked police to let them knock on the door and try to talk to Saunders. The police response to their requests, however, had been "instant and negative", he said: "'Absolutely no way – can't do that for your own safety.'"Saunders died when at least five bullets from police marksmen hit him on 6 May 2008 after a five-hour siege that began after he fired his shotgun from the couple's top-floor flat in Chelsea, west London.Bradley told the court he had arrived at the scene after receiving a drunken, meandering call from Saunders at around 4.30pm, which ended with the loud bang of the first shot.He said he had found the road cordoned off, and Saunders's wife "sitting sobbing with her head in her hands" in a nearby shop, where police officers were looking after her."Liz thought that Mark would find this terrifying and distressing," he said. "I remember her asking [whether they] could ... try to move people out of sight so that he wasn't faced with looking at a police siege: it might dampen things down. Because she was worried how Mark would feel if he recognised the situation." At the time, Bradley said, he had thought it the "best option" – a way of "de-escalating this terrible, dark scenario"."The situation had escalated, so it was now a nightmare armed siege. And I feared then that, if he was ever conscious of what he had done, he might turn the gun on himself."But he said the police gave "no consideration" to the idea.Toxicology tests found up to 255mg of alcohol in 100ml of Saunders's blood. Dr Stephen Morley, who analysed the samples, said this would cause "significant effects". Hair and urine samples revealed the dead man had taken cocaine repeatedly over the previous six months; though he had not taken the drug within 12 hours of the shooting.Bradley said he had become worried when Saunders rang him at chambers around 4.30pm "in deep drink". During a "garbled, meandering" conversation, Saunders had said "something like, 'Damn. I've dropped the silver hen' or 'silver pen' – something like that". There had also been a reference to cartridges, Bradley continued."I said: 'You're not playing around with your gun or something stupid like that.' And he said: 'OK. I'll put the gun down.'" Then Saunders had carried on talking about chambers business.Bradley said he had offered to meet up with his friend at a nearby restaurant but at that point Saunders said something like "shooting out the window". "Very shortly after that," Bradley said, "there was a bang and the phone went dead."He had tried calling back, but got voicemail, he said. He then texted his friend, saying: "Call me now. If you do not call me immediately, I will call the police." He then dialled 999 and jumped into a taxi to go to Saunders's home.At 7.02pm, Bradley then received a call from his friend. "He wasn't speaking," Bradley said. "All I could hear was breathing, quite regular-type breathing. I said: 'Mark. Saundy. How are you? What's up, mate? Please say hello ...' But he didn't respond. Just this slow breathing."I said: 'Please don't worry. Everything is going to be OK. Please just calm down.'"The call lasted four minutes and 34 seconds. After that, Bradley and Saunders's wife were told to turn their phones off in order to keep the line of communication open for police.Asked if he had been "tempted" to just go and knock on the door, he replied: "No. When you're in that situation, it feels like a nightmare: totally unreal. How can this be happening?"You are absolutely not in control. There are police everywhere, these guys with body armour and guns crawling through the back and on to the roof."There are helicopters and ambulances. The road is cordoned off and you are being given orders, effectively – not in a brutish way, but you are not being given any option."He said he had had no concern that Saunders would hurt him."I remember Liz saying she was confident there was no chance that Mark would try to shoot her, or something of that nature."I felt sure from what I knew of Mark that this was the best way forward. And so I did try and impress on the person we were talking to that this was the best option. And the police said: 'No. There's no way we can allow that to happen, for your own safety.'"The inquest continues.