The foster mother of Billie-Jo Jenkins, who was beaten to death with a tent peg as she painted the patio doors of the family home, wept yesterday as she gave evidence at the retrial of her former husband, Siôn Jenkins, for the murder.Lois Jenkins broke down as she told the Old Bailey she felt she was "breaching the confidence" of her four natural daughters by telling the court what they had said about their father's behaviour on the day of the 13-year-old's death. Billie-Jo was bludgeoned to death at the house in Hastings in February 1997. Siôn Jenkins, 47, from Aberystwyth, denies murder. The prosecution argues that he killed Billie-Jo after losing his temper when he returned home with his two eldest daughters from a music lesson. Mrs Jenkins was on the seafront at Hastings with the couple's two younger daughters. Mrs Jenkins, who gave evidence by video link from a secret location to protect her privacy, told the court: "All the girls had moments where they opened up, whooshed out with the whole story, and then clammed up again. I feel I am really breaching the confidence of my children having them read publicly." As Mrs Jenkins wiped her eyes, Mrs Justice Rafferty told her: "I doubt there is anyone here that doesn't understand what you are going through." Mrs Jenkins, 43, broke down as she referred to a series of reports she gave to police about what her daughters told her. She said she felt compelled to tell the girls she would pass on any information they told her to the police. "It was information I felt I couldn't hold to myself," she said. "It was an extremely difficult thing to do and I am quite sure it restricted a lot of conversations in the family." The court heard that Annie, then 12, and Lottie, then 10, had been outside the house cleaning Mr Jenkins's MG car after returning from the music lesson when he came rushing down the stairs with "a peculiar look on his face". He told the girls to get into the car quickly and both were "puzzled" when he drove twice around the nearby park before saying he needed to go to Do-It-All for some white spirit. He realised he had no money, and they returned home. On their return, they found the front door open. Lottie opened the dining room door, saw Billie-Jo's legs on the floor and screamed. Without entering the room to look at the girl, Jenkins closed the door and told them she must have had a fall and banged her head on the table. The phone was ringing but he did not answer it. Mrs Jenkins told the court that her daughters later said they were "very surprised" by their father's reaction. Earlier in the proceedings, Mrs Jenkins told the court that after Billie-Jo's death, Mr Jenkins frequently took Annie aside to talk to her about the course of events. She remembered one occasion when he took Annie to bed early, promising to read her Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. "I remember very clearly Annie being in the top bedroom discussing the events of the day and me saying I didn't think it was appropriate," she said. She later told police: "[Annie] was pressured so much by him she was unsure what to say at any stage after that." Describing the moment she entered the house after Billie-Jo's death, she said: "All I remember is walking up the steps and seeing a police officer with a tear in his eyes. I wanted to see Billie but they wouldn't let me." She said she went into shock. Mrs Jenkins described her foster daughter, who had lived with the family for five years, as "full of beans" and said she was doing well at school, though there were problems. She added: "She was quite feisty and challenging, but very, very enjoyable." She said that she and her husband had argued about the girl's future in the days before her death and that she and Billie-Jo had exchanged cross words on the morning she died. Mrs Jenkins, who is divorced from Mr Jenkins, has remarried and now lives in Tasmania with her four daughters. The trial continues.