A solicitor who was shot in the head as he worked at his desk in a quiet market town has been described as a "lovely" family man who would do anything for anybody.The lawyer, named locally as father of three James Ward, was shot as he sat at his desk at Morris Goddard and Ward in Devizes, Wiltshire.Ward, who was airlifted to Frenchay hospital in Bristol, remained in "a very serious condition". His family was at his bedside.A 62-year-old man was arrested shortly after the shooting on suspicion of attempted murder and remains in custody at Melksham police station.Wiltshire police said they were called shortly before 3pm on Monday. A spokesperson said: "A man entered an office at Morris, Goddard and Ward on St John's Street armed with a gun and fired a single shot injuring a man. Specialist armed response officers quickly arrested a suspect in Rowde [two miles away]. No one else was injured in the incident and a weapon we believe to have been used in the incident has been recovered."A neighbour at Ward's large red-brick farmhouse in Westbury, Wiltshire, who did not want to be named, said the solicitor would do anything for anybody. He said: "He is just such a lovely man. The whole family is lovely. It is such a shock this has happened – he wouldn't hurt a fly. It's the type of thing you wouldn't wish on your worst enemy – I can't think why anybody would have done this."We have all been praying for him at the local village church and we hope that he gets better – you have to have faith. He's just such a nice man."Morris Goddard and Ward was set up in 1988, specialising in matrimonial and family law, personal injury, general legal claims and residential conveyancing. Ward is listed as principal solicitor at the practice.Another neighbour of Ward, who also did not want to be named, said: "It's such a shock, you don't really expect it. He would always get involved in village activities and was always very friendly."Detective Chief Inspector Ian Saunders said: "My team have continued working overnight and officers will be carrying out further checks of CCTV, house to house inquiries and forensic examination of the scene."I would like to appeal for anyone who was in the area of St John's Street, Devizes, around 3pm yesterday afternoon to make contact with police as they may have important information to assist the investigation."Police emphasised that such incidents were very uncommon. Local inspector Ron Peach said: "I would like to stress how very rare incidents such as this are in Devizes, and across the county. However, we recognise that the community will be concerned and will experience some disruption as officers conduct inquiries."The road closures have now been lifted and we would like to thank residents for their understanding and co-operation. Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim at this difficult time."