Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, condemned David Blunkett's plans for statutory guidelines on minimum terms for murderers yesterday, saying they would hugely increase the prison population.The guidelines in the criminal justice bill, in some cases double the present ones, would increase the length of sentences for all crimes, not just murder, he said. The government was guilty of misinformation in saying that the sentencing effects would be felt only in 10 years' time. Speaking on the second reading of the bill in the Lords, he revealed that he had consulted Mr Blunkett when he issued his own guidelines, on the advice of the sentencing advisory panel, 12 months before, and Mr Blunkett had recommended only minor amendments. Since then the home secretary had accepted almost all the judiciary's recommendations for minimum terms without demur. It seemed that it was only after the House of Lords decision in the Anderson case, stripping the home secretary of his power to fix tariffs, that Mr Blunkett had decided to produce his own guidelines. "Without taking advice from the panel or, as far as I'm aware, conducting any research, the bill increases very substantially the minimum period to be served, not only for adults but also for child offenders. "If there is any justification for this other than a political judgment, I would be grateful to be told what it is." The bill also sets up a sentencing guidelines council to advise judges, and Lord Woolf said: "It is surely extraordinary to propose a council to make guidelines and at the same time include your own guidance in the legislation establishing the council. "Unfortunately, there are differences of opinion between the government and the judiciary as to certain features of this bill, features on which the home secretary and I have agreed to disagree." In a background note to his speech, approved by the senior judges, he says the government's assessment of the impact on the prison service is "totally erroneous". The distorting effects of the new minimum periods has been ignored. He accepts that the figures are starting points and judges can move up or down. "If you are a member of a family of the victim, one thing you do not want to hear is the judge giving explanation after explanation, some of which may not be very convincing, as to why a 30-year period is far too long." He adds in the background paper: "The indirect, knock-on effect of the proposed minimum periods is highly undesirable when there are real problems within the prison system, as indicated by the recent highly critical reports by Her Majesty's Inspector of Prisons. "Sentencing, particularly in relation to murder, should be removed from the political arena. The present proposal will have the effect of increasing political involvement." Noting that the bill gives the home secretary power to change the guidelines by order, he says: "If the home secretary were to take legislative authority to set the guidelines himself, this would almost certainly be inconsistent with the law as it has now been developed by the courts. "The question that therefore arises is, is it appropriate for him to do directly what he cannot do indirectly?" He takes issue with Mr Blunkett's decision to appoint non-judges, including a senior police officer, to the sentencing council, which he says comes close to suggesting that an offender's sentence should be influenced by the police.