A man was yesterday found guilty of killing three men with a machine gun in a gangland execution. Miran Thakrar, 24, of no fixed abode, was found guilty of the murders of Keith Cowell, 52, his son Matthew Cowell, 17, and friend Tony Dulieu, 33. The three men were killed with a Mac 10 sub-machine gun at a house in Bishop's Stortford, Hertfordshire, in August last year. Thakrar is also accused of the attempted murders of two women in the house, for which he awaits a verdict. His brother Kevan Thakrar, 21, from Stevenage, denies three counts of murder and two attempted murders. Four other defendants deny assisting an offender. The court heard how the three men were murdered after they invited Miran Thakrar into the house to undertake a drugs deal. Dealer Ian Jennings survived the attack by hiding in the back garden. His mother, Christine, and Matthew Cowell's girlfriend, Clare Evans, both of who were in the house, were stabbed. Jennings told the jury that Miran Thakrar had threatened to kill them only weeks before over a previous drugs deal. Explaining what happened on the day of the murders, he said that he was in the kitchen when Miran came into the lounge where Keith and Matthew Cowell, Dulieu and Christine Jennings were. Evans was upstairs watching television with her three-year-old child. Miran, holding the gun, told everyone to "get down on the floor". Jennings fled to the back garden while Matthew Cowell's dog and the three men in the lounge were shot dead. Christine Jennings was also shot. Evans described how two men came upstairs and one stabbed her as she shielded her child in a duvet. The court heard how, when the men went back downstairs, they had run out of ammunition to shoot Christine Jennings so one stabbed her. Ian Jennings returned to the house after the men fled and reported the murders to the police. Miran Thakrar fled to northern Cyprus the next morning and was arrested on his return in December. The jury have yet to reach verdicts on the remaining charges.