A woman nicknamed the Black Widow and a Manchester gangster were jailed for life yesterday for ordering a contract killing in a packed pub which led to the hitmen being shot dead by people in the pub.When Richard Austin, 19, and Carlton Alveranga, 20 - part of Moss Side's Doddington gang - burst into the Brass Handles pub one Sunday afternoon in March 2006 there was a large crowd watching a Manchester United match. The gunmen, both masked, approached the table where the target, David Totton, was sitting.The attempted assassination had been arranged by senior Doddington gang member Ian McLeod and his sidekick Constance Howarth, who was sitting at another table in the Salford pub, apparently sending innocuous text messages, but acting as a spotter. When the would-be killers burst in, she walked into the ladies toilet and slipped away as chaos broke out.Austin fired six shots, but Alveranga's 9mm handgun jammed and the pair were disarmed by people in the pub who then shot them with their weapons. Another drinker, Aaron Travers, suffered gunshot wounds to his chest, but survived, as did Totton. The hitmen staggered outside and were beaten as they lay dying. McLeod was outside in his Ford Mondeo. "Is he dead?" he shouted, before running over to one of the men, then driving off.CCTV footage of the events of March 12 2006 disappeared. The pub was closed by Greater Manchester Police, but no one has been arrested or charged with the deaths.Howarth, 38, said she was an administrator for the PMS security firm, but she supplied guns to gang members. She was convicted last month at Preston crown court of conspiracy to murder with McLeod, 42.McLeod, who ran IMAC Security, was ordered to serve a minimum of 21 years. He had previously served 10 years for drug dealing. Sentencing the pair at Manchester crown court yesterday, Mr Justice Andrew Smith said: "Two men died, they were not innocents, but they were young, their lives were not expendable. In view of the calculating nature of this offence, I consider there is every danger you are incorrigibly involved in violent crime. You will always present a danger to the public."He said Howarth should serve a minimum of 20 years. A third man, Bobby Spiers, is wanted in connection with the conspiracy but is believed to have fled to Spain. An international arrest warrant is open for him.The trial heard a statement from Austin's mother, Bridget, telling how she had feared her son was becoming embroiled in gangs and gun crime. She said gangs were a way of life in Moss Side.Howarth had a track record of involvement in organised crime. In 1998 she was jailed for five years, with Glasgow's "Mr Big" Paul Ferris, for trafficking guns, after police stopped her car as she was driving back from London and found three submachine-guns and silencers in the boot.The Manchester court heard that the Salford hit had been arranged by McLeod and Howarth on the orders of another man. The motivation was the apparent loss of face suffered by Spiers after a petty dispute with Totton over admission to a nightclub, the court was told.Detective Superintendent Andy Tattersall, of Greater Manchester Police, who led the inquiry, said: "This is a significant conviction. McLeod is an influential character within the underworld of Manchester and Moss Side. He recruited those boys and planned an execution. It's because of him they died. He used his influence to do his dirty work. He is a very, very dangerous man."