A millionaire businessman who grew up in the south London street where Damilola Taylor was stabbed is to donate £2m to build a day centre for the local community.Lord Harris, 58, the chief executive of Carpetright, announced yesterday he was working with the government to find ways of regenerating the North Peckham estate where the 10-year-old died on Monday last week following an attack in nearby Blake's Road. The centre is likely to be named after Damilola and Southwark council has said it will speak to the boy's family to ensure relatives had a chance to contribute to the project. Damilola's father, Richard, who flew to London from Nigeria last Friday, is expected to speak at a Scotland Yard press conference this morning. Detectives are hoping his appeal will persuade witnesses to come forward. The murder squad, which now has 80 officers, has been told traces of Damilola's blood were on pieces of two beer bottles found in Blake's Road. But forensic scientists suspect neither bottle was the murder weapon. They believe Damilola may have dripped blood on the glass as he ran for help. A pathologist has told Detective Chief Inspector Trevor Shepheard, who is leading the investigation that Damilola was probably stabbed with a knife. Police are looking for three youths - two black, one white - who tried to walk up the stairwell where Damilola collapsed and died. They were turned away and told to use a lift. Detectives believe the three boys may have seen a group of youths who were spotted at the bottom of the stairwell by the workman who found him moments earlier. The youths ran off, and have become the prime suspects. Superintendent Rod Jarman, who is in charge of community policing in Peckham, said he was surprised some young people spoken to by his officers had not even known detectives were appealing for help. Related special reportPolicing crime Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out thereUseful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate