A double killer who preyed on lone women at bus stops was today told he would spend the rest of his life in prison.Levi Bellfield, a former bouncer, was yesterday convicted of bludgeoning gap year student Marsha McDonnell and Amelie Delagrange, a French waitress, to death in west London.He was also convicted of the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy, whom he ran over twice on her last day of school.Bellfield is also believed to be connected to some of Britain's most notorious unsolved crimes, and is the prime suspect in the kidnapping and killing of the 13-year-old schoolgirl Milly Dowler six years ago.Family and friends of the victims were in court today for the sentencing, but Bellfield did not attend.His barrister told the Old Bailey he was refusing because of a "welter of accusations" that he was behind other unsolved crimes.DCI Colin Sutton, the officer who led the investigation, said Bellfield's decision not to attend showed his "cowardliness - the same cowardliness that he has shown throughout". "He could not face the families, his victims and the judge and hear himself being sentenced," he said.Mrs Justice Rafferty told the court Bellfield had "reduced three families to unimagined grief". "Three young women, upon whom you preyed in the dark as they stood or walked near to or from buses … what dreadful feelings went through your head as you attacked, and in two cases snuffed out a young life, is beyond understanding. "You obliged your counsel to put Kate [Sheedy] through indignity after indignity in the witness box. The families of all three have waited months as during this trial you took every point from the ludicrous to the bizarre."She jailed Bellfield for life for each attack, saying: "You will not be considered for parole and must serve your whole life in prison."His victims had been either on buses or standing at bus stops in the Twickenham area in the moments before they were attacked. Bellfield - who also worked as a wheel clamper - murdered 19-year-old McDonnell in Hampton in February 2003, hitting her over the head with a weapon similar to a lump hammer. She had been working in a candle shop to save money for a trip to Australia, and was killed less than 100 metres from her home.Sheedy, who had just celebrated her last day at school, was seen by Bellfield on a night bus in May 2004. He waited for her to alight before running her over twice in his van.Three months after the attack on Sheedy, now 21, Delagrange was killed after she missed her bus and walked back to her home in Twickenham in August 2004.She was hit with a blunt instrument and left for dead as she took a shortcut across a cricket pitch.The 22-year-old, from Hanvoile, northern France, was a gifted linguist who moved to London in April that year and worked in the Maison Blanc bakery.Her mother, Dominique, said her loss was "an open wound that will never heal … we shall never get over it".In an impact statement read out in court today, she described her daughter's childhood."She was an excellent pupil, always top of her class, a little girl with quite a strong personality, absolutely adorable, with very blonde hair and quite cuddly." The statement told of large weekly family gatherings and regular seaside holidays, and how Delagrange developed a "real passion for the English language" which led her to move to London four months before her death.It said she had been "so happy in London that she was thinking of extending her stay … our world fell apart on August 19 2004".Yesterday, McDonnell's family said her "good sense of fun, spirit and passion for life" remained with them."She had nothing but love in her heart and was brutally slain by a man who had nothing but hate in his," her uncle, Shane McDonnell said. "Life will never be the same again for the family."Sheedy, who is now reading history and politics at York university, said the guilty verdict "means more to me than I can possibly say". "I hope this verdict brings some comfort to those affected by the actions of this man," she added.The three and a half month trial heard that the attacks on McDonnell, Sheedy and Delagrange were connected by the presence of vehicles linked to Bellfield. These were a silver Vauxhall Corsa, a white Toyota Previa people carrier and a white Ford courier van.The silver Corsa that followed McDonnell behaved in an "unnatural manner", slowing down and stopping as it approached the number 111 bus from which she was about to alight, the prosecution said. It was "identical" to the behaviour of the people carrier that ran over Sheedy after she had got off the bus.The jury convicted Bellfield unanimously of the murder of Delagrange. Majority 10-2 verdicts were reached for the murder of McDonnell and the attack on Sheedy. After more than five days of deliberations, the Old Bailey jurors were unable to reach a verdict on four further charges. Bellfield had denied the kidnap and false imprisonment of Anna-Maria Rennie, 17, and the attempted murder and grievous bodily harm of Irma Dragoshi, a 33-year-old hairdresser. The jury was also told of direct evidence linking Bellfield to the attacks on Rennie, in 2001, and Dragoshi, in 2003, and "compelling" circumstantial evidence linking him to the other three crimes.Milly vanished on her way home from school after arriving at Walton-on-Thames station, in Surrey. Her decomposed body was found in a field six months later.It is thought Bellfield may have known her because she was in the same primary school class as the daughter of one of his former partners. Surrey police want to find a red Daewoo Nexia car similar to one seen in CCTV footage taken from the area shortly after Milly was last seen alive.The car was bought by Bellfield for his partner and was used by him.Bellfield, who sought out blonde women who were young and slim, could not accept being rejected by them.Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, told a pre-trial hearing: "He hated women. He hated blonde women."He said the attacks were consistent "with someone who has great animosity to women".