The case of Glasgow lorry driver Thomas Ross Young - who has served 30 years in prison after being convicted of the murder of bakery worker Frances Barker - is to be referred to the Scottish Court of Appeal.The Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission has told Young's lawyer, John McLeod, that there is now sufficient evidence to doubt the safety of his conviction for the June 1977 abduction and murder of Barker. A note of appeal will be lodged with the Clerk of Justiciary within the next two months.'I am absolutely delighted,' McLeod told The Observer last night. 'Tam has consistently maintained his innocence throughout the 30 years he has spent in jail. He did not commit this crime and has been the victim of a very serious miscarriage of justice.'Young's case made headlines two months ago when it was revealed that forensic and profiling work indicated that a different person - convicted killer Angus Sinclair - may have been responsible for the murder of Barker and for the deaths of several other Scottish women in the 1970s.At the time of Barker's murder, Young, now 72, was a violent sexual inadequate who admitted using prostitutes. He was accused of killing Barker after she had been abducted by a kerb crawler near her home in Maryhill Road, Glasgow. Her battered, strangled corpse was eventually discovered in a wood in Glenboig, Lanarkshire.Although Young protested his innocence throughout his trial, it took the jury at the High Court in Glasgow only an hour to return a guilty verdict on 26 October 1977. He was jailed for a minimum of at least 30 years, the longest sentence ever to have been imposed by a Scottish judge.But in 2005 an FBI profiler - asked by Strathclyde police to look at a series of murders of young women, including Barker, in the 1970s - concluded that one man was responsible for all of them. Crucially, several of the women had been killed after Young had been jailed.This evidence had been gathered as part of the failed prosecution of Sinclair - who was already in jail for another murder - for the killings in the World's End pub in Edinburgh of Christine Eadie and Helen Scott, two of the women on the FBI profiler's list, but was never presented in court. It clearly implicated Sinclair in all the murders, including that of Barker, who lived only 40 yards from Sinclair's house, and suggested Young was innocent.Much of this evidence was based on the way the women were killed. All were battered, sexually assaulted, tied up with their own underwear and strangled.'I first learnt there were doubts about Young's involvement in Barker's murder in 2005, when police asked if they could re-interview my client,' McLeod told The Observer. 'They asked him if he had really killed her. Yet that was supposed to have been established in the High Court in 1977. So why ask now? As for my client, he vehemently denied killing Barker.'Young's case has been further confused by a decision to charge him, on 23 September this year, with the murder of 17-year-old Patricia McAdam near Annan, Dumfries, in 1967. 'They have no body, no new evidence and no DNA to link Young with this case,' said McLeod. 'Yet they have decided to charge him. It is curious, given this lack of new evidence, that the allegation is being made now.'If Young's appeal against his conviction for the Barker murder is upheld, he will be due to receive a massive sum in compensation for his wrongful conviction. He is now one of the longest-serving prisoners in Scotland.