Now that the dust has settled and the rubble has been cleared, it is time to check the foundations. The Macpherson report fell like a bombshell on the British political and cultural landscape. Into what had appeared to be a fairly simple narrative between good (the Lawrence family) and evil (the five young men suspected of killing their son), William Macpherson introduced a new and far more complex character: institutional racism. Suddenly a term that most of England had never heard before was all over the nation's breakfast tables.Although the specific recommendations of the report were aimed principally at the Metropolitan police, the ramifications were far-reaching. But the inquiry's most radical contribution lay not so much in its content as in its tone and the very process by which it came about. In the past, to get a report written about the state of race relations in Britain, black people either had to take on the police (the Scarman report) or defend themselves against white thugs (the Salmon report). But Macpherson emerged from an incident prompted by a group of white racist louts, bungled by an overwhelmingly white police force, which sparked an investigation presided over by a white lord. This in itself was a seminal moment in British race relations. This was no longer a debate about how to contain the problems that black people cause by their very presence. This was white people talking to other white people about the problems engendered by their racism. All black people did was, literally and metaphorically, die for it. Stephen Lawrence died for it. Rohit Duggal, Rolan Adams, Michael Menson and many others died for it. The Lawrence family, in their tireless campaigning through the dog years when the mainstream press had lost interest, were dying for it. And the black community at large were dying for it. This was our Rodney King. At last, here was proof of what black people had been saying for years. That they have been falling foul not just of the law of the land, but of the law of probabilities; evidence that there is a persistent and consistent propensity to shove ethnic minorities to the bottom of every available pile and not only leave them there but blame them for being there as well.And it had the same effect on white opinion in Britain as the videotape of King's beating had on white America. In the face of incontrovertible evidence, white people were no longer able to ignore the deep-rooted and widespread nature of racism in British society even if they wanted to. Those who lived in most of the urban centres were confronted with the fact that, while they lived in a multicultural society, they had been experiencing a completely different reality from black people, with whom they may have been mixing every day. Suddenly they had to learn a new language. In the immediate aftermath of the report's release there was no escape. Its message and the saturation coverage it received in the media brought race into the living room, newsagent, boardroom and canteen. There were two general responses to this. Among some, it triggered a process of introspection; white people suddenly realised they were white in a way that they had not considered before. And they were confronted with the fact that this whiteness conferred power, privilege and responsibility. Others reacted aggressively, annoyed at the assumption (which nobody actually made) that they were condemned by virtue of their whiteness. Either way they were forced into an acute awareness of a matter that had only fluttered on the periphery of their consciousness. If the results of the Guardian/ICM poll in today's paper are anything to go by, then the outcome of this introspection has been broadly positive. The large increase in the number of those who would not mind if one of their relatives married a black person or had a black boss suggests that the most nefarious aspects of casual racism are in irreversible and rapid decline. The considerable number who would mind indicates the existence of a stubborn, racist rump. So Macpherson raised the potential of racial debate in this country at a crucial moment, bringing both perception and understanding of discrimination more closely in line with the reality of the black British experience. Previously, the predominant view in Britain had been that racism was a question of not being nice to certain people who happen to be black; that racists are impolite, nasty, poorly educated and badly brought up and that combating racism was just about treating everyone the same. Anti-racism, it followed, was therefore about denying difference rather than embracing it; its key determinant was not political but behavioural. Macpherson dealt a severe blow to that misconception. By placing institutional racism at the heart of his report he drew a direct link between the racist boot boys and the complacent pen-pushers; between the black shirts and the blue helmets. It charted a path from the crudest forms of racism to the most well concealed. In short, it exposed the way in which racism affects all areas of black people's lives and infects the institutions we are all part of. It shifted the focus of the debate from the individual to the institutional; it encompassed not just the obvious but the abstruse as well. It showed that racism does not have one face but many, and sometimes no face at all.  But while it raised the potential of debate, not everyone has risen to the challenge. From the media, it is evident that some are still desperate to tap a popular vein of prejudice. The coverage of the £50,000 damages Winston Silcott received for malicious prosecution in the Blakelock murder case ("Silcott should rot in prison" - Daily Mail); the Tyson visit ("I watched tots flee in terror" - the Sun); the Afghan hijacking ("Oh no! They all want to stay. And we'll have to pay" - the Star). A core of white opinion remains in denial. On the home affairs select committee, Conservative MP Gerald Howarth bemoaned the dispiriting effect the report had on the white psyche. "Native Englishmen have been encouraged to get involved in a collective exercise of self-flagellation about their inadequacies with regard to race relations," he said. In the Telegraph an editorial accused Macpherson of having such an intimidating effect on the Met that they had scaled down their stop-and-searches on black people. "What is racist," said the paper in April, "is reducing action on the street for fear that the colour of the person involved leads to condemnation. That is a climate encouraged by the report." When crime figures emerged last year revealing an increase in street crime, Macpherson's influence was blamed again. Steven Norris, the Conservative mayoral candidate, wants to get rid of "politically correct" policing - he doesn't care that a disproportionate number of black men are stopped so long as the police are polite, he says. This, so far, is what has passed for a backlash: evidence of how little the right wing has been able to contribute on an intellectual level and how little there was to lash back against. Since the facts of the matter in relation to the Lawrence inquiry are not in dispute, there can only be any integrity in attacking its recommendations if you can come up with alternative suggestions of how to make sure no other family has to go through what the Lawrences went through. Failing to do so is tantamount to arguing for bad policing and inequality. For in all of this, Macpherson is little more than a metaphor. The battle lines are drawn far more deeply than simply those who support its findings and those who do not. It is not even just about those who feel it is time to develop a new conceptual framework for Britain's race debate and those who want to keep it where it is - although that has a lot to do with it. It has been a discussion between those who are already aware, or at least are prepared to accept, that Britain has changed and those who would or could not. The latter have either failed or refused to grasp that, even though this country will always be predominantly white, it is now impossible to imagine it without black people. Two-thirds of those of Caribbean descent, a third of those of Chinese descent, and the majority of children in every minority community were born in Britain. Indian restaurants do not only make the country's most popular dish; they employ more people than shipbuilding, steel and mining put together. What used to be a slogan among black protestors - "Come what may we're here to stay," is now an undeniable reality. On the whole, black people no longer have to defend their right to be here because, on the whole, white people are no longer questioning it. A sense of race is no longer in conflict with a sense of place. So a sizeable minority is stuck in the paradigm of immigration-integration-repatriation - desperate to maintain a seamless link between Britishness and whiteness. And the rest have moved on to equal rights, economic opportunities and educational advancement. Some are still asking: "What are we going to do about these blacks?" Others wonder: "What are we going to do about the racism in our institutions?" But just because we are asking the right questions does not mean that we are getting the right answers. Young black people are still more than twice as likely to be unemployed as their white peers; two thirds of the Pakistani/Bangladeshi community still live among the poorest 20% of the country; graduates of African descent in their 20s are seven times as likely to be unemployed as their white counterparts. The statistics go on for ever, but the grim reality they describe cannot. Macpherson has provided us with sound foundations; we must wait and see what lasting structures will be built on them.