Another day, another murder at the hands of a bunch of kids. Jessie James, Evren Anil, Garry Newlove, and now Rhys Jones (not to mention many others). Jacqui Smith said she was shocked. But surely, no matter how tragic and saddening this latest shooting is, it has become a routine reminder of the undeniable fact that our streets are roamed by teenage guerrillas looking to cause trouble, regardless of the consequences? As one Croxteth resident said: "This has been a long time coming. I've half-expected something like this for a while now."What makes Rhys Jones's murder all the more poignant is not just that he was aged 11, but that one of the arrested suspects was only three years older. Three of the youths arrested in connection with Garry Newlove's murder are 15. There has been a number of opinions as to what the causes of these crimes are and how we should tackle them, from alcohol to military service. To borrow Andrew Antony's liberalspeak, these crimes are rooted in social deprivation - namely, poor education, difficult home lives and poverty.Gordon Brown chipped in with: "Where there is a need for new laws, we will pass them." Yeah, that'll sort it out. In fact, 300 new laws and 3,000 new offences haven't made much difference.But Antony is correct, no matter how he much he tries to ignore that brand of reasoning. But I'd like to go even further and suggest that these kids have no desire to be part of society. They do not feel bounded by morality or law. If anything, they see themselves as above society, almost like a Superman figure. I can't help but think of Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment the more I watch the news - these teenage guerrillas are modern-day nihilists - like the novel's protagonist, Raskolnikov, who disregarded the law to murder an old woman. Without probably even knowing it, these kids have rejected their families (or if they don't have one, at least the notion of family) and the society they live in, and the only way for them to bring meaning into their lives and a sense of individuality is to go out and shoot someone. To be a member of a gang, to have the status and respect that might entail, is for many kids more an aspiration than to get GCSEs.Raskolnikov says to himself: "Am I really capable of doing that? Is that serious? Just amusing myself by indulging in fantastic dreams. Toys! Yes - I suppose that's what it is - toys!" A gun is just another toy for some of the kids on our streets and violence just a game - like children pulling wings off a fly or going cow tipping. By no means am I trying to belittle these "heinous" crimes, or justify them, but in the heads of the kids pulling the trigger, I believe this is how they think.Now, I'm not going to rob a bank later, nor am I going to beat someone up or kill them. I wouldn't even think of doing such things because it is morally wrong and against the law. But for these nihilist kids, the very notion of these constraints does not apply.And with this in mind, will Acceptable Behaviour Contracts really make a difference? The Blairite Asbo has hardly helped matters, with two thirds of them being breached and two thirds of them getting punished with custody. Unlike Raskolnikov, who wrestles with his guilt for the best part of 500 pages before handing himself in and being sent to Siberia, these kids probably won't feel any such trappings of a conscience.It may be absurd to ask, but did the murderers of Rhys Jones really know what they were doing? Did they realise the dangers of guns? It seems that the punishments invented by the government are not eradicating the crime. Will the murderers of Jessie James or Rhys Jones ever realise the error of their ways and feel remorse?Comparing these kids with Raskolnikov is always going to be tenuous and oversimplified. But I believe there is an analogy where nihilism is concerned. David Cameron is right: we are living in a state of anarchy perpetrated by amoral kids. But legislation can't change this - politics is not the answer. Communities can help, but the difference between right and wrong is something we learn in the home as part of growing up. Sadly, it may be that this lesson is beyond some teenagers today.Our only hope is that those found guilty of these crimes can at least realise that guilt, as Raskolnikov did.