A teenager was today sentenced to life imprisonment after being found guilty of shooting a youth worker six times as he sat on a garden wall.Nathan Foster, 18, died in a hail of bullets in an act of cold-blooded revenge, the Old Bailey was told.Junior Glasgow, 17, had wrongly blamed Foster for the loss of his £800 gold chain during a street row in Brixton, south London last summer.Glasgow, who was found guilty of the young father's murder last month was told he would have to serve a minimum of 21 years.Judge Peter Rook told Glasgow: "At your young age, you have become part of the gun culture which is a blight on some of our big cities."He told the court that Glasgow did not have the "emotional maturity" to deal with being robbed of his prized chain and "reacted wholly out of proportion". "You carried out this terrible revenge on someone you mistakenly thought was responsible. You carried out a cold-blooded, premeditated execution in a public place."The court heard how Glasgow had lost the chain during an argument with a group of Foster's friends in a cul-de-sac where they lived. Six hours later, after getting a gun and removing the number plate from his motorbike, Glasgow returned to the street and opened fire on the group of men.  Foster, who worked with inner-city children using horses, was hit by six bullets including one through the heart. Armed police arrested Glasgow in Cambridge a few days later.Foster's older sister Shannel told the judge: "Nathan was killed by a coward. He was my best friend and my favourite brother." She also read an impact statement from his girlfriend, Rochelle Martin, the mother of his baby son, Raheem. She said it was for the "little boy" who killed her childhood sweetheart. She said: "You aim at an individual but did not see anyone else standing behind. You have broken so many lives and hearts." Ros Spearing, from the Ebony Horse Club, where Foster worked, said: "Nathan was one of our first members and his success at horse riding inspired hundreds of other youngsters from Brixton to take up the sport. "Later he worked as a youth worker for the club and also became a play worker in an after-school club. This gained his respect and popularity with his peers and younger children. "Nathan gained respect from the whole of the community as he took advantage of every opportunity he was offered by many different youth and community groups. He never stopped trying to improve his life. "The whole neighbourhood has been traumatised by Nathan's murder. It has directly affected over a thousand people and there is relief that justice has been done."Police praised the courage of witnesses who gave evidence against Glasgow from behind curtains and using voice distorters and false names.Detective Chief Inspector Adnan Qureshi, from Trident, who led the investigation, said: "This is an absolutely tragic case. Nathan had recently become a father and was giving something back to his community by working part time as a youth worker."Foster's murder came during a spate of violent attacks on teenagers in the capital.