Louise Casey is the government's "coordinator for respect", according to the Home Office. Lumbered with such an amorphous title - redolent of both Dickensian governesses and Afro-Caribbean street culture - she has become an easy target for mockery.Despite this, her role as head of the newly created "respect taskforce" places her in a uniquely influential position, implementing one of Tony Blair's most cherished domestic projects. Her performance will inevitably be carefully scrutinised by opposition parties and the media. Reading the effusive Home Office literature, she appears to have been charged with nothing less than the transformation of contemporary British manners. Her task includes "ensuring that the culture of respect extends to everyone - young and old alike". The wide remit and urgency of her commission was underlined by Charles Clarke, the home secretary, when he announced the establishment of the taskforce this month. "Tackling disrespect in our society is an absolute priority for the government," he explained. "From bad behaviour in schools and poor parenting, to binge drinking and noisy neighbours, disrespect can take many forms." Ms Casey, 40, has risen quickly inside the government machine, accumulating loyal supporters from within the heart of the New Labour project. Mr Blair is one of those who believes in her ability to deliver results and admires the way she challenges established hierarchies. For someone who has a reputation for frankness, relatively few early biographical details are available. The Home Office, within which her 30-strong unit is based, confirmed that her current grade was that of senior civil servant, entitling her to a salary somewhere between £75,000 and £159,000. A self-confessed Guardian reader, Ms Casey lives in north London. She was brought up in Portsmouth and was a restless teenager. She revealed once that she was so desperate to leave home that she considered sleeping rough. Instead, she found a job at a holiday camp. She then joined a social security office, arranging benefit payments for the homeless. The experience shaped her career in the world of social policy. St Mungo's Association, which helps single, homeless men, was her next employer and she quickly moved on to run the Homeless Network in London. By 1992, she had became deputy director of Shelter and was at the forefront of the public debate about the crisis of home less people sleeping on city pavements. Five years later, she was appointed to head the government's rough sleepers unit and earned the nickname, "homelessness tsar". She immediately came to popular attention when she declared that handing out soup and sleeping bags to those living on the street was merely perpetuating their misery. "There is a plethora of services on the streets," she remarked at the time. "You can get a better sleeping bag on the Strand than you can buy in the camping shop Blacks. There is a sense of belonging on the streets and a feeling of safety in numbers. But where there is help inside, people should not take their help out on to the streets ... Even the Big Issue is perpetuating the problem." Mike McCall, executive director at St Mungo's, who worked with her unit, said her comments then were "courageous". He added: "She was castigated by some of the agencies. What struck us was her determination. She was quite happy to take on the challenge and quite challenging to work with. She was very focused on the target of reducing the numbers of rough sleepers by two-thirds in three years. And it was achieved - probably one of the few made by the social exclusion unit. "She was a fun person to work with: very upbeat, positive, frank and matter-of-fact. She was very hands-on. She was popular with both the workers on the street and the rough sleepers." At Shelter this week, there was a more qualified appreciation of her legacy. The charity points out that the number of homeless people is at record levels and now stands at more than 101,000. That figure includes not only rough sleepers, but all those in temporary accommodation. The charity also disputes the way rough sleepers are recorded. "We have a difficulty with the way the numbers are counted," said Helen Bird from Shelter. "Homelessness is now a hidden problem. We want the government to build more affordable homes." Ms Casey's dedication and commitment to her work is acknowledged at Whitehall. She is said to be very "passionate" and focused on "delivery" - a New Labour buzzword. The perceived success of the rough-sleeping initiative led to her appointment as director of the Home Office's antisocial behaviour unit and the politically contentious issue of Asbo enforcement orders. "There have been some unprofessional comments," said Harry Fletcher, from the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo), referring to her enthusiasm for Asbos. "She seems to be defending every Asbo ever made. We are concerned that the original purpose of the legislation has been exceeded." Napo is one of 30 organisations, including Liberty and the Howard League for Penal Reform, that has banded together to form "Asbo Concern". "[The orders] are being used to sweep anybody off the street who is deemed to be undesirable: the mentally ill, those with Asperberger's syndrome and so on," said Mr Fletcher. "People are being locked up for breaching orders imposed for offences, such as prostitution or begging, that are not imprisonable. "Her outburst [at an after-dinner speech to senior police] this summer seemed to be wholly unacceptable behaviour. I would have thought it was a breach of the civil service code. Now she has been promoted. It's extraordinary." A recording of the expletive-sprinkled speech was leaked to the Daily Mail. "I suppose you can't binge drink any more because lots of people have said you can't do it," she told her audience. "I don't know who bloody made that up; it's nonsense ... Doing things sober is no way to get things done." She even took a swipe at Downing Street officials for being obsessed with laborious research and delays in formulating policy. "If No 10 says bloody 'evidence-based policy' to me one more time I'll deck them," she joked. "... and probably get unemployed." The incident suggested both that she had made enemies within the hierarchy of the civil service and that she had secured the prime minister's backing. She apologised, kept her job and retained her privileged position of reporting directly to Mr Blair - access interpreted as a snub to the home secretary. Those who know Ms Casey said her speech had been intended to be ironic and was in character rather than the result of excessive intake. Darren Murphy, a political adviser who recently left Downing Street for the communications agency APCO, said: "When she arrived in government she was a breath of fresh air. She was someone who had frontline experience. "It may have seemed slightly counter-intuitive to say stop giving sleeping bags and soup to the homeless. But she made people sit up and notice her as an effective force for social good. The thing about Louise is that she has both the policy expertise and the practical experience. She's a genuinely decent person . When I have met her socially she is often the life and soul of the party. After-dinner speeches are best not read the next morning." Siobhain McDonagh, the Labour MP for Mitcham and Morden, south-west London, since 1997, is a backbencher who has regularly worked with Ms Casey. "I'm a great admirer," she said. "She's not inhibited by anything because it's happened in the past. She has a great sense of humour. "She's an iconoclast. If you keep on being yourself and being humorous, someone is bound to take you out of context. She's a great motivator. Watching her team interact, you can sense there's a shared mission. She's very open and honest." Opposition politicians have been less charitable. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, has targeted her as a means of getting at Mr Blair. "Presumably the fact that Miss Casey has been appointed in this high-profile position indicates the prime minister shares her views on binge drinking," he observed recently. "If he does, the problem of antisocial behaviour will get worse." The government's enthusiasm for the notion of "respect" may sound like a calculated attempt to steal George Galloway's political clothes, but officials insist that the phrase has regularly appeared in the prime minister's speeches over the past four years. Ms Casey is due to present her strategy in the coming months. Her initial comments suggest that it will be presented as an early intervention to guide schoolchildren towards being responsible citizens. "[We want to] help ensure that parents are able to instil in their children a sense of respect for themselves, their families and the wider community," she says. No hint yet of any targets to measure the economy's output of gross national respect. Life in shortAge: 40 Career: Left home to work in holiday camp, then joined Department of Health and Social Security.Became coordinator at St Mungo's Association, then head of Homeless Network in London. At 25, was deputy director of Shelter and joined homelessness directorate in Office of Deputy Prime Minister. Director of government's rough sleepers unit, 1999. Head of antisocial behaviour unit at Home Office, January 2003. Became director of antisocial behaviour taskforce this month On drink: "Doing things sober is no way to get things done" On government: "If No 10 says bloody 'evidence-based policy' to me one more time, I'll deck them" On hoodies: "It trivialises what is a really serious issue. I do not care about teenagers wearing their hood up" On Asbos: "Sometimes I wish ... some of the people who write letters to the Guardian could just see it from the point of view of the people in the communities"