The home secretary's reform of the law on sex crimes last night received strong backing from the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, with the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, saying David Blunkett had found a way "through what is by any standards a nasty thicket".The white paper proposes the first wide-ranging overhaul for more than 100 years of the laws on gay sex, rape, child prostitution, child abuse, incest and the treatment of sex offenders. It is expected to be followed by legislation in the new year. Despite the cross-party welcome for the package last night, the most controversial element, particularly in the House of Lords, is expected to be the repeal of the gay sex laws, including buggery, gross indecency, and soliciting by men. "Criminalising acts between homosexuals that are not against the law for heterosexuals goes against the principle of equality and previous reforms," Mr Blunkett told the Commons. "We will therefore update the law to ensure equality of treatment. Consensual sex in private that does not harm anyone should no longer be a criminal offence." In the white paper itself these gay sex offences appear to be "crimes that dare not speak their name" in that they are referred to only as "certain existing offences". The government green paper Setting the Boundaries, published in July 2000, was much more explicit, saying the existing laws treated a section of society as "unnatural", legitimising prejudice and contributing to homophobia. Even the use of such an unpleasant term as buggery contributed to this and the law on soliciting or cruising criminalised activities between gay men that would be seen as no more than "chatting up" if it took place between a man and a woman. The white paper is careful to make clear what is under consideration: "Concerns have been raised, encouraged by some media misrepresentation, that the replacement of these offences will result in the legalisation of cottaging and gay sex in public. This is not the case. No one wishes to be an unwilling witness to the sexual behaviour of others. "There is a clear difference between private and public sexual activity," it says, adding that a new public order offence will ensure that all sexual activity of whatever kind in a public place that offends will remain criminal. This will not include outdoors sex as long as it takes place in an isolated place where a couple would not expect to be observed. The laws on child abuse are to be greatly strengthened, with a battery of new offences including a specific crime of adult sexual activity with a child and an assumption in law that a child under 13 is incapable of consenting to any form of sexual activity. This will mean that any sexual intercourse with a child under 13 will be treated as rape. The new "grooming offence" gave rise to fears of creating a "thought crime" but ministers gave assurances that it would only be used once the predatory adult had actually met the child. A proposal to issue civil sex offender orders banning those who the police believe will put children at risk from using internet chatrooms or hanging around schools also attracted criticism from the civil rights group Liberty that it could make some people afraid of talking to their neighbour's children. But Mr Blunkett said that Home Office research published yesterday showed that some violent offenders had a greater propensity to commit sex crimes: "We are not prepared to wait until they do before we take action. For that reason we will allow sex offender orders and restraining orders to be taken out against anyone convicted of a serious violent offence if the police believe they present a real risk." The white paper also proposes that the current wide ranging offence of indecent assault be replaced by two new offences of sexual assault by penetration and sexual assault alone. The former, which would include bottles or other objects other than a penis, would carry a life sentence while non-penetrative assaults, which could also involve high levels of degradation and trauma, will carry a maximum sentence of 10 years. The government also makes clear that as well as clarifying the law on consent in rape cases it intends to increase the maximum penalty from two to 10 years for administering drugs to a woman in order to have unlawful sexual intercourse. Mr Blunkett came out against anonymity for those accused of rape, but said he was prepared to "listen to the arguments of those who feel strongly on this point". The home secretary also indicated that he would resist the pressure for a separate offence of date rape. "Our view is that rape is rape, and cannot be divided in this way into more or less serious offences." A new offence of causing another person to perform an indecent act without consent will for the first time enable the prosecution of a woman who compels a man to penetrate her without his consent. The white paper confirms that the reform of the laws on child prostitution will include a ban on buying sex from 16 and 17-year-olds even though they are over the age of consent. The measures on the commercial sexual exploitation of children will extend to the manufacture of pornography and the international trade in trafficking. · Protecting the Public, CM 5668, TSO, £8.50