The Pakistan cricketers standing trial for allegedly fixing events during last year's Test against England at Lord's warned the agent Mazhar Majeed that they were suspicious of the undercover journalist responsible for uncovering their "spot-fixing plot", a court heard on Tuesday.Mazher Mahmood, the former News of the World journalist and self-styled "Fake Sheikh", was posing as an Indian businessman interested in fixing events at cricket matches for betting purposes. Mahmood had paid £10,000 in return for clear evidence that Majeed, the agent, could manipulate events at the home of cricket through the players.It was alleged that the first plan, for the bowlers to deliver two no-balls during the previous Test at The Oval, had been abandoned amid fears that it would raise the suspicions of Pakistan coaching staff who had chided them for having conceded 32 runs in extras during the innings. A second plan, whereby Salman Butt, the former Pakistan captain who is accused of cheating at gambling and accepting corrupt payments, would bat out a maiden over at The Oval, while also providing a "signal" by tapping the pitch after his second ball, also failed to transpire.Butt, who denies the charges, had neither tapped the pitch nor contrived to deliver a scoreless over, having taken a run when the ball flashed off his bat. This led Mahmood to suggest Majeed did not exert sufficient control over the players, saying he did not "trust" them to deliver their side of the bargain because they were "Pakistani players".The court heard that Majeed leapt to their defence, saying that Butt and the others were "well educated". Still, Mahmood refused to hand over the agreed £150,000 "deposit" that would confirm the relationship between him and Majeed until he had received his "taster" from the agent: some evidence on the field of play that the cricketers were acting on his instructions.In a secretly taped telephone conversation that was played to the court Majeed told the journalist that his caution was upsetting "his boys". He said the players, who the court heard Mahmood had been introduced to and who he had witnessed speaking on the telephone to Majeed about spot-fixing events, wanted him to pay the £150,000 before proceeding with him."They're saying if they're worried about £150,000 then what will happen when it comes to the big money," the court heard Majeed saying. "They said to me why's he not delivering because he wants to see one no-ball. What else does he want? What they're saying is that this never happens in this game where we give you something and then you give me something. They're saying: 'Why's he not parting with £150,000 up front?' They're saying: 'What do you know about them, who are they and where are they coming from?'"Eventually Mahmood agreed to hand over the money in a secretly filmed meeting between Majeed and the journalist in a room at London's Copthorne Tara Hotel. There, the jury heard on Tuesday, Majeed provided details of the events that would later unfold at cricket's headquarters. "I'm going to tell you now exactly what's happening to prove to you," said Majeed. "If they are batting you will have to wait till they bowl."No-balls are the easiest and there's no risk. So, it's the first ball of the third over. [Mohammad] Amir will bowl the first over and it will be the first ball of the third over. No signal, it will just happen. And the last ball, the sixth ball, of the 10th over … [Mohammad] Asif will be bowling."And the next one will be Amir going over the wicket to the right-handers. The over when he goes round the wicket: the last ball of that over. The last ball of that over will also be a no-ball. Asif will definitely be bowling the 10th over. He will be bowling the 10th over."Like Butt, his former captain, Asif is charged with cheating at gambling and accepting corrupt payments. As it transpired rain interrupted play on the first day, meaning it would have been impossible to deliver a third prearranged no-ball.In a taped telephone conversation, Majeed told the journalist that it could not go ahead. After more delicate negotiations, a new arrangement was made in which Amir's third ball of his third over on the second day would instead be the no-ball. Amir did indeed bowl a no-ball as had been predicted. The case continues.