Deep in his red armchair at the Home Office, his black labrador, Sadie, rolling around at his feet, David Blunkett conveys the air of a politician whose departmental turf is safe from partition in any imminent reshuffle.It may just be bluff. But a week after his 56th birthday he looks leaner, the aftermath of his stomach operation at Christmas. He can sometimes be tetchy, hard on his staff, but 33 years after first being elected to Sheffield city council, what he calls "the masochist I am" still enjoys the rough and tumble of politics. Tonight he is making an ambitious speech - the Edith Kahn Memorial Lecture for CSV (Community Service Volunteers) in London - setting out his ideas on civil renewal which he hopes will provide fuel to motor a third Labour term in government. He is trying to provide a philosophical framework in which he can tackle specific Home Office problems: law and order, run-down inner cities, the accountability of judges, the role of the active citizen. Talking to the Guardian yesterday the home secretary did not sound like someone scheming to succeed Tony Blair in No 10. Nor did he sound like a minister coasting in his last job.  Karl Marx  His lecture quotes Machiavelli, Rousseau, Pericles (who was good on civil participation), modern - and controversial (he prefers "woolly") US communitarian theorists such as Amitai Etzioni. He even gives a rare New Labour nod to Karl Marx. Mr Blunkett's thrust is that neither romantics (Marx among them) nor libertarians address the question of what people are supposed to do with the freedom the utopian theorists advocate, but do not describe. Old-fashioned traditionalists, with their emphasis on hierarchy and "obsolete moral codes" cannot cope with the pace of change in a globalised world. At one point he says: "The role of government is to help people cope with change." Moving at an ever more frightening speed, he says. "The old-fashioned right think we can stop the tide coming up the beach, whereas libertarians think the role of government is to get out of the way. All we can do is ensure the tide does not swamp us and that people can cope." He is not the only minister thinking that the third term big idea should be empowerment. But the practical thrust of his recurring preoccupations - he has been writing pamphlets on social renewal for 20 years - is that in a functioning democracy we should all be more active citizens, socially engaged even if it is nothing grander than Neighbourhood Watch - incidentally "one of the greatest volunteering, energising enterprises in this country", he adds. Decayed urban communities need most outside help to get started. Blunkett is keen on baby bonds - 25% of people have no assets and are at least £200 in debt - and in his own baby, the Adventure Capital Fund, which has seeded self-help networks in Bradford and elsewhere. He backs Gordon Brown's non-profit community interest companies. This ties in with his law and order agenda, more accountable police forces, community panels at local level - he was impressed by what he saw at Red Hook in New York - where a little cash can pro vide a CCTV camera or training that can make a difference. When people can see "small wins" they start to re-engage with society: they learn. "What's really crucial to a live democracy is that, instead of a passive 'what are you going to do for us?' it's 'what are you going to do to help us do for ourselves'?" It is not coincidence that his constituency of Sheffield Brightside is one of deprivation. Plans to make police authorities more visible and accountable - partly elected even - go with imported US ideas that could lead to elected public prosecutors, district attorneys like Rudolph Giuliani who went on to be mayor of New York. He admits "very few people have heard of police authorities let alone know how to influence them".  Modernisation  Bringing outsiders into the police - foreigners even during last week's leaked row - is part of the modernisation process that all public services are facing. But behind this lies a larger agenda. Labour MPs complain that their government is running out of steam. Blunkett argues that post-Iraq ministers must show they connect with the domestic agenda, that they can see how the world is changing, becoming more diverse, more consumerist - and that their reforms are "relevant to people's day-to-day lives". In tonight's lecture and his interview he acknowledges the tension between devolution of decision-making and central direction - the need to regulate standards and ensure fairness - that is central to Labour's strategy. Government is increasingly an "enabling state". But success is also about what he tactfully calls "order and safety". Liberals and social democrats often think they don't matter, says Blunkett the unabashed populist. But people can only engage in the progressive agenda if they feel secure. "The right only succeeds when there is disintegration, destabilisation and a break down of order. If we don't reshape the role of government, people won't vote, democracy will be discredited. The extremists, the real authoritarians will take power. That is the challenge of the BNP. We have to offer an alternative that relates to people's lives - in an non-authoritarian way."