Muslim prisoners at Belmarsh high security prison who were told they would have to celebrate Eid, their most important religious festival, a day late because of staff and accommodation shortages were yesterday accorded a small victory after an intervention by the Guardian.The men had been told that they must postpone their prayers and celebrations until Monday because there were other religious services held on a Sunday. But after the issue was raised with a spokesman, the south London prison changed its mind. By 5pm yesterday, Belmarsh had realised the potential racial and religious embarrassment of its ruling and told prisoners that they would be allowed to pray tomorrow but the feast to celebrate Eid would still have to be held on Monday. A Home Office spokeswoman said: "Plans have been rearranged at Belmarsh and prayers will be held at the appropriate hours on Sunday. The feast of Eid will go ahead as planned on Monday." The Guardian understands that Belmarsh was the only prison in the country that was not making provision for Muslim prisoners to mark Eid at the correct time. Guidance had been given to all prisons that Eid is observed between sunrise and 11.47am on Sunday and that provision is made for 20 minutes of prayer and service. The Muslim community reacted with incredulity when told that the prison had simply swept Eid aside. "It's like telling a Christian they have to celebrate Christmas Day on Boxing Day," said Shiban Akbar, chair of the Muslim Council of Britain's social affairs committee. "For all the hard work that has been done trying to raise the awareness of the Muslim religion in that prison, it's terrible. Adequate facilities should have been put in place. It should be easy, all it would require would be to bring them to a well-sized room and have a prayer for 10 or 15 minutes and after that they get a feed." Anas Altikriti, spokesman for the Muslim Association of Britain, said: "It's ridiculous. You can't just postpone Eid when all the other Muslims around the world are celebrating it. It does seem that inside Belmarsh the basic rights and liberties and freedoms of Muslims are being confiscated." Eid ul-Adha, or the Celebration of Sacrifice, marks the end of the hajj pilgrimage to Mecca in Saudi Arabia. It is the biggest Muslim celebration and its date is determined by the lunar cycle. While those outside prison would celebrate by praying, eating, giving presents and visiting friends, inmates could at least expect to gather together for prayer and be provided with some festive food. Belmarsh has been criticised for its alleged racist culture and has had difficulties in dealing with Islamic prisoners, including those held there without charge or trial because the home secretary, David Blunkett, suspects them to be international terrorists. Last year, a former Belmarsh prison officer was awarded £28,000 compensation after he suffered racist abuse at the hands of fellow officers, including being urinated on by three colleagues and told he stank. He said racism in Belmarsh was "rampant". In a letter to the Guardian, a former Belmarsh detainee spoke of racism in the prison. Others have told how guards interrupt Muslims at prayer and one was disciplined for not responding to a question while praying. The Guardian also reported that men detained under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001, had their telephone calls cut short because warders misunderstood basic Arabic phrases, believing them to be code. The detainees, who all have a poor grasp of English, had calls to family cut off after saying as-salaamu alaykum, the standard greeting, and frequently used phrases such as inshallah (god willing).Complaints were made to the prison by the National Council for the Welfare of Muslim Prisoners about these issues as well as the treatment of detainees held without charge or trial under new anti-terror legislation.