BureaucracyCash was now pouring downwards. Ministers belatedly heeded James Morgan's advice to fund the CDRPs, but now the funding became part of the machinery of Whitehall control. All 10 regional governments in England and Wales were told to hire a regional crime director whose job was not simply to get the partnerships working but to ensure that each of them hit the Whitehall targets, which meant a regime of business plans and audits and data collection - "shedloads of paperwork", as one senior police officer put it - and more and more staff to handle more and more paper in the regional crime directors' offices. Simultaneously, as this series has already described, the same regime of micromanagement was being imposed on the police and the drug action teams, their working lives silting up with bureaucracy. Beneath the surface, the impact of this central drive began to erode the foundations of the new approach, forcing police back on to the conventional tactics of arrest and conviction to deliver the rapid and measurable results which Whitehall was demanding. George Dixon was making his return.And while central control was tightening, local arrangements were coming unstuck as every outpost of the public sector was reorganised. One partner would reach out for another only to see it lurching away like a drunkard dancing. When the 376 CDRPs were created in 1998, they were told to link up with the 370 police basic command units or BCUs (the new jargon for police divisions). Within 18 months the police had shuffled their internal boundaries so that there were only 318 BCUs: some of them included several CDRPs; some of them shared a single CDRP with several other BCUs; only 120 now matched the area of their local CDRP. In the meantime the network of fewer than 100 drug action teams was expanded so that by the autumn of 2001, there were 149, only a few of which matched BCU and/or CDRP boundaries. (In Wales, the five DAATs [sic] were no sooner up and running than they were abolished and replaced by 22 community safety partnerships.) In the background, there were 54 probation areas, none of which matched the boundaries of any BCUs or CDRPs or DATs; and in April 2001 they were rearranged into 42 areas. A year later the structure of eight regional NHS offices was radically altered into a new national network of 304 primary care trusts. The education authorities which had been organised at county level were ordered to devolve funding and powers to individual schools. And annually the government issued new targets, new guidelines, new funding streams, new law.There is a perfect glimpse of partnership life on the ground in a recent report by the inspector of probation, Rod Morgan, who looked at what happened when the government told the probation service to run the new drug treatment and testing orders (DTTOs), which allowed courts to order drug users to accept treatment. The order came through in June 2000. Probation set off in October without any infrastructure to run the scheme. By that time it was halfway into reorganising itself for April 2001 into 42 new areas, eight of which were amalgamations needing new budgets and plans. By December, the DATs, who were its key partners in the exercise, were also being reorganised - new teams, new boundaries, more new plans. In April 2001 probation was given £36m to run the scheme. Weeks later half of it was taken away from it and given to the new national treatment agency (NTA) which was to run the DATs. More new plans - but not until the NTA agreed who was going to spend what, and it didn't start work until the autumn. That dispute was still running in early 2002 when the entire national health service, which was delivering the key treatment for the drug users, was reorganised - more new boundaries and plans. By now, some of the DATs had decided that the DTTOs were too expensive and so they refused to hand over the money that was finally being passed down by the national treatment agency. And some of the new primary care trusts, struggling for funds, refused to hand over valuable beds to help law enforcement when they needed them to hit their own targets. To deal with that probation had to agree to let the primary care trusts assess the drug users, in addition to probation's own assessment, with the result that only 20% of the assessments were completed within the three weeks required by the government. The system was up and running, but only 24% of offenders were actually undergoing the twice-weekly urine tests which lay at its heart - and almost half of them were failing their tests more than 90% of the time. Many probation officers registered this failure but decided it was best to allow the offender to continue with treatment rather than being shunted back to the dead end of prison. Among those who taken to court for their orders to be revoked, some escaped because there was nobody to impose the revocation. Around the country, police officers were trying to link up with probation, only to find that probation was too short of funds to do its work; drug action teams referred addicts for treatment knowing that there was almost no effective treatment out there; social workers sent excluded children for education, but there were almost no out-of-school facilities; courts jailed homeless beggars because there was nowhere else to house them. Even when agencies had the funds and the plans to work together, they could be prised apart by clashing targets from the centre - like the CDRP plan in Bristol to send drug users on DTTOs to live in a probation hostel. The hostel had space, local probation liked the idea, but it had a national performance target which required it to keep hostels at least 90% full and, since chaotic drug users were the least reliable residents, it had to block the plan. StrugglingIn the autumn of 2000 the Home Office received a clear signal that all was not well on the ground when HM inspector of constabulary and the audit commission jointly reported that the new CDRPs were struggling. They urged the government to stop overriding local plans, to measure police against "community sentiment", to set crime targets for health and education. And, in particular, they urged it to extend the Crime and Disorder Act so that it required partnership work not only from local authorities but from all central government departments as well. The advice was rejected.As time passed the researchers began to see the results of the crime reduction initiatives which they had launched into this confusion. Their prized £30m scheme to promote problem-oriented policing had crashed into the same barriers which had obstructed earlier efforts. Without the time or training to do the job properly, schemes generally failed to gather the right data, failed to analyse it properly and failed to devise effective solutions. This project was central to the whole crime reduction programme. In a report published this year two researchers hired by the Home Office, Karen Bullock and Nick Tilley, recorded: "The conclusions are not encouraging." They noted the destructive impact of the Treasury's timetable: "A much longer initial period would have been needed to make progress... In so far as the funding regime itself provoked premature closure over problem-definitions and measures to address them, ironically it may, of course, have undermined the problem-orientation it was intended to promote." And they noted the equally destructive impact of ministerial priorities. British police were now employing more analysts for problem-solving. They wrote: "What they currently do, though, appears to be more oriented to a detection and enforcement agenda and to satisfying performance indicator requirements, than it is to an agenda concerned with dealing with police-relevant community problems." The former head of the police research group at the Home Office, Gloria Laycock, co-wrote an analysis of the failure, pointing to the capitulation of the police to Home Office pressure to carry on arresting: "There are far too many cases where persistent problems are ignored and where, even when the police do think about solving a problem, they fall back on the standard approach of arrest and prosecution." The bold new programme had wandered far from home. The £24m reducing burglary initiative had also suffered from the same cramping of the problem-oriented approach and from the Treasury's attempt to stop researchers intervening to help the police. Three consortiums of university specialists were hired to follow the 60 most innovative schemes, to measure changes in burglary rates and to check the funding against the £2,300 average social cost of a burglary. The results were far from successful. One of the consortiums, led by Professor Tim Hope of Keele University, reported that only one of its 20 schemes had secured a significant cut in burglary at a cost-effective price; five others had scored a less significant cut at less than £2,300 a crime. The rest had failed: seven of them had had a more or less neutral effect on burglary at an unacceptably high price, with one of them costing 11 times the £2,300 for each offence it cut; and, worst of all, seven other schemes had stimulated a clear rise in burglary, sending it spiralling upwards in one case by 39%, usually at vast cost. Prof Hope told us: "We found all the implementation problems on the ground that need time and thought and effort to get right. Most projects were on a hiding to nothing from the start." Most of the schemes had made a particular effort to protect "repeat victims" - the 4% of the population who suffer 44% of all crime. But Prof Hope's researchers found that, out of their 20 sample schemes, none had reduced the risk of these victims, and six had actually increased it. And this turned out to be a crucial clue to what was going wrong. Just as conventional law enforcement often failed because it assumed that offenders would behave rationally and be deterred, so now crime reduction discovered that the victims of crime would not necessarily behave rationally either. Most of the burglary schemes had used "target hardening" as the core of their strategy, offering free packages of extra security to any household which wanted it. The problem was that the most vulnerable households were also the least likely to accept help: the victims were alienated from officialdom and suspicious of the approach; the houses were owned by absentee landlords who could not care less about protecting their tenants; the victims lived chaotic lives in short-term housing and had moved before the offer was made. In some cases, when the police target-hardened the most cooperative houses in the area, the effect was to divert all the burglary on to the most vulnerable, with a dramatic increase in the suffering of the repeat victims. This clue, in turn, led back to the structural weakness which had been inflicted on the CDRPs who had been created to run schemes like this with the police. The researchers found clear evidence that the most successful burglary projects were planned from the bottom up, using community knowledge and contacts; when they went wrong, they rapidly understood why and adapted. The least successful ones were imposed by the police alone who sometimes saw the emerging failure, knew no way to adapt the plan and reacted by simply deciding to spend all the money before it was clawed back. For several years, the Police Foundation thinktank has been trying to ring alarm bells warning that constables can be inherently conservative and even cynical and tend not to do very much about initiatives that are handed down from on high without any kind of consultation with them. A scheme works its way from Whitehall down through the ranks until finally it arrives on the desk of a duty sergeant along with a whole lot of other paper and becomes, for the constables, just the latest fad with which they are expected to deal. It is an echo of the problem of crime victims who do not cooperate with burglary initiatives which are passed down from distant desks. From the Home Office's point of view, abandoning the reality of consultation, it was the opposite of rolling a snowball down a hill and watching it gather weight, more like throwing a vase off a rooftop and watching people on the ground pick up bits and wonder where they came from.Supporters of the burglary initiative were dismayed by the results but not defeated. Their research had done precisely what it was supposed to do: by mid-2002 they had identified the problem and so now they could deal with it by strengthening the partnerships and using their local knowledge to adapt tactics on the ground. But now something else went wrong: the Home Office lost its nerve. It sat on the research, denying the police and the CDRPs the chance to learn the lessons. A year passed, and last month a brief summary was published amid such controversy about its claims of success that Prof Hope's consortium demanded that its name be removed from it, on the grounds that it was "highly misleading and selective". At a conference on criminology last month, Prof Hope complained that the Home Office summary failed to say anything about whether the burglary schemes had been cost-effective and undervalued the fact that burglary had been falling across the country, crediting the schemes with a success to which they were not necessarily entitled. The Home Office summary, he said, "produces results that at best contradict our own and at worst seriously distort the actual pattern of project outcomes as far as we can judge. These tend to point in a much more positive and favourable direction than our own." This looked, he said, like "the regrettably familiar government game of policy-led evidence". "What works" had started to give way to "Pretend it works." In the background, the Home Office was rapidly discarding other elements of the new programme to beat property crime. In 1999 it commissioned a group of specialist insurance executives, police officers, fire officers and academics to advise it on imaginative approaches to burglary, arson and criminal damage. They were known as P-crat, the property crime reduction action team. In May 2001 they produced an initial report which was full of energetic ideas. They wanted building regulations to include a requirement for all new homes to be secured against crime; a £1 computer chip installed in all new electronic goods so they could be rendered inoperable if stolen; a national database of stolen valuables to make it harder to fence them; a new library of good practice in crime prevention; an expansion of the CDRPs to include more local agencies, including fire officers. They had already negotiated preliminary figures from insurance companies who were willing to slash premiums for homeowners who took up their ideas, and they had set up five working parties to carry forward their plans. Their work was welcomed by the then minister, Charles Clarke, who said: "I look forward to the delivery of their full report and to doing all I can to help them to achieve reductions in property crime." But there never was a full report. P-crat was quietly disbanded. None of the ideas has materialised in the Home Office, although their arson ideas have been taken over by John Prescott's arson control forum. One of those closely involved with P-crat told us: "There was an election; there was a new home secretary. The whole thing lost momentum." At the same time, the Home Office had funded work by a Department of Trade inquiry, chaired by Lord Sharman, into technology and crime. It too produced innovative ideas, based on the advice of 60 experts and 26 seminars, to protect computer systems from hacking, to allow the police to record crime and to appeal for help through the internet, to build crime prevention into the lifecycle of every product, and to tie central government into the kind of partnership work which was now required of the local CDRPs. It undertook to make sure all its ideas were acted on. "Crime reduction is not the priority for everyone that it should be, and we need to change that," Lord Sharman wrote in his foreword to the report. Thus far, the government has set up funding for more research, but none of the other ideas has materialised. Lord Sharman warned, in particular, that mobile phone companies should design their products so that they could be blocked if they were stolen: nothing was done until the theft of mobile phones soared. Part of the difficulty seems to have been a resistance from mainstream business. One of P-crat's problems was that they pushed hard for a compulsory scheme for new houses to be "secured by design" with high quality doors and window frames and estate layouts which expose thieves to the natural surveillance of neighbours. As a voluntary scheme, this scored startling success in the early 1990s, with some projects reporting that burglary had fallen to zero. But the big construction companies soon discovered that buyers were not willing to pay extra for the security and stopped cooperating. P-crat wanted to compel them, but one insider suggests that the steady fall in burglary since 1993 has weakened the government's will to take on the construction industry. Some of the big car park operators have resisted a long-standing programme to win "secure car park status" by installing CCTV and other crime prevention, even though car parks are the site of 22% of all vehicle crime and the secure status cuts crime by an average of 70%. The government aimed to have 2,000 car parks in the scheme by the end of 2000: more than two years later it still has only 1,210. Like the hoteliers, car park operators profit from consumer law which omits them from the definition of "goods and services" which would otherwise make them liable for thefts on their property. Similarly, at various points the Home Office has looked at amending the 1956 Hotel Proprietors Act to stop hotels denying liability for the theft of their guests' possessions. In France, for example, hotels are legally responsible and, therefore, are far more security conscious. But British hoteliers have dug in their heels. Four years after its official launch, the crime reduction programme now is buried in a rubble of disappointment. But it is not dead. There are signs of some partnerships finally beginning to work. In Bristol, for example, where the CDRP was particularly weak in its early years, there has been a revival, brought about from an unlikely source. Tony Blair's 2002 street crime initiative on mugging, which was a classic example of centralised control reinforced with a rigid performance regime, appeared to be a further blow to the CDRPs by imposing yet another law-enforcement requirement on the police, but ironically the sheer political pressure to come up with a result forced local agencies to work together. The chief constable of Avon and Somerset, Steve Pilkington, chaired a special leadership group to run the initiative: he pulled together the same agencies who were failing to work together in the CDRP and gave them a chance to succeed. That has now had a knock-on effect on the CDRP, which is finally showing signs of life. And some of the schemes run by the crime reduction programme appear to have done better than their initiatives on burglary and problem-oriented policing. The youth justice board has established young offender teams and youth offender panels in every area to divert juveniles from prison and into constructive schemes. Parenting orders and anti-social behaviour orders - both of which received a bad press when they were announced - have proved to be less repressive and more constructive than was feared. The huge SureStart programme has generated projects around the country to work with pre-school children, on the same model as the successful American schemes, but the long-term nature of the work means the evaluation will not be finished until 2007. And whereas P-crat was dumped, the equivalent action team for vehicle crime, V-crat, has done better, with a little help from the Department of Transport. Their key idea, of having immobilisers fitted to all cars so that they can not be driven away by thieves, fell foul of technical problems but they persuaded the government to tackle the wrecking of stolen cars by scrap metal firms and to make life more difficult for car thieves by improving the data flow to the police from the DVLA licensing centre, car insurance companies and MoT records, with the aim of clamping down not only on drivers without correct paperwork but on the apparently large pool of cars which exist nowhere in official records and are routinely used for crime. But the drumbeat from the Home Office is not so encouraging. It recently posted a one-line message on its website, noting that the crime reduction programme, which was originally conceived by researchers as a 10-year project, had closed in March last year after only three years. The Home Office say it has been replaced by a new funding stream, the safer communities initiative, but its £20m last year was a trickle compared with the original programme's £400m. The officials who ran it have been dispersed throughout the Home Office. Some of the local schemes are still running, but there is no more central funding or training for problem-oriented policing or radical new initiatives on burglary. Indeed, the Treasury, which was blamed for many of the problems with the burglary projects, used the weak results to claw back £26m which had been earmarked for a second phase of 250 more schemes. Funding for other schemes, including design against crime, drained away last year. Crucially, there is no more central guidance from researchers; and no more central funding for the kind of evidence-based innovation which lay at the heart of the original programme. The CDRPs now benefit from direct funding and will receive £84m a year for the next three years - but this is a substantial cut compared with last year, because £25m of their funding has been diverted to police BCUs. Although some local police commanders are committed supporters of the CDRPs and will spend the money with them, others are being encouraged by the Home Office to spend it on DNA banks and car number plate recognition systems and new fingerprint databases, all the new technology of old law enforcement. As the home secretary ratchets up his rhetoric for more detections and longer sentences, there are signs the balance of policy has tipped back towards law enforcement. The crime reduction programme aimed to cut the prison population by 10%; but it has risen as the government pushes a conventional agenda. It has just set up criminal justice boards across the country with the task of achieving its central performance targets. The radical new strategy is now balanced between the power of its underlying thinking and the weakness of its implementation. The law still requires that police and local authorities work in partnership. There is still money flowing through the CDRPs. More than ever before, there are police officers and council officials and health workers and teachers and social workers who can see the value of solving problems instead of merely trying to punish their results. They can see that if police make the roads safer, hospitals will have fewer casualties to treat; that if schools work well with their truants, police will have fewer burglaries to handle; that if any of them can break through on drug treatment, all of them will be better off. In a speech in Hackney last September, Tony Blair declared: "It is crucial to address poverty, social exclusion, unemployment, lack of education, the sense of hopelessness that is so often the breeding ground for crime." The message from the battered body of the crime reduction programme is that he can still do that, but his Home Office ministers too often have looked for quick fixes when the real solutions are long-term; demanded measurable results when the real progress is often invisible; forced great simplicities on a problem which is notoriously complex; imposed rigid centralism where local flexibility is needed; and, most of all, failed to stand up for their project, failed to educate the public in the truth about the weakness of conventional law enforcement, failed to explain the virtues of their crime reduction programme and the new partnerships, and reverted to the easy populist rhetoric which made George Dixon a star.