There is no area of public policy in which statistics should be handled with greater care than on crime and yesterday's Home Office crime figures provide some of the most striking evidence yet for such caution. "Shock rise in crimes of violence," shriek the newspaper headlines. "Crime remains stable," soberly retorts the government's own press release. Can they both be describing the same country? The answer, hard though it may be to believe, is yes. The rise in violent crimes - up 14% overall, and up 18% in the more serious types of violence - refers only to offences recorded by the police. In spite of recent technical improvements these figures have never provided the complete story, not least because the more police you employ, the more crimes they will tend to record. Even the police themselves believe that the more comprehensive British Crime Survey provides a truer picture of the actual incidence of crime in modern Britain; and here the figures show a 3% fall in crimes of violence as well as a 1% drop in overall crime.Nowhere are the perils of relying on recorded crime figures alone more obvious than in yesterday's statistics for murder. Rightly, any society regards murder as the most terrible of all crimes, as well as the most dangerous, and at first sight the murder figures are truly alarming. In the year 2002-03, police recorded 1,045 cases of murder, compared with 863 in the previous year, a 21% increase. Never has the murder curve produced a steeper one year rise. Yet the explanation lies largely with one man - the late Harold Shipman - 172 of whose killings have been counted into the new total. Deduct the Shipman victims and the increase in murder is not 21% but 1%, serious enough, of course, but definitely not a cause for the panic that the headline figures for murder might otherwise imply. None of this should in any way detract from the seriousness of some of Britain's crime problems, or the social and political significance of measures to provide the public with a greater sense of security. Nothing could be more short-sighted than to try to talk the crime problem out of existence in defiance of people's experience and fears. Nevertheless, the BCS figures ought to give some important reassurance to a public which is mostly bombarded with overwhelmingly frightening news about the subject. Domestic burglary, which for many people is the most frightening of all crimes, is down by 2%. Vehicle theft, another bane of so many lives, is down by 5%. Recorded crime figures also show the same trend in both categories. Decreases of this kind do not necessarily prove that government or police measures are working. But they are important shifts to set against the widespread perception that the trends in crime are always and unremittingly upward. Can we ever get out of the crime statistical bind, in which one set of figures depicts a society increasingly at war with itself, while another shows a picture of much greater stability? Probably not entirely, though the adoption by the police of the national crime reporting standard will eventually help bring future figures better into line. But that does not mean that nothing in the rises in recorded crime can be relied upon. Gun crime (which tends to be well reported) is still rising overall, but at nowhere near the surges of previous years; in some areas and in some crimes, the trend is now downwards. These latest figures, we should also remember, refer to the unusually dry months of July-September 2003. This was a time when heavy drinking was especially widespread in many places, generating more public fights and domestic violence alike. Better targeted police patrolling could do much to reduce these figures this year, but a determined strategy for reducing the dangers from alcohol would be even better.