A confidential warning has been given to the police and senior prosecutors questioning the credibility of a computer analyst who has given expert testimony in highly sensitive court cases.Crown Prosecution Service officials have issued specific advice about Jim Bates, an expert who has previously served as an adviser to Scotland Yard's computer crime unit and lectured at the police training school at Bramshill.The formal questioning of his statements and practices raises the possibility that cases he has been involved in may be open to challenge. One trial in which he participated as a prosecution witness last January led to a defendant being jailed for 30 months. He has written 90 reports for defence and prosecution teams since November 2000, 18 of which have led to court appearances. Mr Bates has appeared as a specialist defence witness for people caught up in Operation Ore, the inquiry into internet child pornography, and is highly critical of the operation.He told the Guardian that the official warning is provoked by a wider effort to undermine him because of his views. "The main bee in my bonnet has been the proliferation of pseudo-experts who have taken jobs as expert witnesses. There are some quarters where there is a lot of money and careers at stake in getting convictions and my perception is that the police and certain sections of the CPS gauge their efficiency on the number of convictions they get. We are dealing with a very emotive area. It is vital that people don't get railroaded."The issue of expert witnesses is pressing because of a steady rise in computer crime. The CPS has reminded staff of a police inquiry triggered by allegations that Mr Bates misled a court about his qualifications by claiming to have an engineering degree. Lawyers have also been told of an investigation for possible contempt of court in a case last October when Mr Bates was apparently observed trying to illegally record court proceedings. The issue is being referred to the attorney general for consideration.Police have also interviewed Mr Bates about the way he has dealt with items of evidence. As the defence expert in a pending case he requested a copy of the indecent images which formed the evidence against the defendant. It is claimed that when the police attempted to load images on to two of his hard drives, they discovered other indecent pictures supplied to him in a separate case. Lawyers are informed that this issue - which appears to turn on his handling of the evidence rather than the images themselves - is still being investigated.Prosecutors are warned that if they call the analyst to give evidence, they will also be required to disclose information about the allegations made against him to the defence. In cases where he appears for the defence, CPS lawyers and barristers are told to challenge his credibility.Prosecutors have also been warned to be vigilant even in cases where Mr Bates is not called to give evidence, and to ensure that he does not enter a courtroom with recording equipment. In cases involving internet porn, the police are being urged to check the "suitability" of his storage procedures. Officials have also been urged to inform CPS headquarters of any current or future cases involving Mr Bates.Mr Bates is president of the Institution of Analysts and Programmers, and has been involved in a number of high-profile cases. Two years ago, the crown withdrew its case against Detective Constable Brian Stevens - family liaison officer to the relatives of murdered Soham schoolgirl Jessica Chapman - after Mr Bates uncovered "fundamental mistakes" in the prosecution's attempt to prove the officer had downloaded child pornography. He also provided expert testimony in the case of Gurpal Virdi, the Sikh officer wrongly accused by the Met of sending racist hate mail to himself and colleagues. Mr Virdi was exonerated.Mr Bates, 65, said he had erred in claiming a BSc degree. "I did say I had a BSc engineering and I said so by virtue of simply putting the letters BSc after my name. After I came out of the RAF, where I had been trained as an electrical engineer on radar, I went to an organisation called the Association of Electronic Engineers in Leicester and did five or six months on a training course, at the end of which I took a number of examinations and had a letter saying that as a result I was qualified to the level of a BSc degree in electronics. It was not a degree certificate. It was only later on, when I started working for the police and they said 'don't be modest', that I put this in."He also admitted recording proceedings in Northampton. "I was buggering about with a little recording device which the police knew that I had got," he said. "I had a problem with it and I left the thing turned on. I thought there is nothing here to say I can't." However, the analyst strongly denied leaving indecent images on his hard drive. "My procedures, I know, are OK and I bloody know those drives were clear." He insisted that he routinely deletes images once cases have finished and the scope for appeals is exhausted.A CPS spokesman confirmed that prosecutors have received "guidance" reminding them of their disclosure responsibilities relating to Mr Bates.