Detectives investigating Britain's biggest robbery yesterday made two further arrests as the man kidnapped by the armed gang relived his abduction.In a statement read out by a spokesman, Colin Dixon, manager of the Tonbridge Securitas cash depot who was kidnapped on Tuesday evening along with his wife Lynn and eight-year-old son Craig, said that the family's 'horrific' ordeal had been the 'worst night of my life'. He continued: 'But more than that, it was the worst night in the lives of my wife Lynn and our son Craig. The terror of what happened and the horror of what might have happened is with us in every waking moment.'This horrific experience angers me beyond belief. We are a normal law-abiding family, and no one should have to suffer as we have done.'For the criminals to use me is bad enough, but to kidnap my wife and child and put guns against their heads and threaten them with death is something so frightening that words cannot convey them today.'I would like to appeal to the public today to think if they can help the police catch the criminals who have treated my family so menacingly. Do you know who might have done this? Do you have a suspicion who might have been capable of such an act? The police want to hear from you and I want you to call them. All information is critical to the picture that they are building.'Kent Police's Assistant Chief Constable, Adrian Leppard, who is leading the investigation into the £50m heist, said Dixon's statement was a reminder of the 'callous' nature of the criminals involved in the raid. 'We're dealing with a detailed, planned operation by professional criminals,' Leppard said.He repeated an appeal for more information from the public. 'Someone may have seen something vital to our investigation. Please think back, for however trivial something may seem to you, it could be an important piece in the jigsaw to help us solve this crime and catch a gang of dangerous criminals.'Yesterday Kent police confirmed that two men aged 55 and 33 were arrested in the Maidstone area on suspicion of conspiracy to commit robbery. In further developments they also disclosed a red Vauxhall Vectra found burning on Thursday night may have been used during the armed robbery.The car was found alongside a Volvo saloon which police suspect was used by the gang in Colin Dixon's abduction. The two vehicles were discovered ablaze in Burberry Lane in the village of Leeds near Maidstone.Police also released a computer image of another gang member who was one of the two men who abducted Lynn and Craig Dixon and was wearing a dark-style police clothing and possibly a wig and a false moustache.Paul Fullicks, Securitas security director, said it was still too early to establish exactly how much money was taken in the raid. 'It's going to be a significant amount, that's all I can say,' Fullicks said. 'I would hope we may have a final amount by tomorrow or Monday.'Fullicks said that all Securitas centres had been placed on a state of 'high alert' as a result of the raid. A spokesman for the Bank of England confirmed cash depots across the country had been instructed to make a number of security changes in the wake of the heist but declined to say what they were.It emerged last night that the security industry has become increasingly worried about attacks on members of its staff involved in transporting money. Figures compiled by the British Security Industry Association (BSIA) show that there were 836 attacks in 2005, up from 763 the year before .