South Yorkshire police have expressed their fears for the well-being of a missing 14-year-old girl, who is believed to be with a 35-year-old convicted fraudster.Lorna Vickerage, from Doncaster, disappeared from the Outwood Academy at 2.30pm on Monday, wearing her school uniform.Detective chief inspector Craig Robinson said she was last seen at 10.15amon Wednesday, in the Highfields area of Doncaster in the company of John Bush, a friend of her family, also from Doncaster.Robinson said that while in Highfields, the pair met a couple, to whom Bush introduced Lorna – who was wearing dark coloured skinny jeans and a grey top – as his daughter.He said she appeared to be safe and well and was quite chatty, but added: "What does concern me [about Bush] is he's a liar, he's a fraud, he's a cheat and it's what he's telling Lorna … I don't think she's in any immediate danger from John. He is a family friend and he has had associations with Lorna and the family in the past. [But] she's in danger of being exploited … we do need to make sure she's brought home safe and well."He described Lorna as "quite vulnerable" and said she was in the care of the local authority and had been put in foster care on Friday. Making a direct appeal to the teenager, he said: "Lorna, you're not in trouble. Your mum's petrified, she's worried to death, we're concerned for your safety. We don't know why you've gone with John and we don't know why John's taken you."Let us know you're safe and well. Speak to John – tell him to hand himself in, and if you're listening, John, we really do need to speak to you. The sooner you get this over with, the better."Lorna's mother Christine, 36, appealed on Facebook on Wednesday for her to come home.Alongside a picture of her daughter, she posted: "this is my gawgess lovin daughter if anyone as any idea were she could be would u plz contact me I just want her home safe thankyou". She also wrote: "come home my baby girl iam so worried plz just ring me we all love u so much".A police helicopter was scrambled on Wednesday to help with the search and police are trying to trace the vehicle Bush was in - a silver Ford Mondeo.Bush was handed a suspended two-year jail sentence in February after he pleaded guilty to five charges of fraud and asked for five more similar offences to be taken into consideration.Suspending the sentence on condition that Bush did 200 hours of unpaid work, the judge described him as a "professional fraudster".Bush, who was ordered to pay £3,401 in compensation to some of his victims, was living at a caravan site in Askern, Doncaster, at the time.Police said Lorna and Bush are both known to frequent the Askern, Adwick, Woodlands and Highfields areas of Doncaster.Lorna is described as white, of slim build, about 5ft 4in, with long straight, thick blonde hair. Bush is white, of stocky build and receding dark blond hair.