There was embarrassment last week for Merseyside police when it emerged that they had been ­using drones – small, ­unmanned spy planes fitted with ­cameras – without a licence. ­Officially known as UAVs or ­unmanned aerial vehicles, they are already ­deployed in Iraq and ­Afghanistan, but were first modified for civilian ­purposes in Los Angeles in 2006.Merseyside's gaffe gave rise to headlines that their drones may be grounded. Nothing could be further from the truth. This is the advance guard of surveillance technology and it is already being widely operated across the country, although this has prompted little debate.Last summer at the Olympics handover party in the Mall, drones flew overhead as thousands of people celebrated. Gemma, who was at the party, described the event: "They had bands playing, there was a big party. And they had this odd thing flying over the crowd. My husband said, 'what is that?' It looked like a robot from a science fiction film, and it jarred with what we were all there for, which was a big party and celebration."The device was provided by AirRobot UK, which has already supplied 12 UK constabularies with drones, with seven more placing orders with the company in the last six weeks. That's in addition to a consortium between arms manufacturer BAE Systems and six police services, including Kent police, which is piloting the possibility of a national drone plan.As to the licensing issue, that appears to be little more than a technicality. Merseyside had, it seems, simply failed to apply for a licence following a change in the Civil Aviation Authority rules at the beginning of January. The body ­confirms it is very likely to issue one.In London, it is almost certain that drones will fly over the capital in the runup to 2012, with surveillance experts pointing out that the Olympics are invariably used as a testing ground for new security technologies, and that once in place the legacy of the games is that heightened security measures are there to stay.In Vancouver, where the security bill for the 2010 winter games is one billion Canadian dollars, concerns over what were dubbed the "surveillance games" reached such a pitch that a group of academics signed "the Vancouver ­statement" deploring the overuse of security technologies as responsible for fuelling a climate of fear.The statement, signed by more than 40 academics from five different countries, pointed out that contrary to the spirit of the Olympics, "recent games have increasingly taken place in and contributed to a climate of fear, ­heightened security and surveillance and that has this has often been to the detriment of democracy".In keeping with the UK's reputation as world leader in surveillance technologies, the London Olympics, based at Westfield Stratford City, will see unprecedented levels of high security. The site, owned and controlled by Westfield, the Australian property company, will in effect be a private city within a city. That creates the perfect environment for high security as the streets and public places will be privately run and policed by private security employed by Westfield, before and after the games.As to the drones, the Metropolitan police say they are unable to confirm any aspect of the Olympics policing operation two years in advance, but AirRobot's director Mark Lawrence confirms that "they are interested in the AirRobot".For Kirstie Ball, director of the Surveillance Studies Network, none of this comes as any surprise. She explains that the drones, which were developed as a form of warfare, have followed exactly the same route as CCTV. "One of the big theses around the surveillance society is that technology developed for military use becomes modified more widely for civilian use," she says. "It happened with CCTV. The moment it becomes less up to date in the military field it's ­leveraged for commercial use and seen as hi-tech and desirable."Britain is by far and away the world leader in CCTV with 4.2m cameras, which is more than the rest of Europe put together. There is no evidence that CCTV reduces crime, but there is research, including a study commissioned by the government, which reveals that it increases distrust between people and promotes fear of crime.In the ongoing debate about CCTV, the question often asked is where did it come from and why did we introduce it? If, as seems depressingly likely, drones are to go the way of CCTV in Britain, the least we can do is make sure we properly tackle those questions.