London is witnessing a rising influx of eastern European prostitutes, many of them forced to sell unprotected sex for as little as £30 a time.Many of the women are trafficked here, under the illusion they will get jobs as waitresses or au pairs, or perhaps as lap dancers and nightclub hostesses - but will not have to sleep with customers. They find themselves living a nightmare: raped, beaten and threatened into slavery, made to have sex with up to 40 men a day, with pimps and traffickers taking virtually every penny they earn. European Union expansion has made it easy to bring the women to the UK. They can arrive at any port or airport with passports in their own names. Around 80% of the 8,000 prostitutes who work in London's hundreds of brothels, saunas, and escort agencies are foreign nationals, the vast majority from eastern Europe and south-east Asia. Detective Inspector Dick Powell, who heads Scotland Yard's 14-strong vice squad, said the growing trend towards unprotected sex was a measure of the desperation and exploitation in the sex trade and had "horrendous" implications for public health. "Ten years ago it was almost impossible to get that [unprotected sex] with a working girl, and, if you did, it would be at an astronomical price," Det Insp Powell said, in an interview with Police Review magazine published today. He added: "It is mind-boggling why the punters want it, but they do." Speaking to the Guardian, Det Insp Powell said: "There is a huge demand for unprotected and anal sex. Nowadays, it's the norm, not the exception. "At most of the brothels we visit, at least some of the women will offer these, for the same price as protected sex. "Prices have remained fairly static for 10 years. You can go into Soho and get sex for £30. The whole set-up is appalling. Most of these places are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week and women are expected to be 'on call' day and night. "Some will have sex with as many as 40 men a day. It's very rare the prostitute will get to keep any of the money she earns. We've seen places where £300 a day goes to the brothel pimp or 'madam', and that's even before the woman begins to try and pay off the 'debt bondage' of thousands of pounds charged to bring her here." Anna Johansson, team leader with the Poppy Project, a Home Office-funded scheme which provides support to women trafficked into prostitution in the UK, is aware of more women from eastern Europe, particularly Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, and the Czech Republic. She is also concerned about the rising number of foreign women forced to provide very cheap, unprotected and "rough" sex, thus forcing many other prostitutes to do likewise. "I'm not sure it's necessarily linked to the eastern European upsurge," said Ms Johansson. "I think it's a longer term trend. But the climate has definitely become much rougher, with most punters demanding unprotected or anal sex, previously considered expensive 'specials'. "If the women refuse, they are beaten up and abused by pimps. Other women are following suit with the same services in order to compete." The Poppy Project, which offers practical help and counselling, has 25 residential places, and has had 250 referrals since it began in March 2003. "We are always full, and almost all the women who come to us have some sort of sexually transmitted disease - syphilis or chlamydia, or they're HIV positive." Some trafficked women are told they have to pay off a debt of £20,000 to £40,000 to earn their freedom. "But the debt is never paid, because the pimp then adds on the cost of rent, food and condoms, if they are used," said Ms Johansson. "Because the traffickers often come from the prostitute's country of origin, it is easier for them to threaten to kill their families if they don't do what they are told, and this also increases the risks if they try to return home." Det Insp Powell said EU expansion made things cheaper and easier for traffickers, as they no longer had to smuggle women or provide them with false passports. "You can get a bus from Vilnius [Lithuania] to Victoria in 36 hours for less than £100." He welcomed the new law against trafficking for sexual exploitation, but said the police were not getting as many convictions as they had hoped for because much of the trafficking activity took place outside the UK. Helen Ward, consultant in charge of the Praed Street Project, which specialises in London sex workers' health, said she was not aware of any recent upsurge in sexual disease among prostitutes. She felt there was unfair prejudice against migrant sex workers and called for the authorities to adopt a more tolerant attitude, giving prostitutes proper protection and combating the underworld economy.Case studies'They said I owed them money'  Jenna, 20, from Romania "I was living at home, working in a bar, but there were some family problems so a childhood friend suggested we go the UK to make better money. "Other 'friends' arranged the trip but at the last minute my friend said she wasn't going. "I was trafficked through France and smuggled into the UK. Two men met me and other women in London and we were all taken to a flat. At the flat, there were lots of women working as prostitutes for these men. "The men raped and threatened me. I was not allowed out by myself or to speak to anyone outside the flat. "The men told me I owed them lots of money and would have to work to pay it back. I worked in some brothels and then a man 'bought' me and freed me, and I got in touch with the police and the Poppy Project. "I am studying and doing voluntary work and I gave evidence to the police but the Crown Prosecution Service decided not to prosecute the trafficking case. "A rape case can only go ahead if the men return to the UK, but they have gone back to my town in Romania, so I cannot go home." 'They beat and raped me often'  Vera, 23, from Ukraine "I was born in the countryside. My father and brothers drank and abused me, so I decided to leave. "I went to the former Yugoslavia to get a job in a restaurant. "But when I got there I was sold to a gang and they forced me to work as a prostitute in Macedonia. I tried to escape but they caught me and gave me a bad beating and held a gun to my head. "They tried to take me to Greece on foot but we were caught and sent back to Macedonia, but they took me back by car and this time we got in. "I stayed there five months and worked as a prostitute with other eastern European women. They threatened my family in Ukraine. "I was sold to an Albanian and he took me to Italy and on to the UK on a false Greek passport. "I was taken to the Midlands and forced into prostitution. "They beat and raped me often and I had to work long days with no protection [condoms]. I got syphilis and it was very painful. At last I escaped and made it to the Poppy Project."