Forty years ago, at the time of the last royal commission on the subject, there was almost no public debate at all about policing. Twenty years on, police reform still remained a no-go area, except on the Labour left. "What the police need is support and not criticism," said Margaret Thatcher, thus successfully defining the debate into "pro-police" Tories and "anti-police" Labour for years. These days, things are different. Police reform has become respectable. All three parties vie to devise policing policies that are not just more effective but more in touch with local concerns. To advocate police reform no longer risks political ostracism.All this is for the better. The mature way in which yesterday's government consultation paper on police reform is written, and the equally grown-up way in which the opposition parties gave their initial responses, are signs of real progress in our public life. It is no longer good enough to say that British policing is beyond all criticism. With 14 million offences now being committed each year, with nearly £10bn being spent on a police budget, employing more than 136,000 officers, and with communities up and down the land in varying states of continuing anxiety about crime and disorder, there is no way that the police can any longer be a no-go area for debate and for appropriate reform. David Blunkett's proposals have to be seen partly in that context. The taxpayer spends a very large amount of money on the police. But citizens remain afraid that they will be victims of crime and that their neighbourhoods are unsafe. So they regularly demand more police, and politicians feel obliged to supply them. Unfortunately for both the public and the politicians, police are not nearly as cost-effective as they imagine. So the cry has now gone out not just for more, but for better and more effective police. Mr Blunkett's plans aim to achieve these goals by three main means: by binding the police more closely to communities, by reorganising the police to better reflect their local, as distinct from their national and even international functions, and by imposing stricter disciplines, by means of a battery of centrally drafted performance indicators and targets. Much of this is sound stuff. There is a strong case for direct election of at least some members of police authorities. But the move would hardly be so necessary if successive governments had promoted existing local government rather than strangling its powers. Likewise, there has long been an argument for downward transference of local policing functions to smaller local forces at town and county level, while transferring the police's more serious investigative and crime-fighting functions upwards to regional or national levels. Moreover, given that policing is a job where goals and skills were so poorly defined for so long (not least by the police), there has always been a greater than usual case here for applying the discipline of targets. The worry is not with the radicalism of the ideas that politicians of all parties are now putting forward. The worry is that continuing police ineffectiveness is leading politicians to embrace false solutions to big problems. All parties continue to claim that social order and contentment will only be achieved by more police, when the real goal ought to be better police. That goal of better police - constables and chiefs alike - will not be achieved solely by laws, rules and disciplines, rather by organic changes in culture which shift the emphasis to prevention and defusing of conflict. The new fashion for localism is not enough in itself, if police recruitment, training and culture remain unchanged. No move, in this context, would do more to improve the quality of policing than to shift the focus of police recruitment from men to women. Radical ideas are fine, but effective ideas are better still.