A woman who fatally stabbed her abusive husband had her murder conviction quashed by the court of appeal today.Three judges in London substituted a conviction for manslaughter in the case of mother-of-three Donna Tinker, 31, who was jailed for life in April 2000 after a jury found her guilty of the murder of husband, Richard. Her sentence was later set at seven years, which means she is expected to remain in jail for approximately 12 months more.Tinker, who was present in the dock of the London courtroom as the judges gave their ruling, repeatedly wiped tears from her eyes. Lawyers on her behalf had urged the court to find the conviction "unsafe". Lord Justice Kennedy, Mr Justice Sachs and Mrs Justice Hallett were expected to give a ruling later today on the prison sentence she will now have to serve. Members of Tinker's family embraced each other as the conviction was overturned. Tinker stabbed her husband with a vegetable knife in June 1999. She said he held his arm around her neck and threatened her with a hot iron in the kitchen of their home in Harrogate, North Yorkshire. The single blow punctured a lung and he died in hospital a week later. Her defence of provocation was not accepted at her trial, despite evidence of the injuries she had suffered an hour before the stabbing - including a black eye, broken tooth and bruised jaw. During the appeal hearing earlier this week, Tinker's nine-year-old daughter Natalie - who lives with her two sisters with their maternal grandparents, Alan and Margaret Hall, near Newcastle upon Tyne - gave evidence via video link that she had seen her stepfather with an iron near her mother's face. The judges quashed the conviction on one ground - that a direction by the trial judge to the jury on the question of lies was "incomplete".Lord Justice Kennedy said: "We therefore conclude that the direction as to lies was significantly incomplete. The jury did not receive as much assistance as it should have received." He said that Jeremy Richardson QC, for the crown, "has not sought to persuade us that we should nevertheless regard the conviction as safe, and we consider that in the circumstances of this particular case he was right not to do so. "Accordingly we allow the appeal to the extent that we set aside the conviction for murder and substitute for it a conviction for manslaughter." He indicated that the court wanted to see a pre-sentence report and a report from the prison service in relation to the appellant's time in custody. Earlier in the ruling the judges rejected the evidence of Tinker's daughter Natalie. Lord Justice Kennedy said: "When she gave evidence before us two days ago, Natalie was, so far as we could tell, all one would expect of a nine-year-old child attempting to assist." It was necessary to consider whether the evidence "appears to us to be capable of belief". He added: "There are, as it seems to us, a host of reasons for questioning this fresh evidence." After listing those reasons, the judge concluded: "In our judgment, that catalogue of inconsistencies leads inevitably to the conclusion that although the evidence of a nine-year-old child can be persuasive Natalie's evidence is not capable of belief, and we therefore decline to receive it."