The government is in trouble with the law. Again. Odd that an administration packed with legal experts should so often find itself down the nick having its collar felt. The latest charge, brought by the Lord Chief Justice, is attempted murder of the British constitution while denying justice to asylum-seekers.In terms of partnership, Lord Woolf and Tony Blair are not Jeeves and Wooster. Though Thomas Beckett and Henry II spring more readily to mind, the turbulent branch of the judiciary is not the Prime Minister's only problem either. The rows inadvertently ignited by Lord Hutton and the Attorney-General, Lord Goldsmith, suggest that tame lawyers are as dangerous as feral ones.Goldsmith's Blue Peterish dexterity in fashioning a legal basis for the Iraq war out of one new UN Security Council resolution, plus two they had made earlier, looks like becoming Mr Blair's Jarndyce versus Jarndyce. As if one endless legal controversy was not enough, Woolf has now come up with another. Last week, he outlined two crusades. The first concerns plans for the new supreme court, proposed in the Constitutional Reform Bill along with a judicial appointments commission and abolishing the Lord Chancellor. Woolf told me three weeks ago that he believed a supreme court would cost at least £50m. 'Unless and until there's new money, I will be against it,' he said. His Cambridge speech reiterated that the highest judges in the land will not be sitting in a Portakabin. Fine, but Woolf went further. The court, he suggested, would be less supreme than those of other countries and therefore inferior. Why? It would have the same jurisdiction as the Law Lords, while physically separating those who apply the law from those who make it. Woolf's remarks are explicable only if he was reflecting the views of conservative judges for whom endorsing Blair's reforms would be like dodos voting for Darwin. But on his second caveat, Woolf was right. Clause 11 of the Asylum and Immigration Bill is a hideous measure. If it is passed, asylum-seekers will be allowed no appeal to the courts from single-tier tribunals. The findings may be reviewed at a petitioner's request, but only by another adjudicator, described by Vera Baird MP as 'the bloke at the next desk'. That would leave the Home Secretary and his officers free from judicial scrutiny of decisions that stroll the line between life and death. When the Home Office last year got its initial verdicts wrong in at least one in five cases, rising to 39 per cent for Somalis, the new system risks being a humanitarian catastrophe. Obviously, some cowboy lawyers string out hopeless cases, but efficiency and a fast-track appeal system would solve the problem without bulldozing a central principle of the constitution and setting a fearsome precedent. Woolf's argument is that the move would shatter the individual's fundamental right of recourse to the courts. Or, put differently, we are now approaching John Locke's tipping point, where the law ends and tyranny begins. The government has a stock, unspoken reply to such attacks. It goes like this. Judges, unless engaged in a government-sponsored inquiry, know nothing of realpolitik. They could not tell you the price of a curry, or the title of of Will Young's latest hit, or the circumstances of Stan Collymore's 'dogging', or what Nicole wore to the Oscars. Life on sink estates never filters through to the ivory towers from which the judiciary dispenses uppish verdicts without a blush for its unelected status. For some years now, the Government has veered hectically around in its per ception of top lawyers. Lords Hutton and Goldsmith, both L-plate performers in the roles allotted them by Blair, represent a brace of Delphic Oracles, while the experienced Woolf gets brushed aside as a trouble-stirrer with a string of previous convictions for meddling. But this time, Blair is worried. Already Ministers are working out how and when to cave in on asylum. That is not his only problem. Tomorrow, the Constitutional Reform Bill goes back to the upper chamber. There, Lord Lloyd of Berwick, a former Law Lord, has tabled an amendment which will, if passed, divert the Bill off to pre-legislative scrutiny, thus delaying reform and possibly scuppering it altogether. In the resulting vacuum, Lord Falconer, the Constitution Secretary now reviled by many judges, would have to summon his 'cheerful chappie' resources and pick new recruits himself. Next up is the Asylum Bill, which reaches the Lords a week tomorrow. Clause 11 will be savaged by opponents warning that banning appeals may lead judges to go nuclear and simply disregard the measure. Woolf, having deferred his retirement to fight the judges' corner, has no intention of staying quiet. Already, he is priming his next warhead. One pity of all this is that the constitution urgently needs reform. There is nothing sacred about a Steptoe's yard of rusty conventions. Some need to be banished and the rest written down. David Blunkett's attempt to de-royal the Crown Prosecution Service is a small bit of progress. Perhaps, in due course, the people can also reclaim their National Theatre, Albert Hall and colleges of medical expertise. Maybe they can stop funding royals who choose a lifestyle modelled on a hybrid of a medieval pope and Michael Winner. In another measure, Lord Lester's Executive Powers Bill, before the Lords last Friday, wants two changes. The first, also demanded by Jack Straw in some distant past life, is that royal prerogative powers, which allow the Prime Minister to declare wars and sign treaties, should be handed back to Parliament. The second is a politically neutral civil service in which no future Alastair Campbell could acquire excessive sway. In tandem with such moves, the legal profession needs a makeover. Out with the Mr Justice Barbie outfits of wigs, tights and high heels and the Alice in Wonderland title of Queen's Counsel. Good riddance to the post of Lord Chancellor, an affront to the separation of powers. The one fundamental that must be ring-fenced is judicial independence, the last bulwark against state oppression. Carelessly, the Government has trampled so close to that boundary that its constitution Bill, shoddily conceived but basically workable, is in peril. The second breach is the more shameful one. The Government will almost certainly act as Woolf and others exhorted them to long ago and climb down on Clause 11, but the line between the rule of law and the rule of Blair has been damagingly blurred. An administration already accused of playing fast and loose with international law now stands accused of undermining the domestic variety. Anti-immigration Tories have been made to sound wise and Government backbenchers to look craven. Clause 11 was whipped through the Commons last week with 35 Labour dissenters, roughly half the number who voted against the tuition fees that so appalled the privileged middle classes. The pillars of the constitution are still standing and no blood has yet been shed. Even so, a tariff of liberty and humanity is forfeit. When elected social improvers display so little care for the lives of refugees, you wonder what sort of democracy we inhabit. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk