A man who was sexually abused by a Catholic priest during his childhood was today awarded more than £600,000 in compensation.The man, now aged 35, was abused between the ages of seven and 18 by Father Christopher Clonan, who was a priest at Christ the King church in Coventry.The abuse victim, known as A, now suffers from schizophrenia and post-traumatic stress disorder. The high court, sitting in Manchester, awarded him £635,684 for the abuse he suffered. He had been abused between 1977 and 1988, the court heard, but did not realise anything was wrong until 1992, when "his life fell apart". The defendants in the action - the archbishop of Birmingham and the trustees of the Birmingham archdiocese of the Roman Catholic church - admitted legal liability "for failing to prevent these activities". Fr Clonan is believed to have abused many boys in the Coventry parish over a 20-year period. Today's judgment could be followed by further compensation claims totalling millions of pounds. The priest - who was never prosecuted - fled from police and went on the run to Australia. In 1988, his family said he was dead, and he was said to have suffered a brain haemorrhage. At first, detectives suspected that he could have faked his own death, but West Midlands police later said they were satisfied he had died after taking DNA evidence from a crematorium in May 2004. In his judgment today, Mr Justice Christopher Clarke said: "The abuse was regular - between one and three times a week - and progressive. It began with Fr Clonan putting his hands in A's pockets and fondling [him]."The judge said the abuse later took the form of mutual masturbation and, by the time A was aged around 12 or 13, he was being used for penetrative sex and was obliged to perform oral sex.He said the abuse had gone undetected for so long because A had not initially comprehended what was happening. Latterly, he was too afraid to speak out because he thought - as Fr Clonan had told him - that he would not be believed. The court heard A's family were devout Roman Catholics, and that he was their second youngest child. The family were parishioners of the church in Westhill Road, Coundon, and his parents attended services each day.Fr Clonan came to the church as assistant priest in 1972, and also became a governor of the Cardinal Newman secondary school. "He came from a wealthy background, had property in Ireland, and appeared to be a breath of fresh air," Mr Justice Clarke said. "He was a regular visitor to the home and officiated at weddings and christenings. He was trusted and admired. The abuse was the grossest breach of the trust that A and his family placed in him."After A told of the abuse in 1992, Fr Clonan fled to Ireland, and then to Australia. A's parents moved to Ireland because of the deterioration of the local community atmosphere in Coventry after he had spoken out about Fr Clonan. Since 2000, A has lived in a home for people with psychiatric problems.Mr Justice Clarke said: "[After the abuse] ... he has never been the same again, and has never regained the same enthusiasm for life that he once had."He became seriously ill in mind, and has since then been receiving treatment for his mental illness. The revelation of the abuse had severe consequences for his family."Peter Jennings, a spokesman for the archdiocese of Birmingham, said there was deep regret that a "priest should have totally misused his position of trust in such a way" and that the archdiocese "apologises again to those who have been abused and offended".He said the damage was "deep and lasting", but the church hoped the settlement would bring an end to the "distress and anguish" the victim had suffered."Over the years since these tragic circumstances came to light, the archdiocese of Birmingham has been in contact with the claimant and his family, and first provided practical help in 1992," Mr Jennings said."However, the substantial issues have had to be resolved in the formal matter of a court hearing, not least because of the responsibilities of the archdiocese to its insurers."The court has now come to a decision on the amount to be paid in compensation, in the light not only of the claim made but also of the evidence presented to it. The archdiocese accepts the judgments of the court and notes that it relates substantially to loss of earnings."Mr Jennings added that Fr Clonan would "have to answer for his behaviour before the throne of God". In a statement released after the decision, representatives for A said: "We consider that the size of the judge's award reflects the magnitude of the consequences of the archbishop's breach of his duty of care to A."We very much hope that the church will now offer realistic compensation to all those who have been sexually abused by Catholic priests."Complaints about abuse by priests have surfaced across the western world, forcing the resignation of senior clergy and severely undermining the church's reputation.