A court yesterday ruled that it was not a crime for a man to beat an out-of-control teenager with a belt.At Stirling sheriff court yesterday, Sheriff Robert Younger ruled that the beating, carried out as the 13-year-old hid under his bedclothes, was "reasonable chastisement". The 37-year-old defendant, from Stirling, had admitted striking the boy two or three blows, but denied assault. He said that he had been driven to his wits' end by the boy's behaviour, and the beating was a punishment. The teenager, who cannot be named, told the court that the beating was his fault. The court heard that he had been a member of a gang stealing cars, and had been smoking cannabis and taking other drugs. Shortly before the incident he had been arrested for breaking into a post office. Sheriff Younger told the man that his case was indistinguishable from a 1992 test case in which the high court had ruled that a child beaten in similar circumstances had "richly deserved punishment". He said the fact that the defendant had evidently been angry when he carried out the beating did not mean he had evil intent. He added: "You are not guilty, and free to go." Outside the court, the man said he was angry the case had even been brought. "I am angry at the police and social work department for taking it this far," he said. "All I want to do now is go back to my family and get on with my life." The court had heard that, had legislation introduced by the Scottish parliament been in effect, the incident would have been classed as assault. At one point, the Scottish executive pledged to ban the smacking of young children outright, but later changed the proposals to outlaw hitting children on the head, shaking them, or striking them with an implement. The court heard that the accused had struck the boy on the leg after he had refused to get out of bed on the first day of school term. Marks left by the belt were later spotted by a social worker, and the police were called. The teenager had told the court that he had been playing truant for more than a year. "It was my fault," he said. "I was getting lifted by the police and doing loads of bad things. "On this morning it was just his anger building up, because I was getting into trouble." A spokeswoman for the children's charity, Children 1st, said children should enjoy the same protection as adults from assault. "We still support a total ban on hitting children and young people."