Try as he might, Charles Clarke cannot completely disguise his progressive instincts. In the month since he became home secretary he has twice displayed a weakness for civil liberties.Support from the Association of Chief Police Officers made it easy for him to resist the legalisation of brutality to burglars. Had Acpo taken the opposite view, he might have felt obliged to accept the claptrap about householders being entitled to defend their property with any level of violence short of "grossly excessive". But he was obviously grateful for the opportunity to choose the libertarian option. Unlike David Blunkett, Clarke is is not a natural ally of what, when its membership was limited to the Tory party, we used to call the "hang 'em and flog 'em brigade".His answers to parliamentary questions about the law lords' judgment on the Belmarsh detainees was admirably free from flesh-creeping hints of imminent terrorist attacks and bombastic declarations about his all-transcending duty to allow law-abiding citizens to sleep safely in their beds. His near aside that "philosophical and moral issues are involved" in denying al-Qaida suspects the protection of jury trials was a statement of the obvious that previous home secretaries have failed to recognise. He sounded just the man to re-establish the rule of law. Big, bold and brash though Clarke is, he will not find it easy to end the system of "arbitrary arrest and detention" that one law lord found reminiscent of Stalin's gulags. His problem is his predecessor. No one accuses David Blunkett of leaving the Home Office "in a mess" - the charge Blunkett made against his predecessor, Jack Straw. But he did re-create it in his own authoritarian image. When the government decided that the Belmarsh detainees could not be left - uncharged and unconvicted - to rot away the rest of their lives, attempts were made to find ways of making the fight against terrorism respectable. None of the possible improvements has been introduced. Clarke has inherited a scandal made more flagrant by the passage of time. The legacy will haunt the new home secretary for years. Blunkett destroyed so many safeguards against the state's oppressive powers that arbitrary government has become part of the national psyche. If Clarke were to take up a policy position reminiscent of Michael Howard's tenure at the Home Office, he would be accused of being soft on crime. That would be highly unpopular in the months before an election - particularly with the prime minister, who made his name denouncing Howard as a reactionary. There are not many votes to be won on the slogan "Terrorist suspects have rights as well." Clarke was right to tell the House of Commons that - the law lords condemnation not withstanding - it is parliament that must decide whether the law on terrorist suspects is to be changed. The court's duty, as he implied, is to make sure that the will of parliament is not ignored or misinterpreted by ministers with only a superficial respect for democracy. However, his impeccable statement of constitutional theory confirms that he has a personal duty to advise parliament either to repeal or retain the "odious law" to which Ian Macdonald QC objected so strongly that he refused to remain one of the government's designated defence counsels. His response will reveal what sort of home secretary he really is. The home secretary's December statement to the Commons emphasised, reasonably enough, the need to examine the status of the Belmarsh detainees with some care. As Clarke almost said, it took the law lords 11 weeks to condemn government policy. So no one should expect a new home secretary to put it right overnight. But while he ponders, men are held in conditions which are not consistent with the standards of a civilised nation. Some of them, we are told, have been driven near to madness. Each day they remain in Belmarsh is added torture for them and additional disgrace for us. And with every day that passes, remedial action becomes more difficult as the general election draws nearer. There must be an immense temptation for Clarke to hope that the law lords' judgment will be submerged under arguments about the topics on which votes are won and lost. It would be easy to assume that the statement about the frivolity of an instant response was really prevarication. However, I give Clarke credit for wanting to find a solution that provides reassurance for the public and fulfils the basic demands of civil rights. But do not underestimate the pressures on him to do the wrong thing until the election. If he is the instinctive liberal I believe him to be, he will welcome pressure to end the national scandal. Write him a helpfully aggressive letter. comment@theguardian.com