The Spanish drifter who sexually assaulted and killed the British schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson had his appeal against his murder conviction rejected by a French court of appeal today.A jury and three judges in St Brieuc, Brittany, rejected the appeal brought by Francisco Arce Montes that he had not murdered the Cornish 13-year-old.Arce Montes, 55, was sentenced to 30 years in jail last year after being found guilty of sexually assaulting and murdering Caroline in a hostel in Pleine Fougeres, Brittany, in July 1996.He had admitted suffocating her with a cotton wad while sexually assaulting her on the floor of the room she was sharing with four school friends, but had insisted he had not intended to kill her.The itinerant hotel and restaurant worker had been convicted or suspected of sex offences in five European countries. Under the French legal system he had an automatic right of appeal, a law which Caroline's family said should be reviewed after it had been "exploited" by their daughter's killer. In a statement made after the hearing, Caroline's parents, John and Sue, and their 20-year-old daughter Jenny, said that they had made the painful trip to France "expecting to hear his grounds for that appeal but none appear to have been offered".Reading from the statement outside the court, Mr Dickinson, 49, an environmental health officer, said: "It has seemed as if the offender's rights have overshadowed the victim's."He said he hoped Caroline could now be "allowed to rest in peace" and while they would never forget her, they hoped they could "draw a line under the necessary legal processes and look to the future".During the hearing, Mr Dickinson had told the court how he had to undergo counselling because haunted by visions of seeing his daughter's body in the mortuary left him unable to sleep.Caroline was killed while on a school trip with 40 other pupils from Launceston community college in Cornwall.Arce Montes had spent his life drifting from country to country, stalking young girls in youth hostels. He had a predilection for children aged between 12 and 15.He travelled in Britain, the Netherlands, France and Spain, and served three years of a five-year sentence for raping two girls in Germany between 1985 and 1988.On the night Caroline died, Arce Montes had made an unsuccessful assault on another English girl who was staying at a hostel in St Lunaire. Disturbed in the attack by classmates, he then drove to Pleine Fougeres, high on a cocktail of anti-depressant tablets and whisky.He attacked Caroline as she lay on a mattress in the shared room, covering her face so her cries could not be heard.Arce Montes was found guilty last June at a court in Rennes, Brittany. According to evidence heard at the original trial, he masturbated over her body and penetrated her with his fingers, a crime which is defined as rape under French law. He was convicted of "murder preceded, accompanied or followed by rape", and given no chance of parole for 20 years of his 30-year sentence. His defence lawyer, Patrick Elghozi, told the appeal that Arce Montes was mentally ill and in need of treatment. "He must be punished for what he did, that is rape resulting in death, but not more," he said.Ahead of the jury being sent out, Arce Montes, who is originally from Gijon, northern Spain, apologised to Caroline's family but insisted she had died by mistake. "What I did was awful. It was horrendous. I cannot be pardoned. I am sorry and I regret my actions but I didn't intend to kill your daughter ... I want your daughter to be with you at home. I think of my son and if somebody had done that to my son I would think like you," he said from the dock.He also made a plea to the jury, claiming he was not a "clever criminal or the ruthless predator that the prosecution describe". Under the French system, the jury of eight men and four women deliberated with three appeal judges and then cast their votes in secret. The three judges also voted. A majority decision of 10 out of 15 was needed for a verdict.Arce Montes was only caught because a US immigrations officer at Detroit airport had come across a story about Caroline's inquest in the Sunday Times in 2001 and entered details about Arce Montes into a database. He had been arrested three weeks earlier in Miami, Florida, for breaking into a youth hostel and committing a lewd act in a female dormitory.