A 13-year-old girl is critically ill in hospital in Manchester after being stabbed by a man who apparently killed her father before dying himself in a car crash.The girl, named locally as Ayeshea Collins, was visiting her father in Moston, a neighbourhood north of the city centre, when they were attacked in his home on Sunday evening.She is believed to be the only witness to the incident but is not yet well enough to be interviewed, a police source said. On Monday afternoon her status was said to be critical but stable.Officers were called to the end-of-terrace house on Delta Walk at 10.20pm on Sunday night after reports of "a concern for welfare".Ayeshea's 41-year-old father, named locally as Robert "Jacko" Jackson, was found dead with suspected stab wounds. His daughter had also been stabbed but was alive and was taken to hospital.A few hours later, just before 1am on Mondayyesterday, police were called to an address in nearby Harpurhey. A resident said a man had stolen his car after threatening him with a knife.Soon after, the vehicle was seen near the main Rochdale Road by police. When officers approached, a 34-year-old man drove the car into the side of the Alliance pub.He was taken to hospital suffering from a stab wound and injuries consistent with a collision but died a short time later. He was named locally as Darren Gasper.No one else was injured and Greater Manchester police said they are not looking for any other suspects.Shocked locals in Moston only had good things to say about the victims on Wednesday. A gardener, Jozsef Papai, said he had regularly weeded Jackson's garden. "He was a very nice man, no trouble."Another neighbour, who gave his name as Ade, said: "Jacko was a cool man, calm; I doubt if he has ever thrown a punch in his life."Two teenage girls on the estate described Jackson's daughter as "a lovely girl, really gorgeous – we can't believe what's happened".The streets around Delta Walk have been declared a priority zone by police, who run extra patrols from 5pm-9pm each night in an attempt to curb burglary, criminal damage and antisocial behaviour.Bernice Nadin, who lives around the corner from Jackson, blamed the high crime rate on drugs. "It's rife around here," she said. "We've had other murders, people getting battered in alleyways, shootings."Locals talked of previous violent crimes in the area, with one man pointing to the spot where 27-year-old Zennen Blackburn was shot dead in 2002. It was no more than 50m from Jackson's house, which was cordoned off by police on Monday as a forensic team wearing special suits and masks searched the property.In 1992 16-year-old Suzanne Capper was kidnapped and kept prisoner in a house in Moston, where she was beaten, injected with drugs and subjected to brutal torture before being set alight by her captors. She later died from her injuries after being dumped in woods in Stockport.Moston neighbours Harpurhey, a ward regularly cited as one of the most deprived inner-city areas in Britain. This year Harpurhey was the unwilling subject of a controversial fly-on-the-wall BBC documentary, People Like Us, which was criticised as "pantomime poverty".Detective Superintendent Simon Barraclough, from the major incident team at Greater Manchester police, said: "We are in the very early stages of our inquiries and are piecing together the circumstances that led to two men losing their lives and a 13-year-old girl fighting for her life in hospital."Obviously the community will be shocked as to what has happened, but we can say we do not believe anyone else was involved and are not looking for anyone else in relation to this incident. However, a police presence will remain in the area to offer reassurance and answer any concerns residents may have."Anyone with information should phone police on 101 or the independent charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.