Three men convicted of killing a 14-year-old boy in a cemetery posed for a selfie together hours before the “brutal and sustained attack”. George Thomson, 19, Brahnn Finley, 19, and Daniel Johnston, 20, all from Carlisle in Cumbria, took the picture before Jordan Watson was lured to Upperby Cemetery in the city, where he was stabbed to death. The picture, which Cumbria police released after the conviction of the three men, were taken in Thomson’s bedroom. Thomson, who had an “obsessive desire” for Jordan’s 14-year-old girlfriend, was jailed for life with a minimum term of 27 years for murdering his teenage rival.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   George Thomson, Brahnn Finley and Daniel Johnston, who were convicted over the killing of Jordan Watson. Photograph: Cumbria police/PAHis co-defendant Finley was also jailed for life with a minimum term of 14 years after he was unanimously convicted by a jury of murdering Jordan. Johnston was found guilty of his manslaughter and sentenced to 10 years in prison after being cleared of murder. Thomson was said to have lured the schoolboy to the cemetery on the evening of 15 June last year with an “almost certainly fictional” arrangement to sell weapons to another man. DS Andrew Slattery described the attack as “savage and brutal”, adding that it had been the largest murder investigation the force had carried out for more than five years. He said: “For anyone to die in these circumstances is appalling, but this pre-meditated murder was carried out on a small 14-year-old boy. Jordan was an ordinary 14-year-old boy, like hundreds of others growing up in Carlisle. To his family though he wasn’t ordinary, he was unique, he was their son and brother and they loved him.” He added that Jordan had “looked up” to Thomson, who had befriended him and encouraged Jordan to visit him at home where he showed off his collection of weapons. When police later searched Thomson’s home they found a bloodstained Gurkha knife under his bed. Also recovered from his bedroom was an “unusually large” quantity of knives and weapons including a machete, a cleaver, a stun gun, a replica rifle and a block of knives next to his bed, Carlisle crown court heard. Slattery added: “He told him exciting stories about his money-making schemes and promised him money in return for helping him with his illicit business. Jordan would have been excited about the prospect of earning what would have been to him huge sums of money. “But George wasn’t Jordan’s friend; he had an obsession with his 14-year-old girlfriend and would stop at nothing to have her for himself. George’s friendship with Jordan was a sham but Jordan trusted George and felt comfortable with him, alone, at night in a secluded place.” Finley had agreed to pay off a debt owed to Thomson by helping him carry out the killing along with Johnston. Slattery added: “Jordan left his home that night in good spirits, no doubt looking forward to spending his money but he never returned. He was murdered in a vicious and sadistic attack which shocked the whole community.” Jordan’s family said no sentence would “ever truly reflect” the loss that they feel, with his parents, Mike and Lisa Watson, adding that the last seven months had been “a living nightmare”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jordan Watson’s family said no sentence would reflect the loss they felt. Photograph: Cumbria police/PAThey paid tribute to their son in a statement: “The horrific tragedy that happened to our son Jordan in June 2015 will always be in our memory. Jordan was full of fun and was loved by his family, particularly his younger sister which he was very protective of. We have our own special memories of Jordan which no one can take away from us. “For the past seven months we have had so many unanswered questions. Every day we question why the life of our 14-year-old child was taken in such a cruel and violent way. We will never see our child grow up and live a full life.” They added: “Getting justice for Jordan has helped restore our trust and faith in people again. No sentence will ever truly reflect the deep loss we feel for losing our child Jordan. We are relieved with the verdict given and believe that those responsible for the brutal and callous killing of our child have been brought to justice. Only now can we truly take the first steps in getting our lives back on track.” Jordan’s younger sister, Alisha, said: “The things I can remember about my big brother were going swimming, walking our dogs, Marley and Lucy, and having a snowball fight on the front when it had snowed. I am sad that my big brother isn’t here anymore. I miss him loads, I like to go visit him to light a candle for him so he is not on his own.” His friend Scott Rogers added: “I miss Jordan loads … he wasn’t my just my friend, we were more like brothers.” Isla Chilton of the Crown Prosecution Service said the murder had “shocked the whole community”. She added: “This was a premeditated murder, committed out of jealousy and planned in great detail by George Thomson. Thomson had even told several people beforehand that he wanted to kill Jordan. In the time leading up to the murder he recruited Brahnn Finley and Daniel Johnston into his plan. “Jordan’s murder has been devastating for his family and friends and no verdict or sentence can take away their terrible loss, but I hope that today’s outcome to the trial will help to bring some comfort.” 