Kelly Smithson will never forget the day she found her daughter Lauren's missing pony. When she could not see Lacey in the field near her home, Mrs Smithson believed the animal had been stolen.'I thought some kids had just taken her, but when I saw blood all over the water carriers I thought she was dead. I thought some sickos must have been on the loose,' said Mrs Smithson of Aughton, South Yorkshire. After a search she found the terrified animal cowering behind a bush. 'She had cuts all over her head - a really deep one near her mouth, and her eye had blown up. The back of her neck was black with bruises where they'd hit her with pieces of burnt wood and concrete slabs. Her backside had a deep cut as well, where they'd stabbed her with a pitchfork.' After three vicious attacks in less than three months, animal welfare groups fear horse rippers may be on the loose in South Yorkshire. In April a pony was attacked with a screwdriver near Barnsley. Two weeks after Lacey was stabbed in late May, a horse in a stables near Rotherham had its back legs tied together with rope and its neck slashed. Phil McCarthy of the RSPCA, who is compiling a dossier on the violence, calculates that there are up to 18 attacks a year on horses and possibly many more that go unreported. According to records kept by the now defunct Metropolitan Police's equine crime prevention unit, between 1983 and 1993 more than 160 horses were attacked or mutilated in the UK. After the new attacks in South Yorkshire, local people have been quick to draw comparisons with another spate of horse mutilations last year. In the run-up to the summer solstice, there were at least 12 attacks on horses in fields along the Derbyshire/Yorkshire border. One horse had eight litres of blood drained from its stomach, while stones depicting five-pointed stars were found in the surrounding fields. Some of the animals had their tails removed, and others had their manes plaited in intricate patterns - signs of black magic practices. Despite 24-hour surveillance, police caught no one. There had been similar attacks in Nottinghamshire at Hallowe'en the previous year, but no one was arrested. Concern about the links between the occult and horse attacks has prompted the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals to compile a list of attacks for Dr Richard Hoskins, an expert on witchcraft who advised police on the infamous 'torso in the Thames' investigation which examined the links between human sacrifice and black magic.All those investigating the attacks, however, are cautious about overstating the links between horse ripping and the occult. 'There are all sorts of reasons why horses are being attacked. There are all sorts of people involved and all sorts of motives,' said Doreen Graham of the Scottish society. Ted Barnes, a field officer with the International League for the Protection of Horses, and a former member of the Met unit, calculates that 80 per cent of suspected horse attacks are not committed by humans. 'In by far the largest percentage of cases where the animal has been harmed, it is either self-inflicted or inflicted by another horse. A lot of people find this hard to believe, but it does happen,' Barnes said. In the majority of cases where a horse has been attacked by a human, a personal feud is the motive. 'We had a situation a couple of years ago when a husband and wife were getting divorced and he attacked her horse,' said Joanne Kennedy of South Yorkshire Police's horsewatch unit. 'For horse owners it's like a member of the family.' Psychologists are also studying suggestions of a sexual motive. Research in Germany in the Nineties found one child abuser had a sexual reason for attacking horses. 'Little girls give a lot of love horses, and there is therefore a psychological connection with children. Paedophiles thrive on that tenderness shown by children and animals,' Alexandra Schedel Stuppich, who investigated the case, said at the time. Given the numerous theories about what lies behind attacks on horses, it is unlikely a definitive explanation will be established until the police make some arrests. Two teenagers are being questioned in connection with the attack on the Smithsons' pony, which is expected to make a full recovery. Barnes, though, remains doubtful as to whether a complete explanation for why humans attack horses will emerge. 'In my previous life with the Met all sorts of theories from all over the world would drop on my desk. But in the 30 years I've been investigating this, I've never been able to come up with a common denominator,' he said.