At the All Stars boxing gym, the air is thick with sweat from up to 30 teenagers. The former church's vaulted interior echoes with the screech of rubber soles against polished wood and the snap of boxing gloves hitting pads.In the middle of it all, against the backdrop of a brightly graffitied apse, Moses Kaamuli is dancing around the ring. Surrounded by fading photographs of boxing legends that cover the brick walls, his every movement is precise, agile, elegant. He wasn't always so in control. After coming to Britain from Uganda when he was 10, by the age of 12 he had been thrown out of his uncle's house. By 14, he had been expelled from school, and had begun his first prison sentence. It was only when he started coming to All Stars, aged 21, while living in a homeless hostel after another stint behind bars, that his life started to change. Now 27, he says: "When I first came here, I was afraid of most people, I didn't know no better. But now, with all the skills I've learned I walk with my head high. I haven't been in trouble since. I'm confident on those streets, I'm really not afraid of anything or anyone. You know, it's just a different side of life."The All Stars gym, in west Kilburn, north-west London, has been quietly reaching out to boys such as Moses for more than 30 years. But now, thanks to interest from the London mayor, Boris Johnson, it has been propelled to the vanguard of his plans to tackle the rising youth violence in the capital that has claimed 28 teenage lives this year. Johnson visited the club while on the mayoral campaign trail in February, and praised the gym's efforts "to get kids off the streets and allow them to develop new skills in a structured environment where they are surrounded by positive adult role models".As part of his youth crime action plan which aims to tackle "the complex long-term root causes of teenage violence and criminality", the tried-and-tested methods of discipline, tough love and support at All Stars could be used as a model for other boxing gyms throughout the city. Alongside supporting first-time offenders, cracking down on truancy and getting more kids in care into university, the mayor is supporting community sporting centres as a way of promoting discipline, self-respect and character. Isola Akay, who founded the gym as a place where socially excluded boys and girls could train, looks at the hive of activity around him. To the teenagers who come here, he is strict but fair, as long as they respect the ground rules: no swearing, no fighting outside the ring, no attitude.The 73-tear-old Ghanaian argues that the discipline the sport requires and the confidence it engenders is the best antidote to the lure of gang culture. "Most of the kids who [carry weapons] on the street are scared, they are really scared," he says. "But after they have been training for a while they walk on the street with a different attitude. They are confident in themselves and that means they don't need to carry any weapons to feel safe." Since it opened on the Harrow Road in 1981 thousands of kids from every background have passed through All Stars' doors. Under the wing of qualified coaches - many of whom have come here since childhood and all are volunteers - it has produced more than 30 amateur champions, and last year had success with its female boxers. Zaneta Siertinski, Hannah Beharry and Lesley Sackey won ABA titles, Sackey going on to win gold for England in this year's European Women's Championships. Almost every British boxer worth his salt, including Frank Bruno, Lennox Lewis and Barry McGuigan, has trained here. Pointing to a picture of himself with former world heavyweight champion Mike Tyson, Akay says: "Train here? We couldn't get rid of him. He loves this gym." Not everyone is so enthusiastic. The British Medical Association has lobbied for a ban on boxing since the 1980s and argues other sports that require discipline and control should be favoured for children. Others believe the sport can encourage aggression in young people already heavily exposed to violence. Uanu Seshmi, co-founder of the London education and self-development programme Boyhood to Manhood, welcomes the mayor's plans to tackle youth violence but argues that programmes should focus on communication skills and forgiveness: "All we are doing by encouraging young people to box is feeding them a diet of violence. We are conditioning young men to believe that if they want to solve a problem, they have to do so with their fists."Akay disagrees. "People just see the boxing, the physical part of it. But the other side of boxing, of any sport, is the comradeship," he says. "We make the kids here feel wanted. They feel special. And through that you get to know when things are going wrong. That's what we do." It is what he has done since 1974, when he started to train a group of boys - excluded from a local gym for being a "disruptive influence" - from his own 5th floor flat. From drilling them up and down council blocks and in local parks he finally raised enough money, with the help of the Sports Council, to transform the derelict church that now houses the gym.During those years his wife walked out, funding dried up, but the gym remained. And finally, after years of insecurity and struggle, Akay is happy that its worth is being recognised in important places. "I just hope we are going to get the opportunity to carry on doing what we are doing, helping this community and a lot of young people to behave in the way they should," he says. Over the shouts of encouragement that rise to the arched ceiling of the gym like a modern hymn to exertion, Akay dismisses the idea that he is some kind of saviour. "I see myself like anyone else on this planet. We are all here for a purpose, we all have something to give. People have to stand up and be counted. I'm no hero, I'm just playing my part."• This article was amended on Thursday 19 November 2009. We said the All Stars Gym hosted the inaugural Mayor's Cup, a tournament designed to raise the profile of amateur boxing in the city. In fact the tournament was organised by All Stars but took place at Porchester Hall, 45 Porchester Road, Bayswater, London, W2 5HS. This has been corrected.