I bridled when I first read today's front page headline in the Times – "A Nation's Shame" – over its account of the nine men found guilty of sexually abusing girls in the Manchester area, and the wider abuse that exists in England's children's homes. It seemed both daft and meaningless, unless the nation shamed was Pakistan, from which eight of the nine convicted men hailed. But that would be a bit sweeping too.On reflection there is scope for wider regret beyond those directly involved. Poor ex-mill towns in the north-west carry great burdens from our shared past and enough is never done to ease their distress. Children's homes from which so many of the predators' victims were plucked are all too often neglected corners of our society too. The police ignored initial complaints from troubled teenagers. So shame on us all.Here's Helen Carter's coverage of this grim trial at Liverpool crown court – , which ended on Monday with the nine convictions – and here's her wider background reporting – here too – for the Guardian. It's grisly stuff, the kind of issue our respectable Victorian ancestors also struggled to deal with – only protecting children from being "carnally abused" under the age of 10 in 1861, as this useful summary reminds us.So exploitation of the poor and vulnerable, women and girls in particular, has been with society for ever, much of it brushed under the carpet as too difficult to comprehend, let alone resolve. One familiar response that the jury in Liverpool heard was that the girls, not their rapists, were the exploiters, street-smart, greedy and immoral. "I didn't know how old she was," that sort of excuse too.How different cultures and societies treat their women is a crucial test of justice, fairness, efficiency and modernity in the 21st century. The countries where they are most equal are, I think we can sustain this generalisation, the societies that tend to be richer, fairer and more competent – though Scandinavian sex tourism and the Breivik trial in Oslo remind us too that such countries' policies are not problem-free.In this case, familiar issues of class and gender are compounded by race. The Times has been the newspaper most active in exposing the sort of crimes that have been coming to trial in the Midlands and north (do liberal media tend to shy away, I wonder?) and its coverage today (paywall) does not hesitate to identify what headline writers (it's a shorter word) call "Asian" networks of abuse.Martin Narey, saintly ex-head of Barnardo's and much else, talks on the radio more precisely and judiciously about the "disproportionate" number of men of Pakistani origin involved in such crimes (Monday's ninth convicted man was an illegal immigrant of Afghan background).It seems like a blindingly obvious point to make – much like saying that City fat cats, over-paid and over-weight, are disproportionately white and middle aged. Yet we have to be careful. Here's a well-researched piece on Comment is Free that attempts to provide calm context and warns against offender profiling based on race. White sex offenders tend to act alone (is that really true?) whereas the Pakistanis convicted here acted together. More research is needed.Well, yes. But all sorts of people who are usually quite willing (in some cases eager) to categorise many of society's ills in terms of discrimination over race and racism – yes, Keith Vaz, MP, I include you – when the victim comes from an ethnic or national minority, throw their hands up in horror at those who highlight the Pakistani or "Asian" connection here. The race relations industry goes into a curious reverse.At one level we can understand why. The BNP, English Defence League and other professional racists are keen to get their crowbars into cases such as this. Two Asian lawyers pulled out of the original trial (it had to be abandoned) after being threatened. Only last week Nick Griffin, whom older readers may remember as the BNP leader, accurately tweeted "Seven of the Muslim paedophile rapists found guilty in Liverpool".Since the jury was still deliberating its overall verdict, cut off from the outside world without their mobiles, this caused a stir – and the defence asked for the case to be abandoned. The judge took a more robust view of the taxpayers' interest, satisfied himself that no juror had misbehaved, and pressed ahead. An odd incident though, one that will please conspiracy theorists of all persuasions. While the age of Twitter mania lasts, there will be more such.But does the fact that the hooligan wing of politics seeks to exploit community anger at such cases – there has been public disorder in some towns over the affair, we now learn – prevent the rest of us looking at this straight in the eye? Obviously it does for many, but it shouldn't. We see the inhibition problem in social care cases such as little Victoria Climbié, in the genetic disorders caused by cousin marriage (a Bradford report widely ignored last month), in the backstreet female circumcision horrors exposed by the Sunday Times the other weekend.On Radio 4 this morning – my early listening of choice – Keith Vaz (a Catholic born in Aden of Goan stock by the way) complained about the perils of "stigmatising a whole community" and produced stats that show more youngsters are abused by white men than by Pakistanis.Well, yes, that would be likely in Britain, wouldn't it? The Greater Manchester police and others concerned for public order make the same point: not all the perpetrators were Pakistani Brits, not all the girls involved were white. None of my Asian constituents in (prosperous) Leicester have complained to me that this is going on, says Vaz. They're horrified too, they have wives and daughters.This is surely true of most British Muslims as it is of the rest of us. But isn't it also a little disingenuous? Isn't Narey's gentle use of "disproportionate" a better way of expressing it? Writing in Tuesday's Times, Mohammed Shafiq, chief executive of the Rochdale-based Ramadhan Foundation, reports how elders in his own community have shrugged their shoulders at child-sex grooming by young men, sometimes aware that it is shameful, sometimes inclined to keep silent rather than do the BNP's work for it, sometimes inclined to blame wider British society for the over-sexualisation – good point – of the young.Shafiq himself has been campaigning in vain for years and now declares the taboo broken. Good. He also reports that 59 of the recent spate of 68 convictions have been of men of Pakistani origin. He praises the courage of the girls who spoke out to give evidence and reminds Lancashire Muslim community elders that they are "no different from our own wives and daughters".That's an important point because the trial again made clear that the convicted rapists did not regard their victims as such. Quite the opposite, they were trying to square their highly conservative cultural traditions, those of rural Pakistani villages, often their religious piety too (one of the rapists was revered for his knowledge of the Qur'an), with their need for off-the-books sex. Poor English girls plied with drink and threats were one solution.This "otherness" is crucial to most forms of cruelty down the ages. Once the perpetrator has established the less-than-human inferiority of their victim – Yids, Polacks, niggers, pakis, chinks, abos, kaffirs – then anything is permissible. The British empire did its share, as do most empires past and present. To the litany of familiar abuse can now be added Lancashire girls.The good aspect of such stories is that there is usually – not always – someone who speaks out against an injustice, Mohammed Shafiq being one such in this case, and will not be silenced. It is also possible to see this case – as he does – in generational terms. The old and staid, the ignorant newcomers from remote traditional villages half a world away, think such abuses tolerable or prefer to turn a blind eye. The young, integrated and better educated think otherwise. In the Bradford West byelection last month it was, as Helen Pidd explained in the Guardian, Respect's George Galloway – not the local Labour party – who caught the tide of modernity when he recruited young hijabi women to his campaign and reminded them they don't have to vote the way their husbands do. Exactly.