Most people think nothing of crossing a road. But for many teenagers in a small area of north London, just walking on the wrong side of the street is a dangerous decision, and one that could prove fatal.'Postcode' gangs rule in the boroughs of Hackney and Islington, where groups of disaffected youths will defend their territories with knives, and sometimes guns, in increasingly violent turf wars which police are struggling to contain.Detectives investigating the death last week of Nass Osawe, stabbed on Islington's main street in front of horrified shoppers just six days short of his 17th birthday, are examining the theory that he may be the latest victim of this murderous phenomenon.The 27th teenager to be murdered in the capital this year, the A-level student who dreamt of studying art at university died after an altercation with youths at a bus stop on Upper Street. The trigger could well have been as simple as exchanging a 'dirty look' with a gang member on a bus.Police investigations are centred on members of the Shakespeare gang, whose 'manor' includes blocks of flats in the Milton Garden Estate in Stoke Newington, just a few minutes walk from Nass's home in Grosvenor Avenue, Highbury. A 17-year-old and an 18-year-old are being questioned.Gang warfare in Hackney is nothing new. There are at least 22 identified gangs in the borough, almost double the number of the next ranked borough, Enfield, which has 13. There are an estimated 10 gangs in Islington borough.An internal police report states that Hackney suffers from 'the highest rates of increase of gun and knife crime in London'. This has resulted in 'terrible acts of gratuitous violence', it says, and demonstrates the 'serious implication of district code warfare'.The Shakespeare gang, which takes its name from Shakespeare Walk, a popular Victorian residential street bordering Milton Garden Estate, is by no means the most notorious. 'They are not in the big league,' said the Rev Joyce Daley, one of several street pastors who patrol the borough's estates at night, striking up conversations with youths and trying to build bridges between them and the police.The most feared are the London Fields Crew, the Hoxton Boys and the E5th Ridaz, who used to control Lower Clapton's Pembury Estate and who have produced their own home-made music video to encourage attacks on rival gangs.'Stoke Newington is two worlds,' said one estate resident. 'You've got the middle-class influx who shop at Fresh and Wild, the organic wholefoods shop, and the farmers' market, and buy their rolls from the upmarket baker and eat out at the local gastropub. Then you've got the gangs.'The Shakespeare gang have members as young as 10. It doesn't matter what race you are, what religion you are; to join you just have to live in the right area. It's all about territory. And, if someone from another gang strays into their manor, then it all blows up.'Residents recently witnessed the arrest of one youth armed with a gun whom police had to subdue on the local basketball court using CS spray. 'They hang around in groups, or rev their cars up and down the roads,' said another resident. 'I wouldn't say they were terribly organised, more of a street gang than a criminal gang.' The members often referred to themselves as 'Soldiers of Shakespeare,' he said, and some were said to sport SOS tattoos.Senior police officers responsible for patrolling the estates around where Nass Osawe lived say gang tensions in the area are worse than at any time in living memory. In briefings to probation staff, police have said that the violence between rival groups has become so intense there are now cases of gang members wearing upper body armour. 'The police told us that there were six or seven key gangs operating in the area who are linked to local estates,' said Harry Fletcher of the probation officers' union, Napo, who lives locally. 'Gang membership is based on geography not race.'The situation has become so combustible that even seemingly innocuous events have started to alarm police. Officers were so worried that a football tournament in nearby Homerton in east London this month would turn into what one called a 'gallery of the gangs' that they had thought about banning it.Probation staff working with young offenders say the estates in north-east London have become a fertile breeding ground for gangs. 'If a teenager living on the estate doesn't become a member he ends up being victimised,' Fletcher said. 'If he joins, he gets protection from other gangs, so there's a double pressure to belong.'Earlier this month, 16-year-old David Nowak was fatally stabbed outside a party in a community centre in Stoke Newington, just over a mile from where Osawe was killed. And in June, 14-year-old Martin Dinnegan from nearby Highbury, who attended St Aloysius Roman Catholic school in Highgate, the school where Osawe went, was stabbed to death in Holloway by a gang, allegedly for looking at some of its members 'in the wrong way', according to witnesses.The increasingly senseless 'hair-trigger' nature of the killings has left experts struggling for explanations and police officers on patrol relying heavily on their armed colleagues for back-up.'There have always been territorial gangs in London,' said Commander Shaun Sawyer from the Met Police's Violent Crime Directorate. 'What's different is the levels of violence that are used. In most cases it is knives, and, extremely rarely, guns. It is postcode related. I've spoken to young people who say it's about respecting territory and, because they've got nothing else, they have to hold on to what little they have got. And the trigger seems more tightly sprung. It's not a phenomenon that's going to go away overnight.'Youngsters were often drawn into gangs through older siblings, he said, or because they had suffered violence in the home. 'The gang provides a family in which you feel secure.'Building up intelligence on gang members is a challenge for police. But initiatives such as the Street Pastors are gradually helping police to communicate with gang members.'Postcode gangs are a real problem,' said the Rev Daley. 'And not just for those small number of teenagers who are gang members. It affects the whole youth community. Something as simple as just crossing the road and going into another postcode can be a threat.'I've spoken to young people who are terrified of getting on the wrong bus - they are genuinely fearful of being in the wrong place.'Recently the Faithful Ministries church, where Daley is senior pastor, moved from Hackney's 'murder mile' in Lower Clapton, to south Hackney. 'And some of the young people are too terrified to attend because it's in a different postcode. These are not gang members, just ordinary young people who won't even get on the bus because they would have to travel through the territory of a known gang. We have to bring them by minibus.'She has also noticed an increase in the level of violence employed by the gangs. 'They seem inured to blood and gore. They are not afraid to see it. These are desperate times and they call for desperate measures.'Fletcher, who has spent time talking to gang members, said changing their attitude to the use of violence was an almost impossible challenge. 'They seem to have a "no fear" attitude,' Fletcher said. 'They're just not bothered if they get six or seven years inside.'With often limited job prospects restricting socio-economic mobility, joining a gang confers an instant status on its members, who can also earn money selling drugs for dealers higher up the distribution chain. The fatal shooting earlier this year of Rhys Jones in Liverpool was thought to have been as a result of the innocent 11-year-old being caught in the crossfire between two teenage gangs involved in drug distribution, the Crocky Crew and the Nogzy Soldiers.Many gang members, Fletcher said, had developed a warped sense of reality. 'Some of them think they are in a film; they find it difficult to differentiate between reality and fantasy.'It is against this backdrop that detectives are investigating the death of Nass, the youngest of five children, who was out shopping with two friends when he was fatally attacked. One of those friends was also stabbed but is recovering in hospital.In a statement, his grieving family spoke of a 'kind, loving and principled son and sensitive brother, with a great sense of humour'. He was, they said, a very talented artist and was studying A-level Art at St Charles Catholic Sixth Form College, where he was deemed an exceptional student and was expected to go on to university.The statement went on: 'Nass's favourite type of art was animation and he loved drawing and watching cartoons and playing computer games. His ambition was to become a graphic designer working in the computer games industry.'Nass was a young man just beginning to make his way in the world and had never been in any kind of trouble. He was taken away from his family and friends by a needless and senseless act of violence.'The victimsSo far this year 27 teenagers have been killed in London. Eight alone have died in the north of the capital. They are:Dean Rashid Lahlou, 18, stabbed Tottenham, JanuaryJevon Henry, 18, stabbed St Johns Wood, JanuaryDanielle Johnson, 17, stabbed and beaten Bounds Green, JuneAnnaka Keniesha Pinto, 16, shot Tottenham, JuneMartin Dinnegan, 14, stabbed Highbury, JuneEtem Celebi, 17, shot Hackney, NovemberDavid Nowak, 14, stabbed Stoke Newington, DecemberNassirudeen Osawe, 16, stabbed Islington, December