"Occupation?" asked the undertaker. "Cat burglar," I replied. "Hmm," said the undertaker. We were filling in the form for the cremation of Peter Scott, also known as the "king of the cat burglars" and "the human fly", who died in March. Scott was a crook who stole tens of millions of pounds' worth of jewellery and artworks, was the author of Gentleman Thief, and the subject of He Who Rides a Tiger, the 1965 Charles Crichton film, starring Tom Bell and Judi Dench. He lived the last of his 82 years on a tough estate near King's Cross, just up the road from the Guardian offices. I used to meet him for lunch or a drink every so often. When I saw him last summer, after a gap of a few months, he looked suddenly very ill, and I remarked on the fact. "I'm not ill, Duncan, I'm dying!" he said. "Write a nice obituary."A few weeks later, as the cancer took hold, he was in a care home miles away in Newham, east London, where he had been shunted by Islington council, who were now seeking to re-let his flat. The home itself was pleasant enough. Peter had a half-bottle of rum hidden behind his curtain and, when I asked how he was, he announced that "under the bludgeonings of chance, my head is bloody but unbowed". Those are lines from WE Henley's Invictus, the same poem he recited to detectives who arrested him for his last offence in 1997, handling the Picasso, Tete de Femme, which had been stolen from a Mayfair gallery.He was getting a bit confused – he thought he had just seen the son of a long-dead gangster in the garden outside – but otherwise was in cheery form, wanting little more from life than a chat, a choc ice and a glass of rum. He introduced me to staff as "the editor of the Guardian". He was fading fast by the time he was dispatched a few weeks later to Newham general hospital, but still able to manage the first few lines of Oscar Wilde's Ballad of Reading Gaol. He had had a good education; he was a schoolmate at the Royal Belfast Academy of the former BBC political editor and Guardian journalist, John Cole.By the time of his death, he was bankrupt and penniless. He had not had many visitors during his time in the care home and hospital, although one, Roland Kennedy, a young film-maker I had put in touch with Peter when he was an art student doing a project on art theft, was with him when he died. Peter had fallen out with his family, perhaps not surprisingly. He can't have ever merited a "Greatest Dad in the World" mug, since most of his active life was spent getting nicked (14 years inside altogether), getting divorced – there were four wives – or getting plastered. On his last trip back to Belfast, he had found most of the doors closed to him.So, because there was some confusion over who was to organise a funeral, I ended up in east London, with a very understanding undertaker, deciding how best to fill in the box marked "occupation"."How old was he?" asked the undertaker. "Eighty-two? Let's just put retired, shall we?"I booked him in for the first cremation of the day at the Islington cemetery at 10.15 am; there is a discount for the early hour. What to choose for the three pieces of music one is allotted? Steal Away, that beautiful old gospel song, sung by Mahalia Jackson, seemed to work on two levels. There was Richard Thompson's Bank Vault in Heaven to consider, but in the end we settled for The Unwelcome Guest, a Woody Guthrie song put to music by Billy Bragg. It's about a better-known highwayman who rides on Black Bess, "to the rich man's bright lodges … to take the bright silver and gold you have taken from somebody else". In Gentleman Thief, his memoir, Scott wrote: "I have an inbuilt suspicion that I was sent by God to put back some of the wealth that the outrageously rich had taken from the rest of us."The sign at the entrance to the cemetery warned that "there are thieves operating in this area. Please keep your valuables out of sight." Well, this was one thief who wouldn't be operating any more. I wasn't sure who, if anyone, would attend, apart from the loyal Roland, who came with his mother, Baroness Kennedy QC, but a trio of Peter's old friends were there, and a woman from the care home who had looked after him. A sweet-natured reverend conducted the ceremony.The coffin duly disappeared to Steal Away after the vicar had recited Psalm 23. We read the WE Henley poem, a verse or two from Reading Gaol and a letter on prison note-paper from the person who had actually stolen the Picasso and is still serving a long sentence. We had a Guinness in the pub next to East Finchley station afterwards.All a bit of a contrast to the traditional funeral for the famous criminal. The tone for these was set in the 1980s, in the wake of the Godfather films and the burial of Don Vito Corleone: the limos, the flowers, the dark suits, the dark glasses.  Ronnie Kray's funeral in London in 1995. Photograph: Brian Harris/RexThe Kray twins both had traditional East End send-offs with the song My Way featuring each time. Ron Kray also had a reading of Invictus at his funeral in 1995: "I am the master of my fate/ I am the captain of my soul." At the burial in Chingford cemetery in east London, his brother, Reg, then still serving time for the murder of Jack "The Hat" McVitie, appeared handcuffed to a policewoman, who allowed him to give some sugar lumps to one of the steeds that had pulled the coffin from the church; Ron Kray had specified, just before he died in Broadmoor, that he wanted his coffin pulled by black-plumed horses. When it was Reg's turn in 2000, the same routine was followed. My Way, again. His floral arrangement read "Free at last".A few months prior to Scott's death, the funeral of the old gang leader, Charlie Richardson, attracted wide coverage. Richardson was jailed in 1967 for 25 years in the wake of the "torture trial" at the Old Bailey and part of the evidence against him was that his gang had attached electric wires to the genitals of people they reckoned had been out of order. So one of the limos in the cortege in Camberwell, south London, was adorned with a floral tribute bearing the legend "240 DC", supposedly in recognition of the voltage used. And My Way was played.For train robber Buster Edwards' funeral in 1994, the flowers were arranged in the shape of a train. Edwards had been portrayed by Phil Collins in Buster, the film about his life, so the singer's version Groovy Kind of Love was played at the ceremony.Peter Scott's funeral came just after that of the man at the centre of the great train robbery, Bruce Reynolds, which was a much larger ceremony at St Bartholomew-the-Great church in Smithfield. His funeral did not follow the traditional pattern either. His son, Nick, a musician and artist, had wanted to avoid the cliches, so there was the St Bart's choir singing Purcell's Thus Knowest, Lord, the Secrets of Our Heart, a reading from Kahlil Gibran's The Prophet, a song called Too Sick to Pray, played by the Alabama 3. The turnout, both of media and around 300 mourners, was an indication that, when it comes to farewells, no one – apart perhaps from senior members of the royal family and Margaret Thatcher – attracts as much attention as the criminal aristocracy.  Great train robber Bruce Reynolds' funeral at St Bartholomew the Great church in London last month. Photograph: Jonathan Hordle/RexWhen the shoplifter Shirley Pitts, subject of the book Queen of Thieves by Lorraine Gamman, was buried in 1992, flowers spelled out the message "Gone shopping" on her grave. A floral replica of a Harrods shopping bag stood next to it. The music was Cheek to Cheek, which offers us the lines: "Heaven, I'm in heaven." Her coffin was accompanied to the burial ground in Tooting by 21 Daimlers.Only this week London saw another spectacular horse-drawn funeral, for George Adams of the Adams crime family or "A-team". It was organised by his son, Terry Adams, who was jailed in 2007 for money laundering. Even the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, had his car towed away to accommodate the mourners.On the final page of his memoirs, Scott described himself as a "flash prat" who had to learn the hard way that money was not everything. We will never know if he would would have been happier with a more traditional send-off, but I have a feeling that My Way was not his way.