The man accused of killing the television presenter Jill Dando laid flowers near the spot where she was shot, a court heard today. Barry George told staff at a local help centre that he went to Dando's house in Fulham, west London, the day after she was killed, jurors were told on the second day of his retrial. The prosecution alleged that George, 48, who suffers from psychological problems and epilepsy, visited the Hammersmith and Fulham disability centre on the day of Dando's death, on April 26 1999, to establish a false alibi. An appointment with the centre was made for the next day but not kept. The prosecuting counsel, Jonathan Laidlaw QC, said that on April 28 George returned but was "threatening and intimidating in his manner". "The defendant said he had not kept his appointment of the previous day because he had been laying flowers at Jill Dando's house on behalf of his church," he said. Laidlaw said that, also on April 28, George had told a journalist his name was Barry Bulsara, a persona the jury has been told he used when passing himself off as the cousin of the Queen singer Freddie Mercury. George told the reporter he used to see Dando on Crimewatch and "she seemed a lovely lady". During the week after her death, he went into the local housing department and asked whether they had considered erecting a memorial to Dando, the court heard. "He also visited a number of nearby shops and sought letters of condolence from them," said Laidlaw. When he was arrested a year later, George was said to have denied knowing who Dando was until after her death. "If he had not known anything about Jill Dando before her death, why was he paying so much attention to her memory?" said Laidlaw.On May 9 1999, George was on a bus when he told a fellow passenger, Vicky Murphy, that he was going to be late for Dando's memorial service, the court heard. Laidlaw said George "was fiddling with a piece of paper which he claimed he was going to read from at the service". "He said he did not know Miss Dando well, but that she had interviewed his cousin Freddie Mercury," said the prosecutor.The jury and George were today taken to the scene of the crime. They first went to the defendant's flat and then to Dando's four-bedroom Victorian house.The court heard yesterday that George was a loner with a fascination for female TV personalities and that he stalked women in west London. He lived half a mile from Dando's house. Police found thousands of undeveloped photographs of women at George's home, among them pictures of the TV presenters Anthea Turner and Caron Keating. The defendant was said to be interested in the military and firearms, having served in the Territorial Army for a year and pretended to be an SAS soldier.George denies murdering Dando, 37, who was shot in the head. He was first prosecuted in 2001.