A woman killed in a suspected act of cannibalism in south Wales met her alleged killer in a bar hours before the attack and agreed to go back to the hostel where he was staying, friends have said.Police identified the victim as Cerys Yemm and said her family were being supported by specialist officers.The 22-year-old was bitten and suffered facial injuries apparently after accompanying the man to his room in a hostel in Caerphilly. Police have not identified the man, who died after police fired a Taser at him. However, he has been named locally as 34-year-old Matthew Williams, who goes by the nickname Fifi. He is understood to have been recently released from prison for a violent attack on a former partner.Yemm, who lived in the village of Oakdale, two miles from Argoed, worked for the clothing giant Next and was described as a popular and fun-loving woman. Friends said she met Williams on a night out. He is said to have bought her a drink and invited her back to the Sirhowy Arms Hotel in the village of Argoed, reassuring her that he would get her a cab to take her home.One friend said: “They met that night in a bar and got chatting for the first time. They had been drinking and he persuaded her back to the hotel and said he’d get her a taxi home. Once he got her back in the hotel he must have invited her up to his room and that’s where he attacked her.”At Yemm’s family home, a relative said: “We just need to be left alone to grieve.”Yemm had attended the local comprehensive school and studied health and social care at college. One businessman in Oakdale said: “Everyone here knew Cerys – we watched her growing up. She was a lovely girl; smart, attractive and brought up by a very good family who she was extremely close to. They’re nice people – they must be going through hell.”Williams had recently been released from prison after serving half of a five-year sentence for attacking a former girlfriend. She said: “He made my life hell. I’ve had nothing to do with him since we broke up. It is a terrible shock and I’m very sad this has happened.”Gwent police are refusing to comment on the claims of cannibalism. However, a source with knowledge of the investigation indicated that cannibalism was a line of inquiry. Residents in Argoed have expressed shock and revulsion. Lyn Beasley, who lives close to the hotel, said: “He went Hannibal Lecter on the woman.” A security guard at the hotel, who did not want to be named, also claimed the woman had been the victim of a cannibalistic attack.Neighbours of the hostel claimed that – against the rules – the man had sneaked the victim back to his room for a drink. They said the police were called in the early hours of Thursday morning after security staff burst into the bedroom because the man was refusing to answer his door.Caerphilly council’s deputy mayor, Leon Gardiner, said: “Everyone is totally shocked. Argoed is a lovely place to live.”Most neighbours said the hostel, which puts up homeless people on behalf of Caerphilly council, did not cause too much trouble in the village. Some said they were sometimes disturbed by residents drinking and smoking in the nearby woods and occasionally came across people sleeping rough in hedgerows because they could not get a bed.Gwent police said it is treating the death of the woman as murder. It immediately referred the use of the Taser to the police watchdog the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), which is investigating.A Gwent police spokesperson said: “At 1.23am [on Thursday] we were called to an incident at the Sirhowy Arms Hotel where it was reported that a man was attacking a woman. On arrival both the male and female were still at the location. A Taser was discharged and a man was arrested.“The woman was located with injuries and has since been pronounced deceased. Whilst under arrest, the man became unresponsive. Officers and paramedics administered first aid but he has since been pronounced deceased. We are not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident, and an investigation is under way.” The post-mortem examination would start on Friday, police added.A spokesman for Caerphilly council said: “The authority is fully co-operating with Gwent police. We can confirm that the B&B establishment is used by the council for the temporary placement of single homeless people and has been in operation for a number of years.”Before it was turned into a hostel, the Sirhowy Arms was popular with walkers and cyclists. It was also a thriving local pub.