6.00pm: We're going to bring this blog to a close now. We'll have updates on the Guardian website throughout the evening as our reporters on the scene and here in the office file their stories. Meanwhile, here is an up-to-date summary of what we know, following the police press conference.• Police now say that 12 people were killed by a Cumbrian taxi driver who went on a shooting spree across the area before turning a gun on himself. One of the victims was another taxi driver in Whitehaven; another was farmer in Gosforth.• The incident stretched Cumbria police force to its limits. Stuart Hyde, the deputy chief constable, said it was a "truly exceptional incident". Health service officials said 25 people were injured, with three in a critical condition.• The suspect, Derrick Bird, was later found in Boot, a small village in the Lake district. People were warned to stay indoors as, for three hours, police hunted for Bird.• David Cameron delivered a message of support to the friends and families of the victims. Speaking at his first prime minister's question time he said: "The government will do everything it possibly can to help the local community affected."5.49pm: "Some tourists went to help him and he wandered off with a gun," Diana Strong from the Brook House Inn in Boot tells Jon Dennis how a victim came into her pub.5.47pm: Here's more of Hyde's statementOur condolences go out to the family and friends of those who have been affected by the horrific incidents that unfolded today. This has shocked the people of Cumbria and around the country, to the core."The body of Derrick Bird was located in a wooded area, near Boot at approximately 1.40pm today. At this time we believe he took his own life. No shots were fired by police officers."We are currently attending in the region of 30 different crime scenes. We can confirm that 12 people have lost their lives, plus Derrick Bird. 25 people are also receiving treatment for a range of injuries.We are at an early stage of this investigation. We are not able at this stage to understand the real motivation.5.34pm: Three people are critically injured, according to Nigel Calvert, associate director of public Health at NHS Cumbria.5.30pm: Thirteen bodies have been recovered, including that of Derrick Bird.5.25pm: Twelve people have been killed, police revealed"This has shocked the people of Cumbria," Stuart Hyde, deputy chief constable of Cumbria police told a news conference. There are more than 30 crime scenes, he said.5.09pm: One of the victims has been named locally as Gary Purdham, a farmer's son from Gosforth.He was shot dead at point blank range in a field, according to the Yorkshire Post.5.03pm: ITN has posted this report to YouTube.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close 4.58pm: While we wait for a police press conference to start here's a summary of the main points so far•At least five people have been killed and 25 injured after gunmen went on a shooting spree in several places in west Cumbria. One of the victims was a taxi driver in Whitehaven another was farmer in Gosforth. Two people have been pronounced dead in Seascale.• The suspect believed to be Derrick Bird was later found in the Boot area of the Lake district. Earlier police had warned people in the area to stay indoors while they hunted for Bird.• David Cameron delivered a message of support to the friends and families of the victims. Speaking at his first prime minister's question time he said: "The government will do everything it possibly can to help the local community affected."4.42pm: "We were worried he could pop out from anywhere" Sean King landlord of the Boot Inn tells Jon Dennis.4.35pm: Cumbria Police has confirmed that Bird's mother is alive."We can confirm that Mrs Bird (mother of Derrick Bird) has not been shot, she is alive and is being supported by her family," it said.4.28pm: At least 25 have been injured and five have been killed, Cumbria police has confirmed.Channel 4 News reports that Bird's mother is not one of his victims.4.17pm: There have been reports today that Bird shot members of his own family. None of this has been confirmed by police, and Channel 4 News is now saying that he did not shoot his mother. We have received a report from freelance journalist Patrick Hill that Bird shot is twin brother, David, in the face shortly after 10am this morning near the tip in Frizington. I should stress that police - who are due to make a statement at 5pm - have not confirmed this either. Patrick writes:It is understood he then carried on driving through to Egremont where he shot two people dead, one body can be seen on the bridge at Egremont.Another body covered by a white sheet can be seen nearby also in Egremont.A householder in Frizington, close to the tip said, "I've been told that he was parked up waiting for his twin brother, David, because he knew he would be walking down the street, he shot him in the face before driving off. "I don't know if David is still alive."Derrick who live in Lowrah Road, Lowrah, was described by neighbours as a quiet man.His house is in the middle of a row of pebble-dashed terrace houses his has a scruffy looking white door.On the windowsill of Derrick's house several solicitors' letters can be seen, as well as letters from an accountant and a letter from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority.4.11pm: Matthew Connolly, a journalist who was camping near Boot with his wife and two young children, said they realised something was amiss when they saw helicopters overhead as they were stepping out of their tent this morning, writes Helen Carter.The nearby children's railway, the Ratty, stopped running and he thought that was odd. "Suddenly everybody was told that a gunman from Whitehaven was heading this way and we were told that nobody was allowed out. My wife's mother phoned us in tears asking where we were."Connolly said they heard the gunman had abandoned his car in Boot and was on foot and that he had shot people in the face."There was a real sense of panic among people," he said. "We are in tents - we are like sitting ducks. There was no police around so I was trying to corral all the children into the toilet block or behind a stone wall, as our priority was the safety of the children." But the children continued to play around the site and people were keen not to upset them.He said a family who had left the site for a day at the seaside were turned back by police who warned them a gunman was on the loose.Families are now trying to continue their holidays as normal following the drama, he said. "There are a lot of adults sitting around trying to pretend that nothing has happened."You hear my Audioboo interview with Connolly by clicking on the play button above.3.41pm: The farmer who was shot, was in his early 30s and had two young children, a local resident told PA.The neighbour, who did not want to be named, said she had heard that the victim was in a field trimming hedges with his uncle when Bird drove past, wound down a car window and shot him.A neighbour of the man believed to have been shot dead on a bridge in Egremont said he was a "quiet man", who would walk into the town several times every day.Tracy Maudling said: "For him to lose his life like that is terrible. He was just a quiet man, really. He'd been retired for maybe the last five years or something and he just enjoyed doing his garden."3.32pm: Helen Carter in Whitehaven has heard reports that one of Bird's victims may have been his brother. There are also reports locally that Bird's mother, who it is claimed he shot last night, was terminally ill. Neither report has been confirmed.Click on the play button above to hear my interview with Helen.3.20pm: Cumbria's News and Star has another grim witness report.Gary Toomey heard what he thought were car tyres exploding as he worked at his Cringlethwaite home, it reports."I saw a car screeching off and a man saying help me. He was bleeding heavily from the side of his face."He said he dived out of the way of the shot and the man in the car pointed the gun down and shot him again in the back from about 6ft away as he lay on the floor.""He was in a lot of pain. It took about 15 minutes for the ambulance to arrive because they were so stretched, a man was shot dead further down the street and they said."3.11pm: My colleague Adam Gabbatt has prepared another Google Map of what's happened.View Cumbria shootings 2 June 2010 in a larger mapClick on the markers for details.3.09pm: Here's another witness account. Dr Barrie Walker, a Seascale GP for more than 30 years, knew one of the victims, told PA:"The surgery was called and I went out. I've certified one of them dead. My colleague saw another.At present there are two people dead and one seriously injured in Seascale. I know one of the victims. She was in the street. The second person was on a bicycle and was shot on the bike.The person who is seriously injured was in his car, driving along. It looks as though he was shot through the window."3.00pm: In his first Prime Minister's Question time David Cameron made a statement on the shootings, and confirmed that five people have been killed, including the gunman. He said: "The government will do everything it possibly can to help the local community affected. When lives and communities are suddenly shattered in this way our thoughts should be with those caught up in these tragic events, especially the families and the friends of those killed"2.56pm: Alan Travis, our home affairs editor, has some statistics on gun ownership in Cumbria.Home Office figures show that there are 22,476 licensed shotguns in Cumbria with 9,868 shotgun certificates in force on 31 March this year. In the last year 370 new certificates were granted and only two applications refused by the Cumbria police.2.46pm: More horrific accounts are emerging of what appears to have happened.Rod Davies, landlord of Gosforth Hall Inn, said there are unconfirmed reports locally that Bird shot his mother.He ran through this graphic sequence of events with PA: "The guy flipped for whatever reason. Whether it was premeditated, we don't know. We've heard he returned home and shot his mother. Then he has gone on a spree to Seascale, where he's believed to have caused two fatalities.He then left Seascale and went through Gosforth where he's believed to have killed a local farmer, and shot him at point-blank range. He then headed to the valley where Boot is."Davies said that shortly after they heard the man had arrived in Boot, police called to inform him it was safe to leave his property.I'm welling up as I knew the local farmer who is believed to be killed."2.19pm: The BBC's reporter in Whitehaven said there have been 11 shootings in total. The police refused to confirm or deny this.Sean King, landlord of the Boot Inn, said fellow landlord Harry Berger, who runs the Woolpack in Boot, was shot in the arm in Seascale and was recovering in hospital, according to PA.2.08pm: Here's the latest police statement:Police apprehending a man suspected of shooting a number of people across west Cumbria this morning have located a body believed to be that of Derrick Bird in a wooded area near Boot. Police have seized a gun from the scene and are working to formally confirm the identity of the deceased and the number of people injured or dead. A police helpline number 0800 0960095 has been set up for concerned relatives of those involved in this incident. Our focus is now on the movements of Mr Bird this morning – we believe there are a number of fatalities and injuries. Our thoughts are with the families in these tragic times. We are asking for any witnesses to come forward and help us with our investigation into the events of this morning. Police are asking those who were sheltering to go about their normal day to day activities and would like to thank them for their patience in incredibly difficult circumstances. Please be aware there are a number of crime scenes across the county and we would ask for people's patience whilst we conduct our investigations.2.07pm: Stuart Hyde, deputy chief constable of Cumbria, said a gun was found near what is believed to be the body of Derrick Bird.2.04pm: Derrick Bird has been found dead in a wood in the Boot area, Cumbria, police have confirmed2.01pm: Police have confirmed that Bird is on the run in the Boot area.Derrick Bird has abandoned his car in the Boot area and he is now believed to be travelling by foot. Police who are in pursuit of him are urging members of the public in the Boot area to shelter indoors until further notice.Officers are also asking walkers and tourists in that area to be vigilant, take extra care and head indoors if at all possible. If any members of the public see Derrick Bird, please do not approach him and contact them immediately on 999.1.50pm: PA is piecing together a profile of Derrick Bird, or Birdy, as he is known.He was self-employed and lived alone, according to Sue Matthews, a telephonist at A2B Taxis in Whitehaven.She told PA: "To be honest, he was a quiet fellow. I am in absolute shock. I can't believe he would do that – he was a quiet little fellow."It is like watching something from America. I know him through work, he was self-employed but it's a small place. I know he had one son, who was grown up, and he lived alone. He was a regular in town and would have a night out. I would say he was fairly popular."I would see him once a week out and about. He was known as Birdy." One of the victims was also a taxi driver, according to Glenda Pears who runs L&G Taxis in the town.She said Bird had been a taxi driver for 23 years and was divorced with two sons. She described him as a "real nice man".She told PA:"We just don't know what's happened. The lad that's been killed was friends with him. They used to stand together having a craic on the rank."He was friends with everybody and used to stand and joke on Duke Street.""We are just numb at the moment. We just want to know what he's done it for. He's such a nice lad. One of my drivers was talking to him last night. He was just working as normal and was going to go to Tesco's to get chicken." 1.46pm: Simon Connolly from Santon in Cumbria emails:I live in Santon which is about 2.5 miles from the (unconfirmed) shooting in Gosforth. Around noon a large convoy of police vehicles passed at high speed in the direction of Eskdale. I now realise that the gunman must have driven passed my house. I'm in lockdown at the moment though latest reports say the gunman is on foot in Boot (about five miles away). I've since heard that the doctors at my GP's surgery in Seascale have certified two people dead there. A day off to do a bit of gardening has turned out to be very frightening.1.42pm: Police have released a picture of Bird.1.25pm: Stuart Hyde, deputy chief constable of Cumbria, police warned people to stay indoors in the Boot area of west Cumbria. Speaking to reporters he refused to confirm how many people had been killed.1.20pm: Derrick Bird is a taxi driver, according to the BBC. The first shooting took place at a taxi rank.1.19pm: At least four are feared dead and several more injured, according to PA.1.08pm: Cumbria police have confirmed this is a multiple shooting."There are a number of fatalities and police are working to identify the individuals and inform relatives. Ambulance crews are in attendance across the area."The police have also released a photo of Derrick Bird, who they now say is on foot.12.47pm: A gunman is on the loose in the Lake District after at least one person was shot dead and several more were injured.Derrick Bird, 52, from Rowrah, near Frizington, was named by police, who warned all people across the area to stay indoors.This is a fast developing story and the details are sketchy at this stage, so if you are in the area and have news please post a comment below or email at matthew.weaver@guardian.co.ukAlan Hannah, 68, of Great Broughton, told the Whitehaven News: "As I turned past the police station, I saw all these officers running out and realised something major was going on so I moved over to the right-hand lane."Then a car pulled up on the left, stopping at the lights. I saw a man with a large shotgun and his windscreen was smashed. I drove through the red light to get into Lowther Street and get out of the way. I got home safely but was very shaken." Here is PA's version of the story.Police are hunting a gunman today after a person was reportedly shot dead.Initial reports of casualties could not be confirmed when officers in Cumbria arrived in Duke Street in Whitehaven at 10.35am after shots were fired.Police issued an urgent plea for help in tracing a shaven-headed man in a dark grey or silver Citroen Picasso.Police urged members of the public not to approach the man but to phone 999 if they saw him.Residents of Whitehaven, Egremont and Seascale were urged to stay indoors.A Cumbria police statement said: "Police working to apprehend a man in connection with shots fired in Whitehaven have extended their search to the Seascale area so we are urging all members of the public in the Seascale area to go indoors and stay there until further notice."Anyone in the West Lakes area from Whitehaven to Ravenglass are also being urged to shelter."