Tom ap Rhys Pryce was to have been married to his fiancée, Adele Eastman, this September in Tuscany.Tomorrow, she will be at the Old Bailey to watch his killers be sentenced.Donnel Carty, 19, and Delano Brown, 18, confronted Mr ap Rhys Pryce on January 12 this year, as he returned from a work function in the City.They followed him out of Kensal Green underground station in north-west London shortly after 11pm because they thought he would have "something worth stealing".The two were ruthless. Half an hour before Mr ap Rhys Pryce was attacked outside Kensal Green station, Carty and Brown robbed Kurshid Ali, a middle-aged chef, on a platform at the station. The two took his mobile phone, London transport travel card and £60 in cash.Three weeks earlier, Carty, from Kensal Green, and Brown, from Sudbury, north-west London, had been part of a gang which robbed two travellers on tube trains, stabbing them in the leg each time.Mr ap Rhys Pryce, a Cambridge graduate who worked for leading corporate law firm Linklaters, was killed for very little."The price they put on a man's life was just £20, a mobile phone and an Oyster [travel] card," said Detective Chief Inspector Teresa Defanis, who led the investigation, of Carty and Brown.He was stabbed in the arm, face, and twice in the chest as he tried to defend himself. His assailants left him to die in the gutter while Ms Eastman waited for him at home. Plans for their wedding, which Mr ap Rhys Pryce had been carrying, were left blood-splattered and scattered along the street.A neighbour, Anique Bazil, told the trial that she saw Mr ap Rhys Pryce running away from two men wearing hooded tops and then attempted to defend himself when they caught up with him."He was trying to block them, to try to keep them away from him. I think I remember him just giving up and handing something over. They grabbed whatever it was and they walked away."The man walked ... he was staggering and fell. He got up and walked a few paces and fell behind a van. I did not see him again."The morning after the murder, Carty sold the lawyer's mobile phone for £30 to a grocer's assistant in College Road, near the crime scene. He was also filmed on CCTV trying to use the dead man's travelcard at Kensal Green station.The defendants were arrested six days after the murder. A trainer was found with Mr ap Rhys Pryce's blood on it and signs that Brown had worn it.After the murder, a campaign for greater safety at stations led to night security guards at Kensal Green station.The lawyer's parents, who live in Weybridge, Surrey, had said that his life may have been spared had the station been manned.Speaking after the murder, Mrs Rhys Pryce , a piano teacher, said: "The real irony is Tom had travelled all over the world - sometimes on his own - to places that might be considered dangerous such as Indonesia, India, Guatemala, Thailand and Turkey and now it seems London proved to be more dangerous than all those."