The body that is supposed to represent police officers has been found to have racially discriminated against an Asian former constable by refusing to help him take legal action to clear his name.The finding by an employment tribunal is believed to be the first where the Police Federation has been officially ruled to have discriminated on the grounds of race against one of its own members.The tribunal ruled there was overwhelming evidence that the officer, Sultan Alam, was racially discriminated against and victimised by the organisation. It also found that documents had been destroyed by a federation official in an attempt to thwart him.Mr Alam, who served as a constable, officially made a claim of racism in the Cleveland force in 1993, and within months was charged with handling stolen goods, for which he was convicted and jailed. Mr Alam says he was framed after he started to sue the force for racial discrimination following a series of incidents, culminating in a Ku Klux Klan poster being left on his desk.Later investigations by detectives from an outside constabulary into corruption in the Cleveland force led to four of the officers involved in the investigation of Mr Alam being charged with criminal offences over allegedly framing him. All were cleared, but one later admitted two offences arising from the case at a disciplinary hearing.Mr Alam had twice sought help from the federation to clear his name by funding an appeal against his conviction after new evidence came to light. It refused, but had paid for the legal defence of the four officers who stood trial charged with framing Mr Alam.The tribunal heard that a document that originally came from the Metropolitan branch of the federation used the word Paki. It found that Pakistani had been insensitively abbreviated, noting that African had appeared as Afri in the document, and concluded it was not evidence of racism.But it ruled: "The evidence of racial discrimination and victimisation in relation to the 2005 refusal [to fund Mr Alam's appeal] and of victimisation in relation to the 2006 refusal is ... overwhelming."The tribunal found that an official in the Cleveland branch of the federation, Brian Docherty, had said in a witness statement that crucial files were destroyed as "confidential waste", but at the hearing said the papers had been damaged in a flood and destroyed because they began to smell. It said: "We find on the balance of probabilities that Mr Docherty destroyed all the relevant papers ... to ensure they did not fall into the claimant's hands."Mr Alam, who now runs a mobile phone shop, said: "I felt very wronged and that's why I took them to an ET. I feel vindication and relief, but there are no winners in an ET, we are all losers."The Police Federation declined to comment while it considered the judgment.The tribunal will rule later on compensation.