If Barry George is not the man who killed Jill Dando, who is? In the days immediately after the murder in 1999, the police examined the possibility of a jilted lover, mistaken identity, a grudge-bearing criminal who had been caught through Crimewatch, a celebrity-obsessed psychopath and - the theory that attracted the most attention - a Serbian hitman. Three days earlier, British and US planes had bombed the Radio Television Serbia building in Belgrade, killing 16 employees, and earlier that month, Dando had made a BBC appeal on behalf of Kosovan Albanian refugees. During George's original trial in 2001, Michael Mansfield QC told the jury: "The television station was dominated by the Milosevic family and was deliberately targeted by Nato, using a cruise missile, because it was seen as the main purveyor of Serbian state propaganda. Jill Dando by this stage had become one of the, if not the, face[s] of the BBC."The police were unconvinced by the theory for a number of reasons, not least because three days hardly seemed sufficient to plan a hit on Dando. But Bob Woffinden, the journalist who specialises in miscarriage of justice cases, believes that the Serbian hit-man theory still holds up. In an article for the Guardian before George's first - and unsuccessful - appeal, Woffinden wrote of the short time after the air strike: "The murder certainly hadn't been planned and carried out in just three days. But the police did not examine the theory in its broader context, or seriously consider that it might have been planned weeks in advance. On April 11, Milosevic began striking back at his perceived enemies in the media. Slavko Curuvija, the owner and editor of the independent newspaper Dnevni Telegraf, who had been critical of Milosevic and his government, was shot dead outside his home in central Belgrade. Dando was killed on April 26. At 11.09 the next morning, a caller to BBC TV Centre said: 'Yesterday I call you to tell you to add a few numbers to your list. Because your government, and in particular your prime minister Blair, murdered, butchered 17 innocent young people. He butchered, we butcher back. "'The first one you had yesterday, the next one will be Tony Hall [chief executive for BBC news, and responsible for coverage of the Kosovo conflict].'" Hall was given police protection and told Woffinden he never found out whether the threat was a hoax on not.As to the gunman's identity, one suggestion was Zeljko Raznatovic, the warlord known as Arkan, who was indicted in 1997 for war crimes in The Hague. He was killed in Belgrade in 2000. The murder could have been the work of a two-man team, suggests Woffinden, and the killer may have flown out of the country that afternoon. As to why the Serbs never claimed the hit, Woffinden said: "In 60 years there has not once been a claim of responsibility for an assassination carried out by east European secret services."· This article was amended on Wednesday August 6 2008. We repeated an error first corrected in 2002. The Milosevic family did not own Radio Television Serbia. Though dominated by the Milosevic regime, it was state-owned. This has again been corrected.