The press complaints commission is to investigate a media deal signed by Tony Martin, the farmer jailed for shooting dead a teenage burglar, who was freed from prison yesterday.Martin has agreed an exclusive contract - said to be worth £125,000 - with the Daily Mirror. He is also understood to be in talks with ITV1's Tonight programme.The farmer's decision to sell his story, revealed in the Guardian earlier this month, has angered the relatives of the boy he killed, Fred Barras, 16, and some politicians. The PCC said the Daily Mirror would have to show the story was in the public interest, and that payment was necessary to secure it. A huge media pack gathered outside Martin's home, Bleak House, in the remote Norfolk hamlet of Emneth Hungate, early yesterday hoping to record the farmer's homecoming four years after he opened fire on Barras and his accomplice, Brendon Fearon. Martin was taken from a safe house where he had spent the weekend and into the custody of the Daily Mirror for interviews and a photoshoot. Martin's Tory MP, Henry Bellingham, argued he should be free to make money. "It's a different case to paying a person who is still in prison or to the Jeffrey Archer case where he wrote his diaries while in jail." The PCC's code of conduct forbids payment to criminals except where the material ought to be published in the public interest and payment is necessary for the details to emerge. The Labour MP Chris Bryant, a member of the Commons media select committee, criticised the deal. "I'm sure they will be claiming a public interest defence. The trouble is, by turning every criminal into a loveable rogue, newspapers are in danger of condoning a lawless society." Barras's family are known to be angry that Martin is profiting from his story. The teenager's mother, Ellen, said: "We just want to leave all this behind us and allow our son to rest in peace." The PCC inquiry will again highlight its position on payments to criminals amid criticism from some editors that it is not interpreting the code consistently. A PCC spokesman said: "We will look into it and will come to a judgment after we have contacted the paper. It's one of those instances where we will investigate of our own volition." The editor of the Mirror, Piers Morgan, said: "The PCC code makes it absolutely clear payment to criminals is legitimate if such payment addresses important matters in the public interest. "If Tony Martin's story doesn't fit that criteria, then I will pack my bag and emigrate to the Soviet Union where their press laws are arguably less draconian these days." He described the cash paid to Martin as "modest compensation". Many believe the case is not so clear-cut. Police believe Martin booby-trapped his home and lay in wait for the intruders before blasting Barras and Fearon, 33, with an illegally-held pump action shotgun.At his appeal - when his murder conviction was replaced with one of manslaughter on grounds of diminished responsibility - three judges agreed the trial jury was right to decide that Martin had used unacceptable force. He was freed after serving two-thirds of his five year sentence. Friends and neighbours were anticipating his return. One well-wisher had tied a yellow ribbon around a tree; another had left a bouquet and letter. In his first interview since his release, Martin told today's Daily Mirror: "Yes I am angry. I didn't get justice. I got rough justice." He added: "Can you imagine it? Being given a murder sentence? There is nothing worse, except being told to sit down while someone tells you have cancer and have six weeks to live." Of the mobile police station installed outside his farm, he said: "If they'd [the police] done something as simple as listening to my worries before, none of this would have happened. Now I have my own police force. The world has gone quite, quite mad." The home secretary, David Blunkett, last night said he had asked for an investigation of the alleged death threats made against Mr Martin. He also said he was satisfied that there had been no "improper interference" in last Friday's release of Fearon under electronic curfew and the date had been determined "entirely in accordance with established procedures". Mr Blunkett added: "The cases of Brendon Fearon and Tony Martin raise a number of issues, which were already being dealt with by the government. I announced in May at the third reading of the criminal justice bill that the government will introduce an amendment to protect the rights of householders." Mr Fearon's solicitor denied reports he intends to drop his civil action against Martin, saying no decision would be taken before November.