Ian Blair is right to say policing alone will not make a lasting impact on the threat of gang violence (Report, May 3). However, gangs are not the problem, they are a symptom of a greater issue: our increasing inability as a society to relate to each other enough to build successful, productive relationships.The most important years in a child's life are the first three, when they acquire skills like empathy, compromise, communication and negotiation that allow them to make good decisions in life - and bad ones. The environment parents create for their child during these early years is vital; if it is violent, it is likely the child will carry that pattern of aggressive behaviour forward to adulthood.But parenting is difficult - children do not come with a manual. This is why we require early-years initiatives to offer support to parents. This necessitates a universal service with health visitors on the frontline. Such an approach would help stem problems of antisocial behaviour and violence before they start.For too long we have focused on tackling violence at the point of impact through police and criminal justice models. The time is ripe for a holistic approach involving healthcare, education and the police. Only by working together can we begin to make the kind of attitudinal changes that stop young men carrying knives or guns. Det Ch Supt John CarnochanHead, Violence Reduction Unit, GlasgowWe must be grateful to Ian Blair for commencing a sensible debate on peer pressure and youth crime. He seems to be thinking in the right direction, looking at social-welfare solutions to what are currently considered criminal justice problems. But it is important to match one's thinking to the problem was a whole, not just in the context of gang violence. The past seven days have seen reports of a 10-year-old receiving an Asbo in Cleveland, and the opening of an inquest into a 14-year-old who committed suicide in a "training centre". It does not require too much imagination to connect up the dots. What happens to disturbed children now could result in more tragedies, whether by murder or suicide, in the years to come.The boldest measure we could do to commence transferring so-called criminal-justice problems concerning the young to their proper home is to raise the age of criminal responsibility to 14 in line with almost all other EU states. Stephen JakobiSponsor, The Just Umbrella thejustumbrella.org