Shortly after moving into an avenue in Whitfield, Dundee, John and Debbie Dolan planted 11 flowering shrubs to brighten up their front garden. A week later, leaving the house at 4.30am to work in a bakery, John sensed something amiss.'I thought "F-un-ny,"' he recalls. 'And I looked around and the garden was very tidy. The earth was level, and everything seemed OK. Then I realised... nine of our shrubs had disappeared. Debbie was dumbfounded.'That same night, their neighbour Linda Gallacher's 10-year-old Forest Flame shrub and her large, well-rooted lavender plant had similarly vanished; not something fewer than two people could easily have arranged. 'But the thing that intrigues me was their tidiness,' muses John. 'There wasn't a speck of soil dropped on our path and they'd raked and levelled the pebbles and stones in Linda's garden, so it looked like nothing had been growing to begin with. Extraordinary.'A week later, John was getting into his car at 4.30am, thought 'F-un-ny' again and clicked that there was now level earth where his and Debbie's remaining two shrubs had stood. And neighbour Linda - despite having installed new garden security lights that week - had lost another Forest Flame, plus her large fern. Later that day one of their shrubs was recovered. It had been dropped into the field opposite and Debbie concluded that the thieves had decided at the very last moment that it wasn't an impressive enough specimen to put in their van. 'So we replanted it, damaged, in its original spot, and put everything into reviving it.'One morning a fortnight later, John again thought 'F-un-ny'. The sole survivor was gone, for good.When reported to police, the previous incidents were officially recorded as simply 'Theft, Other'. But they are examples of what is unofficially being categorised as Gardening Crime, or 'GC'. Gardening Crime deserves its own category because it has distinct, special, peculiar elements. It involves things of value which would be more secure kept indoors but which, by their very nature, cannot be. It doesn't threaten human life but involves the removal of their living, growing things. It doesn't invade the Englishman's 'castle' but it crosses the 'moat'. It is often considered too trivial to report, yet can spark extended bewilderment, upset and paranoia.The attachment between gardeners and things they grow is a very potent, intimate and private one, believes the Observer's gardening columnist Dan Pearson, who was furious when evergreens he'd nurtured in Vauxhall were raided three times. He encapsulates suffering GC as 'feeling completely ripped off and at a loss', particularly as the beautiful spoils are 'so defenceless'.Trevor Ford, who runs the English Festival Orchestra, in between defending his front garden, says, 'My immediate thought was that squirrels were responsible, rather than some criminal with a trowel.' For his birthday present, Trevor's wife had paid for a designer garden outside their corner property in Crouch End, north London. Within a fortnight two of the best plants disappeared. They had the gardener replace them. Then, within a week, those two disappeared. And then two more from the other side of their path.'Then it became sufficiently regular for us to wonder every morning "What's going to be missing today?"' notes Trevor. 'After 20 plants it had gone beyond being very annoying into being expensive and discouraging. They were costing £12 each and it just kept happening over and over. A bloody camellia went three times from the same spot. If trimmed or grown a little it's not like they'd ever be identifiable again. So it's a perfect crime.'Trevor decided to net sections of the garden and wrap chains around individual plants and secure them to the walls. He stands at his front door, admiring all his plant chaining, and then forlornly points to either side of the door. 'Hmm, now, until recently we had two incredibly heavy, £200, 6ft bay trees in big pots standing here, as recommended by our gardener. I saw them delivered and two men had immense trouble struggling with each of them down the six steps. Watered, they were even heavier. So I didn't chain those. But then they vanished, too. It's just unbelievable.'Trevor never witnessed anything, but says he has seen an old woman in a local garden centre taking cuttings from plants and surreptitiously dropping them into carrier bags. And he thinks the arrogance of even that is 'appalling'. He is determined to keep his front looking nice whatever it takes.'I mean, I don't have to keep spending hundreds of pounds maintaining a designer garden,' he says. 'Just like my neighbour Tom didn't - for a while - have to keep replacing the lavender bushes repeatedly swiped through his railings. Such theft is an enormous disincentive to improving the environment for, well, other residents, basically. But I just won't let people with such a mentality get the upper hand. Never. I thought of placing small explosives under the plants, to detonate if they were pulled on. The community policeman said it's a nice idea, but advised against it.'Malcolm Tarling of the Association of British Insurers (ABI) believes the seeming growth in GC is a consequence of many factors. First, properties are better protected than ever before, causing criminals to look for easier targets. Also, he says the police are prioritising burglary but not outdoor non-violent theft. And people are underestimating how 'valuable and nickable' many things in their gardens are (in comparison with items in their houses), even though ever more money is lavished on gardens.In fact, Britons are expected to spend more than £3.6bn on their gardens in 2006 and some insurers predict up to a seventh of the items purchased will eventually go walkabout (from garden or garden shed). Researchers variously conclude that between 260,000 and 3,400,000 gardens in Britain will suffer theft this year. The figures vary so much because of disagreements over how many incidents go unreported. The ABI estimates one in seven gardens fall prey each year. Gardening Which? magazine thinks it's only one in 10, over two years, but breaks down the woe: 26 per cent have planted tubs and baskets stolen and 13 per cent have plants lifted straight from the ground. The black-market value of a hanging basket or small shrub is only £5, a large potted bay tree £30, but the average insurance claim after a GC incident is more than £250 (and a record £1,200 in Cambridge and High Wycombe).Even grass is not safe. When, after 35 rolls of turf he'd spent all day laying in a garden in Thornaby, Teesside vanished that night, gardener Jack Featherstone said he had to restrain himself from 'going round and kicking the heads in' of people down the road who laid a lawn shortly afterwards. Jack assumed they'd rolled his up and carried it away in wheelie bins. But police told him, 'We can't help you - there's no serial number on a lawn, is there?'Bob, Frank and Mick are three officers who take garden crime very seriously. At the Chelsea Flower Show last year they built and planted their own garden complete with deep plant anchors and countless 'horticultural nasties'. At West Drayton station, on the outskirts of Greater London, they man a nerve centre, above the Dogs Section, where they plot to banish GC from the borough of Hillingdon. Sgt Bob Lander, Sgt Mick Smooker and crime prevention design adviser Frank Freeman's jobs are to get inside the minds of garden criminals and either hunt them down or make gardens as unappealing and unpleasant for them as legally possible.'You can dig a great big pond and fill it with water,' says Mick, 'but I can't suggest digging a pit trap with sharp birch sticks planted at the bottom and disguising it with bamboo covered with leaves.''If someone cuts themselves getting into your garden, we can send a forensic officer to collect DNA,' adds Bob. 'Weave old bramble through a trellis and you achieve what you would do with the worst razor wire. We're talking defensive planting. Climbing and rambling roses, pyracantha, smilax, thorny chaenomeles, sharp-toothed Berberis 'Blenheim', viciously spiny Ulex europaeus. The garden strikes back - naturally - and there's no obligation to post any warning. But if it's razor wire you choose, legal warnings don't need to be at regular intervals. Just one small cigarette packet-sized warning will do.'Bob says that the days when criminals would want to get inside your house for the likes of a DVD machine are long gone. 'There's no value in that. Maybe there's a PlayStation, but he's going to try the garden shed first for a tool to get into the house, because he doesn't want to be caught going equipped. Then when he's got in the shed he'll find something more valuable. Or just lying about, or growing in the beds.''There are some people who accept having £300 of plants nicked as the price of living in an expensive area,' says Mick, 'and there's others who are very distressed to lose one hanging basket. So we're not suggesting that everyone should install CCTV systems to protect their gardens.'Although his colleague Frank did just that. He'd returned home from a day spent garden crime-fighting to discover two half-barrel-sized plant pots had disappeared. A bit of asking around led Frank to the culprit. 'It turned out he'd had previous for pinching plant pots three years before. Did he learn? No, he was a serial. I went to his parent's house and the whole of their back garden was covered in pots. They were seized and I got mine back. This was his game: when he'd see a good one he'd steal it as a gift for his wheelchair-bound mother. Which I thought was very touching. So as a result I have digital CCTV covering my garden 24/7.'Bob, Frank and Mick size up different types of gardening criminals who've operated on their patch. There are drunks going home late who steal plants and flowers 'as a way of getting out of trouble with the missus'. There are those who steal 50 hanging baskets on a Saturday night to sell for a fiver each at a carboot sale 80 miles away on Sunday. Then there are robbers stocking up with other people's plants and garden ornaments to auction off on eBay. There are 'travellers' heading for Wales, 'a hotbed' of garden spoil disposal. There are semi-pros who'll nick special plants and shrubs (and koi carp) to order for collectors. There are malicious or envious individuals, picking on gardens entered for bloom competitions. And there are gangs who'll rip out an entire Japanese garden, like doing a bank job, while the owners are on holiday.Frank feels that 'prevention has become much sexier recently'. The Crime Disorder Act (1998), section 17, puts a statutory duty on authorities to consider crime reduction in all their undertakings, so Frank surveys all plans put through planning departments, giving recommendations on defensive barriers, shrub heights, railings and open-space surveillance. Frank has undertaken extensive defensive cutting in West Drayton police station's own back garden. This is since he discovered that the outer close board fencing had been penetrated and a large section of metal fencing was being systematically clipped through by person or persons unknown. 'They're probably determined to get into our garden for a bet or for the yob kudos or something. So I had to really take our shears to the laurel bushes.''Frank has done more danger to gardens in his lifetime than most people will ever see,' teases Bob. 'Frank levels large areas.'The emphasis, then, is on designing for the future and on encouraging the public to protect their gardens. Over in Costhorpe, Worksop, caterer Jane Pickering recently attended a ceremony to collect a community commendation from the Chief Constable for her spontaneous and successful garden vigilante action.Her grandfather nearby had five potting plants in large tubs stolen over his 7ft fence and Jane's neighbour Donna lost seven hanging baskets. Then Jane looked out of the window and realised her own garden had been raided. First she called the police, to receive a cursory crime number, then she called her husband to get emotional over the flower trough. 'And I'm standing at the window, speaking on the phone again, and - cheek of the devil - a truck goes past my window with our bright red lawn-mower sticking out of the top of its load.'Seconds later, pursuing the van in a brand new Lexus, Jane was thinking 'If I crash this car my husband will kill me.' But she crossed dangerously to the other side of the road, then blocked in the truck and jumped out to confront the two men onboard, screaming, snatching the keys out of the ignition, until her father's friend arrived with a posse. 'We retrieved loads of things from my neighbours' gardens. They had an Aladdin's cave in there. One said, "We weren't going anywhere." "Hah," I said, "you're not now."' One of the men was subsequently prosecuted for handling stolen goods and Jane has her framed award hung beside her garden window.The shire experiencing the highest rate of GC in Britain, according to Halifax insurance, is Yorkshire, with Leeds in first place nationwide, Doncaster in second, York in third and Barnsley in fourth. Bradford and Sheffield are also in the top 10. Halifax insurance estimates that the average Yorkshire garden has a one in 10 chance of a theft before summer is out. But office worker David Harris, living with his wife in a fortified property three miles from the centre of Doncaster, has devoted every spare moment and penny to ensure he's not one of them. Since jettisoning the idea of a summer holiday, last year and this, David has put this money and all his savings into 'securing and strengthening our garden sufficiently so that no man, woman, druggie or child would stand a cat in hell's chance' of profiting from it.Sitting in his 'heaviest-duty steel shed and workshop' in his back garden, from which he can view 360 degrees through one-way toughened glass, while meanwhile watching two TV monitors showing the front garden, David explains the background to his state of mind.'It began with two flower buckets from the front vanishing, then two steel water features from the back and then - while guests from Canada were staying, who found it bloody hilarious - the two Leylandii beside the front gate,' he says. 'Always in twos, back then.'He adjusts, by gearstick, the angle of one of his two closed-circuit cameras, which looks down from above his guttering, and surveys the street as far as the bus stop in one direction and a garage at a junction. It's not until around 10pm tonight that he'll switch to night-vision.'I didn't start getting bloody serious about this until we'd lost a lot of kit,' David continues. 'I'd sit at the landing window with the light off sometimes, but we only became Fortress Harris after they started on my wife's plants. Her life is games with female friends in the morning and then into the garden. I don't know which made her more livid, the petunias and geraniums or the lizzies and pansies. I think she had such a knack for making our front look beautiful that people passing by became like shoplifters in a sweet shop.'But what made things serious for David was most of the decking going from the back garden, along with - 'as if for good measure' - some tomato plants in a grow bag. Since that day last summer he has pumped over £19,000 of his money into garden defences. There are two-metre-high railings covered in anti-climb paint and inner-layered with the thorniest Berberis sublevis and roses; motion-detector alarms ('green, yellow and red alerts for front gate, side passage and rear garden path'); motion-activated security lights ('mainly solar, but with back-up'); an electronic-dog alarm system ('I set for alsatian, but there's pitbull'); CCTV ('I've got a year of the stuff on disk'); his workshop ('designed as both my tool bunker and observation post'); semi-transparent garden screens ('not that they'd want to hang around, hiding'); tracer clips on plant pots; cementing-in of all front and rear garden ornaments; countless anchors and hanging basket secura-brackets ('with six-headed bolts and Nylock locking nuts') and a general 'assault course' of defensive planting. He continues at length, sitting in a deckchair. Tools are locked on to the wall behind him, beside some Blu-Tacked postcards - one showing the image of Bruce Willis and another of Alan Titchmarsh.'We haven't had one thing stolen since last summer,' explains David. 'Not one.' And yet he doesn't seem completely happy about it. 'Sure, I've watched kids standing around outside the front gate.' For hours, it seems. 'Some days now I'm almost willing someone to try. If they could only see the maple bonsai on the porch, through the gravel boards I lined the railings with, I'm sure they'd all want to make a go for it.'