Anti-social binge-drinkers could be banned from city centres and licensed premises for up to two years as part of a package of measures to tackle violent crime and disorder, Home Office minister Hazel Blears announced yesterday.The government hopes to use the bans, modelled on anti-social behaviour orders, to challenge binge-drinking culture. They are to be accompanied by weekend exclusion orders for individuals and the charging of licensees for tackling alcohol-related disorder. The violent crime reduction bill, published yesterday, also includes tough measures on knives and replica guns. They include a ban on making or selling imitation guns; higher sentences for carrying them; and tougher manufacturing standards to prevent imitations being converted to fire real ammunition. The government believes the measures are needed because the use of replicas rose by 66% last year, possibly in response to the introduction of mandatory five year sentences for carrying real handguns.The number of convictions for possessing a real gun fell last year. The bill will also raise the age limit for buying a knife and make it an offence to use other people to hide or carry guns or knives. Headteachers will gain powers to search children they suspect of having weapons, although some teaching unions expressed concern about whether this would be appropriate and safe. Ms Blears stressed that the aim of the alcohol-related measures was to prevent disorder, not accommodate it. She said that drink ban orders would offer a "short sharp shock" to drinkers who disturbed others. The government had suggested that the bans would apply only to people who had been cautioned three times. Ms Blears said: "We haven't specified three strikes and you're out because there may well be some circumstances, very limited, where you would want to make a drinking banning order on the first occasion." She added that guidance would be issued to make sure the orders were not used in a disproportionate way. As with Asbos, the orders could be granted on conviction for a criminal offence or through an application to a magistrates court. Breaching them would be a criminal offence. But Ms Blears said they were more specific than Asbos and were targeted at people "who maybe in their ordinary life are pretty well behaved but when they go out and binge drink, then they turn into fairly unpleasant characters." The bill also details plans to create alcohol disorder zones, where licensees will have to contribute to the cost of tackling drink-related problems. Ms Blears stressed that the aim was to reduce such behaviour, not to raise revenue. She described ADZs as a last resort to combat "fairly serious" anti-social behaviour and disorder. To designate an area an ADZ, police and local authorities would need evidence of problems that continued despite consultation and the introduction of an action plan to resolve them. Police will be empowered to exclude individuals at risk of carrying out alcohol-related disorder from an area. The government had planned to impose 24-hour exclusions, but extended the period to 48 hours so that someone banned on a Friday night could not be back on the streets by Saturday evening. Police will also gain the power to ban the sale of alcohol for up to 48 hours in pubs and shops which have served under-18s. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "Labour has form for making headline-grabbing announcements, only to fail to follow them up with any detail or delivery. "Given that a lot of violent crime is caused by binge drinking, it beggars belief that the government is going ahead with 24-hour opening." He called for greater resources to enforce new legislation. Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, welcomed the measures to tackle alcohol abuse and gun crime. Key points· Pubs and bars contribute to cost of tackling disorder · Up to two years' bar from relevant premises for people linked to alcohol disorder · 48-hour ban on places selling alcohol to minors · Manufacture and sale of imitation guns made illegal · Tougher sentences for carrying replica guns · Raised age limit, from 17 to 18, for buying or firing airguns without supervision, and from 16 to 18 for knife buying