There were calls yesterday for the closure of pubs that advertise "pay £10 and drink as much as you can", as national figures showed an 11% rise in violent crime and a 21% surge in "low-level thuggery".Hazel Blears, the police minister, confirmed her intention to blitz alcohol violence this summer, in the face of Home Office research showing that alcohol is the root cause of nearly half of all violent crime, and of 70% of hospital emergency and accident admissions at peak times. Two sets of crime figures were published yesterday - the police's recorded figures for the final quarter of 2003, and the latest British Crime Survey - and both show that crime overall remains stable in England and Wales, with significant falls in burglary, robbery and car crime.The police figures showed that domestic burglaries fell by a further 11%, and the chance of your home being broken into is now the lowest for 20 years. Car thefts were also down by 10%, according to the police figures. The survey showed no significant changes in the main types of crime in 2003, and provided some evidence that the rise in violent crime recorded by the police was partly due to higher reporting levels by victims and changes in recording practices. The police recorded about 235,000 incidents of violence against the person in the last three months of 2003, of which 116,000 involved some kind of injury and 10,000 were classed as serious. The crime survey is based on interviews with 40,000 people. It reports that the fear of violent crime has fallen slightly in the past year, with 18% of the public expressing a high level of worry, compared with 21% before. There has also been a decline in concern about antisocial behaviour, including vandalism and graffiti. The survey reports stable levels of confidence in criminal justice, with 76% of those polled saying that it treats defendants fairly, but only 34% say the system is effective in reducing crime. Ms Blears said that the crime figures were encouraging, but that she was concerned at the emergence of low-level thuggery, anti-social behaviour and alcohol-related crime; much of it happened at night or at weekends, and young men were the most likely victims. The police blitz on under-age and binge drinking is to include "sting operations' and the "naming and shaming" of irresponsible landlords. It was welcomed by the drinks trade yesterday. The British Beer and Pub Association said it wanted action against publicans who extended "happy hours" and promoted a binge-drinking culture. A brewing industry spokesman said: "We have a strict code of practice governing promotions, which we have just toughened up. The 'pay £10 and drink as much as you can' pubs have no place in our society and we would support action to close them down." Commander Chris Allison of the Metropolitan police said that the service had to deal daily with drunken youths who fought each other, attacked bystanders and resisted arrest: "The evidence of drunk vandalism sprees is there for everyone to see - smashed bus shelters, shattered shop windows and vomit in doorways." The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, expressed surprise that it had taken the government so long to act. Only 12 landlords a year had been prosecuted since 1997 for allowing drunken or riotous behaviour on their premises, and only 11 people in total had been prosecuted for buying drink for friends who were incapable. "Anyone could have told the government binge drinking has got out of hand," he said. "Why have they only decided to do something now? If they had treated alcohol abuse as seriously as drug abuse, we might not be having these increases in violent crime."