The leading lights of a sophisticated gang thought to have made millions of pounds by running a "club class" service for illegal immigrants were last night jailed.Police were amazed at the care the people-smugglers afforded their clients, who paid up to £8,000 to be spirited into the UK. Customers were transported in people carriers, put up in pleasant digs and given good food, in contrast to the awful conditions the majority of illegal immigrants face. A joint inquiry between British and French police smashed the gang's network, which stretched from India to Britain via Paris, the Balkans and Russia. Shakean Chahal, 29, Talbinder Gill, 29, and Lee Ludbrook, 43, who were believed to be the main organisers, were each jailed for five years at Canterbury crown court. Judge Timothy Nash described the gang's activities as "evil". He said theirs was a "sophisticated and elaborate plan designed from the outset to exploit the vulnerable". The gang came to the attention of the authorities in 2001. Four members were stopped on two occasions as they arrived at British ports, but claimed they went abroad to buy cheap alcohol. In June 2002, police and immigration officers arrested several members of the gang, including an off-licence manager, Chahal, who was believed to be the leader. This time there was evidence that they were involved in people-smuggling. They were charged with facilitating illegal immigration, a serious offence but not one likely to lead to a long jail sentence, and released on bail. However officers were convinced that the gang was involved in a sophisticated racket. Further investigation into the lifestyles of the men confirmed their suspicions. Chahal, for example, seemed to live beyond the means of an off-licence manager, driving a red Ferrari Modena. A meeting was called between officers from Kent police, the national crime squad, the national criminal intelligence service and French detectives at which a plan was hatched to destroy the gang, which was based in Walsall and Wednesbury. The police found that would-be immigrants, mainly from Punjab, were selling land and businesses to raise the fee the gang was charging. They were being transported from India to Paris via the Balkans or Russia. Once in the French capital they were being given comfortable accommodation and good food in safe houses until the time was right to move them to the UK. Rather than being jammed into lorries, the clients were carried in people carriers, only hiding when they crossed the Channel. Officers believe that in the two years before the leaders were caught, the gang may have brought up to 400 customers into the UK. In June last year undercover officers watched as gang members travelled to Dover. Once they had crossed the Channel, French officers took over and observed as they picked up a number of illegal immigrants. British police took over again on the ferry to Dover, where the gang left the docks in two vehicles, a van and people carrier. A second van which had been parked on the white cliffs to try to track police movements joined the convoy. On the A2 near Canterbury, the police stopped the convoy. Fourteen illegal immigrants were found and four gang members arrested. Chahal escaped and next day withdrew £50,000 from his bank account, but was later seized. In France officers arrested a man known as Nikku, who is alleged to have been involved in a number of smuggling operations and is awaiting trial. Detective Chief Inspector Roy Cottam, of Kent police's organised crime unit, said the operation was "significant" because it had demonstrated how several agencies could work together. Ludbrook, Chahal and Gill admitted conspiring to facilitate illegal immigration. Police will now attempt to seize assets from the gang under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Three other members of the gang were jailed. Gill's brother, Kalbinder Gill, 30, was sentenced to four years and Paul Slater-Mason, 38, to 12 months after admitting conspiring to facilitate illegal immigration. Gurdip Dosanjh, 29, who was not among those seized in Kent but had been arrested in 2002, was jailed for 15 months for the lesser offence of facilitating illegal immigration.