A few weeks ago I visited a friend and, during a mini-tour of his house, I noticed in his bedroom the same make of baseball bat as that which sits under my bed. Something told me that it wasn't there to satisfy a sudden urge to play softball. Sure enough, he had bought it, as I had mine, after suffering one too many burglaries. On a humid airless evening last summer, he had left open the window of his two-year-old daughter's first-floor bedroom. The burglar climbed over her to get in. He also left a carving knife in the garden.When my friend told me this, my first thought was: how could he have been so naive or slack as to leave the window open? In other words, my initial instinct was to blame him. For that's what we do with the burgled - we blame the victim. I did the same to myself when I was burgled. Nor did the police show any sympathy. Why hadn't I double-locked the door? Why hadn't I installed extra window locks? It's a relentless logic that leads you eventually to wondering how someone could do the most natural thing in the world, like open a window on a hot summer's night. The point is that most of us have become so adjusted to the threat of burglary that we feel it's irresponsible not to take all possible precautions to prevent it, including leaving one's child to swelter in an unventilated room. Burglars are like the weather, we reason: we can't stop them, we can only shut them out. The thinking may be perverse, but it does produce results. If we're not sure about the efficacy of imprisoning burglars, we can sure see the benefits of imprisoning ourselves. Nowadays 82% of households have window locks (but only 33% of burgled properties). As a consequence, domestic burglaries have fallen by around half in the past nine years, to just over half a million a year, not counting another 400,000 attempted burglaries. Sadly, one of the half-million burglaries this year was at the home of Robert Symons, a teacher in west London. A court will decide what happened during that break-in last week, but what we know for certain is that Mr Symons was stabbed and he died. In truth, liberal society has no more idea how to respond to the murder of someone like Mr Symons than it knows what to think of Kenneth Faulkner, the 73-year farmer who earlier this week was defended by a judge for shooting a burglar on his isolated property. With Mr Symons, a kind of resigned shrug of "these things unfortunately happen in a society obsessed with material status" seems to be the unstated reaction. And with Mr Faulkner, as with Tony Martin before him, there is a half-articulated sense that burglars need protection from these people. After all, anyone who fires a gun must be a madman. If so, it's a madness that it would be ignorant to dismiss as a product of reactionary country folk - not least because it's a madness from which urbanites like my friend and I partially suffer. A baseball bat may not be a shotgun, but if used as a weapon it could kill someone, or certainly do them serious damage. And as with all weapons, there's no point threatening to use one unless you are prepared to. While I'm willing to admit that the baseball bat does not represent my sanest self, I'm not sure how to be rational with an intruder in my house at five in the morning. I once had one hide behind my sitting room door and wait until I had returned to bed before he emptied the house and took the car. I figured afterwards, in the cold light of day, that anyone who was prepared to do that would probably not comply with a polite request to leave. Hence the bat. Both the Symons and Faulkner incidents refer to a threat, real and perceived, that is causing us to retreat further not only into our increasingly protected homes but also into an increasingly embattled mindset. For all the locks and window grilles in the world will not make us feel safer but, on the contrary, under greater siege. The more you protect your home, the more aware you are of the threat from outside. The left's answer to this fear is pretty much: get over it. As someone wrote in this paper last year: "It's unpleasant to have your space invaded; it's grim when they make a mess; it's a bummer if you're not insured; but it's only stuff ... And this is all pretty cool. It's when people stop worrying about their videos that revolutions start." There isn't space to do justice to the misconceptions contained in that paragraph, but it's safe to assume that they stem from the conviction that burglary is a simple function of poverty. In this view, burglars themselves are victims who are merely redistributing the unfair allocation of wealth. The problem is that it's the poor, and not the wealthy, who are the main victims of burglary, in particular the single-parent poor. And it's not stuff, but people (especially children) about which most householders worry. Just because the Daily Mail thinks burglary is wrong doesn't make it right. I can't pretend to know why Mr Symons got out of bed on the night he died, but I do know that he had children, and my guess is that in a choice between losing his life and his video, he would have preferred to keep his life. But the error in this line of thinking is to see burglary as purely a crime against property. As most people will tell you who have been burgled, it's also a crime against the person, an attack on his or her sense of security and wellbeing, which are, let's face it, basic needs common to all humans. For the sake of argument, imagine that you left your door open with a notice on it reading "No resistance offered to burglars". Well, you'd have to believe that the burglar would only be interested in your property. Of course, most burglars are after nothing else, but you'd still be giving the benefit of your doubt to someone who breaks into strangers' houses at 5am. So it's easy to see why people prefer instead to give the benefit of their hard-earned cash to the locksmith. Still, that said, entrenchment cannot be the healthy answer. All of us need to feel free to have the breeze blow in on a hot night. And as things stand, too many of us no longer enjoy that liberty. In the long term, legalising and controlling drug use may help bring down burglary, which is often fuelled by the need to buy drugs. No doubt improved education and career prospects would also have a positive impact. But in the meantime we could start with seeing burglary for what it is. My friend with the baseball bat, a man committed to egalitarianism and social justice, tried to laugh off the experience when I asked him about it. But later he admitted that he hadn't slept properly since it had happened. Burglary is not cool. It's not revolutionary. It's an attack on the very heart of society: the home. If we can't grasp that, then why, you have to ask, should the burglars?