Police today detained two men and two women at a tenement building near the Glasgow police station where a constable was shot while on duty last night.Armed police this morning surrounded a flat in Balintore Street, around 500 yards from Shettleston police station, in Glasgow's East End, where a man armed with a shotgun fired on PC John Cunningham last night.Mr Cunningham, 53, had been manning the public counter when the attack occurred just before 11.45pm. He is currently in serious but stable condition at Glasgow Royal Infirmary, having been hit in the right side by a bullet.Today, three police cars and three police vans could be seen in the streets surrounding the property. At 10.30am, an armed police unit entered the tenement building. Around eight officers, two of them with dogs, and all believed to be armed, entered through the main door of the three-storey block, which looks onto Pettigrew Street. Two hours earlier, police closed off Pettigrew Street in both directions as officers moved in. The gunman was last seen heading towards Pettigrew Street after walking out of the station following the shooting, a police spokeswoman said. After firing at the constable, the gunman placed the weapon on the counter and walked out of the station. Forensic tests were today being carried out on the shotgun."We do not know at this stage why this happened," a spokeswoman for Strathclyde police said. "Inquiries continue."This morning, two police officers stood outside the entrance to two tenement flats which look directly into the police station. Police tape had been put down on the floor of each entrance, and officers were not allowing anyone inside. Martha Carroll, 62, who lives in a flat next door to the station, said: "It must have been just before midnight. I heard a loud bang. I thought there had may have been a car accident, so I jumped up and looked out of the window. "I saw a young police officer run out into the middle of the road and stop the cars. I think it's absolutely appalling." Extra officers were drafted in from the area's serious crime squad to boost numbers in the search teams, a police spokeswoman said. The spokeswoman said that there was no CCTV in the area in which the shooting happened, but added that police were examining footage from council cameras in the street outside. Mr Cunningham, who is married with two daughters, has served the police for 31 years. The gunman was described as white, 20-25, slim and 5ft 8in tall. He has very thick dark hair in a bob with a middle parting, which may be dyed or a wig. He has a small mouth, dark eyes and a round nose. He was wearing a green camouflage jacket, a dark grey shirt and a dark coloured cardigan. Anyone with information should call London Road police on 0141 5324600 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.