The retail expert Mary Portas is the newest government tsar, joining Kirstie Allsopp, Alan Sugar and Jamie Oliver in a select club of television figures asked to speak truth to power. Her appointment is fitting for a country that spends so much time shopping – a consultant credited with restoring Harvey Nichols to fashionability, and more recently a pillar of primetime TV as "the queen of shops", Portas has been asked to investigate ways for the coalition to prevent the decline of the high street.Governments are sensible enough, at least some of the time, to know that expertise can't be generated in a vacuum, which is why policy advisers and ministers themselves invite academics, authors and campaigners to share what they know. (The New York Times columnist and sociologist David Brooks reports being asked to tea by David Cameron and Ed Miliband on his recent UK book tour.) They may speak, but it doesn't mean they get listened to, if the evidence presented doesn't fit polling data or the existing agenda.However, Portas's comments on her new role reveal why the appointment of non-political figures – or, perhaps more accurately, non-career politicians – may be useful in other ways. She asked in the Grocer: "What would be so wrong if out of all the millions in profit that Tesco makes every minute they were to put a percentage back into developing local community high streets … Why would that be so difficult to do?"What you would give to be present when she asks Cameron – with Cable at one elbow and Osborne at the other – the same thing! The bleeding obviousness of her question recalls Chauncey Gardner, the sheltered savant played by Peter Sellers in the film Being There, who becomes celebrated in high society for his wisdom, though he just parrots aphorisms he hears on television. In that sense "tsars" are not so much required to be experts as simply people who get to ask questions no professional politician can be seen to ask.A few weeks ago I wrote for Comment is free about, among other things, social conservatism, and my experience of being raised in a working-class environment where it was sometimes hard to express opinions that deviated from the general flow. But, according to letters and online responses, I had no right to consider myself an expert on growing up on council estates just because I'd grown up on a council estate.If I believed that my own reflections represented the definitive answer to the question "What is it like to grow up on a council estate?", I'd be called Tony Blair. Spending 30 years living on estates doesn't automatically make you an expert, but if the greater part of your working life is spent doing research on the subject, you might be credited with a degree of knowledge and insight not necessarily shared by someone who has never lived in social housing.This digression is only intended to illustrate the truism that states that if no one is an expert, then everyone is. Just about anyone who buys their own food and clothes is an expert on shopping: the price of milk, who does the best own-brand cereal, where you can make your £20 stretch furthest. And everyone has expertise in something: it's whether that expertise is socially valued, or considered unique enough to warrant further investigation, that counts in terms of sharing that expertise.This is really a question of representation: few of us perceive that we have a voice in public debate, let alone access the channels that get us closer to the microphone. Too often, the realisation that we can speak up only comes in tragic or desperate circumstances, as in the case of Helen Newlove, who became a community organiser in her home town of Warrington after her husband Garry was kicked to death in 2007.The novelist Andrew O'Hagan, reflecting on the return of Jon Venables to prison some years after completing his sentence for killing James Bulger, asked why the victim's mother, Denise Fergus, "should call the shots, should be the one to decide what ought to be done with the killers. She is not to be challenged: who in their right mind would seek to challenge a grieving parent? Yet we need to challenge her, because that also means challenging the moral stupidity the media's use of her represents."Unlike Newlove, Denise Fergus has not entered parliament, or been made a "crime tsar", as a consequence of her suffering. Yet, as O'Hagan argues, the fact that she is called upon to comment each time there is a news story about the case allows her to dominate public debate about the nature of the killing and about where we set the age of criminal responsibility. Ought she to have the last word, purely because of her unique experience? I don't think so. But that doesn't mean I'm an expert.