Vanessa George, the nursery worker who sexually abused children in her care and took indecent images of her victims, told police she knew what she did was "vile" and "disgusting".Tapes of George, 39, being interviewed by police also reveal her hinting that marriage to Colin Blanchard, one of two paedophiles with whom she shared the images, was a motive for her actions.George, who worked at Little Ted's nursery in Plymouth, Devon, suggested her continued complicity was partly to keep his attention. But she refused to name or identify any of her victims.On the tapes, obtained by the BBC's Inside Out South West programme, George said Blanchard, 39, from Rochdale, Greater Manchester, urged her to take indecent images after they met on Facebook.At one point, George tells police Blanchard pressed her for more images. She says: "And I said, 'Well, what would you do for me if I done that for you?' - like joking. And I said, 'You'd have to put a ring on my finger to make me do things like that!' And it was, like, 'Mmm ... you know'."At another point she seems to recognise how abhorrent her crimes are, telling the interviewer: "I'm fuming with myself, really. I am. Because it's the epitome, isn't it? It's like absolutely disgusting."During her interview George admits photographing her victims in the toilets and choosing younger children because they were easier targets: "I knew it was wrong when I was doing it. It's vile." She adds: "I wasn't doing it for enjoyment or anything like that."Asked how many pictures she had taken, George replies: "Probably lots, I wouldn't honestly say, but it was, I don't know, it wasn't 200."Recordings of the early interviews reveal how George thought Blanchard was "nice looking" when their online relationship began, about six months before her arrest. She says he asked her about her fantasies, adding: "I thought, 'I've got a kinky one here', so I'll play along with it."George says: "I said to him [Blanchard] like, I work in a nursery and things like that and it was just 'take some pictures' or something like that."When asked if she had taken pictures of all the children in the nursery, George says: "There's just a few of them, yeah I just do, I just used to take, like, just, not all of them [the children], no."George, Blanchard and a second woman, Angela Allen, 39, from Nottingham, are awaiting sentence on 37 child sex abuse charges. The trio exchanged thousands of email and mobile phone messages relating to child abuse, but Blanchard had not met the two women until they appeared in the dock together.In the wider police investigation, a woman from Hampshire was arrested and charged with sexual offences against a child after a tip-off from detectives involved in the George case, it emerged on Monday.Tracy Lyons, 39, from the Portsmouth area, appeared at South East Hampshire magistrates court on Saturday charged with sexual assault on a child, taking an indecent image of a child and distributing an indecent image of a child. She was remanded in custody until 18 January.Hampshire police said the inquiry was connected to the George case.Police questioning of Vanessa George:Officer: "Help the families who are out there now. Stressed, worried..."[Silence]Officer: "Please help us and tell us who you took pictures of."[Silence]Officer: "Vanessa, please. For them."[Silence]Officer: "As a mother you'd want to know. Don't you care?"Vanessa George: "No comment."Officer: "You clearly don't. I can't believe you can sit there and not care."