The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) has put forward a set of proposals for dealing with serial perpetrators of violence against women. Women's Aid welcomes this review since we know that there is a real need to improve the quality of responses across police forces and build public confidence. This is an urgent matter, as two women are still killed every week and most domestic violence incidents that police attend after emergency calls result in no further action.More than 60% of women in specialist domestic violence services have reported two or more incidents to the police and yet only 16% of them witnessed any further action in terms of prosecution or conviction. We know that victims come to refuge services out of fear and to protect themselves. We also know that some victims dial 999 and do not get any protection, despite the Acpo policy and procedures for responding to domestic violence that, if followed, should provide a high-quality response that prioritises victim safety.Women's Aid believes that some of the new proposals would help. Measures such as the domestic violence protection orders (DVPOs) work well in other European countries. These orders enable victims to have time to themselves (two weeks or more) away from the control of their perpetrator to think about their options. Where they also get support from a domestic violence service, these victims do generally break free from their abusive partner.We also believe that information about perpetrators should be shared across forces. However, we are not sure that this requires legislation but should be possible using the yet to be implemented Police National Database. A register of perpetrators could be useful but any proposals to inform a victim that their partner has (been) previously convicted would require further consultation and careful consideration as to how it might be done.We are less confident about the wisdom of introducing multi-agency risk assessment conferences (Maracs) on a statutory basis. While proper information sharing is required to protect victims, this should only be done on a need-to-know basis, or else could be dangerous. If victims know that their information could be given to the police, this may well prevent disclosure to services such as health, and victims need to be able to talk confidentially to their doctor or health visitor.We support the proposal that victims who do report to the police are given access to their witness statements, as this can assist an application for a non-molestation order or for safe accommodation from a local authority and has very little resource implications to the public purse. We hope that this proposal is implemented as soon as possible.Regardless of any new proposals, we need serious action from police leadership to ensure that Acpo's domestic violence guidance is properly implemented in every force and by every police officer under the control of its members. All frontline officers and relevant staff require training in order that victims receive a positive police response. We want to stop the postcode lottery and have assurances that every time a victim dials 999 they and their children get the protection they need.We also welcome the review that the Independent Police Complaints Commission is currently undertaking into domestic violence, which should provide useful recommendations to assist Acpo with this vital work.