The European court of human rights in Strasbourg yesterday stripped the home secretary, David Blunkett, of his right to keep murderers in jail once the parole board has recommended their release.The judgment is the latest in a series of decisions from Strasbourg transferring powers to decide how long killers remain behind bars from the home secretary to the judges. Previous Strasbourg rulings have deprived the home secretary of any role in deciding release dates for discretionary lifers - sentenced to life for lesser offences - and for young killers sentenced to detention at her majesty's pleasure. Mr Blunkett vowed to try to keep his only remaining say over murderers' jail terms - the right to fix the "tariff" or minimum term a prisoner must serve before his case can go to the parole board. This includes the right to fix a "whole life" tariff for some of the most dangerous murderers. That right was not directly at issue in the Strasbourg case, though yesterday's judgment is expected to be decisive when the House of Lords considers the home secretary's tariff fixing role later this year. "I am concerned that this judgment may serve as encouragement for those who would like to remove the home secretary's powers to set tariffs for adult murderers," said Mr Blunkett. "If this judgment were to be used to support a legal process to achieve this, I would seek to use domestic legislation to enshrine the power of parliament to provide adequate punishment for the guilty." But lawyers said he would almost inevitably lose the power when the Lords hear an appeal by two murderers who argue that allowing a politician to fix tariffs breaches the European convention on human rights. When the pair, Anthony Anderson and John Taylor, took their case to the high court and the court of appeal last year, the judges made clear they were reluctantly ruling against them. The stumbling block was an earlier Strasbourg case. If they win their case in the Lords, it will open the way to a tariff review for the 22 murderers with a whole life tariff. Most are probably too dangerous to be released - that decision would be taken by the parole board - but the moors murderer, Myra Hindley, who has already been classified as low risk, could go free. Any prisoner who has had the tariff recommended by the trial judge or lord chief justice increased by the home secretary - which happens in one in 16 cases - would be entitled to have the tariff reviewed. If the home secretary's tariff fixing powers are found to breach the human rights convention, Mr Blunkett would not be able to remedy that by legislation. Yesterday's ruling was won by Dennis Stafford, 68, from Durham, jailed for life for a clubland killing in 1967. The court ruled he was unlawfully detained from July 1997 to December 1998, when the then home secretary, Jack Straw, finally released him. The court held that the UK government had violated his rights to protection from arbitrary detention and to have the lawfulness of his detention determined speedily by a court. He was awarded £10,500 compensation and £17,865 legal costs. Mr Blunkett said he was "disappointed" by the ruling and insisted that it did not affect murderers on whole life tariffs. "Any review of these cases is a matter for me. Policy on punishment of the guilty must always be the domain of the elected parliament." The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said: "We believe that the home secretary should retain the ability to overrule the parole board in cases involving murderers."