From superheroes to bobbies on the beat, the typical image of a crime fighter has always been a broad-shouldered male. Over the past few years, however, that picture has been changing fast. Women now make up a third of special constables, and 43% of police community support officers (PCSOs), and while, more generally, the police service has only been making small steps towards parity, they have been moving in the right direction. At the Home Office, women hold a clutch of senior positions, and in July this trend was confirmed with the appointment of the country's very first woman home secretary, Jacqui Smith. Given this encouraging progress, we decided to talk to a wide range of crime-fighting women - including the home secretary, a community activist and a PCSO - about what their work means for communities as a whole, and female crime victims in particular.Jacqui Smith, home secretaryJust because Smith is the first female home secretary, it doesn't necessarily follow that she will do more for women than previous incumbents - but there have been encouraging signs that she might. Two weeks ago, for instance, she launched Pentameter II, an operation targeting those who traffic women to Britain for sexual exploitation. It should be a popular move, but it hasn't escaped controversy - Smith has said that there will be no blanket policy of allowing women rescued from brothels to stay in this country. Why not? "Frankly, if a trafficker said to a woman, 'Your definite way of getting into a country is to be trafficked,' in many ways that is a pull factor," she says."What we're doing is we have new training for asylum case workers to make sure that the particular needs of women who have been trafficked for sexual exploitation are recognised fully. We have also put in place a 30-day period of reflection, so women have the opportunity to take the advice and health care they need before anybody makes a decision about their immigration status." There is only one government-funded support service for trafficked women - the Poppy Project - which has just 25 beds. It's not really good enough, is it? "It's £2.5m of government funding," says Smith, with a hint of irritation.Smith, 44, was one of that group of female politicians annoyingly dubbed "Blair babes" when she became MP for Redditch in 1997. It has been said that she has a different tone to her predecessor, John Reid, but she seems just as steely on crime, ID cards, terrorism and immigration. Still, that doesn't stop people focusing on her appearance. In the first few days of her new job, she addressed the House of Commons about the failed terrorist attacks, only to be hit by complaints that her top was too revealing. It must infuriate her. In an interview with Good Housekeeping this month, she said: "You've got to laugh it off. I'm doing a statement about terrorism and, funnily enough, what was top of my mind was, 'What do I need to do to protect the British people against the terrorist threat?' not, 'Is this top a bit low-cut?'"We meet a couple of days after Rizwan Darbar, a 17-year-old from east London, was stabbed by a group of youths who had tried to steal his friend's mobile phone. Does Smith think people should stand up to criminals? "Yes, where you can do that in a way that isn't going to put you, personally, in danger. I'm not calling on people to do that, but I want to make sure that communities are able to work together and have the tools to stand up to those people who, in some cases, are making their lives a misery."This forms the basis of the Home Office's Not in My Neighbourhood campaign this week. "One of the most debilitating things about crime, and particularly serious crime, is the way it makes people want to retreat into themselves and their homes ... We've seen crime levels coming down but we haven't always seen people's fear of crime coming down and that's because people need better local information about what's going on." (Smith has just announced measures to make local crime figures available to every neighbourhood.)There was talk last month that Smith was among a number of senior politicians who supported a plan to criminalise men who pay for sex. Will she commit to that? "Are we actively considering it at the moment?" she says. "No. Would I write it off? No, I wouldn't. There is no prostitution without demand."Smith also recently announced that the number of Sexual Assault Referral Centres (Sarcs) would be increasing from 18 to 36 as one measure to try to raise the shockingly low rape conviction rate of just under 6%. "[At a Sarc] a woman who has been raped is able to have the health care and the forensically necessary examination, which then gives her the choice and control about how she takes that forward through the criminal justice system," says Smith. She says that the rape conviction rate is a priority, "because, frankly, I think it is too low".Silla Carron, community activistCarron, a 58-year-old grandmother, has lived on the Clarence Way estate in Camden, north London, for 14 years, in a flat decorated with Liverpool football club memorabilia. "I love it, I absolutely love my home," she says. "I wouldn't want to live anywhere else." And while others might just have moved out when the drug dealers moved in eight years ago, Carron fought them to win back her estate."My granddaughter is 11 now, but when she was six, I remember walking her to school. There was a man injecting heroin into his groin. I went ballistic. It was the blatancy of it. A little kid shouldn't have to see that at 8.40 in the morning."The council had decided to turn a piece of wasteland outside Carron's ground-floor flat into a basketball court. "The problem was what it brought with it," she says. Addicts would buy drugs from Camden, then come to the estate to shoot up. The basketball court would attract young people from the area, who parked their cars, cranked up the sound systems and bought drugs from the dealers. "The kids from the estate were too afraid to use it," says Carron.She says she has lost count of the number of times she found junkies sleeping off their last fix in the quiet stairwells. "Often they would vomit, urinate or defecate - and sometimes all three - outside our front doors," she says. She decided to start a tenants' association and hassled Camden council to provide money to tidy up the estate - replace windows and doors for the flats, create new play areas for the children and improve security (she campaigned successfully to have several telephone boxes removed, as these were used for drug deals). She also demanded dedicated street wardens to patrol the estate. "They have made a huge difference," she says. When Carron takes us to look around the estate and sees a young man looking slightly shifty, she calls one of the wardens out to investigate. "I can get my police community support officers or street wardens up here, and I can get it logged. If I don't get it logged, we haven't got a problem because nobody knows about it."Carron has taken photographs of drug dealers and once even threw a bucket of cold water on one. She is respected by her neighbours, but has also been threatened by the dealers. What have they done? She mimes cutting a knife across her throat. "My car has been keyed five times, they throw mud or human and dog excrement at the windows." Does it put her off? "Sometimes, but what frightens me even more is if they take over."Moira Wallace, director general for crime, policing and counterterrorismWallace heads up a Home Office department devoted to preventing crime, has 550 people answering to her and works with the most senior members of the police service. Given all this, I was expecting to meet a steely superwoman, but in fact she is small and friendly. Has she ever had any problems from the male police chiefs she works with? She smiles. "No, not at all."I wonder whether she thinks the Sarcs mentioned by Smith will bring down the rape conviction rate? "I think that will make a huge difference [to] help people both get the courage to report crimes and also deal with the consequence of crimes. It's something we're building up gradually." But why does it take so long? After all, even 36 Sarcs is far from enough for the whole country. "When you come up with an idea like that, it's good to test it out and learn from it before you say, 'Let's have blanket coverage,'" she says.Besides, Wallace is just as keen on preventing rape as on seeking successful prosecutions. "One of the things I think is important is helping people to understand what they can do to keep themselves safe - whether it's making people aware of date-rape drugs or making people more likely to report domestic abuse, because there's a link there. I also think we need to work on helping people not to make themselves vulnerable in terms of how much alcohol they are consuming, for instance." Isn't that placing responsibility with the victim, rather than the culprit? Wallace thinks not. Her concern, she says, is "just about people keeping themselves safe".Kath Stretton, police community support officerStretton, 52, was working as a supervisor at a factory when she saw an advert for PCSOs in her local paper. "I was one of those people who had moaned that there weren't enough bobbies on the beat," she says. "I thought I should put my money where my mouth is." Stretton has been a PCSO for four years now, working five days a week - her job is primarily to be out and about in her town, Great Harwood in Lancashire. PCSOs don't have the same powers as regular police officers; instead they are the eyes and ears of the service, their main job being to provide a bridge between the community and the police. "We're not enforcers," says Stretton. "I see the job as trying to prevent people, especially young people, from becoming involved in crime. I go into schools to teach road safety and I've got to know all the kids. The adults are the same - they know me. People come up to me and chat, whereas I think they can be a little bit afraid of the formality of a police officer."Has she ever felt threatened? "No, not at all. It intimidated me the first time I had to walk through a group of youths, but now I know them all. I've seen them grow up so there's an affection there as well. Once, there were about 30 or 40 youths drinking on a cricket pitch. I radioed in to say I was going over to take the alcohol off them and I did feel a bit of trepidation, but they were fine."Stretton doesn't agree with the criticism that the money could be better spent on regular police officers. "A lot of the things we sort out don't have to be reported, such as neighbour disputes or noise nuisance. People tell me about things that are bugging them, like an abandoned car on their street, things that they wouldn't necessarily report to the police ... It allows police officers to get on with their jobs."Irene Wilson, Neighbourhood WatchIrene Wilson might only live a few miles north of Silla Carron, in Enfield, north London, but it feels like a different world: a nice suburban street, with rows of small but neat semi-detached houses. The fact that many of her neighbours have Neighbourhood Watch stickers in their front porches is largely down to her. Wilson, who is 76 and has lived here since the 1950s, is chair of her local Watch.Violent crime isn't a problem here, but vandalism is, she says. "Up until recently, we were the safest Neighbourhood Watch in the borough. But then we had a lot of trees being set alight on Friday and Saturday nights between 12 and two in the morning. Fortunately there haven't been any more, and graffiti has gone down, so we thought it might be the same group. We went through a bad spate of car windows being broken earlier on in the year."Neighbourhood Watch started in 1982 and now covers 6m households. Wilson, who has worked as a hairdresser, butcher and carpet-seller while bringing up her children, has 1,500 households within her Watch. "It's interesting the number of women who are involved in Neighbourhood Watch," she says. "It's mums who are aware of the issues and get things done. A lot of it is because they are often still traditionally at home with their kids, so they're aware of problems with bullying or vandalism."Like Carron, Wilson feels that the way to tackle crime and the fear of crime is to have a more visible police presence. How does she feel about PCSOs? "I feel they're a good thing but the drawback is they don't have the authority that a proper police officer has got." The other way is to have strong partnerships with local police. "Mainly, we all try to look after one another. We don't live in each other's pockets." Having a strong Neighbourhood Watch, she suggests, "has made people more aware and more friendly".