Now he likes to think of himself as a "celebrity". But there was a time when "Mad" Frankie Fraser was involved in some of Britain's most brutal crimes.The mobster, now 82, was nicknamed "the dentist" for extracting victims' teeth using pliers, and was known to use axes and knives to mutilate those who crossed him.After the law caught up with him, he spent 42 years locked up inside institutions such as Broadmoor, Dartmoor and Parkhurst - much of it spent in solitary confinement as punishment for attacking prison officials. Distasteful as it is, the ageing gangster now exploits his grisly past by earning a living as an after-dinner speaker - often picking up hundreds of pounds a night. He is also an author and charges punters £35 a head for his tours of London's ganglands.After a lifetime as one of Britain's most vicious criminals, he is probably better placed than others to answer the question, does crime pay?"For me, no. I earned a lot of money over the years but spent it just as quickly as it came in. Crime has just been a way of life and not a means to get rich."Fraser followed a path into crime when just a young child, and shows no remorse. He was one of five children and his parents were honest and hard working but, he says, desperately poor. "My father was very, very honest and we were very, very poor. He worked seven days a week at a factory while my mother did three cleaning jobs a day. "I was not prepared to work my fingers to the bone for nothing. I did not feel guilty about thieving - it was just redistributing the wealth to those who needed it most." The second world war marked the starting point for his life in crime. As an army deserter, he began a career as a spiv thriving on black market trading. After the war he progressed on to smash-and-grab raids and bank hold-ups - claiming to be the first man in Britain to wear a stocking over his head. Yet the financial rewards were sporadic. "The money was easy come and easy go - a few quid here and there. I always seemed to just miss out on the big one. But I got along well enough and enjoyed a high life." Fraser says most of the money was frittered away on parties. Another weakness was for tailor-made Savile Row suits.' Abiding by what he calls a gangland code of conduct, Fraser claims to have shared out some of the cash among the less successfully villainous members of his close-knit underworld. Fraser says his biggest money-grabber was when he became involved in "offering" one-arm bandits to pubs and clubs. With gangland boss Eddie Richardson, he raked in thousands of pounds a week from the machines in the 60s - even while in jail. Does he feel any guilt or remorse for those who have suffered from his crimes? "None whatsoever. The only regret I have is being caught. What I feel bad about is having spent more than 40 years inside - suffered more bread and water than any man alive and much of it in isolation." Fraser attempts to justify the appalling brutality of his past by claiming he would never hurt women or children, only fellow gangsters or those out to injure him - a list which includes four prison governors he has attacked, one of whom he tried to hang. Before one spell inside, he got to know the Kray twins Ronnie and Reggie. "I was big friends with their elder brother Charlie and used to go round to their house for drinks. The boys were still in shorts in those days - they were good respectful lads and called me Uncle Frank. "To celebrate my release from jail the twins organised a party for me. There was a whip round - a common practice for friends who have been inside. We are not talking tens of thousands of pounds as was reported at the time, just a few hundred. In return I would try to help them in time of trouble." He says the prison regime that he got to know so well during his lengthy stints means he now put a higher value on freedom than anything money can buy. "I can survive on just the basics and do not need luxuries." Fraser is only 5ft 4 inches high and now an old man. But he retains a gift as a storyteller for making his brutal and often sickening past sound nostalgic. His attempt to portray himself as amiable old "uncle Frankie" is a far cry from the description as "the most dangerous man in Britain" afforded to him by two former Home Secretaries. Now, sufficiently old to no longer be regarded as a threat, he has become a "celebrity criminal". "I do not want to be famous - fame means absolutely nothing to me. I do not enjoy the attention it brings and would rather do without it. However, if people are interested in what I have to say then I am happy to tell my story, because it often gets told wrong - but you don't get something for nothing in this world."