It has been long apparent that an idea has to be really quite stupid to earn the approval of a New Labour home secretary. To win the backing of the Tories as well requires crass idiocy of a quite oceanic extent.So it goes with Jacqui Smith's latest shameless headline-grab. The original New Labour flagship measure, antisocial behaviour orders (asbos) are to be quietly dropped, and replaced by a raft of new initiatives. The most eye-catching is the idea that persistent young criminals should be harassed and hounded by teams of police personnel who will follow their every move, film their every action, knock on their doors at any time of day or night, search them continuously, and in Smith's words: "Create an environment where there is nowhere to hide."The plan is based on a scheme developed in Basildon, Essex, where over four days in January, 14 young offenders and their associates on the small, crime-ridden Vange estate were targeted in Operation Leopard. A team of police officers, including three cameramen from the plain-clothes forward intelligence team - normally used to gather information on political protesters and football hooligans - were deployed in the intensive campaign. Burglaries, criminal damage and car crime on the estate dropped to zero during the period. Residents were delighted. Essex Chief Constable Roger Baker got lots of good headlines. How could New Labour resist?I will leave the legal arguments about human rights to those better qualified than me, but Smith's thinking undoubtedly edges us closer to panopticon Britain. The concept of preventative surveillance was first applied to football hooligans before being borrowed for animal rights activists, then kerb-crawlers, carpark doggers, and now antisocial youths on our estates. Does anybody think it will stop there? Which of us couldn't be seen as a potential criminal in some circumstance or other?This is yet another example of the slippage of enforcement powers. File it alongside the terrorism laws being used to silence peace protesters and laws passed to prevent stalking being used against anti-corporate campaigners. Of course if the harassment laws were to be applied in this case, the police would have to arrest themselves. When Jacqui Smith talked about giving young offenders "a taste of their own medicine" we can presume she meant making them the victims of antisocial behaviour and criminality. Funnily enough, I never thought those were among the official roles of the state.Little is known about Operation Leopard. Nowhere on the Home Office website or that of Essex Police is there any kind of analysis. Of course crime fell in the area that was being blitzed by officers, but what happened in the neighbouring districts? What duties were the officers and PCSOs involved pulled away from? How quickly did crime on the estate return to previous levels? What has been the impact on the subsequent criminality of the young people targeted? Perhaps this research has been conducted and impressive answers have been obtained, but since the original operation occurred less than 5 months ago, and the follow-up exercises only in March, I'll confess to a degree of scepticism.Anyone who has talked to or worked with persistent young offenders will describe some recurring common attitudes. Anger at the world is normal, as is a sense of persecution and injustice. There is a nihilistic indifference to their own fate and a belief that, whatever they do, life will inevitably kick them in the teeth - all of which combines to make self-destructive, antisocial behaviour and criminality a no-brainer. It is just impossible to believe that any young person going through an intense experience of state harassment would emerge on the other side a more rounded, responsible individual, committed to a law-abiding future.Of course we all want to see an end to crime and antisocial behaviour committed by young people - or anyone else. There is no doubt that the lives of some people in areas of our country are blighted and occasionally ruined by persistent offending. But we need strategies that are effective, sustainable and holistic, not half-baked, headline-friendly schemes, grabbed at in times of opinion poll crisis.If you read Essex Police's original report of the initiative, one detail in particular leaps out. The 14 offenders chosen were not selected by statistics on recidivism or severity of offences, nor by an expert committee drawn from community police officers, the youth offending team, and social and youth services. They were chosen by residents in a survey.Local residents do often know better than anyone who causes crime in their neighbourhoods. But they are a far from infallible source. It seems highly likely that the names put forward in this type of exercise will not just include the incorrigibly criminal but also the painfully obnoxious. And since the operation was extended to "associates" of the named people, it will have inevitably drawn in young people who have never been convicted of a crime, and indeed may never have committed one. It simply cannot be justified to subject people of any age to such intrusive and degrading treatment on the basis of public rumour or distaste.None of this will bother the home secretary, of course. Operation Leopard played well in the Daily Mail, and it seems this is all that matters in the Home Office these days. We can cling to the knowledge that most senior police officers are considerably more sensible than Westminster politicians and may well drag their heels diplomatically until the idea has been long forgotten and replaced by the next daft scheme. And perhaps that is what Smith is counting on.It is fair to assume that this announcement was made principally to divert attention from the embarrassing failure of asbos, to encourage amnesia around election results, and to score a cheap political point against Cameron's Tories. So just to restore the balance, and in case you missed it, let me point out that asbos have been an expensive and embarrassing failure for New Labour; the local elections were an expensive and embarrassing failure for New Labour; and the party press release announcing this (impending) expensive and embarrassing failure for New Labour, concluded:"While Labour takes the tough and necessary measures to combat crime and antisocial behaviour, David Cameron's hug-a-hoodie approach will not protect law-abiding families. He has repeatedly said that the solution is to show 'more love' to young louts."Everyone deserves a neighbourhood that is safe, secure and free of fear. People have every right to expect criminals to be convicted and punished and for crimes to be prevented. They deserve better than politicians who use real problems and fears for hastily-contrived games of political ping-pong.