Prisoners' rights are once again in the spotlight. Last week, Iorworth Hoare was freed to spend the £7m he won in the national lottery after buying a ticket on weekend release at a Middlesbrough bail hostel Hoare's winnings were entirely safe: the six years within which the victims of his rapes could have sued him had elapsed.Some campaigners are arguing that prisoners need more rights. Barred From Voting is a recently launched campaign to give sentended prisoners the vote. Its organisers, the Prison Reform Trust (PRT) and an ex-prisoners' group, Unlock, count the president of the Liberal Democratic party, Simon Hughes, and the former Conservative home secretary Lord Douglas Hurd among their supporters. The Forfeiture Act of 1870 prohibits prisoners from voting, in effect removing their citizenship rights. The question the act raises is whether imprisonment is a time for prisoners to rebuild their identity or to be deprived of certain aspects of it as part of their punishment. Should imprisonment constitute only a loss of liberty or also a loss of civil rights?Campaigners argue that linking imprisonment with "civic death" debilitates prisoners at precisely the time when they should be being prepared for release into society. The director of the PRT, Juliet Lyon, says: "Prison has an important job to do to prevent the next victim and release people less, not more, likely to offend again. Prisoners should be given every opportunity to pay back for what they have done, take responsibility for their lives and make plans for effective resettlement."The Tory MP Ann Widdecombe represents the opposing school of thought. "When a judge has taken the decision that somebody's crimes are of such an order of magnitude that they need to be taken out of society then it does seem perverse to hand that same person a say in how society is governed," she has said. As the law stands, prisoners have basic rights to education, exercise, correspondence and reading materials. They can attend evening classes, and a scheme provides them with the opportunity to take a degree with the Open University. Many prisons have football and other sports pitches and a gym. Sport is regarded as part of the rehabilitation process; Deerbolt prison has a "tackling drugs through sport" programme, and Erlestoke prison organises regular football matches with teams from the community. However, prisoners' rights depend to a large degree on the category of prison in which they are held or the crime for which they have been detained. Prisoners' mail would never normally be checked In a category-B prison, but that of child sex offenders would be routinely scrutinised. In a category-C prison, inmates are likely to be granted an hour's outdoor exercise daily, plus access to a range of other sports activities, while the legal minimum is just one hour of exercise a week. Prisoners have recently been granted greater rights to information and correspondence with the outside world. The Data Protection Act 1998 gives prisoners the right to have copies of their prison records, and a ruling in the House of Lords in 1999 made it unlawful to refuse visiting journalists the right to use interview material. Geoff Dobson, deputy director of the PRT, has called for a review of the ban on sentenced prisoners receiving a state pension, when they are entitled to contribute to a private pension. Last year, in a case brought by a prisoner serving a life sentence, John Hirst, the European court of human rights ruled unanimously that the ban on sentenced prisoners voting violated Article Three of the European convention on human rights. The British government's appeal against the decision will be heard on April 27. However, it is in a minority of 9 countries in Europe that endorse a complete ban. In France and Germany, the judge will sometimes deprive prisoners of the right to vote as an additional penalty.A recent House of Commons committee, linking education and successful rehabilitation, called for vast improvements to be made to education facilities in prisons. The Education and Skills Committee report said that prisoners who do not take part in formal education in jail are three times more likely to reoffend than those who do.