Three nursing home staff have been jailed and a fourth given a community sentence for tormenting and abusing elderly residents with dementia, actions described by the trial judge as "gratuitous sport at the expense of vulnerable victims".The court heard residents at Hillcroft nursing home in Slyne-with-Hest, Lancashire, were pelted with bean bags, mocked and bullied on the assumption their condition meant they would not remember the abuse. One man's foot was deliberately stamped on and another was nearly tipped out of his wheelchair.During the sentencing hearing at Preston crown court the son of one resident said the family viewed the decision to place him at Hillcroft as the "worst of our lives" and believed managers covered up the incidents.The judge, Michael Byrne, said the actions of Darren Smith, 35, Carol Ann Moore, 54, Katie Cairns, 27, and Gemma Pearson, 28, were "an indictment" of the home's managers.He said: "Much evidence in the trial revealed that there was, at the relevant times, a lax regime with weak and inadequate management on the unit which allowed the kind of conduct to carry on undetected and without proper and adequate control." He added: "Some of the offences were gratuitous sport at the expense of vulnerable victims."Smith, who admitted eight counts of ill-treating people with impaired mental capacity, was jailed for eight months. The other three staff were found guilty of the same offence in November. Cairns was jailed for five months and Moore for four months. Pearson was given a 12-month community order and told to carry out 40 hours of unpaid work.The offences took place between May 2010 and September 2011, when a receptionist and a cleaner told managers that Moore had struck a resident, and raised other concerns. The four were suspended, but later reinstated with warnings.Managers decided there was insufficient evidence to mount a wider investigation or pass on the complaints to social services, the court heard. When local authority staff visited the home, managers did not mention the staff suspensions.Later, the Care Quality Commission (CQC) received anonymous emails about the home. The four were arrested in October 2012 when Lancashire County Council told police about the complaints and a full inquiry began.Initially, all the defendants insisted they had done nothing wrong, blaming office politics and cliques among staff.After the sentencing Detective Chief Inspector Andy Hulme described the actions as "utterly contemptible". He said: "I would once again like to take this opportunity to commend those members of staff who displayed great courage and decency in speaking out against this despicable behaviour. This couldn't have been an easy thing for them to do, but what I must emphasise is the families' gratitude towards them for coming forward."Michael Rowlinson, whose father, Norman, was placed in Hillcroft because he had Alzheimer's, read a statement from the witness box. He said: "We had feelings of guilt for not being able to look after him. Our feelings of guilt only worsened when we found out that Dad had been subjected to humiliation and ill-treatment by those who were trusted to care for him."We feel angry this could have been allowed to happen to Dad and sorry that Mum had to learn about it."Judge Byrne said three common themes emerged from the statements given by families.He said: "In each and every case the victim's family trusted the home to look after their relative. Secondly, many of the families felt a sense of guilt of having to give up the care of one of their family to be cared for by strangers. And thirdly, the anger and resentment at the trust being betrayed."