A week on and I'm still seething with rage about the fare-dodging commuter who escaped prosecution – or Evade Justice, as I keep calling it in my head, as if he were Billy the Kid and the Stonegate-London Bridge stretch of Southeastern rail track were the dusty trails of Lincoln County – by paying over in a lump sum the £43,000 he should have paid in the first place. The writer in me was delighted by the story: hedge fund manager exploits loophole in the system and light-touch regulation to line his pockets at taxpayers' expense and then avoids proper punishment by virtue of his great wealth? Well, mwah!Let me see if I can fashion some sort of macrocosmic point out of one little financier's tale of greed, corruption, immorality, privilege and non-downfall thanks to a structured, systemic inequality that pervades our legal system. I'm sure something will come to me.But the rest of me can't rest. First of all, there's my inner outraged Little Briton, who wants him hung from the nearest signal post, drawn and quartered and his head stuck on a rusty pike as a warning to others to Play By The Minimal Rules Required For A Civilised Society, You Bastards. Then there's the ever-baffled Catholic in me, wondering how anyone could sit, calmly, day after day, knowing he was transgressing the rules of God and man without having a carriageful of convulsions and repenting the sin before he'd even left East Sussex. How did the rhythm of the train delivering him to his destination not sound in those guilty ears like a message of doom? "You'll-be-caught-you'll-be-caught-oh-the-shame-oh-the-shame-going-to-hell-going-to-hell…"But most of all there is the disappointed me. This – this is the best we can come up with? This is what we're fielding in the (in)glorious history of scams? Failure to tap in? Oyster abuse? What happened to selling the Statue of Liberty to gullible foreigners or hawking the Eiffel Tower for scrap? Victor Lustig posed as France's "minister of posts and telegraphs" to sell metal dealer André Poisson the latter; he even got Poisson to pay him a bribe. Merveilleux.What happened to forging Nazi diaries? Or pretending to be Sidney Poitier's son, or Anastasia, or the yeti or Loch Ness monster? Where's the style? Where's the chutzpah? Where's the effort, the imagination, the joy?Modern fraud is a tawdry thing – large or small, it's primarily and dryly financial, involving identification of loopholes in computer programs and regulatory frameworks, skimming off an extra piece here and there, maybe a few times, maybe a million, but never with any panache.One of the strangest things about humans is that while we collectively worship cash, we instinctively recognise all kinds of other currency, too. If you hustle us but give us a laugh in the process, provoke a gasp of admiration at the scale of your ambition or a stunned silence at the sudden glimpse of unexplored possibilities that were hiding in plain sight all along… well, we'll happily set that off against your ill-gotten gains. You will enter into legend. Leonardo DiCaprio will star in films about you. We will laud you as we leniently punish you. But you have to put in the effort. You have to sell London Bridge, not dodge your fare there.