The bishop of Sheffield has spoken of his shock and outrage over the murder of Alan Greaves, the church organist who was killed on his way to a Christmas Eve midnight mass.Speaking at St Saviour's church, High Green, where Greaves was a member and also a lay preacher, Steven Croft said Sheffield had lost a "shining light"."There is a sense of shock and a sense of outrage, not just in this community but across the whole city of Sheffield," he said. "Alan was the victim of a brutal attack as he was on his way to church on Christmas Eve, as he was walking to this church to bear witness to his deep Christian faith. There will be immense grief for those who knew Alan well, which includes many in this church and community."He went on to speak of the love and support that has been offered to the family and also appreciation for the medical teams that tried to save Greaves's life."And in the midst of all this, I am sure, many will be giving thanks for Alan himself, for all he showed us of God's grace and love," he said. "There will be occasions in the future for many generous tributes to be given. Goodness is not as common as it should be and this community and this city have lost a shining light."Two men are in custody after being arrested on Saturday on suspicion of Greaves's murder. The 68-year-old, a grandfather and father of four, died after sustaining serious head injuries after leaving his home to go to the church. Police said the motive for the attack was unclear.During the service, Greaves's widow, Maureen, told the congregation: "I won't be able to contact you over the next few days, but I want to thank you for the support you have given me."I have prayed constantly for Alan and I know you have too. I have not stopped crying for him and I know you have not stopped either. I have wept over the evil that has been done. I have prayed for you and I know you have prayed for me. You were Alan's Christian family and he loved belonging to this church. I have felt your love towards me."