The Compass IT system is unpopular with at least one customer. A man charged with violent offences stood a good chance of being released when a prosecutor on his way to the bail hearing was delayed on the motorway. Without the prosecution paperwork, the judge would have had to accept the defence's argument. Unfortunately for the accused, the crown court was equipped with a secure terminal linked to Compass, the Crown Prosecution Service's case-management system. A prosecutor at the court called up the details, and the defence withdrew its application for bail. The defendant was later jailed for three-and-a-half years. Ken McDonald, director of public prosecutions, told that story this week to illustrate why electronic case files are better than paper ones. So far, however, the only criminal justice agency to install such a system nationally is the CPS. It announced this week that its Compass case-management system had gone live on time and on budget. Ministers are hoping that Compass will break the run of bad news around criminal justice IT, particularly case-management systems. Compass (developed under a £200m contract with IT supplier LogicaCMG) records, tracks and manages details of every case handled by the CPS, enabling them to be called up at 400 locations in England and Wales. Cases are being added at the rate of 7,500 a day. It also stores records of closed cases, making them available in seconds rather than days. Each case record is identified by a reference number created by the police force investigating the crime. The CPS says that the system reduces the number of "cracked" trials, those that collapse because of administrative blunders. It also helps prosecutors identify criminals carrying out offending sprees across different counties. Until now, courts have relied to an alarming extent on defendants volunteering such information. Electronic case management also underpins the government's pledge to set up a web site through which victims of crime can follow progress in their case. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, says the portal will be ready by the end of next year. A national case management system, to be used by police, courts and prison services, will start to come into use by April 2006, Goldsmith says. This virtually unified case management system will not be created by a single system, but by interfaces between individual agencies' systems. The first big step in creating this system is to link Compass with police case-management systems. Pilot links will begin from autumn. "That interaction is going to provide the core. We have got to get this right," said Goldsmith. Police-prosecution links are essential because the CPS is taking over from police forces as "gatekeeper" to the criminal justice. Last year, it took over from police forces responsibility for charging offenders. The change was typical of the kind of "policy shock" that tends to throw government IT programmes into disarray; Goldsmith says the Compass team took it in its stride. The snag is that only one quarter of the 43 services in England and Wales have the nationally approved police case preparation system, developed by Vivista for the Police IT Organisation. Another 10 are due to be on the system by next April, with all 43 by April 2006. However, the government cannot compel services to join. The constitutional independence of police IT systems is likely to be called into question by the Bichard inquiry into the Soham murders. Its report, due next month, is expected to call for stronger central direction. If Compass has broken the jinx on criminal justice IT projects, there is an irony. It was one of the last big systems to be procured through the private finance initiative (PFI), which the Treasury now says is unsuitable for large-scale IT projects. Martin Read, LogicaCMG's chief executive, says the project was "a shining example of the way to get it right". However, the black museum of criminal justice IT still contains some chilling exhibits. The Libra project to create a case-handling system for magistrates courts came unstuck when costs doubled. A case management system for the probation service was a notorious fiasco in the 1990s. Shortcomings have been revealed at the Criminal Records Bureau. The good news is that legal professionals seem to be learning to accept working cultures based on IT. McDonald says that whenever he encounters lawyers protesting that they are not typists, "I say to them: 'You can't be a lawyer any more without being a typist'."