The UK’s most powerful crime lords are to be pursued in a crackdown in which the National Crime Agency will identify the most notorious “untouchable” criminals.Lynne Owens, the new head of the agency, used her first public address to warn there will be no hiding place for “iconic” criminals.Regional police teams around the country have been asked to identify the individuals suspected of being at the top of organised crime groups involved in activities such as drugs, gun-running and child sexual exploitation.The NCA – Britain’s equivalent of the FBI – will concentrate its efforts on these senior figures, who often have links abroad, while leaving more of the lower-level “volume” investigations to local forces.Owens, the former chief constable of Surrey police, became the most senior woman in British law enforcement when she succeeded Keith Bristow as the NCA director general this year. National Crime Agency could replace police in leading fight against terrorism In a speech at security thinktank the Royal United Services Institute in London, Owens set out plans to relentlessly pursue those she described as “high priority” criminals. “Let’s be clear, these are criminals who terrorise communities and believe themselves to be untouchable,” she said. “They create a misplaced sense of power, status and position often abusing vulnerable people to undertake criminal activity on their behalf, distancing themselves whilst taking most of the profit but none of the risks. “We will ensure that none of them are beyond our reach, no matter how sophisticated their offending: put simply, there will be no hiding places.” Work is ongoing to identify the key “untouchables” and the first tranche of the list has been provided to the NCA. The final number of suspects is expected to be in double figures. Owens said the crime bosses often have an international reach, either living abroad themselves or placing money or assets overseas. She said: “There are some iconic untouchables, some key criminals who have built up a script around themselves that absolutely hits the streets where local police forces and regional police forces are saying: ‘We are really struggling to use the techniques at our availability to intercede against that individual.’ “So we are currently doing a piece of work with every force in the country saying: ‘Help us define who those people are in your eyes.’” Asked how the new approach would be different to previous attempts to tackle “untouchables”, she said: “We have a very good working relationship with partners overseas, we have some top-end capabilities that are relatively new, we have a good working relationship with policing and security services.“I believe we now have the tools available to us to enable us to do that.”