On 21 January Mary Butres, a businesswoman, was sentenced to seven and a half years in jail for causing the deaths of two young, healthy, happy people.The day before, Frances Inglis, a care worker, was sentenced to life – she must serve at least nine years – for killing a young man who lay inert, unable to move, desperately ill.Butres didn't know the young couple whose lives were ended when she drove a lethal weapon, a Jaguar XJ8, drunkenly at 113mph in bad weather. Inglis did know young Tom, he was her son. And she knew exactly what she was doing when she injected heroin into his wrecked body, wrapped herself around him, told him she loved him and waited for him to lose pain and life itself.While it's obviously more complicated than just comparing the two cases, looking at them together can help to highlight a problem with our criminal justice system: the unseemly symmetry of these two sentences reminds us that our law is a mess, an ass. All the deaths involved are, of course, tragic. But is it right that the loaded concept of premeditation leads to a longer sentence for Inglis?I believe that it should inspire the Law Commission and our legislators to revisit the commission's review of homicide, only this time to do better and be braver. They should go where all governments have feared to tread since the abolition of the death penalty in 1965 and the imposition of mandatory life sentences for murder.These cases hail the ghost of Lord Kilbrandon – he suggested in 1975 that manslaughter and murder should be replaced with a single offence, unlawful homicide. His argument has been eloquently expanded in a critique of the Law Commission's review of partial defences to murder by Louis Blom Cooper and Terrence Morris. They say this single offence of unlawful homicide should be scaffolded by scrupulous guidelines informed by modern knowledge about who kills, and why.The Law Commission report was compromised by its inability to relinquish that radioactive term, murder, and the mandatory life sentence. It also clung to an archaic "ladder" of culpability. The commission reckoned it was almost impossible to distinguish between fear and anger. This seemed to appease campaigners for women who kill violent abusers.It also seemed to satisfy the commission's adhesion to myths about irrationality, insanity, spontaneity and loss of control.Moral and political revulsion is, it seems, reserved for murder "up close and personal" – and, most unforgiveably, premeditated. But traditionalist concepts of intent and imminence obscure the presence or absence of malice and the real life dramas of power and powerlessness, love and hate, recklessness and rescue that differentiate certain acts that cause death.The killing of Tom was, said the judge, "calculated and consistent". Yes, it was. It could not have been more "up close and personal", it was planned, it was determined, and it was – all his loved ones agree – an act of love.Let the Law Commission now be spurred by the love of Frances Inglis and the wisdom of Lord Kilbrandon.