A petty thief has become the first person to appear before Scotland's new US-style drug court, where he was given a two-year drug treatment and testing order.William Graham, 25, from Govan, Glasgow, appeared yesterday before Glasgow Sheriff court for a series of offences involving theft and driving while disqualified. The drugs court scheme is designed to combat the 2.5m drug-related crimes that take place in Glasgow each year and to go some way toward tackling the national problem that costs Scotland £300m a year.Dealers and more serious drug-related crimes will continue to be dealt with by mainstream courts. Sheriff Hugh Matthews heard how Graham had committed a series of thefts to feed his drug habit, which was costing him between £10 and £20 a day. He admitted several offences, including stealing a jacket and a computer, failing to appear at court and driving while disqualified. Graham's solicitor, Gerry McClay said his client had a long history of offending that started in 1993, with the majority of his convictions being crimes of dishonesty. He said all were committed "in furtherance of his drug habit". Sheriff Matthews sentenced Graham to two years on a drugs treatment and testing order, and banned him from driving for two years. Graham will initially face random drug testing twice a week and will also have to attend meetings with doctors and social workers. Sheriff Matthews told the accused the aim of the order was to get him off drugs and help him stop offending. He warned: "We want to make this work but we're not softies." Sheriff Matthews said he would review Graham's case at a hearing that the accused must attend in one month. He told him that if he did not comply with the order he could be fined or the order could be revoked, which could result in a custodial sentence instead. The drugs court expects to handle between 150 and 200 cases a year. The Scottish executive hopes the pilot scheme will have an impact on drug-related crime in line with the experience of similar courts in Australia, Canada, the US and Ireland. The Scottish model was formed from the findings of a working group set up in February and headed by Sheriff Principal Edward Bowen. The court will have its own team, consisting of a procurator fiscal and a dedicated bench of sheriffs. Operating for four days a week, the team will be supported by police and social workers. Those considered to be suitable to be dealt with by the drug court will undergo a rigorous programme of urine tests, assessment and rehabilitation in a bid to prove to the court team they are making every effort to stop offending. Only those whose addiction can be linked to their offending will be eligible to take part in the programme. From arrest, drug offenders dealt with by the new court will make contact up to twice a week with workers over a four-week assessment and testing period before being handed a treatment order by a sheriff of up to three years. During the period of the order offenders will have to regularly check in for further assessments by health and social workers about how far they have gone in tackling their addiction. Anyone considered by the court to be failing the provision of the order could face further punishment. The executive has announced plans for a second drug court, in Fife.