The debate over Megan's law (Megan 's law won't work, Reid warned, June 22) is important because it highlights the difficulty in dealing with serial, predatory paedophiles. We currently have no way to cure or even curb them and they are being released into the community to reoffend. I'm surprised that the children's commissioner is not willing to wait until the information from the fact-finding mission to the US is available before condemning the idea of notification. Until such time that these conditions change, I see value in limited information being made available to people in areas when a serial paedophile is released to live among them.Sarah's law, as it would be called in the UK, could work by allowing people to go to the police station and register before getting information. They should only be told that a paedophile is living nearby, so parents can be especially diligent, rather than handing out addresses. That way the police would have a record of who asked, to deter vigilante attacks, and would warn about the consequences of prosecution if an attack takes place. Keep in mind that we already have vigilante attacks and paedophiles going underground without Sarah's law. Alternatively, there could be a general warning about the release of someone like Craig Sweeney. If the family of his three-year-old victim had known about him, he might not have been able to get close enough to snatch her.That most children are abused by people known to them is, of course, true, so parents must remain watchful. But the level of threat from predatory paedophiles to all children they come into contact with is so great that we have an obligation to inform. The best solution, however, is to impose indeterminate sentences upon people like Sweeney - that would go a long way to protecting children and to restoring public confidence.There is no foolproof system of keeping children safe from paedophiles, because we do not know the identities of all of them. Until we can find a cure, we need to use every way we can to ensure the safety of as many children as possible. Michele Elliott  Director, KidscapeChildren's commissioner, Al Aynsley-Green is the best voice of concern for children. In my decades of involvement in prisons, the judiciary, media and youth causes, British children remain the most emotionally abused and exploited. The knee-jerk attitude of politicians, advertisers and parents, and demonisation by the media is largely responsible.Who cares for young people, when so many are banged into institutions or prisons without love, care, physical contact, security, stability, good nutrition, play, education, expectation of purpose in life or support services. We have the greatest social "apartheid" against young people and children in the world. I believe this is the main cause of our current juvenile delinquency and hooliganism, despite us being one of the world's richest economies.Paedophiles are a curse worldwide - more so when some seem to operate with impunity overseas and very few are caught. They need therapeutic treatment, just as drug addicts do, rather than being encouraged to go underground. I urge the beleaguered Home Office to listen to the honest advice of Professor Green rather than, as it has often done, to ignore those who do not agree with ill-founded government policy.  Anver Jeevanjee SouthamptonIn reviewing targets for the criminal justice system, we hope John Reid will realise that we need fewer critical targets. He also desperately needs to review targets which conflict with each other. For example, the police have targets for the minimum number of arrests, the Crown Prosecution Service for offences brought to justice and the youth offending teams to reduce offending - guess who loses out. Youth offending teams are committed to working with others to prevent crime and antisocial behaviour, but we are battling against the flood of new legislation and new initiatives. Along with other agencies, we need to be allowed to keep our eyes on the ball, not to be constantly distracted by media-grabbing pronouncements from politicians condemning our efforts.  Pauline Batstone Chair, Association of Youth Offending Team Managers