Maxine Carr, the former girlfriend of Soham murderer Ian Huntley, today failed in her application to be released early from prison under an electronic tagging system.Carr, who was jailed for three-and-half years for perverting the course of justice during the police investigation into the murders of 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, had been put forward for release by Ed Willetts, governor of Holloway prison.But Prison Service chief Martin Narey today refused her application. His decision was believed to have been made under new powers recently introduced to allow the refusal of an application if it could undermine public confidence in the tagging scheme.There has been widespread concern that Carr, 26, could walk free from prison just two months after she was convicted alongside her former boyfriend. Huntley, a former caretaker at Soham Village College, murdered Holly and Jessica and dumped their bodies in a shallow grave near RAF Lakenheath, Suffolk, in 2002.Speculation that Carr would be offered expensive police protection, including a new identity, plastic surgery or the chance of a life overseas, has angered victim support campaigners.There was speculation that new powers to refuse an application for early release were introduced by the home secretary, David Blunkett, in an effort to keep Carr in prison for as long as necessary.The Prison Service released a letter sent to Carr by Mr Narey which explained his decision was based both on "the issue of public confidence" and the risks to her safety at the address at which she proposed to live. Under the home detention curfew (HDC) scheme, prisoners are fitted with an electronic tag and trigger alarms if they leave their home during the curfew. Mr Narey's letter to Carr said: "I have now considered the question of your suitability for release on HDC and have decided that you should not be released under the scheme. "Although not charged with murder, your offence was considered so closely related to the events surrounding the murder of the two girls and the police investigation that followed, that you were tried jointly with Ian Huntley. "Your conviction for conspiring with Ian Huntley to pervert the course of justice connects you indelibly with this case and with the public outcry that has accompanied it. "For this reason, the possibility of your early release on HDC has attracted, and continues to attract, huge adverse publicity. "I have therefore concluded that for the above reasons your release on HDC, so soon after the trial has ended, would undermine public confidence in the HDC scheme." Mr Narey's letter went on: "There are two reasons for my decision. The first reason relates to the risks to your safety at the HDC address you have proposed. "The second reason relates to the issue of public confidence in the HDC scheme." Despite today's decision, Carr will still be eligible for parole in May this year, having served half of her 42-month sentence since being arrested in connection with the murders in August 2002.A spokesman for the Prison Service said Carr's solicitors were given the opportunity to argue why her release would not undermine public confidence. "Their views were taken into account by Mr Narey before he made his decision," he added. 