A sudden silence has descended upon Hearing Room No 7, at Wandsworth county court. It's a deep, contemplative sort of silence, in the course of which a disgruntled south-west London car-owner is coming to terms with the fact that he's not going to get compensation for his car engine having gone up in smoke.Kindly but firmly, presiding district judge Michael Walker has explained why the unhappy motorist has no real legal comeback against the firm that sold him the car two years ago. "Your car came through a service in September 2003 without any problems showing up," says the judge. "How, then, could it be said to have been unsatisfactory or not fit for the purpose when you bought it in October 2002? Is there an answer to that?" There isn't. Just the sound of the court clock ticking on the wall. "So, basically, I'm banging my head against a brick wall, then?" asks the disappointed claimant, after a good 15 seconds. And with a final sigh and an "Oh, well, I don't want to take up anyone else's time", he gathers up his papers, puts away his pen and quietly leaves the room, holding the door open for his opponent from the car firm as he goes. No shouting, no fireworks, no wigs, no gowns, no fuss. Welcome to justice, small claims court-style. It's not newsworthy and it's not spectacular, but it is the most frequently resorted-to form of justice in the country. Each year, some 50,000 small claims cases (ie, those involving sums under £5,000) are tried in England and Wales. This works out at roughly 75% of all trials within the civil justice system (from April to September 2004, the figure was actually 76.2%). Popularly characterised as the "cheap and cheerful" or "rough and ready" end of litigation, small claims cases offer individual members of the public the chance to come and plead their case before a judge, who will then listen to the opposing side and, at the end of it, reach a judgment. On the spot. It's almost medieval in its simplicity and crudeness, though, of course, the severest penalties available to a small claims court judge involve not red-hot pincers but court orders requiring the losing parties to pay up. That's not to say that the lawyers don't get a look in, though. Due to a little-known clause in many car insurance policies, large numbers of drivers are entitled to free legal representation in the event of a disputed accident; as a result, road traffic cases usually come to small claims courts with junior counsel attached. They are not there just for a gentle steer round the learning curve, either. Two minutes after entering the room, junior barrister A is demanding an adjournment on the grounds that his client has suddenly remembered that she hit not a Ford Mondeo, as chronicled throughout the three-inch high pile of documents, but a mysterious and hitherto unidentified mini-van. What's more, she doesn't believe that all three window-cleaners who have come to court today were in that van; indeed, the insinuation is that they have cooked up the whole story in order to con her out of insurance money. Put to these gents in a pub, such allegations might well be met by a bosh on the nose. With commendable restraint, however, the driver of the Ford Mondeo merely goes bright red and splutters, "This lady is coming out with a string of lies, Your Honour." And, after duly but not too indulgently hearing both sides, district judge Walker pretty much agrees. "I am in no doubt at all that Mr B [the Mondeo driver] is right," he announces. "In fact, Miss A lost this case on her own admission that she was unaware of Mr B's presence until the collision." So, was she telling fibs? Judge Walker takes a charitable view. "Very often, people convince themselves that their version of events is the correct one," he says, once the participants have left. "You'd be amazed at the number of cases I've had to hear which have involved a crash between two allegedly stationary cars." There is no question that the judge approaches the dispensing of justice with a layman-friendly hand - and no small measure of discretion. How, for example, is he to decide how much compensation to give a mother who, due to a faulty electrical installation, has, for two and a half years, been without hot water first thing in the morning and last thing at night? After much computation of annual electricity bill as against inconvenience suffered, the judge decides on £500. "It's probably £100-£200 more than the electricity company would have expected," the judge muses afterwards. "There again, they chose not to grace us with their presence this morning, and I expect it would have cost them around that much to send someone here." As for the landlord claiming a £211 cleaning bill for a tenant-soiled cooker he never actually got cleaned (he decided to replace it instead), judge Walker is unmoved. But the £900 rent owed by the same tenant - yes, that needs paying, and he issues a judgment for the recovery of the amount plus £138 interest (23 months at 8%), £200 court fees, £50 loss-of-earnings, £28 mileage (Tunbridge Wells to Wandsworth) and £3 for the parking meter. Sum total: £1,319. Trouble is, that's not the end of the story. For not only is the errant tenant not present today, but no one's quite sure where he is. "It's nice to get a judgment, certainly," observes the landlord. "But I'm going to have the devil's own job enforcing it." And therein lies the biggest and ugliest blot on the small-claims picturebook. "Think about it," says Bob Nightingale, of Wandsworth Law Centre. "You've got a judgment against a plumber who did some faulty work on your house, but he doesn't turn up to court, and all you've got is a mobile phone number for him. Sure, you'll win your moral victory, but you'll never get your money. We see it happening all the time." It's a countrywide problem, according to Professor John Baldwin, head of the school of law at Birmingham University, and author of Small Claims in the County Courts in England and Wales - The Bargain Basement of British Justice (Oxford University Press). "When claimants are unfamiliar with enforcement procedures - as is the case with most small claimants - they tend to assume that once they have been awarded judgment, full and prompt payment is thereby guaranteed," says Baldwin. "This is, however, one of the great myths surrounding civil justice." Indeed, it's estimated that one-third of successful small claimants get no money at all, one-third get some money, and the other third get their money in full. There is, of course, no shortage of enforcement strategies open to them, but each one incurs a fee. On top of the £80 or so they will have spent getting the case to court, claimants have to pay about £50 to send in bailiffs, while an attachment of earnings order costs £60. All of which gets repaid - provided, that is, the debtor can be found and pinned down. If not, it's good money after bad. So large are the obstacles to enforcement that Wandsworth Law Centre frequently advises potential small claimants not to bother with going to court. "Instead, we tell them to send the debtor a photocopy of a small-claims form that's about to be lodged," says Bob Nightingale. "It's only a threat, but in more than 50% of cases, it works." Unfortunately, most small claimants do not have the benefit of the professional advice and plough on with their action in the belief that if they win they automatically get the money due to them. However, even the government white paper on effective enforcement (March 2003) acknowledges the unlikeliness of this happening, and proposes much deeper digging into the data mines in order to unearth the most effective route to an individual debtor's wallet. That said, of course, the initial cost of enforcement would almost inevitably rest on the shoulders of the successful claimants. So, although generally acclaimed for its accessibility (you can even file claims via the internet now), the small claims system does not always afford people who pass through it a successful arrival at their financial destination. Nevertheless, on balance, this particular legal journey usually proves less stressful for the layman than other avenues of litigation. "Small claims hearings are, in the main, characterised by good humour and common sense, seasoned with large doses of pragmatism," says Baldwin. Or, as district judge Michael Walker puts it: "At the end of the day, all you want is for people to be able to put their side of the story. You might not be able to please both sides with your judgment, but at least everyone will go home feeling they had a chance to present their case."