 5.47pm BST Afternoon summary• Downing Street has announced that legislation on lobbying will be published before the summer recess and that it will include curbs on unions. As the Press Association reports, under the proposals unions will be required to carry out an annual audit of their membership and demonstrate that the figures they produce are accurate. The Certification Officer will be given the power to conduct investigations into the numbers produced, which are vital when ballots on strike action are conducted. And unions appear to be the main target of the proposed changes to third-party election campaign funding, which will apply to organisations affiliated to political parties as those making major donations of more than £100,000. The reforms will ensure that the true value of activities such as leaflet-printing is reflected when judging whether parties have breached the £19 million cap on campaign spending in the year before a general election, No 10 said. When calculating the campaign spending they must declare, organisations such as unions would have to include not only the cost of printing a leaflet but also overheads such as staffing and rent on premises - which could potentially inflate the figure considerably. The proposals have come forward out of the blue. Only a few hours earlier Vince Cable, the business secretary, told the World at One that Conservatives in the coalition were "reluctant" to introduce a statutory register of lobbyists (which is supposedly the main aim of the bill) from "a mixture of technical and maybe political reasons".• The archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, has said that conventional marriage will be "abolished" by the gay marriage bill. Speaking near the start of a two-day debate on the bill in the Lords, he said the bill distinguished between same and different gender marriage, "thus not achieving true equality". The result is confusion. Marriage is abolished, redefined and recreated. The new marriage of the bill is an awkward shape with same gender and different gender categories scrunched into it, neither fitting well. The concept of marriage as a normative place for procreation is lost, the idea of marriage as covenant is diminished, the family in its normal sense pre-dating the state and as our base community of society is weakened.For these and many other reasons, those of us in the Church and other faith groups who are extremely hesitant about the bill in many cases hold that view because we think traditional marriage is a cornerstone of society. Rather than adding a new and valued institution alongside it for same gender relationships, which I would personally strongly support to strengthen us all, this bill weakens what exists and replaces it with a less good option that is neither equal nor effective.He also said the church had "not served" lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) communities in the way it should have done. "I must express my sadness and sorrow at that considerable failure," he said. Peer will vote on the bill tomorrow.• David Cameron has said that the government will examine "non-legislative" ways of ensuring the police have the powers they need to access communications data. He made the comment when replying to a question from Ed Miliband during his statement on the EU summit and the Woolwich attack. Cameron implied a non-legislative route might be a way of neutralising Lib Dem opposition to the so-called "snooper's charter". I think we need a frank debate in this House. There is a problem when, at the moment, some 95% of serious crimes involve the use of communications data. That is not the content of a fixed or mobile telephone call, it's about the nature of the call - when it was made, who was it that made it, when did they make it. As telephony moves from fixed and mobile telephony on to the internet, our intelligence and police services will have a problem.We need to address this problem, we should address it in a sensitive and careful way, we should look at all the non-legislative options there are, but I hope we can have a measure of cross-party support on all sides of the House to try and get this right because we will suffer if we don't.• Cameron has said that the government has not taken a decision on whether to send arms to the Syrian opposition. Many MPs, from all sides of the Commons, said they would be opposed to Britain sending arms to Syria.• Cameron has said that the EU should not let old regulations hold back the shale gas industry. He said that while companies were drilling 10,000 wells for shale gas every year in the US, there were fewer than 100 new explorations for shale in Europe every year.  We put down a marker [at the EU summit] to get rid of unnecessary regulation in making the most of indigenous resources such as shale gas. Europe has three-quarters as much shale as the United States and yet while the Americans are drilling 10,000 wells a year, we in Europe are drilling fewer than 100. We must extract shale in a safe and sustainable manner but we have got to do more to ensure that old rules designed for different technologies do not hold us back today.• Cameron has said that his taskforce on tackling extremism and radicalisation will consider ways of dismantling the "conveyor belt to radicalisation". (See 4.07pm.)• Cameron has said that parliament's intelligence and security committee will produce a report on the Woolwich attack by the end of this year. It will consider how the suspects were radicalised, what the security services knew about them, what could have been done to stop them and what lessons can be learnt.• The GMB union has criticised Ed Balls for saying Labour would broadly accept coalition spending plans. (See 3.15pm.)• The Conservative backbencher Dan Byles has said that he will try to bring in a backbench bill to ensure peers convicted of a criminal offence can be thrown out of the House of Lords. • Paul Kernaghan, the House of Lords standards commissioner, has begun an investigation into the three peers caught up in the Sunday Times lobbying sting.• The Treasury has said that it will pay most of the estimated £50m security bill for the G8 summit in Northern Ireland.• Lord Gilbert, the Labour former defence minister, has died aged 86. He was a defence minister from 1976 to 1979 when he was an MP and again in the Lords in the first two years of Tony Blair's premiership from 1997 to 1999.That's all from me for today.Thanks for the comments. 4.56pm BST Here's an Ed Balls speech reading list.• James Forsyth at Coffee House says the Balls speech creates an opportunity for the Conservatives. [Labour] accepts that in these times, benefits should be targeted on those who need them most. There is no intellectual difference between Balls’s position on winter fuel payments and the coalition’s on child benefit.The Labour leadership is hotly denying they’ve abandoned universality. But it is hard to see on what grounds they’re arguing this. This provides an opening for the Tories to offer a scaled back version of the welfare state that is more of a safety net than a universal system.• Anthony Painter at LabourList says the speech marks "the beginning of the process of re-establishing Labour’s credibility on the economy".• Duncan Weldon at LabourList says Balls was right to say that Labour was turning its focus away from a temporary VAT cut towards capital investment instead.• Sunny Hundal at Liberal Conspiracy says Balls has shifted Labour's position on free schools.• Iain Martin at the Telegraph says he cannot accept that Balls really believes what he is saying about Labour's record on spending.• Dan Hodges at the Telegraph says the speech shows that Ed Miliband is finally "turning his back on the Owen Jones flat-earthers". 4.54pm BST I'm going to turn away from the Cameron statement for a moment. At the afternoon lobby briefing Downing Street unveiled some details of its lobbying crackdown. As Patrick Wintour reports, it is going to include curbs aimed at Labour.Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour)Govt to clamp down on union spending in run up to and including election campaigns as part of bill on lobbyistsJune 3, 2013Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour)union memberships lists to be subject to greater state scrutiny as part of lobbying laws.June 3, 2013Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour)Controls on election spending will apply to affiliates of pol parties and organisations that give £100,000 or more. Ie only unions.June 3, 2013Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour)New controls mean total cost of publishing a leaflet rather than marginal cost of extra leaflet will count to election spending.June 3, 2013Updated at 5.05pm BST 4.50pm BST Philip Davies, a Conservative, asks for an assurance that if Britain votes no in the EU referendum, there won't be a re-run to allow Britain to vote yes next time.Cameron agrees. It is important not to have a "never-endum", he says. 4.49pm BST Sir Bob Russell, a Lib Dem MP, asks Cameron to reinstate military police security at the barracks at Colchester.Cameron says he will take this up with the Ministry of Defence. But communities like having barracks in them, he says, as he knows from the example of Brize Norton in his constituency.  4.47pm BST Labour's Willie Bain invites Cameron to say that the fact that Google pays so little tax is just wrong.Cameron says that is what happened under Labour. He is trying to change the situation. 4.37pm BST Cameron says taking action on communications data does not amount to a "snooper's charter". The police use communications data to combat serious crime, he says. Parliament has to have a debate about how it allows the police to keep up with changing technology. If it does not do that, it is not doing its duty, he says. 4.34pm BST Cameron says very aggressive tax avoidance raises moral issues for companies. He says he has made that point to the CBI and others. 4.26pm BST Labour's Chris Bryant says Cameron's refusal to promise a vote on arming the Syrian opposition is "truly shocking". And he asks if the government is still planning to withdraw from the European arrest warrant.Cameron says an announcement about this will be made in due course. But it is important to cooperate with other police forces, he says. 4.17pm BST Labour's Dennis Skinner asks what Cameron will do to ensure that arms do not get into the hands of the elements in the Syrian opposition linked to al-Qaida.Cameron says this group has been getting arms already. And he urges Skinner to remember how in Bosnia it was only the lifting of the arms embargo that encouraged the Serbians to make peace. 4.14pm BST Edward Leigh, a Conservative, asks about the impact of Cameron's policy on the minority Christian population in Syria.Cameron says the idea that Assad has shown any respect of minorities is one he would challenge. 4.09pm BST Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem deputy leader, urges Cameron to support mainstream Muslim leaders. 4.08pm BST Labour's Simon Danczuk says Rochdale is very proud of Drummer Lee Rigby. The town has strong links with the armed forces, and the killing of Rigby will only strengthen them.Cameron says the terrorists who think they can divide the nation will only bring it together.  4.07pm BST The most interesting part of Cameron's opening statement was the section dealing with the extremism taskforce. Here's an extract.The ellipses (the dots ...) are from Cameron's text. He uses them a lot in his speeches. When young men born and bred in this country, are radicalised and turned into brutal killers……we have to ask some tough questions about what is happening in our country.It is as if for some young people there is a conveyor belt to radicalisation that has poisoned their minds with sick and perverted ideas.We need to dismantle this process at every stage.In schools, colleges, universities, on the internet, in our prisons – wherever it is taking place.So this morning I chaired the first meeting of the government’s new Task Force on tackling extremism and radicalisation. I want the Task Force to ask serious questions about……whether the rules on charities are too lax and allow extremists to prosper……whether we are doing enough to disrupt groups that incite hatred, violence or criminal damage...…whether we are doing enough to deal with radicalisation in our university campuses, on the internet and in our prisons.…whether we need to do more with informal education centres like madrasahs to prevent radicalisation……and whether we do enough to help Mosques expel extremists and recruit Imams who understand Britain. 4.04pm BST John Baron, a Conservative MP, asks if MPs will get the chance to vote on arming Syria.Cameron says the Commons has plenty of opportunities for holding votes. So far, no decision has been taken to arm the Syrian opposition. 4.01pm BST Labour's David Winnick says that if the EU sends arms to Syria, Russia will just sent more.Cameron says the arms embargo did not stop Russia sending arms to Syria, and it did not stop the extremists getting arms. But it stopped the EU supporting moderate forces in the opposition. 4.00pm BST Julian Lewis, a Conservative, asks if parliament will vote on any decision to supply arms to Syria.Cameron says the government has allowed parliament to hold votes on subjects it chooses. 3.59pm BST Labour's Peter Hain says the lifting of the arms embargo has led to the escalation of Russia arming Syria and the near collapse of the peace conference.Cameron says he does not agree. He does not think Russia changed its policy because of the EU decision. Russia has been arming Syria for decades.On the peace conference, Cameron says he supports it. That's why he flew to Russia to discuss it with President Putin. 3.57pm BST Labour's Hazel Blears asks if the extremism taskforce will be fully inclusive. Will it include women and ethnic minorities?Cameron says he was thinking of inviting Blears to sit on it. (She dealt with the Prevent strategy when she was communities secretary.) The taskforce will not have a panel of advisers; it will seek advice generally. 3.56pm BST Labour's Alan Johnson suggests it was irresponsible of the government not to include a communications data bill in the Queen's speech.Cameron says communications data was mentioned in the Queen's apeech. He hopes Johnson will persuade his colleagues on the need for action.Updated at 4.50pm BST 3.54pm BST Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Lib Dem leader, says he is "increasingly unconvinced" by the case for lifting the arms embargo. Why should Assad change his view if he continues to enjoy Russian support?Cameron says Assad will change his stance if he thinks he cannot win militarily. 3.53pm BST Labour's Jack Straw asks if Iran will be invited to the Syrian conference.Cameron says Iran is using its proxies to massacre people in Syria. 3.52pm BST Sir Peter Tapsell, a Conservative, says the Syrian conflict is a version of the Sunni/Shia conflict that has been going on for 1,300 years.Cameron says that when he meets the Syrian opposition, he does not see them as a religious faction. He thinks they want a democracy.Updated at 4.49pm BST 3.51pm BST Cameron is responding to Miliband.On tax, he says he does not rule out taking action unilaterally.On Syria, he says there is an "honest disagreement" between him and Miliband.Britain should not be naive about the Russian position on Syria, he says. Russia supplies arms to Syria. It has done for a long time.Cameron says those who argue against arming the opposition are making the same arguments used in Bosnia 20 years ago. The west's arms embargo there did not stop 200,000 people being killed. And it did not stop extremism developing, he says.On internet surveillance, he says there is a problem here that needs to be addressed. The government will look at all non-legislative options. But it must grasp the problem. He says he hopes to get cross-party support on this.  David Cameron Photograph: /BBC ParliamentUpdated at 4.49pm BST 3.45pm BST Ed Miliband is responding now.On the EU council, he asks Cameron if he will act on tax unilaterally if he cannot secure international agreement.  Ed Miliband Photograph: /BBC ParliamentOn Syria, he says Labour thinks a comprehensive peace deal would be the best solution. Why did Cameron not mention the peace conference? And can Cameron assure MPs they will be told before arms are sent to Syria?On Woolwich, Miliband says he wants to echo Cameron's condemnation. And he backs what Cameron said about the actions of members of the public, including Ingrid Loyau-Kennett.Miliband says he welcomes the fact that prosecutions are taking place.On the subject of Cameron's taskforce, he asks if it will look at early intervention. And will it look at links with gang violence?And can Cameron say what his plans are for legislation on internet surveillance?Updated at 4.48pm BST 3.40pm BST Turning to Woolwich, Cameron says that attack on Drummer Lee Rigby was a "despicable" act.Two men have appeared in court. There have been 10 arrests. Two women have been released without charge, and eight men have been released on bail.Already this year there have been three counter-terrorism trials.But much of the work of the security services goes unreported, he says.Cameron says parliament's intelligence and security committee will investigate how the men were radicalised, and what could have been done to stop them. It will report by the end of this year.Cameron says the government must confront the ideology of violent Islamist extremism. But more needs to be done.It is as if there is a conveyor belt to radicalisation, he says. The government needs to dismantle this process at every stage.Cameron's taskforce considered some of these issues this morning, he says.The government will not tolerate people perverting Islam and using it to justify extremism. But equally it will not tolerate groups like the English Defence League using this to justify attacking Islam.Updated at 3.46pm BST 3.35pm BST Cameron says it is right to lift the arms embargo on Syria. Assad should not be allowed to use the prospect of talks to buy time. The embargo only suited the extremists on both sides, and it showed the EU had no ability to help the Syrian opposition.The Syrian National Coalition has shown its support for democracy, he says.Any equipment would only be supplied for the protection of civilians.This does not mean the UK has decided to supply arms to the opposition.Those who argue for inaction must realise that has consequences too. 3.33pm BST David Cameron's statementDavid Cameron says the statement will cover the EU council and the "dreadful events" in Woolwich.At the EU council, EU leaders agreed to continue work on the single market in energy.They put down a marker on getting rid of unnecessary regulations relating to shale gas. There are fewer than 100 shale sites in Europe. The old rules are not suited to shale gas.On tax, there was an agreement on a new international standard in information exchange, he says. 3.26pm BST David Cameron will be making a statement in the Commons shortly.It is going to cover the last EU summit, Syria and the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich.I'll be covering it in detail. 3.26pm BST There will be an investigation in the Lords into the allegations in yesterday's Sunday Times.BBC Breaking News (@BBCBreaking)Lords Commissioner for Standards to investigate 3 peers accused of agreeing to do parliamentary work for payment - Leader of House of LordsJune 3, 2013 3.20pm BST But the Institute of Directors has given the Balls speech a cautious welcome. This is from Simon Walker, the IoD's director general. Over the past fifteen years government expenditure directed at pensioners soared by 60% in real terms (i.e. after inflation). The median pensioner is now richer than 40% of the population. It would be wrong to exempt better-off pensioners from the sacrifices demanded of working families. The need to rein in public spending is vital and we commend Ed Balls for recognising the issue of universal benefits paid to well-off pensioners who do not need them.However, if Labour is serious about achieving ‘iron discipline’ over the public finances, it can’t limit itself to a token tweak to the winter fuel allowance, which represents a drop in the entitlement ocean. Meaningful reform would also means test other universal pensioner benefits like TV licenses and free travel. Ed Ball’s plan would target £100 million in savings, which will have a negligible impact on the welfare budget.There are no longer easy choices in welfare. The real solution is to wrap all benefits governments favour into the overall state pension, rather than handing out specific goodies. In the meantime, a more effective measure would be limiting universal benefits currently received by all pensioners, including winter fuel allowances and free television licences, to those actually receiving pension credit. That would save £1.5-2 billion and amount to a real move towards fiscal responsibility within the political class. 3.15pm BST Brian Strutton, the GMB national secretary, has issued a statement criticising the contents of Ed Balls' speech. He says that ending winter fuel payments for the wealthy and proposing further pay restraint in the public sector are both against GMB policy. Here's the full statement and here's an extract. Delegates at GMB Congress are disturbed that Mr Balls was arguing for continuing this government’s austerity plans for at least two years after the next election and possibly beyond.What makes this a really perplexing speech is because everyone who wants to support Labour is crying out for a new hope and a new direction. Indeed this seemed to be the message coming from Ed Miliband but now Mr Balls has out Osborne'd Osborne.Saying so far in advance of the next election that Labour will do nothing substantially different until at least 2017 shows a complete absence of aspiration for ordinary working families. They want to hear that Labour will get them out of this coalition government mess not leave them stuck in it. 3.10pm BST The Fuel Poverty Action pressure group has criticised Ed Balls' proposal to cut winter fuel payments for the wealthy. It has issued this statement. Ed Balls may say he's targeting the rich, but means-testing the winter fuel allowance will mean many people on low-incomes lose out via bureaucracy - means-testing always does. Instead of taking money from pensioners, whoever's in government should be taking money from the Big Six energy companies who profit directly from us freezing in the winter. It seems we can expect more of the same from Labour - more fuel poverty, more winter deaths and more unfair and unnecessary cuts. 2.45pm BST Here is some more reaction to the Ed Balls speech.From Neal Lawson, chair of the leftwing pressure group Compass This is terrible politics from Labour, the concept of universalism is essential to a good society. This small cut to a few pensioners’ benefits will save hardly anything and in doing so sells the principle of universalism at a bargain basement price. All the evidence proves that universal benefits underpin good quality benefits and services for all. It will be those in poverty that will suffer if benefits become more and more targeted.From Andrew Harrop, general secretary of the Labour thinktank the Fabian Society Today Ed Balls showed he will maintain an iron grip on spending if Labour returns to power, by ordering every shadow cabinet minister to plan for cuts in 2016. These may ultimately prove unnecessary but Balls is preparing for any eventuality, and forcing his colleagues to prepare for the worst means he can retain maximum flexibility in deciding how to use any money left over. 2.27pm BST Number 10 has just sent out a note about today's meeting of the taskforce on tackling extremism. The prime minister's task force on tackling extremism and radicalisation met for an initial meeting today.The meeting agreed that it is necessary to tackle extremism head on, not just violent extremism, particularly in light of the appalling murder of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich.The prime minister tasked ministers to work on practical suggestions which the task force could discuss at future meetings. He asked Michael Gove and David Laws to look at confronting extreme views in schools and charities, with Vince Cable looking at universities; Chris Grayling to look into similar issues in prisons; and Baroness Warsi to look at work in communities.It was agreed the task force will hear from experts in these areas at future meetings, which will be held monthly.And here is the list of ministers who attended: Cameron, Nick Clegg, George Osborne, Theresa May, Chris Grayling, Michael Gove, Vince Cable, David Laws, Oliver Letwin and Lady Warsi.Updated at 4.37pm BST 2.23pm BST Ed Balls' interviews - SummaryEd Balls has been giving interviews to the World at One and Boulton & Co on Sky News about his speech. Here are the main points he's been making.• Balls said that he was still committed to the universal pension and that his speech did not mean that he was entirely abandoning universalism in the welfare system. The universal pension was "integral to the welfare state for all". He also said that he was committed to free prescription charges and free bus travel for all pensioners. But the winter fuel allowance was a "discretionary payment" relating to fuel poverty, he said. There may be some people on the left who think the principle is everything should be universal, but we've always struck a balance: some things universal, child benefit, but more help for families, through tax credits, on middle and lower incomes.• He said that the government's decision to cut child benefit for the wealthy was a mistake. But he would not commit Labour to reversing that cut.• He said that although there was theoretically a case for taking free TV licences away from wealthy pensioners, in reality he was opposed to the idea because it was impractical. Free TV licences is a complex one because the reality is it’s not clear why a winter allowance and the free TV licence are any different. On the other hand, the free TV licences are only over-75s, and frankly the administrative cost of trying to remove it from high-income pensioners would be so great that it’s just not worth [doing].• He said that cutting the winter fuel payment for wealthy pensioners was a "necessary change" from Labour policy in the Gordon Brown era.• He rejected claims that the saving from axing winter fuel payments for the wealthy, £100m, was insignificant. I actually was involved in very many budgets and £100m is a significant amount of money.• He said only 5% of pensioners would lose the winter fuel payment under his plan. Labour would only take it away from pensioners with incomes worth more than £42,000, he said.I've taken some of the quotes from PoliticsHome.  Ed Balls on Boulton & Co Photograph: /Sky NewsUpdated at 4.36pm BST 1.59pm BST It looks as if Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's deputy first minster, agrees with Peter Hain about the Ed Balls speech. (See 1.37pm.)Nicola Sturgeon (@NicolaSturgeon)There are a few nails being hit squarely on the head in this piece by Labour MP, Peter Hain, about Ed Balls' speech http://t.co/IXy0C124gSJune 3, 2013 1.37pm BST Lunchtime summary• Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, has said that Labour will plan on the basis that it will have to accept the coalition's spending cuts. He made the argument in a wide-ranging speech which contained multiple hints about Labour's thinking on spending. (See 11.45am.) The Tories have attacked Balls for refusing to give an absolute commitment to matching George Osborne's plans. And Peter Hain, the former Labour cabinet minister, has said that Balls' call for winter fuel payments for the wealthy to be cut is a mistake. Here's an extract from an article Hain wrote for Huffington Post. There are three main problems with Labour's proposal today to cut winter fuel allowances for higher-rate tax payers. First the money raised is estimated at £100 million, which is peanuts in terms of the wider welfare budget let alone total Government spending. Second it begs the question; if winter fuel allowances are to be means-tested then how far does the means-testing go, does it stop at fuel or will TV licences, bus passes and senior railcards come next? Third, if middle Britain ceased to benefit from the welfare state through some of the few universal benefits that are left, how can we convince them to fund the larger part of that budget through their taxes? The attack on pensioners' allowances leaves a big question hovering over the future of the welfare state: is it for everyone, or just for the poor?But one Tory MP, Robert Halfon, welcomed Labour's call for the wealthy to lose winter fuel payments. The Tories should adopt that policy too, he said. (See 9.29am.)  Peter Hain Photograph: /BBC News• Nick Clegg has said the government is committed to bringing in a statutory register of lobbyists. He made the declaration in an article in the Daily Telegraph following the latest lobbying scandal revelations. At the regular lobby briefing the prime minister's spokesman said that work on introducing a statutory register was "very much live and ongoing" and that the government would have more to say on the subject "in the near future". Clegg was less definite about the government introducing a law allowing for the recall of MPs and Number 10 said work on this was still "ongoing" because "there hasn't yet been a consensus in favour of a particular course". Jon Trickett, a shadow Cabinet Office minister, urged David Cameron to hold cross-party talks on lobbying. And Douglas Carswell, a Conservative MP, criticised Clegg's recall proposals, saying they were "the sort of scheme one might expect to find in a tin pot republic, not a genuine democracy."• Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, has said that government cost-cutting saved the taxpayer £10bn last year. There are more details on the Cabinet Office news release.• Downing Street has revealed that Cameron will hold private talks with the former French president Nicolas Sarkozy today. "They worked very closely together during Mr Sarkozy's time in office.," the prime minister's spokesman said. "During that time, they established a very strong working relationship. It is not unusual for prime ministers to meet former heads of government who they have worked very closely with."• Cameron has chaired a meeting of the new taskforce on tackling extremism. At 3.30pm he will make a statement in the Commons on the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby which I will cover in detail.• The Bank of England has said that banks and building societies participating in the Funding for Lending Scheme (FLS) shrunk net lending by £300m in the first quarter of the year, although the pace of lending decline eased from three months earlier.• A poll of Scottish teenagers has been published suggesting that under-18s will heavily reject independence in next year's referendum, after only 21% of those surveyed supported leaving the UK.• Labour has said the government should pilot a system that would see military veterans tried in special courts. Here's an extract from the party's news release. As part of Labour's determination to tackle re-offending rates and support those whose bravery and sacrifices have defended our country, we are calling on the Government to look at establishing Veterans' Treatment Courts (VTC). These would be based on those that are making a difference across America.Our criminal justice system contains a small but significant number of ex-service men and women in prison and on probation who deserve increased support and care, yet the current Government have done little to address their needs.The unique nature of military service means this is a group of individuals with special characteristics and particular needs, for example Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), which Labour believes should be catered for in the criminal justice system. VTCs would take military experience in to consideration for those who are convicted or plead guilty to explore whether additional support is required which could help prevent re-offending.• A committee of MPs has suggested that council tenants should be offered the chance to buy their council homes through eBay.• The Demos thinktank has published plans for a two-tier unemployment benefit system. It says people with sufficient national insurance contributions could be paid an extra £23 a week in jobseeker's allowance by taking money from the support for mortgage interest scheme. Lord Glasman, the Labour peer who advises Ed Miliband, has welcomed the idea. I welcome this work from Demos and hope the Labour party looks closely at the idea. There needs to be a much stronger relationship between what people put in and take out of the welfare system. A two tier system, with higher entitlements for contributors, is definitely the way to go.• The Conservative MP Nadine Dorries has said she cries every morning because she has started losing her hair and is "terrified" of it getting worse.Updated at 4.35pm BST 1.09pm BST The Lib Dems have now responded to the Ed Balls speech. This is from Susan Kramer, a Lib Dem Treasury spokesperson. Three years into this parliament and Labour still has no credible economic policies. Ed Balls’ proposed savings are a drop in the ocean. And he still refuses to acknowledge it was his party’s chronic mismanagement that got us into this mess.The idea Labour can demonstrate ‘iron discipline’ on spending is laughable. They oppose every cut but refuse to admit what their alternative would amount to – more spending, more borrowing and more debt. They should be honest with voters.  12.38pm BST Here's the Guardian video of Ed Balls suggesting that winter fuel payments for wealthy pensioners should be cut.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  12.25pm BST David Cameron is today chairing the new taskforce he set up on tackling extremism after the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby.David Cameron (@David_Cameron)I'm about to chair initial meeting of taskforce to tackle extremism - vital that we challenge radicalisation wherever it occurs.June 3, 2013Asked about the taskforce at the Number 10 lobby briefing, the prime minister's spokesman said: "The point around the taskforce is to look at what further concrete measures can be done in areas such as disrupting extremist activity, challenging poisonous narratives and tackling radicalisation across the board.”Updated at 12.25pm BST 12.03pm BST Interesting line from the Number 10 lobby briefing.James Chapman (Mail) (@jameschappers)Cameron receiving would-be comeback kid Nicolas Sarkozy ce soir. 'Not unusual' for PM to see former heads of govt, No10 says. Hmm.June 3, 2013 12.00pm BST And here is some Twitter comment on the Ed Balls speech.From Sajid Javid, a Tory Treasury ministerSajid Javid MP (@sajidjavid)@edballsmp where was "iron discipline" when you gave us the deepest peacetime bust; biggest G20 deficit; and, world's largest bank bailout?June 3, 2013From Matthew Hancock, a Tory business ministerMatthew Hancock (@matthancockmp)So, after all the bluster, Ed Balls refuses to lay out spending plans. What does he have to hide? #moreborrowingJune 3, 2013From Chris Giles, the Financial Times' economics editorChris Giles (@ChrisGiles_)Forget @edballsmp puny pledge on winter fuel allowance. Significance is Labour's renewed commitment to sound public financesJune 3, 2013Chris Giles (@ChrisGiles_)Within a good speech, @edballsmp logic is pretty tortuous. His answer to too much austerity is more austerityJune 3, 2013From the Daily Mail's Tim ShipmanTim Shipman (Mail) (@ShippersUnbound)Balls says all spending must be approved by him. This speech is as much about asserting his authority over colleagues as it is about votersJune 3, 2013From Janan Ganesh, the Financial Times columnist and George Osborne biographerJanan Ganesh (@JananGanesh)Balls speech poses choice for Tories. Ignore new line on benefits + focus on his call for more upfront spending? Or claim vindication?June 3, 2013From former Labour cabinet minister Peter HainPeter Hain (@PeterHain)Problem with Labour cutting winter fuel for rich is where does attack on universalism stop? http://t.co/ybBhLA3eWmJune 3, 2013From the Tory MP George FreemanGeorge Freeman MP (@Freeman_George)Sounds like Brown, but it's Balls. Red Ed talks about 'iron discipline' but sets out a plan for MORE borrowing. #SameOldLabourJune 3, 2013From Tory MP Greg HandsGreg Hands (@GregHands)So he's learned nothing MT @rolandwatson66 "Do I think the last Lab govt was profligate, spent too much, had too much nat debt? No" EBallsJune 3, 2013 11.45am BST Six things we've learned from Ed Balls' economy speechThere is a paradox at the heart of Ed Balls' speech, Striking the Right Balance for the British Economy. At one level, it was all about how Balls was not in a position to give details of Labour's spending plans now. Yet it was also a speech crammed full of clues about what Labour would do after 2015. David Cameron delivered a speech on welfare last year that contained so many policy proposals that I calculated it could produce 17 Daily Mail splashes. Balls' speech wasn't quite that newsy, but, at a pinch, you could squeeze it for nine page leads.But it also contained some broader messages about Labour's thinking. Here's my list of six things we've learned from the speech.1. Balls is still committed to accepting George Osborne's spending cuts as as a starting point. See 9.22am, 10.09am and 10.12am for the key quotes. "The next Labour government will have to plan on the basis of falling departmental spending." Essentially this is exactly what Balls said in January last year in a speech to the Fabian Society, preceded by an interview with the Guardian in which Balls said: "My starting point is, I am afraid, we are going to have keep all these cuts." So why is this significant? Because the January 2012 speech infuriated the trade unions, particularly the Unite general secretary Len McCluskey, and Balls then went very quiet on this topic (until now). It's important to know that Balls is still committed to this view, and the fact that we are almost 18 months closer to the general election gives his words greater force. George Osborne apparently believes in a "baseline" theory of spending commitments at election time - that oppositions ought to accept government spending plans as a baseline because if they promise to spend more (like Labour in 1992) they will be hammered for planning tax rises, and if they promise to spend less (like the Tories in 2001 or 2005) they will get hammered for planning cuts. Today's speech suggests that Balls is close to signing up to this. However, Balls did not actually commit himself to accepting Osborne's plans, and he suggested that in certain areas he would propose something different. For example ...2. Balls seems to be planning to use his 2015-16 spending plans as a general election dividing line. In the speech he gave new details of how Labour's "zero-based" spending review will work and he said it would produce "savings and switches for 2015-16" which would influence the party's manifesto. See 10.21am. He also said the full review would not be completed until after the election.3. He has identified nine potential cuts or efficiency savings that a Labour government could introduce. His aides briefed axing winter fuel payments for wealthy pensioners overnight. The other eight are: stopping the opening of new free schools; getting rid of police commissioners; merging management functions in agencies like fire services and police forces; getting industries to contribute more to the cost of their regulators; merging the four agencies dealing with roads and drivers; giving Network Rail responsibility for the HS2 project, rather than a separate company; cancelling "Titan" prisons; and cutting the number of senior officers in the armed forces, especially in the navy. See 10.16am and 10.24am. Balls did not formally commit himself to any of these proposals (even cutting winter fuel payments for the wealthy). But he strongly hinted that he favoured these options.4. He does not believe that a crackdown on tax avoidance will transform the public finances. Some figures on the left believe that, if the government were to deal aggressively with tax avoidance, the need for excessive cuts would be avoided. Balls dismissed this argument robustly. See 10.09am.5. He seems to be preparing to ditch Labour's commitment to a temporary cut in VAT. This was still the right policy now, he said. But soon the "balance of advantage" would shift and spending money on infrastructure would be more of a priority. See 9.55am.6. Labour is edging away from its support for universalism in the welfare system. In April, when Ed Miliband was asked about cutting winter fuel payments for wealthy pensioners, he implied that he was against the idea. In the past he has strongly defended universalism. But Balls' speech suggests the party's commitment to the principle is loosening.Updated at 6.24pm BST 10.56am BST Here's the latest from ToryTreasury on the Ed Balls speech.Tory Treasury (@ToryTreasury)Saving 0.05% from the welfare budget while borrowing tens of billions more makes Balls' discipline promise totally in-credibleJune 3, 2013Tory Treasury (@ToryTreasury).@ShippersUnbound how about entering the crisis with the largest structural deficit in the G7? (IMF figs)June 3, 2013I'm going to post a "six things we've learned from the speech" shortly.Updated at 1.03pm BST 10.40am BST Ed Balls was taking questions from reporters after his speech. I wasn't there to hear him, but some colleagues have been reporting what he said on Twitter.Patrick Wintour (@patrickwintour)Balls"The last thing people want to hear from any politician is we told you so. What they want to know from Labour is there is a better way"June 3, 2013norman smith (@BBCNormanS)Ed Balls signals a future Labour Govt will carry on with Osborne's spending plans for first two years -"We will work within them."June 3, 2013roland watson (@rolandwatson66)"Do I think the last Lab govt was profligate, spent too much, had too much nat debt? No I don't think there's any evidence for that." EBallsJune 3, 2013roland watson (@rolandwatson66)"I'm not going to play the George Osborne-two years ahead-reject our plans or not game," says Ed Balls *takes Chance card*June 3, 2013Nick Robinson (@bbcnickrobinson)Balls says opposes removing child benefit from rich tho can't promise to reverse. Forecast to raise £2.3bn cf£100m saving from winter fuel.June 3, 2013 10.29am BST The full text of the Balls speech is now on the Labour website. 10.24am BST Balls then concluded with some questions for Labour's "zero-based" spending review to consider - Does it really make sense to have separate costly management and bureaucracy for so many separate government departments, agencies, fire services and police forces - the same number as when this Government came into office - all with separate leadership structures and separate specialist teams?- Should industries pay a greater share of the costs of their regulators?- Do we really need four separate government agencies delivering services to motorists?- Should we be spending millions on a separate company to deliver High Speed 2 when we already have Network Rail, which after all is responsible for rail infrastructure?- Has the Ministry of Justice properly made the case for a major new “Titan” prison, at a time when the prison population is falling?- Do we need more admirals than ships and more officers in our forces than our international counterparts at a time when frontline armed forces are under pressure?- Can we improve care and save money, as Andy Burnham has proposed, by thinking of health and social care as a single service, looking after the whole person, with a single budget and joint management?- And on infrastructure, how should we set priorities within rail spending, and between rail investment, trunk roads, expanding airport capacity, delivering super-fast broadband across the whole country, modernising our energy infrastructure and improving our flood defences?I'll post a summary/analysis of the speech shortly.Updated at 10.50am BST 10.21am BST Balls then set out details of how Labour's "zero-based" spending review (ie, a spending review which starts from the assumption that "zero" spending will survive unless it can be justified) would work. Our preparations for this review will proceed in three phases:  First, over the next year, each Labour spending team will prepare a report on Public Service Reform and Re-Design setting out how we deliver better public services with less money, involving employees, charities, and the voluntary sector in our deliberations, as well as business and public providers. We will publish a summary of these reports next spring.  On that basis, the Labour Treasury team will work with spending teams to identify savings and switches for 2015-16 to reflect Labour's priorities and report before our manifesto.  And these detailed departmental reports will then inform our full zero-based examination of every pound we spend – in every department, including in any department whose spending we choose to ring-fence in our manifesto, and in annually managed expenditure too - which will be completed within the first year of the Labour government.The review will be guided by the following principles: - how can we use public money more efficiently;  - how can we use departmental budgets to support growth and job creation; - how can we ensure fairness and consumer choice in service delivery;  - and how can we ensure preventative spending – early years spending, support for troubled families, public and mental health services, scientific research into new cures and treatments – areas where spending now saves billions in the future - is given a high priority. 10.16am BST But Balls did give some clues as to the contents of Labour's manifesto. - With primary school places in short supply in many parts of the country, and parents struggling to get their children into a local school, can it really be a priority to open more free schools in 2015 and 2016 in areas with excess secondary school places?- When we are losing thousands of police officers and police staff, how have we ended up spending more on police commissioners than the old police authorities, with more elections currently timetabled for 2016?- With family budgets under such pressure and living standards falling, surely it makes sense to introduce a mansion tax on properties worth over £2m to pay for a lower 10p starting rate of tax? - And when our NHS and social care system is under such pressure, can it really remain a priority to pay the Winter Fuel Allowance - a vital support for middle and low income pensioners - to the richest 5% of pensioners, those with incomes high enough to pay the higher or top rates of tax?We believe the winter fuel allowance provides vital support for pensioners on middle and low incomes to combat fuel poverty. That’s why we introduced it in the first place. At that time, and when the pattern of pensioner incomes was different to today, we paid pay it to all pensioners.But in tough economic times we have to make difficult choices about priorities for public spending and what the right balance is between universal and targeted support. So at a time when the public services that pensioners and others rely on are under strain, it can no longer be a priority to continue paying the winter fuel allowance to the wealthiest pensioners.Updated at 10.48am BST 10.12am BST Balls said his Labour colleagues would have to look for efficiency savings and "switch" spending. My message to my shadow cabinet colleagues is this. To serve the country and win its trust: We must work together to find efficiency savings and switch resources to Labour's priorities; but you cannot prepare now on any basis other than that you will inherit very tough spending plans from this year’s Spending review. They will be our starting point.We know these plans for current spending in 2015-16 are likely to place a very significant burden on public services ...Any changes to spending plans for 2015/16 must be fully funded, agreed with Ed Miliband and myself, and set out in advance in our manifesto. 10.09am BST Balls said that, although he would not set out spending plans now, he was planning on the basis that departmental spending would continue to fall. We cannot plan now on the basis that our inheritance in 2015 will be better than currently forecast. We cannot decide now to spend money that we do not know, and do not expect, will be there. Even if the Government were to implement Labour’s growth plan now, given the failure of the last three years it would not avoid the need for cuts in departmental spending in the next Parliament. It will take years to sort out George Osborne's fiscal mess  And the longer the government carries on with these failing policies, the bigger the challenge will be for the next Labour government.  Jobs and growth are vital to getting the deficit down – but they cannot magic the whole deficit away at a stroke. Nor can we rely on tackling tax avoidance to avoid difficult decisions. We are determined to crack down on irresponsible tax practices. Our recent multinational tax reform document sets out the way ahead. We need international action, and Britain must take the lead and act if others will not. So we will continue to say more in this area.But this is not some easy pot of gold. Tax avoidance has to be tackled billion by billion. Given the global complexity of this problem, the suggestion that any individual government can easily find billions more in unpaid tax simply through one Budget speech or a Finance Bill clause is not realistic.So this is the hard reality. The last Labour government was able to plan its 1997 manifesto on the basis of rising departmental spending in the first years after the election. The next Labour government will have to plan on the basis of falling departmental spending.  10.05am BST BBC News have cut their live coverage of their speech. But I'll cover the rest of the speech based on the full text I've been sent by Labour.Balls said he would not be setting out Labour's spending plans for 2015-16 this year. I am going to disappoint the Tories – we will not set out our plans for 2015-16 this year, however much you want us to, in order to divert political attention from your own abject economic failure ...You can see the new political game - to set out deep cuts to policing, defence, government, social care or early years funding or in support for children and the disabled – all for after the General Election - and challenge Labour to make a decision now to reject his plans two years ahead.  We will not play that game – when we do not know the economic circumstances two months ahead, let alone two years. 10.01am BST Balls returns to the point about Labour needing to govern in a different way, with "an iron discipline".In its manifesto it will set out tough fiscal rules, he says. 9.59am BST Balls reaffirms his call for full implementation of the banking commission's recommendations for separating high street banking from investment banking.He says Labour also wants to control welfare spending. Labour proposes serious policy action to tackle the underlying drivers of rising working-age benefits, with:- A compulsory jobs guarantee – a paid job for every young person out of work for 12 months or more and over 25 unemployed for over two years – which they will be obliged to take or face losing benefits; - A fair cap on household benefits - not one that costs more than it saves, and which takes account of housing costs in different parts of the country – with an independent body, like the Low Pay Commission, advising on whether the cap should be higher in high-cost housing areas like London, but potentially lower in other parts of the country; - And housing benefit reform which tackles high rents and addresses the shortage of affordable housing. These are issues which Ed Miliband will return to later this week. 9.57am BST Balls says Labour wants the Davies commission on airport capacity to report before 2015.And the government should set a decarbonisation target for 2030 in the energy bill being debated by MPs this week. On energy, chronic policy uncertainty and the absence of any agreed plan across government means, as Caroline Flint has highlighted, vital investments and the opportunity to create green jobs are being lost. The government should be legislating now in the Energy Bill for a decarbonisation target for 2030 in order to give a framework for those seeking to invest in renewable, nuclear, and clean gas and coal technology. Labour, business and environmental groups are united on the urgency of acting now. But Ministers have shown an abdication of leadership by choosing to wait until 2016 before even making a decision. We will vote on Tuesday to make this happen – and, while the Conservative leadership has now set its face against action, I call on every Liberal Democrat who supports a low carbon future to join us and vote with us to make this change happen. 9.55am BST Balls says Labour still believes that a temporary VAT cut would be right now. Today, with growth prospects still very uncertain and interest rates too low to be of use, a temporary VAT cut now is still the right prescription before extra capital spending can come on stream – although any immediate tax cut which helps middle and lower income families is better than nothing. But over the coming year if, as we all hope, some kind of recovery does take hold, then the balance of advantage will shift from temporary tax cuts to long-term capital investment.Balls says there is a growing consensus in favour of spending on capital projects, particularly housing. If the entire infrastructure boost recommended by the IMF was spent on housing over the next two years, we calculate that it would allow the building of around 400,000 affordable homes across the country, and support over 600,000 new jobs in construction, including 10,000 apprenticeships... 9.52am BST Balls says Britain needs growth of 5.3% of year over the next two years to get the economy back to where it was originally forecast to be in 2015-16. The IMF said last month that the UK economy continuing to bump along the bottom “could permanently damage medium-term growth prospects” – compounding mistakes, not correcting them.Because the longer it takes to get the recovery moving, investment flowing and long- term unemployment down, the greater the damage to the underlying strength of the economy.If the fiscal multipliers are indeed higher, as the IMF now believes, then a balanced plan can do now to boost growth and job creation this year, next year and the year after will have a significantly larger impact on the public finances than the OBR estimates.But unless something is done in this spending review to get our economy growing sustainably faster this year and next, and so deliver higher tax revenues and lower spending on unemployment, then the prospects for departmental spending and public services in the next parliament will be much tougher than necessary. 9.49am BST Balls says there is no need for a 2015-16 spending review now. It will be the first one-year spending review since the mid 1990s. And it could wait until the autumn of 2014, he says. 9.48am BST Balls says the government has broken its two fiscal rules. In 2010 [Osborne] said his first fiscal rule required the structural deficit, adjusted for the economic cycle, and excluding investment spending, to be in balance by 2015-16.The structural deficit is now forecast to be not a surplus of 0.9 per cent of GDP but a deficit of 1.2 per cent of GDP in 2015-16 – breaking that objective by a wide margin, even with the extra spending cuts that have now been programmed in for that year. And the second fiscal rule - to get the national debt falling by 2015 - has also been broken.The national debt is now set to be not 67.2 per cent in 2015-16 but 85.1 per cent of GDP, and it is now expected to rise until 2016-17 when it is forecast to peak at 85.6 per cent - a full £309 billion more debt than planned in 2010.This is the real background to this summer’s Spending Review - living standards falling, growth flatlining, a deficit reduction plan wildly off track and a coalition forced to extend cuts to public services into the next parliament. 9.46am BST Balls says the government is planning to borrow £245bn more up to 2015 than originally planned.That is not because Osborne has failed to cut departmental spending, he says. This rise in borrowing has been almost entirely caused by a drastic fall in tax receipts compared to the Government's 2010 plans, even after all the tax rises introduced in their first Budget.The impact of the failure to get growth could not be clearer. Tax receipts over this parliament are now set to be £274 billion lower than forecast in 2010. And while a small portion of this fall reflects discretionary policy decisions, such as cuts in corporation tax rates, the vast bulk – 95% - are non-discretionary forecast revisions. 9.45am BST Balls says the government blames global economic conditions. But that argument isn't convincing, he says. The Government tries to blame global forces – Euro zone weakness, and the impact of higher oil and food prices worldwide. But higher world prices cannot explain why over the last three years the UK has had a higher inflation rate than every other G7 country. Or why we have had the slowest growth of any G20 country other than Italy and Japan and actually lost export market share.As the Bank of England has pointed out, higher VAT, higher tuition fees and the sharp fall in the value of sterling since 2010 have driven up inflation and reduced the living standards of British families.It was the decision to try to accelerate fiscal tightening in 2010 that has proved, in the words of Financial Times commentator Martin Wolf, to be 'a spectacular own goal.' 9.43am BST Balls says Osborne's spending cuts were "a reckless gamble" because he was cutting "too far, too fast".Even the IMF now thinks so, Balls says. A fortnight ago the International Monetary Fund, which once backed the Chancellor’s plan, called for a change of course - proposing “near-term support for the economy” – an immediate £10 billion boost to infrastructure investment to support growth.They changed their mind because they concluded that the impact of tax rises and spending cuts on economic growth – the fabled 'fiscal multipliers' – has turned out to be a much bigger drag on growth than they, the Government or the OBR originally thought. 9.42am BST Balls says any government would have had to cut spending after 2010.But the challenge was to do it in a fair way. But instead the Conservative-led coalition gambled on getting the pain over quickly - early tax rises, including the VAT rise they ruled out pre-election, alongside faster and deeper spending cuts – on a political timetable to create room for pre-election giveaways.Balls says a spending review in 2013 was never part of George Osborne's plan. In Budget 2011, [Osborne] said: “We have had to undertake difficult measures. But we have already asked the British people for what is needed, and.. we do not need to ask for more."  Now the Chancellor says he has no choice but to come back for more – more cuts in 2015/16. 9.40am BST Balls says he has an "equally tough message" for his Labour colleagues.And he reads out the passage I quoted earlier. (See 9.22am.)Updated at 10.30am BST 9.39am BST   Ed Balls Photograph: /BBC NewsBalls says Tory policies have failed. Your doctrine of so-called ‘expansionary fiscal contraction’ – that the faster you cut public spending, the greater the boost to private investment and growth – has been exposed as intellectually bankrupt. Even the IMF now says your plans are ‘a drag on growth’.And your fixation on unbalanced, old-style ‘trickle-down economics’ – the belief that cutting taxes only for the highest earners will lead to more investment and growth, with wage rises trickling down for everyone else – has been equally discredited. 9.36am BST Ed Balls' economy speechEd Balls is starting his speech now. He is at the Thomson Reuters HQ in London. In my speech today, I want to make three central arguments. First, that this Spending Review is a sign not of strength but of weakness. It is happening because the Chancellor’s economic policies have failed catastrophically – on living standards, economic growth and on deficit reduction too. It is this economic failure that is the background to this month’s Spending Review.Second, the Prime Minister and the Chancellor are making a terrible mistake in ploughing on with their failing plan: increasing the price the British people will pay now and in the future for this failure. Action for growth this year, next year and the years after should instead be the purpose of any spending review this summer.And third, the next Labour government must start planning now for what will be a very difficult inheritance. We can now expect to inherit an economy with families under real financial pressure, businesses that have lost vital opportunities to invest, and public finances in poor shape, despite deep cuts to vital public services. This bleak inheritance is now more likely because of the missed opportunity of this Spending Review. 9.29am BST The Conservative MP Robert Halfon has welcomed Ed Balls' announcement on ending winter fuel payments for wealthy pensioners because he thinks that will make it easier for his party to do the same.Robert Halfon MP (@halfon4harlowMP)Thank you Ed Balls:) for announcing Labour to end universal benefits.Now easier for Tories to stop handouts to rich & stop Lab scare storiesJune 3, 2013 9.22am BST As well as the announcement on winter fuel payments, Ed Balls' speech also contains a warning (or a promise - it's a warning to the Labour left, but a promise to deficit hawks) that Labour would have to accept some spending cuts.Here's the key quote, which was released in advance overnight. The situation we will inherit will require a very different kind of Labour government to those which have gone before. We can expect to inherit plans for further deep cuts to departmental budgets at a time when the deficit will still be very large and the national debt rising.At the time of the 2010 spending review, the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that the deficit would fall to £18bn in 2015-16. It is now forecast to be £96bn – that’s £78bn higher, even with the further deep cuts in public spending which the chancellor has programmed in for 2015-16.And this means that, because this government’s austerity economics has failed, we will have to govern in a very different way and in circumstances very different to what we have known for many years. We will inherit a substantial deficit. We will have to govern with much less money around. We will need to show an iron discipline ...So this is the hard reality. The last Labour government was able to plan its 1997 manifesto on the basis of rising departmental spending in the first years after the election. The next Labour government will have to plan on the basis of falling departmental spending. Ed Miliband and I know that, and my shadow cabinet colleagues know that too.Updated at 9.29am BST 9.16am BST We haven't had the full Ed Balls speech yet, but already ToryTreasury, the Twitter account used by the Tory arm of the Treasury, has gone into overdrive.Tory Treasury (@ToryTreasury)Ed Balls spending plans show Lab are not serious about cutting the deficit. He's actually increasing his plans to borrow more #sameoldlabourJune 3, 2013Tory Treasury (@ToryTreasury)Balls proposal would save less than 0.5% of the welfare budget. Drop in the ocean compared to the billions more he wld borrow #sameoldlabourJune 3, 2013Tory Treasury (@ToryTreasury)Key question for Ed Balls today: would he match 2015-16 spending totals - or would he borrow and spend more? Seems he would borrow more.June 3, 2013Tory Treasury (@ToryTreasury)Ed Balls proposal already unravelling. Ed Miliband's spokesman on 29 April said Labour wouldn't cut universal WFA http://t.co/0ROL0c3PM9June 3, 2013 9.07am BST MPs are back in the Commons today after their Whitsun recess and there’s plenty of politics around to keep them busy.In the light of the lobbying scandal, Nick Clegg has written an article for the Daily Telegraph confirming that the government will go ahead with legislation for a statutory register of lobbyists. I know that the absence of the register from last month’s Queen’s Speech raised some concerns. So let me be clear: it will happen. Having consulted on the proposal, the detail is being looked at thoroughly in government. That process is being led by the Conservative minister for constitutional reform, Chloe Smith, working closely with the Liberal Democrat Deputy Leader of the House, Tom Brake. As set out in the Coalition Agreement, the Prime Minister and I are both determined that the register should go ahead as part of a broad package of measures to clean up the way politics is done in this country.I’ll be covering further reaction to the scandal as it comes in.And Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, is giving a speech on the economy. I’ll be covering it in detail shortly.Here’s the full agenda for the day.8.30am: Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, publishes details of government savings achieved in 2012-13.9.30am: Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, gives a speech on the economy. As Rajeev Syal reports, Balls will say that Labour would end fuel payments for 600,000 of Britain’s richest pensioners.9.30am: The Bank of England publishes first quarter figures for the Funding for Lending scheme.Around 3pm: Peers begin their second reading debate on the gay marriage bill. The vote will take place tomorrow afternoon. At 5.30pm pro gay marriage campaigners will hold a rally outside parliament.3.30pm: David Cameron is making a statement in the Commons about the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby at Woolwich.Afternoon: The Lib Dem MP Mike Hancock faces a party disciplinary hearing.As usual, I’ll also be covering all the breaking political news as well as looking at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I’ll post a lunchtime summary at before 1pm, and another in the afternoon.If you want to follow me on Twitter, I’m on @AndrewSparrow.