A prison officer has been suspended after a claim by a convicted murderer that he had inside help to escape from Winchester jail.William Todd, 38, sawed through his cell bars and clambered over the prison fence using a rope thrown over from the outside. He was recaptured five days later. The claim surfaced when Todd was sentenced to a further three years' imprisonment for the escape. Police and the prison service are investigating his claim. Security at Winchester has been reviewed since the break-out, the first in more than 30 years. A spokeswoman for the service confirmed that a warder, who has not been named, had been suspended pending the outcome of the investigation. Todd broke out of the prison in December last year. When police arrived, they found he had left behind an "escape kit" of hacksaws, rope ladder, mobile telephones, and a balaclava. The prisoner had also left a pillow stuffed under the blanket on his bed, and another blanket draped across the window of his cell to hide the fact that he had cut through the bars of the ground-floor window. Detectives were shocked that Todd managed to get access to the items in the escape kit, and was able to spend one and a half hours sawing through the bars of his cell without anyone noticing. After five days on the run he was caught by police when he attempted to visit his girlfriend. Todd, a car dealer from Reading in Berkshire, had been convicted in September last year of the attempted murder of his former business associate, Arthur de Sousa, and shooting dead a bodyguard, Alex Griffin. Sentencing Todd after he pleaded guilty to his jail break-out at Bristol crown court on Thursday, the recorder, Michael Hubbard QC, said: "There are disquieting features of this case which seem to me to make it all very suspicious from the point of view of those inside who might have given you assistance." He added: "If the internal prison report is accurate, I'm told that sawing through the bars took 90 minutes. I find it inconceivable that that could have gone unnoticed. I find it inconceivable you could have in your cell for such a long period two mobile phones, four hacksaws and balaclavas." Prosecuting, Ben Stephenson described the escape as "well planned and well researched". The court was told that Todd had help from his former cell-mate, Paul Taylor, 32, who was released three days before the escape after serving a one year sentence for motoring offences. But the prosecution said it was possible there was also "inside" help. Charles Sherrard, defending Todd, claimed he wanted to escape because his family and girlfriend were being threatened. Todd had told prison officers of his worries. Mr Sherrard said: "The concerns that drove Mr Todd to escape were conveyed to officers with some kind of authority. That is why assistance was given." The hacksaw blades and balaclavas were concealed inside a stereo; the stereo and the mobile phones came in to the prison by "inside means". Mr Sherrard also claimed that Todd was moved to a ground floor cell "as a consequence of prison officers he knew". Taylor, who admitted assisting the escape, was jailed for 15 months.