Peter Tobin joked as he dug Dinah McNicol's grave, Chelmsford crown court was told today.Tobin bantered with a neighbour while digging the hole in the garden of his then home in Margate, Kent, in summer 1991, jurors heard.David Martin said he recalled seeing Tobin standing in the hole and digging. "He was chest deep in the hole," he told the court. "I leaned over the fence and quipped: 'Are you going for Australia, Pete?' I had never seen him doing anything in the garden before. He joked [about] that. It was very light-hearted."Martin said he could not recall exactly what Tobin had said, adding: "He replied to me with some kind of quip. He replied in joking fashion."Martin said Tobin told him the hole was to be a sandpit for his son, Daniel. After what he thought was a couple of days, he "glanced across and the construction was completely filled in and the top flattened over, as if it had never existed"."I said: 'What happened to your sandpit, Peter?' He said a social worker considered it was too dangerous for the young lad to have a sandpit there, which I thought a little strange at the time, but never put a lot of emphasis on it."Prosecutors say the hole became McNicol's grave. Her remains were found there in November 2007.Jurors heard that Tobin moved to Margate from Bathgate, near Edinburgh, in March 1991, shortly after he had murdered Vicky Hamilton.The court was told he had taken part in a house swap with a couple in Margate. Prosecutors say he brought Hamilton's remains from Scotland before burying them in the garden of his Margate home.Peter Hewitson, who took part in the house swap with Tobin, told the court he noticed a "distinct smell" when he arrived at the house in Bathgate. He said the smell was "pungent" and "not pleasant" and had lingered for some time before disappearing.Later on in the hearing, Tobin was involved in a finger-pointing exchange with his lawyer. Tobin summoned his solicitor to the dock as jurors were hearing evidence. He jabbed his finger at him before pointing to the lawyer, then pointed at another part of the court as the trial continued.The lawyer returned to his seat before Tobin was seen to turn to security guards in the dock and again point his finger and make comments. Jurors saw the exchange while listening to a witness giving evidence.