Spitalfields, where the East End meets the City of London, is a strange place. Its elegant Georgian streets are home to the mega-rich and trendy, from merchant bankers to artists such as Tracy Emin. Fashionable shops offer everything from battered-looking antiques to exquisite clothing and jewellery. Minimalist restaurants sell oysters, offal and truffles. Clubs and bars proclaim the coolest of "edgy" cool. And at its heart is Brick Lane - Banglatown, the curry capital of the UK.Yet it is also one of the oldest red light districts in Europe, dating back more than 600 years. At night, you can see the prostitutes at work among the drunks, trendies and crocodiles of backpackers on Jack the Ripper tours. The phoneboxes in Spitalfields are full of glossy cards describing "sexy blondes", "friendly dominatrix" and "all fantasies". The reality on the main thoroughfare, Commercial Street, is harsher. Skeletal women, some with open sores on their mouths, sell sex for as little as £5.These are the same streets where five prostitutes were murdered in the autumn of 1888. Not too much has changed in nearly 120 years, except that the drugs of choice are crack and heroin, not laudanum and gin, and the habit costs £500 a week. One former prostitute tells me how she used to charge double to punters wanting "business" on Ripper murder sites. Over 300 women work the streets in this neighbourhood, and an unknown number work in flats and brothels. Prostitutes forced out of other traditional red light zones, such as King's Cross, by regeneration or by antisocial behaviour orders, have swelled numbers further. Multiple problemsToday, a new initiative sees the launch of The Safe Exit Handbook, a massive directory and self-help tome that hopes to get women out of prostitution. The handbook gives matter-of-fact advice about dealing with the multiple problems faced by women selling sex, such as violence at the hands of customers and pimps, drug addiction, homelessness and physical and mental illness. It offers practical help on quitting prostitution and finding a safe place to live.The advice is deliberately graphic because, the authors say, it could save a life. Home Office figures reveal that 60 prostitutes have been murdered in the UK in the last 10 years. Under the heading "self defence", the book advises: "Carry a rape alarm if you can" and "If you must fight, attack soft areas such as the throat, eyes, Adam's apple, underside of nose, groin and shins."When approached by a punter in a car, it suggests checking the registration plates and making sure that there is nobody hiding in the back. "Try to arrange the price, service and location before you get into the car and get the money first. Put it in a different place to your other money so that it if he does try to rob you, at least you can save some of your money." And when getting out of a punter's car it suggests walking in the direction of oncoming traffic "so you can see who is coming towards you and no one can pull up behind you".Women working from home are advised to install real or dummy CCTV systems and a door alarm, and to put up a notice board in a prominent place displaying police phone numbers.It warns that using drugs or alcohol while selling sex can make you more vulnerable, less able to size up situations and act quickly. "Try not to let customers know about your drug use as they may use this to play money or power games. Insist on getting paid in cash, not drugs. You will look more professional and in control. Remember that heroin doesn't make you warm. It only makes you feel warm. It masks the effects of cold, but doesn't prevent the harm the cold can do. Wrap up or, better still, wear layers when working outdoors at night."The increased use of heroin and crack also increases the chances of acquiring sexually transmitted infections (STIs). A Home Office report published in July last year revealed that 65% of crack-using women involved in prostitution in London were found to have an STI, and they were also more likely to have hepatitis C. "While condom use with clients has been traditionally claimed to be high, the increasing use of crack can be expected to increase the level of unsafe sex."The handbook is produced by Safe Exit Tower Hamlets (Seth), an umbrella body representing all local voluntary and statutory organisations that work with prostitutes. The funding comes from Tower Hamlets council and local charity Toynbee Hall. Seth is chaired by councillor Louise Alexander, who says that past initiatives haven't worked because each agency has worked separately. "We need to realise that in order to leave prostitution, women will have to deal with a mass of issues," she says. "It's too much to do alone, and if there is no synergy between the agencies that are trying to help, women will give up and stay trapped in this chaotic lifestyle."Alice Peycke, Seth coordinator, says the project was unique in uniting women's groups and the police - usually seen as being at odds when it comes to prostitution. All groups have signed an information sharing agreement that reflects concerns about poor multi-agency communication in past tragedies, such as the death of eight-year-old Victoria Climbié and the Soham murders. Peycke says: "The important thing is that we recognise that although many women have chaotic lives, with multiple problems, they all need help that is tailored to them as individuals - there is no one model - so they don't fall through the system."While Seth focuses on the needs of women, it recognises that residents and businesses want an end to the crime, nuisance and squalor caused by kerb-crawlers, pimps and prostitutes. Last year, after a local campaign, a developer was refused planning permission to build a "hotel" on Commercial Street where rooms could be rented by the hour. Invidious positionThe police are aware of the pressure to clean up the area but are in an invidious position. Inspector Mark Antill, one of the co-authors of the handbook, who is based in Brick Lane, says: "This is a changing area. There is a lot more money being poured into residential development, and people want a peaceful life. We will prosecute women where we need to, but in many cases these are the same people who, on another day, are victims of rape, robbery or beatings."The police have claimed some victories. Blitzes on kerb crawling this year resulted in 77 men being charged and fined. While a third were local, many were from Kent, Suffolk and Sussex. Their occupations ranged from cab drivers to teachers, designers, managers, plasterers and bankers.But volunteers working with local prostitutes feel the courts are too soft on punters. One says: "Police wanted the men served with antisocial behaviour orders banning them from the borough, but the judges said this was too harsh for a first sentence. That's amazing, given that most of the punters didn't just wander into the East End by chance."Some local initiatives have succeeded in getting women off the streets for good. The now defunct Maze Marigold Project used Princess Diana Fund money to put prostitutes on degree courses. Organiser Rio Vella says that 15 women came off the streets and on to courses. "One woman did an Open University degree and then went to college, and is now working to get other women off the streets," she says. Vella welcomes the new initiative but says the vital ingredients are safe, women-only accommodation. At present there are only two such hostel places in the area. And she feels that women whose problems are huge and manifold need dedicated key workers to help them through the chaos or they will slip through the net.That view is echoed by Patrice Naughton, the director of Women's Link, a local housing charity. She fears that there isn't a real success story among the 26 clients on her current caseload. The file on "Client Two" sums up the situation: "36-year-old woman using heroin for more than seven years; sleeping rough for five months in a stairwell, before which living in a squat; lost housing association flat due to rent arrears and lost custody of her son (drug related); raped within previous week by a punter when she was sleeping; referred to an emergency St Mungo's hostel but only lasted a few nights; now staying between 'boyfriend' and friends; lost contact at present." The file ends: "Case closed - not engaging."More details: seth@toynbeehall.org.uk