Taking shelter from the driving rain on Lodge Lane in Toxteth, Liverpool, one man involved with the riots that have flared in the city since Monday explained why he had taken to the streets.Lighting up a huge joint, he took a drag and said: "These are my boys. I'm not just going to stay at home and miss out on all the fun."For him, the last two nights have been a chance to "get my own back" on a police force which he detests, accusing them of targeting young people from the area."They are bastards. Fuck the police, man. They are not all bad but most of them are. No one around here has got any liking for the police. Fuck them."The 25-year-old, who did not want to give his name, said he experienced an "adrenaline rush" as gangs of youths descended on low-income areas in the south of the city and on the other side of the river Mersey in Birkenhead."Police patrol these streets every night of the week and we only get to riot every few years," he said. "They can't come here laying down the law like they do all year round. People are rioting because the riot is finally here."Lodge Lane saw the worse of the violence on Tuesday night. Cars were set alight and there were unconfirmed reports of petrol bombs being thrown. Looters attempted to break into an Asda supermarket and smaller shops were raided, although looting was on a smaller scale than in other cities.That was a shame, thought one 14-year-old, visiting his older cousin from Manchester. "I wish I was in Manchester," he said. "They did it properly there. Here it was just burning cars but there was no looting or nothing."He described the missiles used to throw at police. "If you are provoked, you hit out," he said. "We were chucking bottles, bricks, trees get snapped, anything we can find."Asked if he felt guilty that other residents had their cars reduced to cinders, the older man said that, if a resident had come out and said it was their car, the group had moved on to another. "If you leave your car outside when there is a riot going on, it's going to happen, isn't it? Breaking stuff is part of a riot, otherwise, it's just a protest."He was similarly untouched about looting: "How do I feel about it? Honestly. Nothing. It comes with the rioting. I feel nothing about it."Asked why the riots started, the 14-year-old said: "It's the telly. If the men in Manchester hadn't seen London, nothing would have happened but they see them men they can think they can too. It's copycatting."When the police change the way they do things then it will die down. Just because the police are out on the streets doesn't mean we are going to quit. It will stop when we win."Along Lawrence Road, in Wavertree near Toxteth in south Liverpool, the road is scarred where cars were burned, windows are boarded up and metal shutters are twisted.Several small businesses were hit hard, with devastating consequences.Idriss Majad used to be a legal investigator in Iraq before fleeing violence in the country and seeking asylum in the UK. After receiving permission to remain, he opened a shop last month."I came to this country for safety and when I got permission to stay I tried to invest. I borrowed money and I invested everything I had in this shop," he said.He faces a £5,000 bill for lost stock, mainly cigarettes, and damage done to windows, the counter and shutter. "It is huge for me. Already I can't make nothing, but I was building for the future. It is miserable, I am very nervous but I have to carry on with my business because I don't want them to win."A few doors down, two Kurdish Iraqi brothers could not open their pound store due to damage by looters.The owner, who did not wanted to give his name, described arriving at the shop at around midnight after being warned it was being broken into. "When I arrived, there was maybe 20-25 youths, girls and boys, in the shop. I told them it was my shop but they didn't care."When he protested, one looter pulled out a huge knife and racially abused him. "I was scared for my life," he said.Police were present, he said, but did not approach the looters."I blame the police, they just stood with their back turned," he said."Liverpool is a good place with good people, but these people give the city, and the country, a bad name." Despite local support he was planning on closing down his business and starting somewhere else."For Tesco it is not a problem, but for us one penny is too much. We just survive here because it is better than claiming benefit. I came here as a asylum seeker, but now I am British and I am faithful to my country. But now I think maybe we have to leave this city. We are not safe here. We have to find a safe place."