A schoolboy jailed for life last week for raping his teacher was yesterday named in the high court. Sixteen-year-old Dwayne Best repeatedly threatened to kill the 28-year-old before assaulting her in a deserted classroom at a central London school.After his conviction lawyers for Best, who was 15 at the time of the attack last September, fought to keep his identity secret, saying that naming him would pose a "considerable risk" to his rehabilitation.They appealed against the judge's decision to release his identity, but yesterday Lord Justice Kennedy, sitting with Mr Justice Walker, rejected the plea and released the name.He said the original trial judge, Judge Moss, had taken all matters into consideration, "above all the strong public interest in open justice"."I am entirely satisfied the judge did not order publication simply to name and shame. It would have been wrong to do so. I am equally satisfied he was fully conscious of the disadvantages to the offender and his family."Best pleaded guilty to rape and was sentenced last week.The court heard that the assault at the Westminster City school for boys had left the teacher emotionally and physically scarred, and that there was a high risk of Best reoffending.The woman had been marking books at the end of the school day when she was grabbed from behind. The woman, in only her second day in the job, was head-butted and bitten before being dragged to the back of the classroom and assaulted.The court heard that she had tried to fend Best off, kicking him in the groin and stabbing him with a pen, but he throttled her before ripping off her clothes. Her face was so badly injured in the attack that her colleagues were unable to recognise her afterwards.A joint inquiry has been launched by the Metropolitan police, social services and the school to see if "any lessons can be learnt" from the case.The teacher, who remains anonymous, said she hoped that naming Best would help him accept responsibility for his actions. "The end of the legal process gives me the opportunity to put the whole thing behind me and start to put my life back together," she said. "Naming him may help him to accept responsibility for what he has done and recognise the gravity of his actions."She said she was considering legal action against the authorities, but was determined to return to teaching."My commitment remains intact, but the effect of the attack is that I'm going to be very limited in the spheres I can work in, certainly for a few years."Yesterday the National Union of Teachers, representing the teacher, said the focus would now move to helping her get back to work. Steve Sinnott, its general secretary, said: "She is a very committed and good teacher and her talents must not be lost to the profession. She cares about children. She wants to teach and we will do the utmost to ensure she does."Best will be eligible for parole after serving four-and-a-half years, but will not be released until doctors consider he is no longer a danger.