Downing Street yesterday backed away from plans to allow binmen to impose £50 on-the-spot fines on people who drop chewing gum. Alarmed by banner headlines about an unprecedented crackdown on minor litter offences, the prime minister's official spokesman said the government regarded the chewing gum idea as "unworkable". The spokesman issued his statement after a series of newspapers, including the Guardian, reported that the government would intensify its crackdown on anti-social behaviour. The newspapers reported that proposals issued by five government departments would allow binmen and other council workers to issue on-the-spot fines for litter, which could be extended to include chewing gum. As the idea was branded by one union as "bonkers", Downing Street admitted it had confused its message when the document, Living Places - Powers, Rights, Responsibilities, was launched on Thursday. In a rare admission that the government's fabled spin machine had failed to spell out a policy clearly, the prime minister's spokesman said that the press could not be blamed for its reporting. The spokesman confirmed it had proposed reclassifying chewing gum as litter. It had also considered whether fixed penalty notices should be extended and had floated the idea of allowing "more junior officials" to impose fines. But he added: "There is no specific proposal that says binmen will administer £50 fines for people who drop chewing gum. That is a creative interpretation of different strands in this document." A spokesman for the GMB union, which represents tens of thousands of street cleaners and binmen, said: "Street cleaners and dustmen have tough enough jobs as it is without getting involved in confrontations with irate members of the public." Downing Street insisted it would still crack down on anti-social behaviour. "This whole area of rights and responsibilities is at the core of what the government is doing ... it is integral to the legislation in the Queen's speech [on November 13]. Graffiti and litter may seem minor but they have a disproportionate effect on people's lives."This was underlined by the rural affairs minister, Alun Michael, at the launch of the document: "There is widespread concern that the current legislative framework has been inadequate in raising or maintaining local environmental standards. "These are issues which affect all of us and we want to ensure that those who are responsible for ensuring that our public spaces are clear and safe have the powers that they need and that the public have the ability to hold them to account."