An inquest jury has heard that a man died in agony in a prison hospital when medical staff failed to carry out basic checks on his condition.John Carmody, 39, collapsed in his cell at Liverpool jail on the February 21 2001, 17 hours after being admitted to the jail's health care centre. The jury at Liverpool coroners court heard that nurses there failed to record his temperature, blood pressure and pulse. A postmortem examination found that he died from peritonitis and a gastric ulcer.The jury decided yesterday his death was "due to natural causes in part because the seriousness of his condition was not recognised and appropriate investigations and or treatment were not carried out".Mr Carmody, who was serving five months for two attempted thefts, arrived at the prison on the January 17 2001. Almost immediately he began complaining of severe stomach pains. He was prescribed medication for constipation but did not receive the treatment. On the day before he died, Mr Carmody was seen in his cell by an agency locum doctor. He ordered that his patient be removed, by wheelchair, to the health care centre for observation, "to exclude acute abdomen".The prison officer who escorted him there admitted that Mr Carmody was forced to leave the wheelchair several times during the journey to climb steps. A prisoner who accompanied the sick man said Mr Carmody was "moaning in pain" throughout the journey. He was placed in a strip cell in the health care centre and, apart from laxatives, received no treatment.He collapsed in his cell early the following morning and was pronounced dead on arrival at Fazackerly hospital.Fiona Kirkham, the nurse who admitted Mr Carmody to the health care centre told the jury that she did not know the meaning of acute abdomen. Other staff said that the doctor's instructions had been unclear to them.However, Janet Davis, a former director of quality and nursing at Liverpool Royal hospital said that nurses should have known - from the doctor's notes - that baseline observations should have been carried out on Mr Carmody "every 15 minutes". In the event, not a single such check was made in the 17 hours before he died.Mr Carmody's sister, Patsy, said after the verdict that her brother was a very special person and that for all his faults, "I can't think of one person who disliked him". She said the Prison Service had failed to care for him. "He went in doing a five month sentence and now we've lost him."Deborah Coles, director of Inquest, described Mr Carmody's ordeal as an indictment of the often appalling standard of care offered prisoners."Mr Carmody was viewed first and foremost as a prisoner not worthy of the medical care he would and should have received in the community."There were 17 deaths in Liverpool prison between May 2000 and July 2004. Six were listed as non-self inflicted.