'They sap at a driver's confidence'David Baxter of Radar Express, suppliers of speed camera detection equipment: There are 4, 000 Gatso [double-flash automatic speed camera] sites in Britain, but no way are there 4,000 places that warrant one. We are a small island but we have more speed detection equipment than any other country. You will struggle to find anyone totally against them. I've a three-year-old daughter and I don't want idiots careering round at breakneck speed. But we don't sell our £400 kits (legal since 1998) to young kids who think they're invincible; our market is people over 40 who drive for a living and are now terrified of losing their licence and their job. If they travel 60,000 miles a year for work, their chances of disqualification are frightening. There's no discretion with Gatsos or the new Specs system (cameras at intervals which log the average speed between them). It's not like when you were young and a traffic cop would give you a talking to but didn't go as far as a fine unless you'd been really stupid. You only have 12 points and you can lose half of them in one serious speed infringement. It saps at a driver's confidence, and the sneaky use of cameras hidden behind trees or road signs sets people against the police. That's why they've knocked it on the head in a lot of US states and Canada. It got very big in both countries, but there was an outcry and the authorities decided damage to confidence in the police was worse than the speeding.  Richard Freeman, representing the AA: There's just no question at all about speed cameras, properly used, reducing casualties on the roads, and the public is in no doubt about that. In spite of the head of steam built up in some places over the idea that the police are more interested in fines than road safety, more than 80% were in favour of more cameras in our most recent poll, last week. Apart from the frankly rabid end of the spectrum, they are universally welcomed - as long as certain essentials are followed, especially siting them in places where accidents are probable if people speed. The old attitude that speeding is something you're unlucky to be caught for doesn't hold these days. There are parallels with the change of attitude on drink-driving. The government's concern about sudden jumps in conviction rates is welcome, too. A speed camera which goes on and on catching people is a bad speed camera, almost certainly in the wrong place. The nutters are out there of course, and they must be caught. But so many ordinary drivers shouldn't be falling into the same trap. We are pressing for a national review of speed limits to try to sort out those places where a limit may be unrealistic or even a hazard, when drivers have the counter-pressure of needing to keep up with the traffic. There is a real danger of overlaying a rather rickety national speed limit network with a very hi-tech detection system.