A childminder who allegedly killed a baby in her care shook him out of frustration when he would not feed, it was claimed yesterday. Rebecca Wilson, 33, was tired after a late night when she was looking after five-month-old Anil Joshi in January 2003. She appeared before Liverpool crown court, where she denies two charges of manslaughter and assault causing actual bodily harm.Ms Wilson was still wearing her pyjamas when Anil was dropped off at her home in Bolton, Greater Manchester, in the morning. She told the baby's mother she had been up until 11.30pm the previous night comforting a church friend whose mother had died and that she had "not felt like getting dressed".The court heard that she telephoned for an ambulance at 11.20am on January 8 and said that Anil had "gone floppy". He was taken to hospital but died of a brain haemorrhage three days later when doctors switched off his life support machine.Ms Wilson, a mother of two children, lives on the same street as the Joshi family. In a police interview she admitted shaking the baby for 30 seconds, although she later claimed it was just 10 seconds.She said she shook him to rouse him after he had lost consciousness. "I just shook him too hard because I was panicking when he went floppy," she said in police interview.Anthony Russell, prosecution barrister, said that when she was asked how hard she had shaken the baby she had replied: "Obviously harder than I realised."In a later police interview she admitted being frustrated. She told officers: "I was worked up. I had tried playing with him, I had tried some food, I had tried the bottle and all the usual things just didn't work. I just shook him too hard because I was panicking when he went floppy. My intention wasn't to harm him - I was just trying to get a response."Mr Russell said that Ms Wilson had changed her story several times."Her changes of story show that she knew as well as anybody she had done something wrong and she tried to cover up her actions. As a registered childminder she knew as well as anybody the dangers of shaking a child as young as Anil," Mr Russell said.He added that she shook Anil because she lost her temper. "The defendant, frustrated by the child's reluctance to feed, lost her temper with him and shook him violently, causing the injuries to his head from which he died."Her frustration may have been aggravated by the fact that she had had a late night, but we submit that the evidence will satisfy you that she used unlawful violence upon a child in her care."Ms Wilson, who charged the Joshi family £65 a week to look after their baby, was a regular churchgoer and also ran a mother and toddler group at her church, St Luke's in Bolton. Anil's father, Vijay Joshi, 40, said that he considered Ms Wilson to be helpful and friendly. "Everything slotted into place. We couldn't believe our good fortune, a registered childminder living on the same road as us."He knew Ms Wilson was a churchgoer. "If I didn't totally trust her, I wouldn't have left Anil there for a second."Asked by the defence counsel, Graham Wood, whether Anil could have suffered an accidental injury at the family home, he replied: "He has never been hurt in our house."A statement from his wife, Tejal Joshi, 34, said that they had struggled to conceive Anil, their only child, because she had had an ovarian cyst. "Anil was such a bright, active, chatty, smiling boy," she said in the statement. "He had found his voice and would let us know if he wanted something."She said on the day that Anil was taken ill she had dropped him off at 8am to find Ms Wilson in vest and pyjama bottoms. On the day before he was taken to hospital he had suffered a bruised eye. Ms Wilson told his parents that he had fallen forwards and struck his face on a soft toy.The prosecution claims the baby sustained the injury as he was punched in the face.The court also heard a recording of the 999 call made by Ms Wilson to the ambulance service. She could be heard telling the operator that the child was "really floppy". She was also heard saying "come on Anil, come on darling, good boy".The boy's parents wept in the public gallery and Ms Wilson cried in the dock while the tape was played.The trial continues and is expected to last three weeks.