Lord Woolf's Squire lecture has rightly been headlined as an important address. Speeches of this kind by senior judges are rare, and their rarity ensures that they are taken seriously, as this one should be. But it is important to be clear about those issues on which Lord Woolf is taking his stand and those on which he is not. Headlines, though necessary, can sometimes mislead. Lord Woolf had powerful criticisms to make about aspects of the government's constitutional reform bill, which is due to be debated in the House of Lords on Monday. And he had some blisteringly harsh things to say about clause 11 of the asylum and immigration bill, due to be debated in the Lords a week after that.It would be misleading, though, to suggest that the lord chief justice has mounted a root-and-branch attack on plans to reform the judiciary, or to imply that he is leading a frontal charge against controls on asylum seekers. Neither Lord Woolf's admirers nor his opponents should exaggerate. This is not a "judges v the government" showdown of the kind that some on the right would like to see. But nor is it a "judges v the people" confrontation of the kind that some on the left may relish. In both cases, though, Lord Woolf offers something more specific and also more challenging to the democratic process: an impassioned and serious case for the precise protection of the primacy of proper legal process. In the past, even Lord Woolf would probably have been among those judges who believed that if the judicial system was not broken, there was no need to mend it. But that is not his position today. You might not guess it from some of the ways his lecture was reported, but the lord chief justice said in Cambridge that he is opposed to a written constitution, is a supporter of "fundamental reform" of the judicial appointments system and is a convert (albeit plainly a reluctant one) to reform of the role of the lord chancellor. He is also the co-signatory, with Lord Falconer, of the concordat between the judiciary and the government on their future relationship that is embodied in the constitutional reform bill. Overall, he is a supporter of the bill in most respects (though he would delay the implementation of the supreme court), is satisfied that the bill protects judicial independence and says that future division of responsibilities between the secretary of state for constitutional affairs (who will take over the lord chancellor's political role) and the lord chief justice (who will inherit his judicial functions) is "highly satisfactory". Lord Woolf's specific remaining concerns about the bill are mostly justifiable. He wants a proper building (with a preference for Norman Foster to design it), a proper budget and proper constitutional protections for the new supreme court. He should get them all. He is worried about what will happen when a constitutional affairs secretary is an MP and a non-lawyer (Lord Falconer is neither) and what status future secretaries of state will have vis à vis the Home Office - all proper concerns. Above all, he wants to ensure - again reasonably - that future arrangements will not diminish the checks and balances that enable parliament and the courts currently to resist fundamental encroachments upon the rule of law and access to the courts, as the asylum bill's assaults on the appeal process and on legal aid each do. Lord Woolf's mistake is to imply that the status quo is a better guarantor of such liberties than proper rules in a reformed system. That is why the constitutional reform bill should pass next week. But Lord Woolf is right to use his office and authority to draw attention to what is at stake and right to say loud and clear that the government's credibility on judicial reform cannot ultimately be separated from its unsupportable disregard for fundamental rights in the asylum bill.