A serial rapist who dragged women off the streets before tying them up with their own tights and stealing their stiletto shoes as trophies was told today he must serve at least 15 years in prison.James Lloyd, 50, brutally raped four women in the early 1980s and attempted to rape another two, Sheffield crown court heard. When modern DNA techniques eventually caught him, police found more than 100 stilettos at the print shop manager's home and workplace.Today, Judge Alan Goldsack QC gave Lloyd an indeterminate sentence and ordered that he should spend at least 15 years in prison before being assessed for release. The judge said that if Lloyd, who admitted the offences, had been found guilty after a trial he could have expected a fixed-term sentence of 35 years."Few sexual cases are more serious than these," the judge told Lloyd.The judge said the defendant had terrorised an area between Rotherham and Barnsley, in South Yorkshire, for a three-year period from 1983. In each of the attacks, Lloyd grabbed a woman as she was walking home from a night out, dragged her off, tied her up using tights, and either raped her or attempted to rape her. The women involved were aged between 18 and 54. The judge pointed to a series of videos found by detectives which showed Lloyd having sex with his wife, Pat, over a 20-year period.The court heard that Mrs Lloyd was often tied up in these tapes and appeared to be "comatose". In some of them Lloyd is seen to stop what he is doing and carefully replace his wife's stilettos if they fall off. The judge was also told that in some of the videos Lloyd used stilettos as part of penetrative sex. "It may be your sexual fantasies have simply been contained within the relationship," Judge Goldsack said. "Were it to end, you may well be tempted to carry them out with other women, giving them no choice whether to consent or not." Many of Lloyd's victims watched the proceedings from the public gallery in the packed court surrounded by friends and family. Some were in tears but others simply stared at the defendant as he sat looking down at the floor of the dock, dressed in a black suit and tie, and white shirt. Lloyd sobbed as the court was read extracts from statements written by his son and daughter. Jeremy Baker QC, prosecuting, described how some of Lloyd's victims were "trussed up" when he tied their knees to their neck, leaving them immobile before he either had sex with them, or tried to. Mr Baker said one woman was attacked after she left the Towpath pub in Swinton in August 1986. She was dragged over a wall and trussed up by Lloyd who threatened her with a flick knife before raping her. When police searched Lloyd's home in Thurnscoe, near Barnsley, and his workplace - Dearne Valley Printers, at Wath-on-Dearne, near Rotherham - they found large quantities of stiletto shoes. Police said there were more than 100. Officers also found a range of other material which all indicated an interest in pornography and a shoe fetish, including the videos of him and his wife.In a statement read to the court, Mrs Lloyd said she consented to all the acts shown in the videos and denied her husband had ever drugged her. "He has always been a good husband, good father and hardworking. I had never had any indication he had the capacity for anything like that." Mr Baker said perhaps the most disturbing item found by the police was a "document" called The Perfect Victim which described the trussing up and raping of women in the way Lloyd carried out his attacks. He said it was not clear whether Lloyd wrote it himself. The court heard that Lloyd was tracked down when South Yorkshire police decided to revisit the 1980s cases in the light of new DNA techniques.He was eventually trapped when his sister gave a DNA sample after she was arrested for drink-driving. As Lloyd had never been arrested, there was no record of his DNA on the police national database. When he was eventually arrested, he told the officers: "I knew that was coming. I was a bastard 20 years ago." The court was told by Peter Kelson QC, defending, that Lloyd tried to kill himself while he was in prison and has said "he will commit suicide at some point".The court was also told Lloyd was the works manager of Dearne Valley Printers, the firm he joined as an apprentice in the early 1970s.In a statement read out on behalf of Lloyd's victims, relatives said: "James Desmond Lloyd has been at liberty for over 20 years knowing what he had done to a number of women. He has hidden behind the facade of respectability and has shown no remorse for the crimes he had committed. "Following today's events we now hope that this enables people to move on with their lives. James Desmond Lloyd is a cowardly individual who fully deserves to serve a long custodial sentence, dwelling upon the crimes he committed. We are relieved that this cannot happen to any other women."Earlier this year Lloyd admitted raping four women - in December 1983, October 1984, December 1984 and August 1986. He also admitted attempting to rape two other women - in February 1983 and October 1984.