Earlier this month, Phillip King was admitted to HMP Blakenhurst. King, who is 42, had originally been sentenced to a prison term for robbery, but in February, having served most of his term and been deemed of no risk to the public, he was released early on condition that he wore an electronic tag around his ankle.Then, with just three weeks left before his tag was due to be removed, he cut it off."I told the probation service I couldn't stand it any longer at the address where I had to live," he said. "It was just the pressure of living under someone else's roof. So I cut it off and went to hand myself in straight away at a police station." He was sent straight back to prison for breach of his licence.Blakenhurst is a local jail, the first port of call for offenders released from the courts into the prison system. Some can expect to stay for the duration of their sentences; others will be moved on to other jails.Opened in 1993, it is regarded as a success story under the guidance of its relentlessly cheerful governor, Ferdie Parker. It is bright and clean, with its ubiquitous bars freshly painted in a palette of pastels. Inmates in grey tracksuits are shuttled along corridors to daily shifts in the prison workshops and to strictly rotated exercise sessions, while others buff the vinyl floors to a high shine.On the wings, some prisoners lean over mini pool tables while others prefer to smoke in their cells, many of which have been fitted with an extra bunk on top of the original bed.On the day the Guardian visited the Midlands jail, every bed in every cell was occupied. The jail is coping, insisted Mr Parker, "but the room for manoeuvre shrinks the more the population increases."It's a bit like the tide. If it keeps coming in, eventually at some point you run out of ground to step on."It is not merely a crude pressure for beds. The more juggling that governors have to do to ensure they have some spare capacity, the more prisoners can find themselves being moved from prison to prison, interrupting treatment and offending behaviour programmes, and isolating them from their families.In addition, a large proportion of the prison population have serious drugs, alcohol and mental health problems. One prisoner at Blakenhurst had arms ribboned with self-harm scars and deep cigarette burns. "We'd release him on Friday and he'd be back in with us on Monday," said Mr Parker. "He'd do something minor like criminal damage to get back in."Changes to mental health provision in the wider community have had a significant impact on prison numbers, the governor said.Another significant factor are those inmates, like King, who breach the terms of their licence.King said: "As far as I could see, my last sentence was the end of my career as a criminal. It's lovely when you get out, but it doesn't always work out. So now they've called me back to prison." He had yet to find out how long, this time, he would be required to stay.Case studiesClifford Diston, 45It was just minor theft - forty quid's worth of DVDs - so I was sentenced to a community order. I was doing unpaid work, painting or digging ditches around Rugby, where I'm from. I was literally five minutes late for work one day, and they sent me away, and then I was late on another occasion and they put me back [in prison]. Why? I was just running late. I went to court expecting another [community] sentence, but they sent me down, which I really wasn't expecting. I feel disgusted really, considering I have never really been in very much trouble. I am a floor layer, and I was supposed to be doing a club today for someone, fitting toilets and that. I'm sure he's up in arms about it. My wife and little boy as well. He's three. I haven't really had a great deal of time to talk to my wife. It's just the inconvenience. Short sentences seem to last a bit longer than the longer ones, if you know what I mean.Darren Carter Hounslow, 34I'm an alcoholic. That's where all my problems begin. I've been drinking since I was 11. It was just what I saw I guess. I had a violent upbringing, a violent stepdad. He was a drunk as well. Maybe I did it to blank it out.I'm doing three months for harassment without violence, eight ecstasy pills, theft of a bottle of vodka and abusive behaviour. I was just trying to get in touch with my little lad, and my ex-missus said no. I'm not allowed to get in touch with her. Then I missed two appointments with probation and they sent me to be sentenced. This is my fourth time in prison, though they've only been little sentences. A lot of driving offences. One was drink-driving. One was 18 months for nicking a car.I have cut down quite a bit - I was up to two litres of vodka a day, and I cut down to half a bottle, all off my own bat. The problem is, I drink to socialise, then I take it too far. I wouldn't have ended up in trouble if it wasn't for the drink.Antony Jones, 40I have done half my life in jail. I first went to prison when I was 16; I used to box when I was young and I was a bit of a tough nut. I had a bit of a set-to in a pub and got three years. Then I was working in London when I was 18, and unfortunately some colleagues and I happened into a pub well known for Chelsea hooligans. I got another three years. Because of jail and mixing with certain types I ended up getting 15 years for robbery. Being in a long-term jail with people doing 20-25 years - well, you need some sort of release. I was about 22, and I had three children, my relationship split up, and I ended up on heroin. But I've stopped it now. By myself. I'm gutted to be back. I was on a four-month suspended sentence for drugs and driving offences, but got sent back, with a month on top, for failing to turn up at a police station. But it's only five months. I've done longer in segregation.