The stabbing to death of a former police officer who had been due to stand trial on child pornography charges was not carried out by vigilantes, a police chief said yesterday.Geoffrey Harries, 49, had been due in court on Monday charged with possessing 2,082 indecent images of children on a computer while working as an officer at Dyfed-Powys police, west Wales. He resigned from the force on March 26 after his arrest and was charged on May 6.Harries was stabbed several times after he went to investigate noises in his driveway at about 1.45am on Saturday and died in hospital five hours later. A 30-year-old man was arrested by Dyfed-Powys police, who have been granted a further 36 hours to question him.The force's deputy chief constable, Andrew Edwards, said yesterday that there was "no evidence to support the view of vigilantism".In a statement read out at police headquarters in Carmarthen, he added: "Geoff was a loving husband and son who meant so much to his family and was well regarded by many people who knew him. He was a gentle man who was family orientated and always willing to help friends and family. At the time of his death he was not convicted of any offences and we mourn his loss."Harries was recently forced to move to the village of Trimsaran, Carmarthenshire, after being "driven out" of his home in nearby Pembrey. Residents in Trimsaran were said to have concerns about his presence and a public meeting had been due to discuss the issue this week."I know that people believed that he had had problems where he was living before because of the publicity connected with his case," said one woman, who refused to be identified. "The gossip is that he was forced out of Pembrey and moved here ... This has come as a terrible shock to the village. A lot of people think he has been targeted, particularly because he was a former policeman."Another resident, Christine Davies, said: "I feel sorry for his mother above all. I used to speak to her on the bus when I was going to work. She is a nice woman and doesn't deserve this."It is believed the attack occurred after Harries challenged a man who had been tampering with his car.Harries appeared before Cardiff magistrates last month, when it was revealed that 52 of the images were classed as level four and nine as level five - the most serious on the scale of indecency.He had been due to appear at Cardiff crown court on Monday charged with 15 offences of making indecent images of children. The offences were alleged to have taken place between May 2005 and December 2007. He also faced one charge of possessing indecent images.