Two of Britain's most distinguished legal figures have launched a scathing attack on government plans to overhaul Britain's criminal justice system, saying that even the ancient right to a 'presumption of innocence' was being put at risk.David Bean, chairman of the Bar Council, which represents 10,000 barristers in England and Wales, and Bruce Houlder, one of the country's leading criminal barristers and chairman of the Criminal Bar Association, said the Government's populist language on criminal justice reform was putting rights at risk. Their unprecedented joint attack reveals a growing backlash within the legal world and the judiciary against plans for a fundamental overhaul of the criminal justice system, which the Government says will put the victim at the centre of the system rather than the alleged offender. It comes days after Tony Blair and the new Home Office Minister in charge of legal reforms, Lord Falconer, attacked lawyers for wasting court time and cynically manipulating the system to allow offenders to slip through the criminal justice net. Both the Prime Minister and Falconer believe that the criminal justice system should be 'reweighted' in favour of the prosecution. In a white paper on the subject to be published next month, the Government will announce a series of new powers to allow police and the Crown Prosecution Service to gain convictions more easily. In a speech last week, Blair said that the 'biggest miscarriage of justice in today's system is when the guilty walk away unpunished'. The statement has infuriated the legal profession, whose members say that in a single sentence, Blair has overturned centuries of tradition. 'That is the complete reversal of the approach to criminal justice that every democracy in the world has,' Houlder said. 'Every other democracy regards the wrong conviction of an innocent man as the greatest miscarriage of justice.'Bean said: 'The greatest injustice is the conviction of the innocent, not the acquittal of the guilty. It is an easy populist theme to attack lawyers rather than to attack police officers or to accept responsibility for under-resourcing.' Asked if the right to a presumption of innocence was being put under pressure, Bean said: 'It could be, we'll wait to see in the white paper. Some of the recent noises have been worrying; let's hope that good sense prevails.' Bean said that moves to end the double jeopardy rule - which does not allow a defendant to be tried twice for the same offence - and allow previous convictions of defendants to be read out in court, were undermining the presumption of innocence. 'The first priority has got to be to secure a fair trial.' Bean and Houlder said that the main reasons for court trials collapsing was not because of manipulative lawyers but because of failures among the police and the CPS.