Shaw Taylor, who has died aged 90, was the first presenter to make television out of the solving of real crimes, with his Police 5 programme. His forthright attitude to the police, the public, criminals and his own television fame made him a distinctive and memorable figure in 1960s and 70s television, as did his catchphrase “Keep ’em peeled”, urging viewers to stay on the lookout for crime.The ITV programme came about in 1962 when Lew Grade, then running the London weekend commercial TV station, wanted a six-week filler to plug a five-minute hole in his schedules. Within two weeks it was obvious that Police 5 and Taylor were going to be a successful combination. Two of the three cases covered in the first programme were solved as a result of information supplied by viewers: a stolen car used as a getaway vehicle was recovered, and abandoned baby twins were returned to their parents.The show became regular, greatly lengthened, and offshoot programmes were established in other regions. A German television producer, on holiday in Britain, saw Police 5 and went back to Germany to create his own version. Other countries quickly followed suit. It was a breakthrough in criminology.Taylor was born and brought up in the East End of London, the son of a father who worked for the Gas Light and Coke Company and a mother employed in the local box factory. It was a close and happy family. His father was resistant to having electricity in the house (why help the opposition?), but finally succumbed when Shaw got an acting part in Robin Hood, and his parents wanted to see their son on the telly.Shaw served in the RAF and then went to Rada to train as an actor. After a short period treading the boards, in the 50s he became a radio and television quizmaster, featuring in such forgotten programmes as This Is Your Chance and Dotto. He appeared in two films, Tell the Truth (1955) and What a Carry On! (1973), had a spell presenting a music show, Friday Spectacular, on Radio Luxembourg with Muriel Young, commentated on minor sports such as figure skating and ten-pin bowling, and fronted Royal Command Performances. He also presented ITV’s Drive-In motoring programme (1971-78).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Shaw Taylor presenting a TVS edition of Police 5 in 1992But it was with Police 5 that his firm bond with the public was established. The programme’s results were often highly successful, as when he appealed for the recovery of a set of priceless medallions stolen from a “distinguished lady who was not amused” at Kew Palace. Viewers were not told that this was, in fact, the Queen, but she thanked Taylor for his part in the recovery of the loot in appointing him MBE in 1986.After some items stolen from a photographic college in Birmingham were shown on Police 5, the burglar was soon arrested. He demonstrated the ambivalent attitude of criminals to the programme by remarking: “Wait till I tell the boys inside. They’ll be green with envy.” The pull of television and its power to confer fame was recognised by criminals even when it was being used against them.Taylor, who was known in the underworld as Whispering Grass, might well have continued with Police 5 until well into his old age, but when the programme had made 25,000 appeals for the solving of crimes, television industry politics intervened.In the 70s Police 5 had gone out under that name in London and the Midlands, while the similar Crime Desk went out in the south of England and Police File in the Channel Islands. But in 1992 Meridian won the south of England franchise from TVS. The production company of Police 5, and of Crime Stoppers, of which Taylor was a director, negotiated with Meridian. Taylor announced his “semi-retirement” and the field that had once been his pioneering responsibility was taken over by the BBC’s Crimewatch UK, now Crimewatch.He retired to his home in Totland, at the western end of the Isle of Wight, where he was an enthusiastic supporter of local theatre. In 2014 Channel 5 revived Police 5 with new presenters and, at the age of 89, Taylor appeared on each programme for a short segment.His wife Ianette (known as Jane), predeceased him. He is survived by their son, Richard, and by his partner, Shirley Ferrari.• Shaw (Eric) Taylor, television presenter and actor, born 26 October 1924; died 17 March 2015• Dennis Barker died earlier this month• This article was amended on 18 March 2015. The London weekend commercial TV station run by Lew Grade in 1962 was ATV London; he did not run its successor from 1968, London Weekend Television. The spelling of Meridian was corrected, and Shaw Taylor was appointed MBE in 1986 rather than 1985.