A teenage milkman spent his spare time secretly preparing violent attacks against the government, a court heard today.Nicky Davison, 19, joined his father in the creation of Aryan Strike Force, a website demonstrating an apparent obsession with Zionist domination, a jury at Newcastle crown court was told. Computers seized in a police raid on a house in Annfield Plain, County Durham, last year yielded data showing that "ops" involving bombs were in the early stage of planning.Davison and his father, Ian, 41, were not simply "keyboard warriors", said Andrew Edis, prosecuting. "They made a distinction between people who were associated with the group they were forming – who were just supporters who might hand out leaflets – and members, who were to be of a different category, more interested in action," he said."They wanted to resist what they called ZOG, which stood for Zionist-occupied government. They were fighting against the government because they believed it has been taken over by Jews, so it had to be resisted by those interested in white supremacy."Ian Davison has already pleaded guilty to preparing for acts of terrorism and producing a chemical weapon, using homemade ricin. The poison extracted from castor beans is deadly and has been at the centre of several terrorism scares.Nicky Davison denies three charges of possessing material useful to a terrorist while helping to run the Aryan Strike Force website. The jury was told that the group had been established in January 2008 and at the time of the police raid last June was "in the early stages of becoming active".Edis said Davison's acknowledged extreme racism was not the issue. He said: "Having white supremacist opinions is not what Mr Davison is charged with. He is charged with taking things a step further by having a document which contained information likely to be of use to a terrorist. He was associated, with other people, as part of an organisation, preparing to do ops, in other words paramilitary activity."The website was not merely a propaganda vehicle for supporters, who also called themselves the Wolfpack and Legion 88. It showed interest in "violence in different forms to advance the aims of white supremacy in these islands".Shortly before the raid, Nicky Davison had posted messages on the site saying he was "concerned about the risk of detection and arrest". His on-screen name, Thorburn1488, was an obscure code relating to the work of an American white supremacist and shorthand for "Heil Hitler".Edis said: "He was clearly associated with his father who has pleaded guilty to terrorist charges."The raid at the house that Nicky Davison shared with his mother and younger brother found online copies of manuals including the Poor Man's James Bond and The Anarchist's Cookbook."These tell the reader how to make letter bombs, how to make explosives, how to make detonators, how to make bombs, how to make grenades, how to make silencers and how to make poisons," Edis said. "The prosecution does not allege that this defendant committed an act of terrorism. The charges are aimed at a young man who seems to be preparing himself, reading and getting himself informed and equipped for action."The trial continues.