A woman has been charged with murder after a 13-year-old girl was found with serious stab wounds in a Doncaster park and later died in hospital.Police said that Hannah Bonser, 26, had been charged with the murder of Casey-Lyanne Kearney, who was discovered at a play area in Elmfield Park on the outskirts of the South Yorkshire town.She had phoned police from her mobile phone as she lay gravely injured on Tuesday afternoon. A passerby also phoned for an ambulance.When emergency services arrived, she was treated at the scene then taken to Doncaster Royal Infirmary, where she was pronounced dead eight hours later, despite what police describe as the "medical staff's tireless efforts to save her".The force said the attack had been reported to them by the girl herself, who raised the alarm just before 1.20pm.At a press conference at the scene , senior investigating officer Detective Superintendent Terry Mann, of South Yorkshire police, said Casey-Lyanne had left her home around midday on Tuesday to catch the bus to Doncaster town centre where she was planning to meet a friend.The park remained sealed off with a white forensic police tent a few metres from a play area.Locals spoke of their shock the news. One woman, who was passing with her 13-year-old daughter, said she no longer allowed her to go into the park. "It is not a very good park, to be honest. There have been a number of incidents in there, it is not like when I was a child.."A local shopkeeper, Raja, said: "They should put CCTV cameras in the park. A few customers have been saying that." He added: "It is such a shock. It is really sad. You see kids playing football in the park. It is the first time we have had a stabbing around here." But he said five or six years ago a man set himself alight in the park.Doncaster council chief executive Jo Miller said: "We are deeply saddened by this tragic event and our thoughts are very much with family and friends … we would urge anyone with any information to come forward and talk to the police. We are all working hard to piece together what happened."She said the investigation was at an early stage and any member of the public who has any information should come forward.