One of the seven armed police officers who shot at Mark Saunders at the end of a five-hour police siege told the inquest into the barrister's death today he was "doing his job and his duty".The firearms officer, known to the inquest as AZ12, said he opened fired when the lawyer, who was drunk and hanging out of his kitchen window, appeared to point the shotgun he was holding at colleagues on a nearby roof.Asked if it was "absolutely necessary" to defend them, and whether any other action could have been taken, he replied: "It was absolutely necessary," adding: "I thought he was going to kill them."I can't rely on their [his colleagues'] threat assessment of what I could see at a certain point. I feared there was imminent threat to their lives."If I had left it to them, had they left it too late in their assessment of the situation properly, then they may have died."It was my job. It was my duty as a police officer to defend my colleagues."Saunders, 32, died after being hit by five bullets from seven officers following the siege at his home in Chelsea, west London, on the evening of 6 May 2008.Officer AZ12, who was armed with a Glock 17 pistol and a Heckler & Koch MP5 carbine, was at a basement in Bywater Street behind Saunders' top-floor flat in Markham Square. His job was containment, he told Westminster coroners court, and to put himself "between the public and the bad man". He could see Saunders from his position. "I saw him lowering the weapon towards my colleagues on point 11 on the roof of No 5." The shotgun had not been pointed at him, he said. "I did shoot him, but not in defence of myself, but in the defence of others."The inquest has heard that Saunders, who was "absolutely hammered", had told negotiators he was terrified of being shot, and had also spoken of killing himself.Another firearms officer, known as AZ6, described how earlier in the siege at 21.09pm Saunders, who was drinking red wine and at times could be seen putting the muzzle of the gun to his mouth, had shot in his direction. Watching the barrister from a bedroom in Bywater Street, he said he saw the shotgun come up. "At this point I moved my finger from outside the trigger guard to inside the trigger guard, as there was an immediate threat in my direction."I don't want to sound too Hollywood-ish but it all went very slow – it went very quickly, but it seemed time slowed down."I saw a large flash, like a flame. I've never been shot at before … a large flame came out of the shotgun in our direction. I remember trying to pull the trigger at the same time, aiming for the central body mass of Mr Saunders."The first officer to shoot at the divorce lawyer, earlier in the siege, defended his decision to fire three times.Officer AZ15 went to a bedroom and saw Saunders "silhouetted against the sunlight" in his kitchen window opposite, and could tell from the shape that he was carrying a "long-barrelled weapon".Then he saw the gun was being "levelled at the direction I was in. At that exact moment the weapon was raised and a shot was discharged towards my direction," he said. The officer returned fire twice. Then, seconds later, he fired again because he "strongly believed there would be a second shot". It was not for his own safety, but he had "heard a voice" behind him and believed a male occupant of the house had entered the bedroom. He did not look round, keeping his eyes on Saunders, so could not tell if the man was in danger.Nicholas Hilliard, counsel for the inquest, asked him: "Looking back at it now, do you think it was strictly necessary to fire your weapon three times or do you think their could be other, lesser, steps that could have been taken?"AZ15 replied: "I still maintain my actions on the day and I stand by them."The officer said that within seconds of a second officer, AZ14, taking over his position with a Heckler and Koch MP5 carbine, Saunders fired a second time. This shot struck masonry of the window frame.The hearing continues.