No 10 has conceded to Labour demands for a formal commission to investigate the causes of last week's riots after behind-the-scenes cross-party talks coordinated by the Liberal Democrats.Nick Clegg is said to be close to "brokering" a deal between the Conservatives and Labour into a commission that would go into every neighbourhood affected by the disturbances to ask community members why the outbursts of violence occurred.David Cameron had previously ruled out a full public inquiry in the short term claiming that the parliamentary select committee inquiries were adequate but the government has now signalled its intention for a "public engagement exercise", with an independent chair, to establish the causes of the riots and looting.A No 10 source said: "We are coming to the view that there is a case for community engagement about what happened and why. It would involve getting someone to go into the communities and find out why this all happened. It would be likely that it would be chaired by someone outside government. We're coming to the view that some sort of engagement exercise would be useful."The Number 10 source said that it would not operate under the Inquiries Act and its precise nature had not been confirmed, describing it as a "public engagement exercise".Labour sources confirmed that they were in talks with ministers about the plans and a Liberal Democrat source said that Clegg was "brokering" the deal on how the commission would be established. Clegg has been privately considering such an inquiry since last week and his party has already commissioned its own research into the problems.Ed Miliband set out his demands for a commission of inquiry in a speech on Monday at Haverstock school, the comprehensive he attended in north London, which neighboured some of the scenes of violence last week. He argued against an inquiry run by MPs, civil servants or the judiciary, calling for the prime minister to "have the humility" to listen to the communities affected. "You should have nothing to fear from the truth," he said. He added that if the government didn't move to establish such an inquiry, the Labour party would.Nick Clegg will announce separate plans on Tuesday for a "riot payback scheme" which would see people convicted of looting or violence in last week's disturbances being made to do community service or take part in restorative justice programmes in the areas where crimes were committed. He will say that people convicted of crimes last week should have to "look their victims in the eye".The Ministry of Justice is to ask the probation service to instigate the schemes in the cities where the riots took place. Offenders would take part in activities to help repair the damage done last week or to face their victims and apologise under the restorative justice principle.He will tell a press conference in London: "I want offenders to be punished – and to change their ways. Victims of crime are only truly protected if punishment leads to criminals not committing crime again. Criminals must be punished and then made to change their ways."That's why those people who behaved so despicably last week should have to look their victims in the eye. They should have to see for themselves the consequences of their actions and they should be put to work cleaning up the damage and destruction they have caused so they don't do it again. "We want people to be punished for their wrongdoing. We also want them to stop doing wrong. We want their future behaviour to change. We need punishment that sticks." 