A campaign of bullying and victimisation against a teenage girl with learning difficulties may have led to an arson attack that killed her mother and father, it was claimed yesterday.Maureen Cochrane, 45, and her husband, Alex, 54, died when a blaze swept through their Manchester home early last Thursday. Mrs Cochrane, a shop assistant, died at the scene. Her husband, a baggage handler at Manchester airport, died three days later. Their daughter Lucy, 16, is critically ill in hospital. She is unaware her parents have died.Her brother David, who lives in London, yesterday claimed that the fire was "targeted" at his sister because of the bullying she had suffered at school.At a press conference he said: "She was badly beaten up and verbally abused. She took to hiding in the toilets."My mum had to keep writing letters and contacting the authorities. She wrote things down in log books and diaries. They've all gone up in smoke."Mr Cochrane said he was not aware of previous confrontations between his parents and those responsible for bullying Lucy. "They're not vengeful people. They may have let off verbally, but there was no feud. This was one-sided, it was sheer victimisation for being different and happy. This was targeted at Lucy. She might not connect the fire to everything that's happened. I don't want her to blame herself and think it's all her fault."The Cochranes lived in Wythenshawe, one of the most deprived areas of Manchester. Wythenshawe people were, said Mr Cochrane, "good people" who had been "deeply moved" by the tragedy. However, there were a lot of people in a "shitty situation"."My mum and dad and Lucy were a happy family. I think that's what it was. You can either get angry and take it out on the people around you or you can do what my mum and dad did and get on with it."These people couldn't deal with the fact that my sister was a happy girl who didn't let things get her down. It was a nice family unit, we were the four musketeers. Nothing my family did deserved this."Detective Superintendent John Dineen, who is heading the investigation, admitted that five days before the attack someone had poured petrol on the Cochrane's doorstep. Although Mrs Cochrane reported the incident to the police, nothing was done. Det Supt Dineen said: "In relation to the incident on January 7 I'm investigating that as part of the murder inquiry. The lack of action is being referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission, who will hold a separate inquiry. The apology is there. The second incident may not have occurred if something had been done about the first."He added that four people, three women aged 65, 39 and 17 from Manchester and a 39-year-old man from Stockport, had been arrested on suspicion of murder. No one had been charged. They were all from the same family.