Lord Falconer, the new secretary of state for constitutional affairs, yesterday began fleshing out the bones of the most significant shake-up in the relationship between the judiciary and executive for hundreds of years.Top of his in-tray will be the job of putting into practice the creation of a new supreme court, following the decision to remove the country's top legal body from the House of Lords.The details of the new court have yet to be worked out, but the chances are that it will not differ dramatically from the judicial committee of the lords. The judges will be the current law lords housed in a different building. They will no longer be peers but could still, as in the Scottish high court, use the title Lord. The US and Canadian supreme courts are architectural landmarks, but the law lords will be happy simply to move to something larger than their current cramped quarters, which lack the research and secretarial back-up that other countries' top judges take for granted. The law lords are appointed by the Queen on the advice of the prime minister, but in reality the decision has been the lord chancellor's. It is unclear whether the independent judicial appointments commission announced this week will appoint the most senior judges. The all-party law reform group, Justice, recommends that all judicial appointments, including those of supreme court judges, should be made by Lord Falconer in his new role, which includes the lord chancellor's responsibilities - on the advice of the commission. For appointments to the high court or above, the commission would put forward up to three names. The supreme court judges are not expected to be given any new powers. Unlike those in the US and Canada, they will not be able to strike down laws passed by the legislature, as Lord Bingham made clear in his lecture last year. "I want to make plain that a supreme court of the UK could neither claim nor exercise such a power. Under our constitutional dispensation parliament is sovereign," he said. One of the many unanswered questions is who will be head of the judiciary now that the lord chancellor will no longer fill that role. The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, the senior serving judge, would be the obvious candidate. But - another British anomaly - although he is the senior judge he does not sit in the top court. The idea of a British supreme court overturns centuries of tradition under which, uniquely in the world, our highest court forms part of the legislature. No one would have consciously decided, remarked Lord Bingham, the senior law lord, that the House of Lords should take over from the monarch as the ultimate judicial authority, but by Tudor or Stuart times, it had happened. The fact that Britain's top court was merely a committee of the legislature's second chamber was always hard to get across to foreigners. The obvious breach of the separation of powers embarrassed the law lords, most of whom were fastidious about taking part in debates in the chamber. The move to a supreme court will delight some of the law lords, including Lord Bingham, who called for the change only a year ago, though he admitted that some of their lordships would prefer to retain the status quo. Once the Human Rights Act came into force in October 2000, with its guarantee of a hearing by "an independent and impartial tribunal", the change began to seem inevitable. Could a tribunal be independent if its members were also legislators, and if it could be presided over by the lord chancellor, a cabinet minister who was head of the judiciary and could sit in the court at will, choosing his cases? Lord Steyn, law lord and an advocate of a supreme court, pointed out that the one obstacle to such a court was the role of the lord chancellor. He accused Lord Irvine of putting the independence of the country's highest court at risk by insisting on his freedom to sit as a judge. That obstacle has now been swept away.