A "significant amount" of cocaine was found in the bloodstream of the killer of Harvey Nichols beauty consultant Clare Bernal, an inquest heard today.Michal Pech shot dead the 22-year-old in front of customers at the luxury store in Knightsbridge, west London, on September 13 before turning the gun on himself. The 30-year-old Czech national, who had dated the counter assistant for less than a month earlier in the year, was a stalker who was on bail after being found guilty of harassing her. Today the inquest into Pech's death heard that he had taken cocaine before the attack and coroner Dr Paul Knapman said the drug could cause "mental excitement". However, while Dr Knapman said the cocaine must have had "some effect" on Pech's actions, he said the weight of evidence suggested that the murder was premeditated. He told Westminster's coroner's court that at the time of his death, Pech would have known that Ms Bernal no longer wanted to see him, and that he had been convicted of an offence and would be punished for it. Pech killed Ms Bernal eight days before he was due to appear in court on September 21 for sentencing after admitting harassing her at an earlier hearing. Pathologist Dr Vesna Djurovic told the inquest that there was 0.25mg of cocaine per litre in Pech's blood and that it was "difficult to determine how recently it was taken and to what degree he would have been influenced by it".Dr Knapman said there were "plenty of people walking around with this amount" of the drug in their systems. Witness Victoria Daniels told the inquest that Pech had "creeped" up behind the counter where Ms Bernal was working. Ms Daniels, who was working on another counter, thought at first that he was just as "silly customer". But when she saw the gun she said she thought he was a terrorist. She said she saw Pech shoot Ms Bernal and then, as she fled into the street, she heard another shot. Later she saw Pech lying on the floor with a wound to his head. Dr Djurovic told the inquest that Pech had a single bullet wound to his right temple. The inquest heard that Pech was born in the Czech Republic but was brought up in Slovakia and had dual nationality. He studied in Slovakia between 1993 and 1998. In 1998 he was prosecuted for desertion in Slovakia. Later, until July 2003, he was employed as a security guard at the United States embassy in Bratislava. On August 17 2003, he arrived in the UK on a student visa that was valid until April 30 2004. He gained full residence and employment rights in May last year when Slovakia became a full member of the European Union.At one stage he worked at the Marriot hotel in Park Lane, central London, before getting a job as a security guard at Harvey Nichols in September last year. It was there that he met and later had a brief relationship with Ms Bernal, which ended in February this year, the inquest heard.Pech, who was living in Tottenham, north London, refused to accept the end of his relationship with Ms Bernal and began following her in the street, pestering her with phone calls and loitering outside her home in East Dulwich, south London. He was arrested twice, investigated by Southwark hate crime unit and sacked from his job at Harvey Nichols. On April 22 or 23, the inquest heard, he is believed to have travelled to Slovakia and obtained the necessary documents to legally possess a firearm. He bought and registered a handgun and returned to the UK in August to attend a meeting requested by his solicitors prior to a scheduled court appearance on August 31. He turned up to the court appearance and pleaded guilty to harassing Ms Bernal. The hearing was adjourned for a pre-sentence report and Pech was released on bail.The coroner said the amount of cocaine in Pech's system was not fatal and that he had died from the gunshot wound to his head. Concluding the inquest, Dr Knapman said he was satisfied that Pech had killed himself and recorded a verdict of suicide.