The US government's latest attack on the gambling industry is really quite subtly dangerous. The general project of attempting to stop Americans from gambling online is one that might or might not work, but the specific attempt that has been made to enlist the banks and credit card companies to act as the police (described by my mate Henry Farrell here at Crooked Timber) seems to me to be actively dangerous. Basically, in making it impossible to use normal payment systems in order to get something that a lot of Americans want, the effect of the US legislation is going to be to train a whole new generation of money launderers.In the near term, the ability of governments to enforce their power on the internet is underestimated, as we saw from the success of the French ban on Yahoo auctions of Nazi memorabilia. The effect of arresting a few chief executives has been quite galvanic in forcing the UK and European gambling industry to make a good-faith effort to ban American users, and this ban has been roughly 90% effective, which is as much as it was reasonable to hope for.But in the long term, the fact that a lot of Americans want to play poker on the internet means that in the end they will get what they want. The latest push on gambling looks like a fairly transparent pander to the Christian electoral base, and it can't be an election year every year. I think this article in the Economist has it about right. In the meantime, however, quite a lot of damage to the global financial system might be done.For example, the position of intermediary companies like Neteller (a Canadian payments firm based in the Isle of Man and regulated by the UK's FSA as an e-money provider), which came into existence to fill the gap left from the original decision of credit card companies to exit the online gaming market, is still very unclear. Neteller themselves are still looking at the legislation to try and work out whether they are covered. The stock market appears to have given its verdict, but the AIM often thinks all sorts of things when it gets into a funk.If it turns out that Neteller has to give up doing business with US customers, however, the gap will be filled, and it will most likely be filled by unregulated gambling sites and unregulated payments system providers. I don't think that the corruption of the gambling industry is what we ought to be worried about here.If a generation of Americans have to learn how to set up an offshore account, fund it, make payments through intermediaries to a poker website and then repatriate their winnings, then they will have learned how to carrying out the placement, layering and integration (colloquially, "wash, rinse and spin") operations of money laundering. Having learned these skills, people are unlikely to restrict their use entirely to the poker industry. It is hard to imagine, too, that they wouldn't notice that, while the money is sitting in their offshore structures, it is out of the sight of the taxman.This is really dangerous. Massively expanding the proportion of the population who know how to place, layer and integrate funds for illegal transactions is exactly what we do not want to do at present. As Henry Farrell notes, the use of the banks and credit card companies as "outsourced regulators" works only a little bit, and only in certain circumstances. At the moment the most important area in which we want the banking system to do the job of a police force is in tracking down the funds of global terrorism. Trying to make them part of a prohibition regime on internet poker is the exact equivalent of irresponsibly prescribing antibiotics for minor ailments. The aim of the latest bill was apparently "to give regulators another weapon in their arsenal". This "weapon" looks very like the current favourite armament of the Bush administration: a shotgun with optional Wellington boot attachment.