A drug addict who killed a young architect as he was taking his lunch hour in Bethnal Green in east London was sentenced to a minimum of 25 years in jail for murder yesterday.Christopher Olokun, 32, stabbed Bernard Hegarty through the heart in August last year. Mr Hegarty, 29, had resisted Olokun's attempt to steal his wallet and mobile phone.Judge John Diehl at the Old Bailey told Olokun: "He never had a chance. I am satisfied you stabbed him with the intention of killing him. You were heartless, pitiless and it seems totally unfeeling."Olokun, who lived with friends in Hackney in east London, had been a drug addict since the age of 16 and lived off crime, selling drugs and mugging people at knifepoint. He told a friend he smoked crack cocaine before "going hunting".The judge said that during other robberies the sight of Olokun's knife had been enough to convince people to hand over their belongings, but Mr Hegarty, on a trip to look for some new carpet for his office, resisted.Mr Hegarty, at 1.85 metres tall (6ft 1in), "was made of sterner stuff" and had stood up to him, the judge said. "He resisted, he struggled. Whether you stabbed him because he got in your way or to punish him, we will never know."Olokun had told a friend he had killed Mr Hegarty because "the prick wouldn't give me his phone or his wallet".A woman said she had seen Mr Hegarty struggling with a man near some bins. Then he was seen staggering around "covered in blood". Before collapsing, he said: "I've been stabbed".Work colleagues from Stephen Davy Peter Smith Architects ran from their office and the firm's director, Peter Smith, noticed Mr Hegarty's wallet protruding from the pocket of his trousers.An air ambulance doctor performed open-chest surgery on the pavement to restart the victim's heart, but Mr Hegarty died five days later without regaining consciousness. Olokun was later arrested after a home-made knife sheath was found near drops of the victim's blood yards from the attack scene.The judge told Olokun: "You were roaming the streets looking for a victim to rob. Your prey could have been anyone on the street in broad daylight."The judge also found Olokun guilty of five knife-point street robberies including one committed a week before the murder. He was given concurrent 10-year jail sentences for each robbery, to be served concurrently with the life sentence.