The boyfriend of the murdered teenager Sally Anne Bowman today denied killing her after the pair had a lengthy argument.The Old Bailey heard that plasterer Lewis Sproston, 22, had quarreled with his on-off girlfriend for up to two hours when he dropped her off at her house in Croydon. Less than half an hour after he eventually drove away, Bowman was stabbed to death and then raped.Mark Dixie, 37, is accused of murdering the teenager in the early hours of September 25 2005.He denies murdering her, but admits having sex with her corpse while high on drink and drugs.The jury was told Sproston, who was 20 when she died, had picked Bowman up from Croydon city centre the morning she was killed and drove her to the house where she was staying.He parked his dad's car in her street and the pair argued for up to two hours over whether the other was seeing anyone else, Sproston said. He also admitted sending her a text message earlier in the evening threatening to spit in her face if he found out she had been with another man.At one point, Bowman grabbed her boyfriend by his t-shirt and broke his necklace, said Sproston from the witness stand. But he insisted she was fine when he drove away at approximately 4.10am, and that he saw her heading towards her driveway where her near-naked, bloodied body was found hours later.Cross-examining Sproston, the defence barrister Anthony Glass QC, asked if he had left Bowman "dead or dying".Are you being serious?" said Sproston, before denying the allegation.The court heard that when Sproston was arrested on suspicion of murder later that day on his way to McDonald's, he asked police: "Is this about the row with my girlfriend last night?"Anthony Glass QC, defending Mark Dixie, asked Sproston if he had a "guilty conscience" about what happened. The plasterer replied: "Not really. I thought she made it home. I thought she was perfectly well and healthy. It was just a normal argument. "Me and Sally had an argument before and the police were called, a little domestic argument."But under cross-examination he admitted the police had previously been involved in two other arguments between him and Bowman - once when he was accused of slapping her in the street and again when he was accused of spitting at her.Today witness statements read out in court from the victim's three sisters and parents confirmed the pair had a tempestuous relationship and were very jealous of each other.The girl's mother, Linda, said the last time she spoke to her daughter about Sproston, she said: "I do love Lewis, but we cannot be together, but we will always be friends."The trial continues.