The Liberal Democrats today warned the head of the Metropolitan police to "tread carefully" when making public remarks about the benefits of an ID card system during an election campaign.Both the Lib Dem leader, Charles Kennedy, and his home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, hit out at comments made yesterday by the Met commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, that ID cards could be "very helpful" in the fight against international terrorism.The Lib Dems oppose Labour's plans for ID cards because of concerns about civil liberties and scepticism over the practicalities of the scheme. They plan to use the money earmarked for the ID card system to pay for extra police. Speaking at the party's morning press conference in London, Mr Oaten said: "I think that Sir Ian Blair should tread carefully when he gets into this kind of territory on such sensitive political issues during an election campaign. "I also think that he is wrong. It is my judgment that if Sir Ian was given the option of having additional police for the Metropolitan area or a piece of plastic, if he were actually to look at the benefit he could get from additional police ... that would be a more effective way of tackling crime in that area."Mr Kennedy struck a more conciliatory note by acknowledging that Sir Ian had a "right and duty" to be involved in issues such as ID cards but echoed Mr Oaten's warning. Mr Kennedy said: "I think anybody in such a responsible position in our society as the commissioner of the Met has not just the right but a duty to be involved in serious issues of public policy. "I think when there is a general election and the issue itself is a rather charged one, as ID cards have been and will, we think, be in the next parliament, then clearly, as Mark (Oaten) says, you have to tread with care. "But what we are not going to get into here is some sort of dispute with the commissioner and views he has held."Mr Kennedy's comments tailed the unveiling of the Lib Dems' proposals for high-visibility policing, in which they pledge an extra 10,000 police and 20,000 more community support officers. The party leader sought to convince voters of the Lib Dems' "tough and smart" approach to law and order and promised not to "descend into populist illiberalism". Mr Kennedy also underlined his party's commitment to investing £150m in hi-tech equipment for police and freeing them from unnecessary bureaucracy.The Liberal Democrats would pay for their £1bn law and order policy by scrapping the ID card scheme, and by drawing the remainder from the £5bn they expect to be able to switch from low priority government programmes. Mr Kennedy said: "We want to make sure officers spend more time out patrolling the streets and not stuck in the station doing paperwork, updating the technology used by the police to bring the force properly and fully into the 21st century."He also promised a new UK border force to tackle drugs, terrorism and illegal immigration. "Such a force would bring together the local police with immigration and Customs officers at our airports and ports of entry. "The UK border force would be more flexible, more efficient and more effective in protecting our borders." Mr Kennedy said that later in the campaign the Lib Dems would set out further proposals on tackling antisocial behaviour, making criminals repay the community, and prison reforms.He emphasised: "Real liberal approach to law and order issues is tough and smart. It is not about descending into populist illiberalism."His pledges came as Labour and the Tories focused on the NHS, with the health secretary, John Reid, promising faster treatment for breast cancer patients and the Conservatives pledging five new children's hospitals. Mr Reid was expected to promise today that a third-term Labour government would ensure that every woman referred for possible breast cancer would see a specialist within two weeks.