The recent complaint by Sir Michael Scholar, Head of the UK Statistics Authority, about the publication by the Home Office of "selective" crime statistics relating to knife crime was both welcome and long overdue. But Scholar will have to be braver still if the crime statistics are to become respectable and public trust earned.The data may be valid in the sense of being accurate. But if the labels attached to them are deliberately misleading then the outcome is just as damaging. Consider the following, recent, youth crime statistics and associated government announcements. The government is committed to closing the "justice gap" – that is, reducing the disjunction between the number of offences committed and reported to the police and subsequently cleared up in the sense that the offenders are brought to book.There is a target for "offences brought to justice" (OBTJs) which the government proudly proclaims has been more than met. Offences are said to be "brought to justice" either following court proceedings or because the offenders have been issued with one or another of the increasing range of out-of-court summary justice provisions – penalty notices for disorder, warnings for possession of cannabis, conditional cautions, etc – which the government has introduced. These alternative sanctions are beneficial, the government claims, because the courts thereby avoid being clogged up with common, relatively minor offences like shoplifting, criminal damage and the like. These offences can arguably be dealt with more effectively, speedily and cheaply, by means of fines imposed by the police and the Crown Prosecution Service. Thus the justice gap is successfully being closed. The number of OBTJs is now in excess of 1.4 million, well above the target set five years ago. Fine. Well done the police and the reformed criminal justice system.Consider, however, another of the government's targets and measures of success – the number of first-time entrants to the youth justice system. If we spend more on early intervention with young children at risk then the numbers getting into trouble and ending up in the youth justice system should reduce. They and we will benefit.How are we doing on this front? Fantastically well according to the government which, via the Youth Justice Board (YJB), last month announced a "huge drop", down 10.2% in 2007/8 from a 2005/6 baseline, more than twice the target of 5%. This demonstrates, according to the YJB press release, that the "successful joint partnership working between the police, youth offending teams and agencies based in local authorities" is "beginning to have impact". The data, moreover, had carefully been validated against police national computer records.But wait a moment. How are "first-time entrants" defined? Here, inexplicably, children and young people issued with penalty notices for disorder (PNDs) – the key measure designed to displace minor court business yet demonstrate to the public that anti-social disorder is being addressed – are specifically excluded from the calculation. More than 19,000 16- and 17-year-olds were issued with PNDs in 2007 and a further, unreported, number of 10- to 15-year-olds also got PNDs in six police areas where use of the measure for this younger age group is being piloted.It is reasonable to assume that a high proportion of these young people were first-time entrants to the system because these are precisely the circumstances in which PNDs are said to be appropriate. Were the 20,000 or more young people who got them in 2007/8 to be included it seems likely that the trumpeted 10% reduction in the number of first-time entrants would be wholly or largely wiped out.It does no credit to our criminal justice statistics to perpetrate smoke and mirror exercises of this nature.• Rod Morgan is professor of criminal justice at the University of Bristol, and was chairman of the Youth Justice Board from 2004-2007