A 15-year-old who murdered British backpacker Karen Aim in New Zealand with a baseball bat was today sentenced to life imprisonment.Aim, 26, from Orkney, was killed as she made her way home from a night out with friends in the North Island resort town of Taupo on January 17 last year. Jackie Broughton pleaded guilty last month to murder.He was ordered to serve at least 12 and a half years in jail. The teenager, who was 14 at the time of the murder, left Aim dying in the street after a brutal attack. She was found semi-conscious 50 metres from her home in the early hours of the morning by police called to investigate a vandalism spree at nearby Taupo Nui a Tia College. She died in hospital from head injuries.Broughton beat her with a baseball bat which police found under his house, with blood and glass embedded in it. A camera similar to Aim's was also found at his home, and a black handbag in an incinerator.The young woman's death rocked her home community of Orkney and hundreds gathered for her funeral on the island. She had been on her second visit to New Zealand after a three-month stay in 2006 and was working at a glass-blowing gallery in the town.Broughton's sentence today in the high court at Rotorua in New Zealand took into account his age and his guilty plea. He was also sentenced to six years to be served concurrently for injuring a 17-year-old girl with intent to cause her grievous bodily harm. That was a separate incident which took place a fortnight before the attack on Aim. A 50-strong police squad worked on the murder inquiry.Aim's father Brian told the court he had looked forward to walking his daughter down the aisle on her wedding day but had instead found himself walking with her coffin. Outside the court he said he felt sorry for Broughton. "He has taken away Karen's life, but he has also destroyed his own. "If I go down the road of anger and revenge that would only destroy my life." Asked what sentence he thought his daughter's killer deserved, he said it was not an issue for him, adding: "It's too late, Karen is dead." He said he talked to Broughton's mother last Friday but did not know if he believed her claim that her son killed Aim to get money for drugs, adding that the explanation did not make sense as he could not believe Broughton would think his daughter had a lot of money.