Time to be terrified. Muggings are up by 28 per cent, and the coverage, complete with portraits of battered pensioners, has been so lurid that it seems doubtful whether nervous grandmas will ever dare venture out again. The real picture is more prosaic. According to Home Office researchers, overall crime stabilised in the year up to March 2002.Police statistics, as ever, offer a distorting mirror. The more officers you hire, the more crimes get recorded. The Government's decision simultaneously to publish the British Crime Survey, based on victims' experience, offered, for the first time, a more reliable measure. The BCS reports a 2 per cent fall; the moderated police figures claim a 2 per cent rise. That is far from a disastrous result. After a six-year decline in crime, it does, none the less, echo Charles Dickens's view that there is 'scarcely an amount of order and protection to justify much national boasting'.The England he described in A Tale of Two Cities was plagued by highway robberies, prison riots, musketeers firing on the mob, mass hangings, the Lord Mayor of London beaten up on Turnham Green and a public climate in which 'nobody thought any of these occurrences much out of the common way'. Now a surge of mobile phone thefts by teenagers is portrayed as Dickensian Britain revisited. This is mugging by media; more insidious than anything the statistics can offer. That isn't to deny a problem. My 88-year-old neighbour is recovering from an attack by two men who broke her door down. Her assailants were young and white; the usual profile for violent offenders in this multiracial part of the inner city. Not long ago, my teenage son was robbed at knifepoint, a prelude to a long and, for him, an unnerving process in which the police failed to get the case to court, despite knowing who the mugger was. Last month, he had his cheek split open and his eye injured by a stranger who smashed a fist into his face as he walked along a busy street. The attacker's friends shouted, by way of apology, that he was on drugs before hustling him into a car and away. Most people have similar stories; but everyone knows that fury and fear at someone you love being hurt has to be balanced against another reality. One person in seven worries he will be mugged, against the actual chance of one in 200. As Nacro points out in its new report, 'Violent Crime: Reconfiguring the Debate', we're simultaneously alarmist and complacent. While the risk of stranger attack has remained at around 1.5 per cent over 20 years, domestic violence has risen over the same period by 161 per cent. But not all statistics on random viciousness can be smoothed away, particularly over young offenders and drugs. The seesaw rule, under which crimes committed for cash drop during times of high employment and rise in economic downturns, looks less relevant now. Addicts' need for a fix of money is rarely FTSE-linked. On Home Office figures, a third of people arrested have been taking Class A drugs, mostly heroin and cocaine, and hard drug users are responsible for half of all crime. Men aged between 16 and 24 commit and suffer the majority of assaults. While society flounders on the causes of violence, some things are certain. Custodial sentences of less than a year for teenagers are useless. So is any jail term for drug users that does not include treatment, inside and out. Children in prison, especially those on remand, are the discarded ones, for whom bullying is guaranteed and suicide an option. Most who emerge will be on a return ticket. The retributive mid dle classes, braying their fear of juvenile thugs, can rest assured that barbarism is a two-way street. Much as the Home Secretary decries short prison sentences, the justice system is not solving youth crime so much as incubating it. When the prison population stands at a record 71,480 and the call goes out for child suspects to be held in police cells, logic decrees that jail must be more sparing a resort. Instead, as The Observer and the Children's Society have shown, the number of 15-year-olds remanded into custody rose by 21 per cent last year. On the society's figures, Section 130 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001, allowing 12-year-olds to be locked up on suspicion of petty crime, will put 400 more children in jail. A similar move by France's new, right-wing government to imprison 13-year-olds on an investigator's say-so has rightly enraged the socialist Opposition. But at least the French have adequate prisons and a promise of a 50 per cent rise in money for the ministries of justice and the interior to fight crime. It is doubtful that Mr Brown, in tomorrow's spending review, will be offering anything remotely so generous to Mr Blunkett. So what is the solution? For the police to catch many more criminals; for initiatives to engage disadvantaged children in a life offering fun and purpose; for a more rapid and redemptive system. Next Wednesday's criminal justice White Paper will be enthusiastic about alternatives to custody, such as community sentencing and electronic tagging. Less encouragingly, its provisions to scale back jury trial and double the sentencing power of magistrates from six months to a year is likely to drive the prison population ever higher. And then there are the suggestions advanced by Cherie Booth. Her Longford lecture on penal reform, bemusingly under-reported, was political enough to pass for an alternative White Paper. She wants fewer women and remand prisoners in jail, more restorative justice, in which criminals make practical atonement, and American-style community courts designed to offer help, advice and mediation to offenders and non-offenders alike. Implicit in Ms Booth's argument is the notion that legislators should forge a framework in which people can be redeemed at street level, rather than corroded in some hellhole jail. Or, as she said more politely, prison sentences can be counterproductive to crime reduction and public safety. Her outspokenness suggests that she may no longer aspire to become a judge, nor care much if she tramples over the sensibilities of some in her husband's government. Her message, that human rights are not just legal entitlements but a code of human ethics for a godless age, correctly identifies the breadth of the issue. Politicians have a limited influence on crime patterns and an inconsistent line on what works. Notice, for example, how fast Oliver Letwin's virtuous prescription of countering violence by way of a 'neighbourly society' translated into accusations, wholly unfounded, that Mr Blunkett was fiddling the statistics. Consider, too, how difficult a holistic approach might seem to the Home Secretary, when Mr Blair has given him until September to sort out street crime, a task hardly easier than developing the post-Einsteinian Unified Theory over the summer recess. The priorities are to jail fewer children and to make prison useful. Humanity demands that course, but so does pragmatism. The scaremongers are wrong; there is no spiralling crime wave. The danger, in a system when the punishment is often more insidious than the crime, is that panic may not be a mad reaction, only premature. m.riddell@observer.co.uk