Four youths appeared at the Old Bailey yesterday to stand trial for the murder of Damilola Taylor, the 10-year-old who was stabbed in the leg as he walked home from an after-school computer class.The accused teenagers - one is aged 14 and the others 16 - spoke only when the three charges they face were read out by the court clerk. They pleaded not guilty to the murder of Damilola on November 27 2000. Watched by Damilola's father Richard, they also denied his manslaughter and an assault with intent to rob. A jury is expected to be sworn next Tuesday and the case will last between two and three months. Damilola, who was born in Nigeria, was attacked near his home in Peckham, south London. He staggered to a nearby council estate stairwell where he collapsed and died from blood loss. The teenagers accused of murdering him, who are from north and south London, cannot be named for legal reasons. Because of their age, normal procedures in court 12 have been abandoned in favour of the special arrangements outlined in the Lord Chief Justice's recommendations for trials of children and young persons. The boys did not have to sit in the dock yesterday. This is where the small number of reporters that are allowed into the court have been placed for the course of the trial. The judge, Mr Justice Hooper, sat at the head of the court as usual, but was not in his wig or robes. Instead, he wore a blue shirt, grey suit and matching tie. Barristers for the prosecution and the defence were not in their gowns. The defendants sat with their lawyers and members of their family. Unusually, the separate desks of each legal team have been arranged in a V-shape from the judge's bench. Three of the defendants will sit at a row of three tables, one behind the other, on the judge's right-hand side. The fourth defendant has been placed at a table behind the prosecution on the judge's left. The changes were designed to make legal proceedings involving child defendants less intimidating and were brought in following criticism by the European court of human rights of the trial of the two boys convicted of murdering James Bulger. Only 10 reporters will be allowed into the court room to hear the proceedings, but 53 other journalists will see and hear the trial through a live television link. Three cameras and a series of microphones have been placed in court to relay pictures and sound to a widescreen television in a media annexe on another floor of the Old Bailey.