Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton, the Australian woman wrongly convicted of murdering her baby after telling police it had been snatched by a dingo, has spoken out in support of the parents of the missing Madeleine McCann, claiming they could suffer a similar miscarriage of justice to her own.Ms Chamberlain-Creighton, now 59, was jailed for life in 1980 after her account of the disappearance of her two-month-old daughter, Azaria, during a camping trip in the outback was dismissed by Australian investigators. No body was ever found, but she was convicted on the basis of circumstantial evidence. The conviction was overturned in 1988 after some of Azaria's clothing was discovered. "What that couple are going through sounds like a mirror image to what happened to me," she said yesterday. "Lie and tell us you did it, and you can go free, tell us the truth and you can't, the police will be saying."Her intervention came amid reports that the Portuguese investigating magistrate, Pedro Anjos Frias, was to order Kate McCann back to Portugal to face fresh questioning, possibly in the next week.The couple were again forced to defend themselves yesterday as further unsourced allegations emerged apparently incriminating them in the disappearance of their four-year-old daughter. The latest revelations include claims that Madeleine's body had been weighted down with stones and dumped in the sea off Portugal from a British-owned boat.A French tabloid, citing an unnamed Portuguese police source, reported on Thursday that toxicology tests on hair reportedly discovered in the McCanns' rental car showed Madeleine had taken a large quantity of sleeping tablets.Speaking through an unnamed friend, Mr McCann reportedly told the Sun that the suggestion, along with others in the past week, was "ludicrous", saying: "We are frightened and have been backed into a corner...There are large craters in every one of these theories, in these just ludicrous accusations."The McCanns' status as official suspects has opened the floodgates on a wave of reports, claiming to originate from police leaks, which apparently link them to Madeleine's presumed death. But since they have not been charged with any crime, the couple's legal team have not been given details of the alleged evidence being amassed against them, meaning that they are unable to examine or challenge the accusations.Mr and Mrs McCann are understood to have been advised by their new British legal team, which includes the leading QC Michael Caplan, not to speak out about the case. The couple spent much of yesterday in meetings with lawyers.Among the unconfirmed allegations to emerge in the past few days are suggestions that bodily fluids and a "substantial" quantity of hair belonging to Madeleine were found in the car which the couple hired 25 days after she disappeared. It was alleged yesterday that sniffer dogs had found blood in a second apartment at the complex where the family were holidaying when Madeleine vanished on May 3. It has also been claimed that a sample of blood was found in the McCanns' holiday apartment. Portugal's chief of police has said blood from the car had been analysed but denied it had been proved that it was Madeleine's.A local newspaper yesterday quoted an unnamed "high-ranking" officer as saying that the authorities did not have a concrete case against the couple. The officer reportedly told 24 Horas that without more evidence it would be impossible to determine what had become of Madeleine, adding that even if the samples taken from various locations were confirmed to be Madeleine's DNA, it would prove only that the child had been there at some point.Investigation: Key questionsWhat evidence do the police have against the McCanns? Police have confirmed that they have tested a sample of blood from the McCanns' hire car. There have also been reports of body fluids and hair in the vehicle, allegedly linked to Madeleine. It is believed police have tested a small trace of blood on the floor of the holiday apartment; there were unconfirmed reports yesterday of another trace of blood found in a second apartment. Investigators are also investigating a trail detected by British sniffer dogs, described as a "scent of death".Is there anything else behind their suspicions? Local media have said that Mrs McCann's "manner" - apparently not appearing sufficiently distraught - has been suspicious. The respected newspaper Publico reported yesterday that one police question was how the three children could be asleep at 7.30pm, which would be unusual in Portugal.What else might the police want to investigate? The investigating magistrate, Pedro Anjos Frias, may empower police to seize Cuddle Cat, Madeleine's favourite toy, the original of Mrs McCann's diary, or her husband's computer. Police may wish to re-examine the couple's hire car, which they are keeping "in a safe place" in case they want to commission their own forensic tests.What happens next? Judge Anjos could impose stricter bail conditions or even decide to charge the couple, though the last is believed to be unlikely at this stage.