So these three guys – two IT professionals and a former restaurateur – have this idea. There are 4.2m CCTV cameras in Britain, they say to themselves, except only one in a thousand is being watched at any one time, because manning them all would cost too much. The average Brit is filmed 300 times a day, yet overall crime rates are rising and conviction rates are down (their assertions, by the way).But what if the whole nation – heck, why not the world? – were to be monitoring those cameras? What if you streamed them on to a website, and offered internet users a cash reward whenever they spotted a crime? You could charge the camera owners £20 a week per camera to have their feed included: loads cheaper than spending hours trawling through footage to see who nicked what. Brilliant, no?Tony Morgan, James Woodward and David Steele plainly reckon so. They've sunk, one imagines, a tidy sum into Internet Eyes. There's the software, a website, a Facebook page, a press release. The scheme is currently trialling in Stratford-upon-Avon with an undisclosed number of shops and businesses (although as yet neither the police nor the local authority, who are diplomatically declining all comment), and will go live nationwide next month.Registered surfers will compete for up to £1,000 a month, collecting points by watching a selection of anonymous cameras and clicking a button whenever they see something suspicious. The click will send an SMS and a still image to the camera operator, who decides whether to do anything about it. (You can lose points for sending a false alarm.) Says Morgan, who insists this is "not a game – these are not prizes, they're rewards for spotting crime", Internet Eyes "could turn out to be the best crime-prevention weapon there's ever been". What's not to love?Um, quite a bit. The civil liberties people are up in arms, obviously. Even Michael Laurie, head of Crimestoppers, foresees a "wide range of opportunities for abuse and error" in what is, for him, "essentially no more than a commercial venture exploiting some people's baser characteristics". And while Morgan is confident his scheme complies with the Data Protection Act, the assistant information commissioner, Jonathan Bamford, is not so sure.Only appropriately trained staff and law enforcement officers should normally be handling CCTV images, he says, and it is "not appropriate to disclose images of identifiable individuals for entertainment purposes, or to place them on the internet". The Information Commissioner's office will be talking to Internet Eyes shortly.But who's going to be interested? Surely even voyeurs and reality TV addicts must realise there are 38 gadzillion more interesting things to do – even on the net – than watch live CCTV feeds. That's why people usually get paid a proper wage to do it.• This article was amended on Wednesday 7 October 2009. We said the commission would be talking to Internet Eyes: we should have said the Information Commissioner's office. This has been corrected.