Families of hundreds of possible victims of the serial murderer Harold Shipman could now seek inquests after a coroner recorded yesterday that one of his patients who had been cremated had been unlawfully killed.Dr Shipman, whose surgery was in Hyde, Greater Manchester, was convicted of murdering 15 patients a year ago. Since then the south Manchester coroner, John Pollard, has recorded that three other patients whose bodies were buried had been unlawfully killed. But yesterday's inquest on 81-year-old Hilda Hibbert was the first of a series of 24 on possible victims who were all cremated. The verdict is bound to give comfort to other families who know Shipman will never return to court to face more murder charges. Many had feared that, without postmortem evidence, the coroner would have been obliged to record an open verdict. Yesterday's hearing followed a Department of Health report which suggested that Shipman, now serving life in Frankland prison, Durham, could have killed up to 300 people.Relatives who packed the hearing at Ashton-under-Lyne gasped with relief as Mr Pollard announced his conclusion on Mrs Hibbert, who was found dead at home in Hyde on January 2 1996. She was found sitting upright in her favourite armchair shortly after a visit from Shipman. "I have to say, yes, there is some doubt as to whether Mrs Hibbert was unlawfully killed," said Mr Pollard. "But I could no way describe that doubt as reasonable doubt, bearing in mind all the circumstances. It beggars belief to reach any conclusion in this case other than to say she was unlawfully killed." Mr Pollard was not permitted by law to name anyone who might have been responsible for Mrs Hibbert's death but her family said they were pleased with the verdict. "We were hoping for this outcome but didn't expect it," said her daughter-in-law Janice Hibbert. Jane Ashton-Hibbert, Mrs Hibbert's granddaughter and leader of a support group for the families of suspected victims, said: "I know all the other inquests have to be dealt with on an individual basis but I would like to think this verdict has given the other families some hope." During the hearing, Mr Pollard was told that Shipman had recorded that Mrs Hibbert had suffered a stroke two days before her death. But Ms Ashton-Hibbert said she had not noticed any signs of a stroke as the family celebrated Christmas. She described her grandmother as "a lovely woman ... very active, sprightly and self-sufficient". At lunchtime on the day she died, she played hide and seek with her great-granddaughter. Ms Ashton-Hibbert said she had left Mrs Hibbert's home at 2.30pm but returned an hour later to learn that her grandmother had been found in her chair as if asleep. As ambulance men attempted resuscitation, Shipman burst in and told the crew to stop. "She's dead," he said. "There will be no need for a postmortem as I was the last person to see her before her death. I will issue a death certificate." Ms Ashton-Hibbert said she had known Shipman for 20 years. When police inquiries into his activities began in 1998, she and her husband, Martin, had tried to lend him their support: she had tried to send a card and Martin had attempted to transfer from his own doctor to Shipman.