A former News of the World journalist accused the tabloid of being a "liar and cheat" yesterday for reneging on a £45,000 deal to secure an interview with a key witness in the Damilola Taylor trial.Peter Rose, a former crime editor, told an employment tribunal in Stratford, east London, that he had resigned from the paper in April 2002 because it had reneged on a deal to do the "exclusive" interview with the girl known as Bromley, the 14-year-old who was discredited as a witness in the trial. He is claiming constructive dismissal, which the News of the World is opposing. Sarah Moore, the lawyer representing the News of the World, argued that the real reason Rose resigned was because he was embarrassed at the paper's publishing a story about two police officers in the Damilola Taylor case having an affair, after he had promised the Metropolitan police that it would not appear.Rose described how, after the trial collapsed, a bidding war broke out between the News of the World and the Sunday Mirror for the witness Bromley. He said he was told by his employers that the Mail on Sunday had agreed to share the interview and pay half the sum. He also claimed that he was repeatedly told to increase the price. Late on the Friday afternoon a deal was agreed, with Mike Cobb, the senior press officer at the Met, to pay £45,000 for the interview with Bromley. The following morning, however, Louise Oswald, the News of the World reporter assigned to interview Bromley, contacted Rose to tell him that the Mail on Sunday had only agreed to pay up to £17,500 and the deal was off. After a series of phone conversations with the news desk at the News of the World, Rose handed in his resignation that afternoon. He subsequently accused the News of the World of making a "bogus offer" to prevent its rival the Sunday Mirror getting the story that weekend. "I lost trust in them," he said. "A number of senior officers in the Met police were extremely angry with me and I was told at the time that they would not be working with me again. "I was told that I had let down Bromley, who was only 14 years old. I thought as a matter of principle that what they had done was wrong. "How could I continue to work with someone like this? Some of us do respect the truth." The newspaper's lawyer put it to Rose that he resigned only after a telephone conversation with the News of the World's news editor, Greg Miskiw, in which he learned that the tabloid was running the story of the officers' affair instead of the interview. Rose denied this, saying that he had already verbally resigned by that time. He admitted that in January 2002 he had advised the paper's editor at the time, Rebekah Wade, not to run the story of the affair, warning her that it would harm relations with the Met before the Damilola Taylor trial. Ms Moore alleged that Rose told Miskiw he had done a deal with the Met agreeing not to run the affair story in return for the interview with the Bromley, a claim Rose strongly denied. An interview with the witness eventually appeared in the Sunday Mirror the following week. Before joining the News of the World, Rose was chief crime correspondent on the Daily Mail for 14 years. He said he was approached by the News of the World to become its crime editor with a starting salary of £73,000. "At the time their reputation with the police was very poor," he said, adding that he was brought on board to try to "build bridges". The case continues.