A body found hidden in a London basement was yesterday identified as that of a 23-year-old Norwegian student last seen alive at a Mayfair nightclub. A post mortem later found that she had significant injuries to her neck.Martine Vik Magnussen had been studying at a private business college before she was reported missing after partying into the early hours of Friday morning at Maddox Club in central London.Police described her death as "unnatural" and suspect someone else was involved but are awaiting results of further tests to determine the exact cause of death. Detectives say they want to contact a man who they described as of "Arabic appearance" who had been with her in the club and with whom she may have left.Friends reported the student missing to the police on Saturday morning. Her flatmates in Westminster had also appealed for any information about her on the networking site Facebook.Magnussen's body was eventually discovered at a block of flats in nearby Great Portland Street. It had been partially concealed under rubble in the basement of the privately-owned Seaford Court block. Police were yesterday continuing to carry out a forensic search of the block and its surroundings. The Maddox Club, in Mill Street, Mayfair, opened in April last year and describes itself as London's "hottest member's club, attracting everyone from P Diddy to Keira Knightley". Membership is by invitation only.Magnussen had enrolled last February at Regent's Business School in central London, part of Regent's College - the UK's largest private higher education college. She was studying international business. Her parents, who live in Asker, west of Oslo, have flown to London.The post mortem examination was reported yesterday at Westminster coroner's court. It was said Magnussen had "significant injuries to her neck and her death is thought unnatural with suspected third party involvement". Detective Chief Inspector Jessica Wadsworth, leading the investigation, said officers are trying to piece together the student's final movements. She said: "This is a tragic waste of a young woman's life. She had come to London to study and had her whole future in front of her. "She was a very popular young woman with lots of friends and had a vibrant personality. Her family are in London being supported by police at this terrible time. "We are keen to retrace her final movements and would appeal to anyone who was with her that night or has any information to assist the inquiry."Aldwyn Cooper, head of Regent's College, said: "The college is deeply saddened by this news, and our thoughts are with Martine's family and friends at this time. "Once we have had the opportunity to consult with the family, arrangements will be made for the college community to remember Martine."