A woman held on suspicion of murdering her young sons was sectioned under the Mental Health Act today, as it emerged that police had visited the children's home hours before their killing.Four-month-old Delayno Mullings-Sewell and his two-year-old brother, Romario, were discovered at a property in the Cheetham Hill area of Manchester just before 6pm yesterday. Their 21-year-old mother was held near the scene.Greater Manchester police confirmed today that the bodies were discovered when officers visited the home for a second time in three hours. It has referred its handling of the case to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC).Police were first alerted by a person concerned for the family's welfare at 2.50pm, the force said in a statement."No one was at the address so officers searched the nearby area and made significant further efforts to trace the residents. They were not able to trace the residents," the force said.At around 5.45pm the police received a subsequent call and returned to find the bodies. Det Supt Shaun Donnellan told journalists that police were waiting for postmortem results but at least one of the boys received stab wounds to the abdomen.He said the mother was known to the police and that officers had visited the house within the past "year or two".He said the initial call to police was about fears for "the state of the demeanor of the woman" and fears "for the family unit". Officers arrived at the scene within around 20 minutes of the initial call but did not enter the house as no one was at home. They searched around the back and continued in their attempts to trace the family.The children's father is being comforted by police liaison officers. A family friend, Melissa Bell, said the mother was Jael Mullings and described the killings as a tragedy.Family members said they were "struggling to come to terms" with what had happened."Everybody is completely devastated. We hope that wherever the boys have gone to they are at peace," the family said in a statement.The police spokesman said the initial checks included a visit to a grandparent of the children, but no one was at home.He said: "While we were making these inquiries we got a 999 call which suggested that the children were back in the house, dead."The spokesman was unable to confirm that the first phone call made to police was a 999 call.An IPCC spokesman said a neighbour told the officers who attended the first time that the mother had left the property with the two children."The next call they got was that the children were dead," the spokesman said. "We'll be asking what the police were told, what the concerns were, what the officers did, and decide whether there's anything there to take forward into an investigation."Forensic experts are carrying out a detailed examination of the property.Cheetham Hill is about two miles north of Manchester city centre. It is undergoing regeneration and has a large proportion of council housing.