The shooting of Jimmy Ashley provoked an extraordinary three way punch-up in which the neighbouring police forces of Sussex, Kent and Hampshire accused each other variously of incompetence, unprofessional behaviour, conspiracy and crime.Kent were called in to investigate the shooting, believed they were being obstructed and accused Sussex of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Sussex complained that Kent were bullying, dishonest, incompetent and simply not used to dealing with honest police officers. Hampshire were then called in to sort out the squabble and ended up being drawn in to the fight, rejecting Kent's fear of conspiracy but pouring scalding criticism on the three most senior Sussex officers, which in turn provoked Sussex into accusing Hampshire of producing conclusions without evidence and not understanding how a decent force is run. In the middle was the chief constable of Sussex, Paul Whitehouse, probably the most liberal chief officer in the country, a man who tries to stay in touch by going out on night patrol with junior officers, who deliberately made a point by advertising for gay recruits and turned down a bonus of £12,000 because he disapproved of performance-related pay. But it is Mr Whitehouse who is accused of throwing the first punch by issuing a press release four hours after Ashley's death in which he declared: "I am satisfied from all the information available to me that the operation was professionally and competently executed and that all of the officers involved behaved properly." Kent had not even begun their inquiry, and yet here was Whitehouse "announcing a conclusion". They were particularly worried it would alienate the family of the dead man. When Mr Whitehouse then incorrectly told the press that Ashley had been wanted for attempted murder, they feared Sussex were deliberately blackening the dead man's name. By the time Kent discovered there had also been meetings between senior officers and some of those in volved in the shooting and that nobody had mentioned these meetings, they believed they were dealing with a conspiracy to obstruct their inquiry. They stopped briefing Mr Whitehouse, moved their base to Kent for fear of break-in, and told the police complaints authority they feared senior Sussex officers were being untruthful. The PCA called in Sir John Hoddinott, then chief constable of Hampshire. He found "suggestive evidence of collusion between some or all of the chief officers" in Sussex to conceal what they knew at the time of the press release, noted that "an arguable case of attempting to pervert the course of justice might be made out" but concluded that it made better sense to see this as evidence of criminal misfeasance. Sir John found that the press release was "effectively disinformation" because it claimed that all was well even though Mr Whitehouse and his team already knew that the dead man had been unarmed, and that the officer who had shot him, PC Chris Sherwood, had had his firearms permit temporarily withdrawn earlier after a girlfriend complained about his violent behaviour. Sir John concluded: "The chief constable is a public officer and has a duty to tell the truth. He wilfully failed to tell the truth as he knew it, he did so without reasonable excuse or justification and what was published and said was misleading." Mr Whitehouse remained adamant there was nothing wrong with the press release, telling friends that "John Hoddinott doesn't understand that a police officer can shoot somebody who is naked and unarmed without that being improper." Senior Sussex officers accused both the Kent and the Hants inquiries of being "dishonourable" in trying to make something of the fact that PC Sherwood had once lost his firearms permit: the permit had been returned to him on the authority of a senior officer. He said some of Mr Whitehouse's statements to Kent were false, and his defence to the Sussex police authority was "unsustainable in any rational sense". Mr Whitehouse had told the authority that "nothing in what was reported to me suggested in the slightest there had been improper behaviour". Sir John said: "No objective person ... could possibly come to that conclusion". Sir John specified he was questioning not only Mr Whitehouse's judgment but also his integrity. He said there was evidence that Mr White house was guilty of criminal misfeasance, falsehood and discreditable conduct. Mr Whitehouse denied all this and found some support from his police authority, who issued him with "words of advice", the lowest form of discipline. Sir John conceded Mr Whitehouse's sole motive was to support his officers. Sir John also roughed up one of the assistant chief constables, Nigel Yeo, against whom he said there was evidence of criminal misfeasance and falsehood over the press release; and the deputy chief constable, Mark Jordan, against whom he said there was evidence of criminal misfeasance, neglect of duty, discreditable conduct, and aiding and abetting the chief constable's false statements. Sir John's report was sent to the CPS, who decided not to prosecute any senior officers for criminal misfeasance. Mr Jordan has been suspended since February 1999, and he faces a disciplinary hearing. Related articles 23.05.2001: Armed and dangerous: the police with their fingers on the trigger 23.05.2001: Top officers condemned over fatal police raid