The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday 18 June 2009In the article below a line at the end surveying one week of rape reports in media around the country invited reader comment, asking: "Are you shocked that only 6.5% of reported rapes end in a conviction?". The article, too, mentioned a 6.5% conviction rate for England and Wales, comparing it unfavourably with France's 25% conviction rate. We should have made clear that 6.5% is the proportion of reported rapes that end in a conviction on the charge of rape itself. The most recent Home Office study on the subject, published in 2007, analysed the outcome for rapes reported to eight police forces in England and Wales in 2003-04. It found that 13% of reported rapes ended in a conviction of some kind, including on other charges such as sexual assault. Last month, London cab driver John Worboys was convicted of 19 charges of drugging and sexually assaulting 12 women in his taxi. Last year, the trial of Josef Fritzl, the Austrian who hid his daughter in a cellar and raped her over a period of years, shocked the world. Neither Worboys nor Fritzl represent typical rapists, yet both are representative of the cases that are covered widely in the media and affect the way we view rape.Often the cases covered are those that feminist campaigners ironically refer to as "real rape": that is stranger attacks or men in masks dragging their victims into the bushes late at night. Other cases that make the news usually involve multiple attackers, violence or attacks on children. As do those resulting in conviction - despite the fact that Britain was this month shown to have the worst conviction rate in Europe.Yet even in those cases the coverage is generally sparse: in this paper last week, the gang rape of a teenager was reported as a single paragraph. With an estimated 47,000 rapes and attempted rapes committed in the UK each year, it is impossible for newspapers to draw attention to every case - even the most disturbing. Yet it is terrifying to think that such serious crimes are essentially being brushed under the carpet, hidden from view. As a result, we decided to look at a range of rape cases reported over the course of a week to get a snapshot of the way that this crime plays out across the country. The stories are varied, but each underlines just how widespread - and brutal - these rapes are.15 May, Huddersfield Daily Examiner"Murderer's sentence cut two years"Colin Pitchfork, the first person ever to be convicted using DNA fingerprinting evidence, had his sentence slightly reduced by the court of appeal. Pitchfork was jailed at Leicester crown court in 1988 for the rape and murder of two 15-year-old girls. Judges now say that his 30-year sentence was excessive and have set a new tariff of 28 years.Pitchfork, who was 27 when convicted, will be eligible for parole in 2016. He had a history of indecent exposure and had sexually assaulted a young woman before the murders. In 1983 he drove around with his baby in the car until he found a schoolgirl walking by a footpath to expose himself to. She ran away, terrified, but he caught up with her, raped her and then strangled her to prevent her identifying him. Three years later he raped and murdered another girl in an almost exact replica of his previous crime. He was not caught until years later when his DNA was found to match semen on the bodies of both girls. In 2003 Scotland Yard had recovered DNA profiles of suspected sex offenders in eight out of 10 unsolved rape cases dating back as far as 1987; by 2005, Operation Advance, which works on cold cases, had brought 30 serious sex offenders to justice. 16 May, Liverpool Echo"Evil past of taxi rapist"Liverpool city council allowed taxi driver James Walmsley to keep his cabby's licence despite a conviction for having sex with a 14-year-old girl in his taxi in 2000. He went on to rape a 19-year-old female twice in the back of his cab in 2007 and sexually assault a 17-year-old in his taxi in 2008. Weeks later, he exposed himself to a woman before sexually assaulting her. His final victim escaped and called for help. Walmsley was convicted of two rapes and five sexual assaults and will be sentenced on 5 June. Surprisingly, the judge hearing the case granted Walmsley bail and imposed a curfew and an electronic tag. A Home Office consultation paper in 2000 highlighted research showing that serious sex offenders often admit to past or current nuisance behaviour, including voyeurism. Many are not selective about their choice of victim and may have a repertoire of offending behaviour.17 May, Sunday Life (Belfast)"Hunt for sick rapist"A 62-year-old woman was raped by a stranger who pushed his way into her home after she answered a knock at the door early one Saturday morning. Not surprisingly, the victim was "traumatised" by the assault. Detectives from the Rape Crime Unit were looking for a slim, dark-haired man in his late 20s to early 30s.One of the greatest fears for many women, particularly those living alone, is being raped by an intruder. Yet women are far more likely to be raped in their own home by a man they know, such as a partner or acquaintance. According to the charity Rape Crisis, 97% of callers to their phone lines knew their assailant before they were assaulted. 18 May, Blackpool Gazette "Sex beast guilty of rape"At Preston crown court, James Buchanan, whom the police described as a "sexual predator", was convicted of seven sexual offences including rape against a girl under 13. Buchanan will be sentenced in a few weeks and has been warned by the judge to expect a lengthy custodial sentence. There are currently thought to be approximately 800 high-risk sex offenders living in Blackpool. Levels of child sexual exploitation were so worryingly high in the town in 2004 that police and social services set up the Awaken Project to root out and arrest child abusers before they do serious harm, and to protect children from exploitation. 19 May, BBC News Online"Sex attacker given life sentence" Grant Stewart was given a life sentence and placed on the sex offenders register after two sex attacks on women. While out on bail after a serious sexual assault on a woman in a flat, Stewart raped another woman at knifepoint in Dundee. He was described in court as "high risk". Scotland has a rape conviction rate of less than 3% compared with 6.5% in England and Wales. In 2006-07, only 27 out of 922 rapes reported to Scottish police resulted in a conviction. According to the first Europe-wide study of rape convictions, France had a 25% conviction rate in 2006.20 May, thelondonpaper"Serial sex attacker on loose"It was reported that police were searching for a man believed to have carried out at least four separate attacks in south-west London since February. The man was said to be in his mid to late 20s "with a dark complexion and chubby cheeks". His victims, aged between 16 and 25, were all attacked while they were out walking in the area. Commander Steve Bloomfield, senior officer for south-west London, said police were "taking the incidents very seriously" and outlined measures such as an increase in uniformed police presence in the area and the distribution of "safety advice". Bloomfield was quoted in the article saying, "In this advice we are urging young women who are travelling late at night that, wherever possible to try to walk with friends, to keep to well-lit main roads, to be aware of what's going on around them, and to pre-book and use licensed cabs."Police advice has sparked anger in the past - in the 1970s, feminists in Leeds mounted a huge protest against West Yorkshire Police after it imposed what appeared to be a "curfew on women" during the hunt for Peter Sutcliffe, the so-called Yorkshire Ripper. Similar criticism was levelled at police in December 2006, when five women were found murdered in Ipswich.21 May, Burnley Citizen News "Nelson man goes on trial accused of raping teenager"According to this report, Damone Rous Murphy was on trial in Burnley, Lancashire, accused of the rape of one schoolgirl, the sexual assault of another and of threatening to kill one of the girls by dousing her with petrol and setting her on fire. Murphy was alleged to have waged a war of cruelty on one of the girls that included beating her, shaving her hair, holding her under water and "making her lie on the floor while saying she was no better than a dog".22 May, Liverpool Echo "Teen gang rape arrest"A 16-year-old boy was arrested by detectives investigating the rape of a 15-year-old girl. A 17-year-old suspect was also in custody. Police were said to be looking for four more young men, some concealing their faces with scarves and hoods, thought to be involved in the brutal attack. The girl had been dragged into bushes where she was raped by four of the gang. A report by Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary in 2002 highlighted the growing number of reports of rape involving two or more attackers, in particular those involving groups of teenage boys attacking girls. At London's sexual assault referral unit The Haven 25% of victims under 16 who visited in 2001 and 2002, had had multiple assailants, compared with 13% among over-16-year-olds. Figures from the Metropolitan Police Service Sexual Offences Index show that from 2001-03, 6% of all recorded rapes in its area involved more than one perpetrator. One youth worker recently commented that, "On some estates [in London] gang rape has become a way of meting out brutal punishment to girls who go out with members of a rival gang, or who talk back and are regarded as 'rude girls acting above their station'."• This article was amended on Friday 29 May 2009 to clarify that the figure of 47,000 rapes includes attempted rapes.• From next week, the Women's pages will include space for your comments. Do you think that rape is reported appropriately in the British press? Are you shocked that only 6.5% of reported rapes end in a conviction? Let us know what you think by emailing women@theguardian.com or commenting below