Fast-track 'super courts' staffed by expert prosecutors are to be set up in Britain's 10 high-crime hotspots as the Government struggles to regain the initiative against spiralling lawlessness on the streets.The Attorney-General, Lord Goldsmith, and the Director of Public Prosecution, David Calvert-Smith, are set to announce that 60 high-flyers within the Crown Prosecution Service will be used to deal with the growing backlog of young offenders arrested by the police and then left to languish in the criminal justice system. Procedures will be truncated so that repeat and persistent offenders can be dealt with more quickly, rather than being let out on bail to commit more crime. The Government hopes that the moves, part of a wide-ranging reform of the criminal justice system to be announced in the next two weeks, will head off a growing chorus of criticism that the CPS and the courts are failing. Yesterday it was reported that the CPS wrongly dropped more than 11,000 prosecutions with 'little or no analysis or reasons for the decision'. The number of teenage criminals prosecuted and jailed has also fallen steeply over the past two decades. In 1983, more than 88,000 teenage boys were convicted of crimes, with 13,000 jailed. By 2000 that figure had fallen to 30,000 convicted and 4,700 jailed. It is the first time that the CPS has launched a separate system for dealing specifically with street crime - particularly muggings, car jacking and robbery. The new scheme, aimed at areas of high crime such as inner London, Liverpool, Manchester and the West Midlands, will be described as a 'premier service' and will only use prosecutors used to deal with issues of repeat offenders and street crime. The Government hopes that courts staffed by 'super prosecutors' will be more successful in tackling criminals and defence teams expert at finding holes in the case. The move comes two weeks after the two teenagers accused of murdering Damilola Taylor were found not guilty. The CPS case against them was described by critics as 'a shambles'. The move, which will be carefully scrutinised by the civil liberties lobby, is just one of a series of initiatives demanded from Number 10 on the crime issue. Last week Tony Blair was engulfed in controversy after it was revealed that parents who fail to control truanting children could have their child benefit docked.  The Observer can reveal that the Government is now considering plans to evict parents of unruly children from council houses. Although Downing Street officials said that the plans were at 'an early stage', they said that sanctions had to be applied to parents who were not taking on their responsibilities seriously. This week Home Secretary David Blunkett will also demand that magistrates show greater consistency in sentencing. He will announce new guidelines forcing magistrates, who deal with more than one million criminal cases a year, to choose a limited set of punishments to stop wide variations across the country. 'These disparities need to be tackled,' a Home Office spokeswoman said. 'It should not be a matter of which court you go affecting the sentence you get. We have to make sure the punishment fits the crime, wherever it might take place.' Figures from the Home Office reveal wide variation in the way magistrates deal with criminals. Just over 20 per cent of people charged with house burglary on Teesside receive an immediate custodial sentence compared with 41 per cent in Brighton. Oliver Letwin, the Shadow Home Secretary, attacked the Government for allowing 'major defects' to infect the criminal justice system. 'I hope you will make it clear that a lasting reform of our criminal justice system needs not only to make that system vastly more efficient and more responsive to the concerns of victims and witnesses, but also to respect and enshrine the protection of our liberties that have proved so robust over so long a time,' he said in an open letter to the Home Secretary.