You know someone is in trouble when they start using capital letters. Once truth becomes Truth or essence becomes Essence - perhaps even god becomes God? - it is a short step to green ink. Tony Blair and his loyalist ministers have done it with their Respect agenda, hoping perhaps that by making it a proper noun, proper behaviour will magically result.Blair is now obsessed with anti-social behaviour. Even his friends look at the floor when he gets into one of his rants. The only newsworthy message of his first press conference as a third-term Labour Prime Minister was the enthusiastic endorsement of the decision by Bluewater to ban youngsters wearing hoodies. Brave new dawn.If the Prime Minister were merely ranting and raving about civil disorder, just as George III wailed over the loss of his colonies, his mania could be indulged. But his drive has led to a dramatic expansion in summary police powers and a dangerous erosion of the line between civil and criminal law. It is a supreme irony that a politician with such fiercely anti-state instincts in many areas, especially the economy, is so unashamedly interventionist in social behaviour. The government cannot protect your job from the forces of global competition; but it is going to protect your shoes from discarded chewing gum.Anti-social behaviour is, it must be said, a problem. In his speech on respect - sorry Respect - Blair three times mentioned the hypothetical case of the old lady being spat at on her way to the shops. Because the police time and effort involved in bringing a case against the gobbing youth is too great, they don't bother. The Blairite solution is to give the police power to issue on-the-spot fines, police officers becoming investigator, prosecutor, judge and jury. Or we can slap on an Asbo.These moves may be popular; indeed Labour is banking on their popularity in the upcoming London elections. They may, at the margins, have some impact, although troublemakers can see uniforms a mile off, and Asbos are becoming a source of pride among the tough kids. But, legally, turning a civil offence, such as wearing a hoodie, into a criminal one for which the perpetrator can be imprisoned is dangerous.In support of his crusade, Blair cites philosopher Thomas Hobbes, who believed that a strong state was necessary to stop a perpetual war of all against all; between people who were intrinsically 'nasty and brutish'. The deep problem with the Blair approach is that social behaviour comes to be seen as a problem to be tackled not by us as private citizens, but by government. And once the idea that a problem belongs with the state has been generally accepted, it is very hard to dislodge. Four out of five people still think it is the government's responsibility to provide a decent standard of living in old age: small wonder pension savings are so low. Most people now believe that tackling litter is a government problem, rather than a community responsibility. The Highway Code has been rewritten to make it mandatory to let a bus pull out. It is surely only a matter of time before the 'priority seats' on buses and trains acquire legal force. A concerted, doomed attempt is being made to legislate us into decent behaviourBlair is clear why this is necessary: the 'self reinforcing bonds of traditional community life do not exist in the same way'. Since communities cannot police themselves, the state will have to do it for them, because 'no liberal democracy can countenance the tyranny of a minority in any of its communities'. Quite right. But liberal democracies have - or should have - other tools than state coercion at their disposal.The responsibility for maintaining decent standards of public behaviour rests ultimately with the people. If someone drops litter, swears, creates mayhem on a train, or fails to offer their seat to someone who clearly needs it, it is not enough to mutter about lapsing manners and 'I-blame-the-parents', while waiting for the state's agent to restore order. When was the last time you confronted a person for dropping litter? There are many excuses: no time, fear, an each-to-themselves individualism. But we have to act.Citizenship carries more responsibility than paying our taxes and casting our votes. To live well together, we have to hold each other to account. The alternative is to give up, call an anonymous state hotline and wait for the arrival not only of the police, but of the police state. Most of us are hypocrites when it comes to social rules. We hate littering - but most of us litter. According to Mori, the majority of us hate public swearing, loud mobile phone use and obscene gesturing on the road. The trouble is that even those of us who are guilty ourselves complain about the same behaviour in others. But we cry 'nanny state' if the powers are turned on us.Certainly, some of the community ties and solidarities that made anti-social behaviour a community concern have weakened. Many of the institutions and organisations that acted to connect people and reinforce communal values are in decline. Few sit in church pews with their neighbours' children any more. Most of us want to live in a society with the support of such institutions. Voltaire famously refused to discuss atheism in front of the servants because he thought their faith would safeguard his belongings. Similarly, most of us probably want a society in which people go to church, and kids go to boy scouts or soccer practice. The trouble is that so few of us are prepared to support these sources of community life ourselves. Into this gap steps Tony Blair's determination that the state will sort it out.But if he is right in his diagnosis of our diminishing capacity for self-government, his cure seems certain to make the disease worse. Asking the state to fill the gaps in community life is certain to make those gaps larger. There is, of course, plenty for the government to do, especially in providing plentiful activities for young people, and putting moral education at the heart of the national curriculum. But politicians must be wary of assuming that they have to be the ones to stitch the social fabric back together. As for the rest of us, we have to decide whether we are willing to do our share of the necessary work of social maintenance. In a criminal court, the plea of 'diminished responsibility' is cited to get the accused off the hook: we are in danger of making a similar collective claim.We are foolishly diminishing our own responsibility. And the Prime Minister is foolishly attempting to nationalise responsibilities that properly lie with you and me.· Richard Reeves will talk on 'The Nationalisation of Responsibility' on Tuesday in Edinburgh. Details TheRSA.org