The other day, I sat down and worked out how many times I'd spent Christmas in the nick. It came to 17 in all, which is slightly odd given that I did not serve that number of years inside. On reflection, I recalled that, of course, on the short sentences I received - three months, four months and a 12 month - I always copped for that time of year. Which means I got nicked, far too regularly, just before Yuletide.Little wonder that I decided to ignore the wretched season the moment my children could understand my decision. And what bliss it is to be free from its many ghastly aspects, including what John Humphrys recently described as "the tyranny of Christmas shopping". If the state allowed short-sentence prisoners to do their time in "stages" - weekends and holidays, say - then I'd settle for Christmas every time. If a court were to give me three months tomorrow, under such terms, I'd make the reservation for the next 12 years immediately, before the dates were snapped up. Why? First, the grub. Years ago, it was swill, but even then they pulled out the stops at Christmas. In particular, I always stocked up with enough fruit to last me for weeks. Fruit was a rarity. Apart from the year's end, you did well to cop for an apple a fortnight, never mind a day. Then, for that three or four days, it would rain fruit - and, astonishingly, most of my fellow felons couldn't wait to trade their pears and oranges for a slice of marzipan, or similar gunge. I seem to remember one time (Liverpool, in the 1980s, I think) a going rate of four oranges for a dreadful slice of cake. The next factor - a very important one - was a marked reduction in the "tapping" rate. You see, all year, cons would pay - without choice - into the common fund, which was dished out in the last week of the year. It's called something else now, but cons still get a bung on top of their normal wage. (In my first nick, it was nine old pence a week; I guess the basic is around £4 a week now). Up to the 1980s, most prisoners smoked, so income related to snout. Any extra, therefore, was always welcome - given that in 1969, for instance, the basic wage amounted to half an ounce of snout, one packet of skins, a box of matches and a penny chew. As a lifelong paid-up member of the ways and means brigade, I never relied on a regular stipend - inside or out - but the common fund kept the tappers at bay for a few welcome days. Normal times, they were on you like a plague. When you lit up you'd hear an instant chorus of: "Two's-up mate, I'm gasping," before you'd even taken the first drag. Demeaning, but difficult to blank. (Though at least then they said "please". From about 1990, they'd almost go at the demand, in which case it was easy tell them to piss off and find their manners.) Finally, there was the almost universal change of attitude from the staff at the time of goodwill. Today, I'd regard that as the most important issue; but the bad screws never bothered me personally then. We had an arrangement: they wouldn't have pissed on me if I'd been burning to death; nor I on them. It suited both parties. Truth was, of course, that even in the dark old days, they weren't all bad. But I always sensed that the ones who would have chosen to show humanity were afraid to do so - except, of course, when jolly old Santa came to town. My first experience of this phenomenon came during my first sentence - three months' detention centre in 1957. A short sharp shock, they said. The great day itself found me down the block, on day two of a three-day lie-down. Lo and behold, after breakfast my keepers told me I could return to the wing. Almost two days early. Thank you very much! Images of the other 16 seasons of joy flash back: three years-endings on the trot in that wretched Strangeways, in 68, 69 and 70. A Salvation Army brass band would assemble on the "centre", and the surrounding wings would tremble with the sound of the usual suspects, belted out with great gusto. And, though never a God-botherer myself, I always felt a tad emotional when Silent Night took its turn. Reminded me of weekend nights in pubs when the Sally Army came round. Then the time in Risley, in the late 90s, when, despite all my relatives and pals being aware that I neither sent, nor wished to receive, a preposterously-priced bit of cardboard, I got about 20 of the things. Fortunately, there was a guy on the wing who shared my first name. Bit of a loner, who received neither visits or letters. So I worked the said missives to him. Made-up, he was; used to leave his door wide open during time-out so that all could see his messages of comfort and joy. Of course, the above represents a singular view. For many prisoners, a particularly gut-wrenching period is here. The lonely, depressed and suicidal will feel more so as the bells jingle. What about the mothers, locked away from their children and feeling the pain more than ever? If invited, I will return to their plight another day. Meanwhile, I wish them strength and an endurable Xmas. · Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent.