Police investigating the disappearance of Madeleine McCann have failed to find any evidence after searching the home of the only official suspect, it emerged today.Up to a dozen British and Portuguese police searched the villa of Robert Murat in Praia da Luz over the weekend. Mr Murat - who was named as a suspect in the case 10 days after the disappearance of the British four-year-old on May 3 - remained on the property with his lawyer during the search.Tuck Price, Mr Murat's friend and spokesman, said: "They [the police] haven't officially said anything - they didn't say anything to us - but we were there, and I think we would have seen and known if they had found anything."They won't be going back to the house again - if they do, they're going to look pretty stupid."The second search of the villa, Casa Liliana, began on Saturday and finished yesterday at about 4pm. Police combed both the house and surrounding land.Mr Murat, who was taken in for questioning by police on May 14, has denied having anything to do with the abduction. Mr Price said: "I think Robert is feeling fairly optimistic. This is hopefully a stage closer to clearing Robert's name - that's really all he wants to do."Meanwhile, the Daily Mirror has reported undercover police have been secretly watching a second suspect for several weeks. The man, a Portuguese speaker in his 30s, was thought not to be the kidnapper but a possible accomplice, the Mirror quoted an unnamed source as saying.He was identified by a police team stationed in a holiday flat next to the McCanns' to film people acting suspiciously around the crime scene, the paper said. "It is possible the second man was not physically involved in Madeleine's abduction but knows who did it and is concealing the crime," the source was quoted as saying.Police are also investigating a possible sighting of Madeleine in Tongeren, Belgium, on the Dutch border. They are awaiting DNA test results from a bottle and a straw used by a small girl in a roadside cafe. A customer at the restaurant said she was "100% sure" it was Madeleine.There have been dozens of possible sightings since Madeleine, from Rothley, Leicestershire, was taken from her bed while her parents dined at a nearby restaurant. This Saturday it will be 100 days since her disappearance.