Community groups should have a say in the prosecution and punishment of antisocial offenders, the home secretary, David Blunkett, said last night. The crown prosecution service needs to become "integrated" with local groups to find out which "quality of life" offences committed in their area they want fast-tracked to court, Mr Blunkett said. Community leaders should also have a voice in the sentencing of those convicted of crimes such as drug dealing, prostitution and urinating in the street. "Getting the CPS out speaking and listening to the community, that is really the next step," Mr Blunkett said. "It's part of engaging the community in the solution. If they believe they've got a part to play and that people will listen to them, they will respond." His comments followed a visit to a trial "community prosecutions" scheme in the US which has helped revive a rundown inner city area. Crime in Baltimore's Pigtown has dropped by a quarter since local people were given a say in which suspects are prosecuted first, and what punishments they should receive if found guilty.Under the scheme, city prosecutors meet community leaders twice a month to find out which cases they feel should be given priority. When there is a conviction, the local people are allowed to present a "community impact statement" detailing the effect the crime had on their area, which enables the judge to impose a longer jail sentence. Offenders are also often sent back into the local area to do community service. Mr Blunkett said his meeting with the scheme's organisers had been a "learning experience". "There were a lot of things I heard that clicked with problems at home," he said. He said having prosecutors working in the community led to a feeling of "instant justice". "If the community trusts those in professional positions they might start engaging with them, whereas quite often at the moment they don't." The home secretary said the scheme would not work everywhere, but would suit tight-knit urban areas. "We're now getting the idea very strongly that unless you've got order and stability and security you can't rebuild your community," he said. "Once you do that other things start to flourish." Baltimore prosecutor Jennifer Etheridge said the community prosecutions scheme provided a "direct link" between the local people and law enforcement authorities. "It's enabled us to concentrate on cracking down on quality of life crimes that had been wrecking the community." Helen Keith, who has lived in Pigtown for four years, said the scheme had "transformed" the area. "When I first came here people were urinating on our house all the time and prostitutes and drug dealers were out on our street 24 hours a day," she said. "They're all gone now." Mr Blunkett, who is on his first official visit to the US, was today meeting the New York mayor, Mike Bloomberg, and police commissioner, Ray Kelly. He will also visit more innovative community based anti-crime and anti-drugs programmes and take part in a wreath-laying ceremony at Ground Zero.