It is surprising for Richard Reeves to claim that many of his Liberal Democrat endorsers were persuaded by the party's "refusal to enter the bidding war between the other two parties on cuts to inheritance tax" (Letters, 29 April). In fact, the Lib Dems kicked off this bidding war, being the first party to call for a significant cut in inheritance tax in July 2007 – long before the Tories did.On the other hand, it is perhaps not surprising that the group of liberal intellectuals Reeves has assembled should have limited engagement with Lib Dem welfare policy, an area in which most of them are simply not interested. I know there is a deep psychological need for metropolitan elites supporting the Lib Dems to believe they are somehow the leading party on tackling inequality. I'm afraid they are not. Despite having many good people in their ranks, the Lib Dems' policy record on redistribution is one of shifting resources to their target group of middle-class swing voters. Their current tax plan would increase relative poverty. Over the last decade, they have been nowhere in driving changes in equalities legislation and employment rights.It's clear that Reeves and his fellow travellers prefer the Lib Dems on voting reform and civil liberties – and these are important issues. But it might well be more honest simply to acknowledge that, for them, these issues trump any interest they might have in social justice.Tim HortonResearch director, Fabian Society• Apparently, New Labour has "broken" Britain by giving us the minimum wage, more people in work, Sure Start, the winter fuel allowance, hugely expanded university education and a massive schools rebuilding programme. We also have crime figures continuing to fall, NHS waiting lists dramatically cut, rising school standards and a Kyoto emissions target that has already been met.Cameron and the Tories, offering nothing but "blame it on Brown" and spouting their "friend to business" mantra of old, will reduce regulation, and step back from Europe and global agreements. I'm sure it will be an uplifting experience seeing a "caring" free market and generous big business support our "big society", while a small government watches us all toil to mend a Britain that is, by all indicators, far from broken.Steve TaintonBristol• Your editorial (29 April) underestimates the damage done by Gordon Brown in once again revealing "the arrogant disdain of the elected for the electorate". Down here on the council estates, it confirms the growing view that we are merely the pawns in the pretence of a democratic society. The speed with which the big three parties claimed that "we have all talked about people behind their backs", confirms that view.The limited debate about immigration has excluded those who suffer most from the consequent lack of jobs with decent wages, lack of affordable rented housing and lack of job and skills training. The supposed advantages of immigration do not trickle down around here (and few have the skills to enable them to seek jobs abroad) and neither do the advantages of globalisation and the European Union. The politicians may think that they are getting away with it, but it is the xenophobes and the racists who will gain support from this.Sam DarbyManchester• In 1996, when John Major was in power, my mother was diagnosed with ovarian cancer. The wards where she was treated were dirty and shabby, and the food "like a dollop of shit". My mother contracted an infection on the ward because of sloppy cleaning. In 1997, just before Tony Blair took office, my mother was dying in the same hospital and had a morphine driver to administer pain-killing drugs. Then the driver stopped working because the batteries had run out. My mother was crying out in pain, but we were told they had no budget for new batteries.Over the last three years I have been treated in that same hospital and can say from first-hand experience the changes are dramatic. The wards are clean the staff have the best equipment, the food was lovely, with plenty of choice. I was seen within weeks, not months. I had the best treatment money could buy, was seen by the best doctors and a top specialist and am on the road to recovery.In Thursday night's debate, "13 years" was used over and over again to put down Gordon Brown and Labour. What short memories people have. In the 90s the Conservatives had our hospitals and schools on their knees. Labour has turned it all round. They have built state-of-the-art schools and hospitals, invested in equipment and people. I fear for this country when ordinary men and women will vote for personalities and forget history.Pat SmythLiverpool• Everytime that I switch my television or radio on, a leading Conservative is advising me about the need for change. The last time they governed the country their changes were the privatisation of telecoms, electricity, gas and water. They told us it was for our benefit. Now the utilities are owned by companies making vast profits at yours and my expense – the bills we all receive bear witness to that.Towards the end of their reign, when British Railways was privatised, the BR Engineering works here in Crewe was devastated. In 1992 it employed a workforce of 4,500; today it is 300. What a legacy to leave this town. Voting to me, a working-class bloke from a working-class town, is quite easy.Howard CurranCrewe, Cheshire• Now that the debates are over it will be good to return to normal service, where the public speak, and sometimes, unless they are carefully chosen, even say the wrong thing.Les BrightExeter, Devon 