A scout troop leader faces expulsion from the movement after turning the old tradition of "scout's honour" on its head to try to escape paying for a road accident.Rachel Phillips, 22, whose father is a district commissioner for the scouts, persuaded two young members to lie to the police after she backed into a parked car and left false details under its windscreen.She was told by a judge yesterday that she was a disgrace to the movement, and had turned a minor matter into something much more serious. "I hear your future with the scouts is uncertain. If it was my decision, it would end today," said Judge Richard Lowden, passing sentence at Durham crown court. "Giving false details was bad enough, but what was infinitely worse was that you enticed young people to be dishonest."The court heard that Phillips, a pharmacy student from Esh, County Durham, had reversed her Daewoo Kalos into a parked Volvo after a scout meeting. The bump had caused little damage but Phillips scribbled the false details and then got two scouts to whom she was giving a lift home to collude.She texted them to say that no accident had happened, asking them to delete the message after reading it. The scouts were later questioned by police and followed her instructions to lie.Richard Cowen, prosecuting, said: "This has turned from a very minor traffic inquiry and escalated into the rather unpleasant case we now have. It has only gone this far because of Miss Phillips's actions. It should never have entered the criminal process at all."Phillips admitted intending to pervert the course of justice, driving without due care and attention, and failing to stop after an accident.Her defence counsel, Alex Burns, said: "The initial lie has snowballed and she realises how serious it is to have misled young people and wishes to apologise for even suggesting it."Her future with the scouting movement is at best uncertain and will probably not be resumed. Part of her problem is having to face up to her parents, who are decent people and who are appalled by what she has done."Judge Lowden imposed a 40-week prison sentence suspended for 18 months and ordered Phillips to pay a £150 fine and serve 100 hours' community service. He told her: "It will not be in the cosy atmosphere of the scout movement; it will be in a completely different world."Phillips's father, Christopher, 54, said: "She's a young person who has been extremely foolish. She has made one mistake. Bear in mind, she has worked hard all the time doing voluntary work. I think she needs to serve her sentence through and prove, which I have no doubt she will do, that she is the good, honest person I know she is."