Police last night criticised prosecutors for failing to charge a crack addict accused of rape who went on to sexually assault and murder a woman a week after being released from custody.Christopher Braithwaite, 22, was jailed for life at the Old Bailey yesterday after admitting killing Stacey Westbury and leaving her 10-month-old son helpless in his cot last August. The court heard that Braithwaite, of Shepherd's Bush, west London, had been arrested on suspicion of raping a 22-year-old woman eight days before the murder, but released on police bail because the Crown Prosecution Service said there was not enough evidence to charge him.Scotland Yard took the unusual step of spelling out their disagreement with the CPS because detectives privately believed there were sufficient grounds to charge Braithwaite. Scotland Yard told the Guardian: "The CPS do charge in rape cases without a formal statement, and do so on an initial account."The woman was in a distressed state and was in no position to give a formal statement at the time we went to the CPS for a decision on charging.""The police went to the CPS for a charge and that was not forthcoming. The suspect was released on bail."Police could have held Braithwaite for 36 hours, before seeking an extension to custody from a magistrate.A source with knowledge of the investigation said there was no reason to think that the woman would not have cooperated and made a statement to detectives.The CPS said the alleged victim of the rape had not made a full statement at the point the suspect was released. "We thoroughly considered all the grounds for keeping him in police custody and advised, on the information then available, that he be given police bail pending further evidence," said a spokesman. "There were no substantial grounds for fearing the suspect would either commit further offences or interfere with the witness."The CPS added no internal inquiry was underway and they believed their procedures had been followed.In court yesterday, Braithwaite's crime was described as a "grave, sexually-motivated murder".Victor Temple QC, prosecuting, told the court that Braithwaite had murdered 23-year-old Westbury - whom he knew slightly from their time at school together - in her flat in West Kensington, west London, in the early hours of August 17.The jury heard that Braithwaite had developed "a distinctive pattern of outbursts of anger" as a result of his addiction to crack and his use of skunk weed and body-building steroids.Oliver Blunt QC, defending, said that "a burst of rage occurred on the night in question" after the two argued about Braithwaite's arrest over the rape allegations. "This defendant ... carried out a violent sexual assault on a defenceless young woman which in turn involved an element of sexual abuse accompanied by strangulation," said Temple.He added that after trying to conceal the crime by washing some of the blood off Westbury's body, Braithwaite had left the flat, but had returned later to steal two mobile phones, some jewellery and a bicycle to sell to buy drugs.The court heard that Westbury's body was discovered just before 6pm on August 17 after her father, Ken, became worried and went to his daughter's flat with a friend."There was no answer at Stacey's flat but they could hear a little boy crying inside," said Temple. "Mr Westbury looked through the letterbox and could see the little boy in the flat in his cot."His friend discovered Stacey Westbury's body while Mr Westbury was comforting his grandson. A postmortem examination showed that Westbury been injured by a sexual assault inflicted while she was still alive and died as a result of being strangled and stabbed. Police later found the murder weapon - a 14-inch kitchen knife - in a drain near to Westbury's flat. Jailing Braithwaite for a minimum of 30 years, Judge Stephen Kramer QC, said he had carried out the killing for his own sexual gratification. He added: "What you did to her was not simply a momentary burst of rage; you not only stabbed her in the neck, stomach and right hand with a knife obtained from the kitchen that night and punched her, you also asphyxiated her by applying pressure to the front of her neck. She was only 23 years old and you were a friend who had visited her before ... What you did by killing her and robbing a family of a much loved daughter and sister has been devastating."In a statement read to the court, Ken Westbury said: "August 17, 2007, will haunt me for the rest of my life, as will Stacey's birthday and Christmas. "Discovering what had happened, I was numb and in shock. Then I felt the most awful pain I have even felt in my life in my head and my chest. Then I felt white-hot rage."He added: "I bear this pain everyday and will do so until the day I die." Stacey's mother Lorraine said she would never be able to forget what had happened. "I am constantly thinking about the things this person did to my daughter," she said.