The full extent of Labour's more punitive approach to law and order was revealed yesterday as Tony Blair boasted that more than 1,000 offenders have been locked away in the last 12 months without a fixed release date under the new breed of "public protection sentences".The rapid growth in popularity amongst supposedly "soft" judges of this new "indefinite" sentence for dangerous and violent offenders, introduced by David Blunkett when he was home secretary, has taken the criminal justice system by surprise. The chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, has said prisons are already facing problems in dealing with serious offenders who will remain behind bars until the parole board decides they are no longer a risk to the public - until they die if necessary.As Mr Blair and David Cameron yesterday traded claims over who was toughest in their treatment of life-sentenced prisoners, Home Office ministers were quietly confirming that the introduction of a more liberal regime for 60,000 offenders is being postponed. The delay in the introduction of the new sentence of "custody plus" for short-term prisoners was confirmed yesterday by the prisons minister, Gerry Sutcliffe in a Commons written answer. The sentence was designed to replace prison terms of up to 12 months with a shorter period in custody combined with a longer period of rehabilitation and supervision in the community.The new home secretary, John Reid, is preparing emergency measures to tighten up parole board procedures in deciding the release date of lifers and the new "public protection" prisoners.But yesterday's political argument centred around the disclosure that 53 of 500 offenders given a life sentence since 2000 have been released. It emerged that more than half of them had been sentenced under a "two strikes and you're out" law introduced by the former Tory leader, Michael Howard, and implemented by the Labour government in 2000.Judges had no choice but to impose an automatic life sentence for a second serious violent offence but could exercise discretion in setting the minimum term. The Home Office said yesterday the most common second offence was grievous bodily harm. Those given automatic life sentences under the "two strikes" rule were given tariffs of only three to four years in line with the "going rate" for GBH, and so most have already been released.The renewed row over sentencing was sparked by John Reid's criticism on Monday of a judge who recommended that paedophile Craig Sweeney serve a minimum five years and 108 days of his life sentence before being considered for parole. The Conservative leader, David Cameron, said sentencing guidelines in the 2003 Criminal Justice Act could allow Sweeney to be released after just six years.Mr Blair countered that before 2003, Sweeney and others would have been automatically parolled after two-thirds of their sentence. "Under the act, that right to automatic parole was taken away. You and your colleagues voted against that as well." Widening his attack to encompass the Tory voting record on crime, Mr Blair said: "So at every stage - whether it is antisocial behaviour, assets recovery, the Criminal Justice Act, terrorist legislation - you talk tough, but you vote soft."