It was a mundane till receipt for a cheap watch, plastic travel bottles and padded envelopes from a discount store in Ayrshire that gave Strathclyde detectives their breakthrough. Each item cost just 99p, yet that receipt unravelled an amateurish plot to send improvised parcel bombs which, for a short time, terrorised Scotland's Catholics.That sales receipt, timed and dated, in turn led to CCTV images of a man in early middle age calmly standing at the till of the Stevenston branch of B&M Home Store with an elderly woman; it later emerged she was his mother. That was the first of a number of Neil McKenzie's mistakes.McKenzie, then 42, was recognised by the B&M cashier, Careene Sinclair; she had been at school with his son Grant. Barely a quarter of an hour later, McKenzie was in the nearby branch of B&Q buying nails, a visit also dutifully recorded by the store's CCTV.Each of these purchases were identical to the items used to build his improvised devices. The next day, a parcel containing the same components, with a plastic bottle filled with petrol, was found in a postbox only a few hundreds yards from the home of his co-accused, Trevor Muirhead, 44. It was addressed to Paul McBride QC, the criminal lawyer and lawyer for Celtic football club.After a five-week trial in Glasgow both men have been convicted of conspiring to assault McBride and his close friend and one of the UK's best known footballers, the Celtic manager, Neil Lennon, as well as a relatively little known but respected elderly Labour politician, Trish Godman, and republican activists in Glasgow.As it unfolded last March and April, their campaign provoked one of Scotland's largest anti-terrorism operations, paralleling the car bomb attack on Glasgow airport in 2007. MI5 and, it is understood, the GCHQ communications intelligence agency, were drafted in.It caught the attention of David Cameron, the prime minister, who is understood to have been furious that he was not told before the plot became public, after a temporary news blackout secured by Strathclyde police was finally breached on 19 April 2011. His reaction led to hurried meetings between Strathclyde's chief constable, Stephen House, and the then Lord Advocate, Elish Angiolini, Scotland's chief prosecutor.Alex Salmond, the first minister of Scotland, then fighting an election campaign, arrived at the first police press conference to denounce the "lunatic element" responsible as "despicable and cowardly". Police activity intensified further. Leading Catholics, including the UK's most senior priest, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, were warned about being potential targets.The affair has since become riddled with conflicting evidence about Muirhead and McKenzie's motives and their intelligence, and the lethality of the devices; the packages were, it eventually emerged, highly unlikely to explode and very unlikely to kill. By the time the jury went to consider their verdict, charges of conspiracy to murder had been honed down to conspiracy to assault.What began as a full-scale anti-terrorism investigation, which looked at possible connections to Ulster loyalist terror groups, ended in exposing an ill-conceived plot by two unremarkable men from the small coastal towns of Saltcoats and Kilwinning in Ayrshire; towns with a reputation for hard-line support for Protestant loyalism and the Orange order.They bought supplies from local shops, and posted the parcels just a few streets from home. They procured the peroxide-based hair dyes from Muirhead's son, Paul Millan, a hairdresser; they exchanged text messages about bomb disposal interest in "our package" and Muirhead boasted to his other son Gordon Muirhead about making bombs in "a sterile unit".Muirhead and McKenzie emerged as two close friends with a hatred for Celtic Football Club and, in Muirhead's case at least, intense support for militant loyalism and an open anti-Catholic bigotry which imbued the family home. Active on social media, his and his wife's networks on Facebook lent heavily towards friendships with fellow loyalists, and they joined a small but viciously anti-Catholic fringe group, the Scottish Unionist Association, on Bebo.His daughter Gemma, told the jury she was raised supporting loyalist extremism. Muirhead's "oath of allegiance" to the SUA from September 2009, and found in their house, read: "I, Trevor Muirhead, am a Protestant by birth and being convinced of a fiendish plot by Republicans to destroy my heritage, swear to defend my comrades and my country by any and all means against Republicans and Republican offshoots that may be of similar intent."McKenzie, who later told police he had been brought up in a partly-Catholic household to "live and let live", had a token shareholding of two shares in Rangers FC. As they incriminated each other, Muirhead insisted McKenzie was the real culprit; he admitted getting the peroxide, but insisted he did so to protect himself.McKenzie had "pure hatred" towards Lennon and Celtic, Muirhead said to police. Anything else, he said, was boasting and hot air to keep McKenzie happy. "I'm not scared of the guy, I'm terrified of him because I've see what he can do to people," Muirhead told officers.At times the conspiracy bordered on comedy. In police interviews, McKenzie described how he built the first hoax device sent to Lennon from memories of watching the children's action series The A-Team "a long time ago". It was crude but threatening: a block of putty was surrounded by 248 nails, with wire poking out.Yet the pair also showed a degree of foresight and cunning which still bemuses the detectives involved. The police believe they worked alone, yet the pair, said the senior investigating officer, Detective Chief Superintendent John Cuddihy, were forensically aware.Despite help from the intelligence agencies, covert surveillance experts and forensics laboratories, the police could not establish where the two men found the recipes on the internet to make explosives from hair dye; the site of the bomb factory remains undiscovered, and there was no direct forensic evidence such as fingerprints or DNA, to tie either men to the packages.A covert surveillance device placed in McKenzie's black Ford Focus suggested the pair were desperate to be taken seriously. They invested time creating unusual devices which, the prosecution argued, they thought were viable, even lethal.From sending out their first inert hoax to Lennon on 3 March, they learnt how to refine peroxide hair products into the highly unstable amateur explosive used by terrorist groups and suicide bombers, tri-acetone tri-peroxide or TATP.On 9 May, three days before their arrests by heavily armed police, they were recorded in the car discussing how to dispose of the peroxide, and plans to plant a device at a local police station.The first voice, said by police to be McKenzie, stated: "What do they think we were going to do? Build a bomb and chuck the stuff in the bin?" Muirhead replied: "They think we are thick." McKenzie agreed: "They think they are dealing with a couple of fucking hillbillies." Muirhead added: "They think all Ayrshire boys are dafties."McKenzie: "I think we should get enough stuff together, Trevor, and fucking plant one outside the police station. Put the shitters right up them." Muirhead concurs: "...and let the fucker aff. Just give them the message. Let it right aff, man."By 20 April, having seized three devices, two made using TATP and a third based on petrol, Strathclyde police were convinced the devices were potentially lethal. By the end of April, by which time the parcel sent to the group Cairde Na Heireann (Friends of Ireland) had been found in Belfast, initial forensic examination had detected TATP in three of the devices.The parcels sent to Lennon and Cairde Na Heireann were destroyed for safety reasons by bomb disposal officers in Glasgow and in Belfast, where the parcel destined for Cairde Na Heireann had been sent to a Royal Mail holding centre after the postman failed to deliver it.Yet that case was undermined by the later disclosure that the only surviving device with TATP had only small traces of the explosive. The device sent to Godman, whose crime was to wear a Celtic top on the day she retired from politics in April 2011, had just 0.06g of TATP present by the time it reached the forensics explosives laboratory – a fraction of the amount said to be needed to explode.The judge, Lord Turnbull, told the jury on the final day of the trial that there was no evidence that this tiny volume of TATP, equivalent to less than a grain of sugar, could cause any harm at all. "There's simply no evidence to suggest that such a minute quantity could even pierce the envelope," he said.Turnbull added that much of the prosecution case rested on interpretation of Muirhead and McKenzie's intentions and conversations. It was abundantly clear, he said, that none of the devices could ever explode."You can't ignore the one plain and undisputed fact that the devices weren't constructed as to explode," he said. He added: "If they knew the parcels wouldn't detonate from being opened, then they simply couldn't have believed that the devices were capable of causing severe injury."According to the police, each of the devices showed increasing levels of attention to detail, even though ultimately none were capable of being detonated by their victims. The fifth device, sent to Lennon's lawyer and close friend, Paul McBride, QC, who died suddenly in Pakistan on a business trip mid-way through the trial, appeared to be an incendiary bomb. Instead of TATP, it contained petrol.The police believe both men were planning further attacks.According to their defence lawyers, this was simply an elaborate hoax. In his closing speech to the jury, McKenzie's QC, Donald Findlay, insisted it was "preposterous" to believe either man wanted to kill or maim. "They were sending a message to scare, cause alarm, cause panic or inconvenience. That is all that it was," he said. "It was not a conspiracy to cause severe injury."Gordon Jackson, QC, for Muirhead, agreed. He reminded jurors that Muirhead told police he thought they were hoaxes. "There is not a scrap of evidence for saying these people, however stupid, bad or reprehensible, that they thought they were doing what is alleged in this indictment," he said.As they deliberated after five weeks of hearing evidence, and watched the charges against both men whittled down from conspiracy to murder down to conspiracy to injure, the jury was left with the central question, posed by Tim Niven-Smith, the prosecutor: "Why have they gone to the extremes of creating a primary explosive if it was all a joke?"In the end, they took Niven-Smith's advice and convicted both men of conspiracy.