While West Yorkshire police was carrying out its biggest missing person investigation since the Yorkshire Ripper, the family of Shannon Matthews have been involved in a remarkable series of claims and counter-claims.Shannon's mother, Karen, 32, who has seven children by five fathers, publicly stated that someone she knew had abducted her daughter."It makes me think I can't trust the people who are really close to me any more," she said. "The family don't feel safe any more - it has broken the family apart."She said the reason was "to hurt her".Shannon's uncle, Martin Matthews, 42, claimed that the little girl had pleaded to stay with him because she was "in trouble" with her stepfather for swearing during a row.He said: "I told her to go back. I regret it now. The next day she vanished."He claimed that Shannon told him on "many occasions" that she didn't want to go home to her mother and her stepfather in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire.Shannon's grandmother, June Matthews, added: "Karen was a great mum before she took Craig in. Those kids were loved and cared for. Since he arrived, they've had a terrible time."Shannon's stepfather, Craig Meehan, 22, replied: "Anyone round here will tell you I love these kids. I know they're not mine but they might as well be. I buy the food and pay all the bills. I bring the money into the family and all of it goes on the children and Karen."Shannon's real father, Leon Rose, 29, then defended her stepfather. "They really got on well. I was not around for some years and he has been a real dad to her. If there had been any problems I am sure she would have told me. I've always thought he was a decent guy."Rose, who split from Shannon's mother seven years ago, added: "It was obvious she looked up to him. If she's got time for him then so have I."The search for Shannon Matthews is said to have been the biggest of its kind in the area since the Yorkshire Ripper inquiry.At least 300 police officers from across the West Yorkshire force worked on the case.Chief Inspector Graham Armitage, who was in charge of the search part of the investigation, said 16 of the UK's 27 specialist "victim recovery dogs" - or body dogs - were used.For some time it was the extraordinary claims of family members that kept the hunt for Shannon in the public eye.Unlike the campaign to find Madeleine McCann, the publicity machine was much less powerful.In Dewsbury, locals funded extra copies of the small posters distributed by the police.The Sun offered a £20,000 reward and offered to print posters to publicise the search.In comparison, two tabloid newspapers had offered rewards for information that totalled more than £1m after Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman went missing for a few days.