A secret Scotland Yard review of an undercover unit at the heart of the controversy over long-term infiltration of political groups concluded that the squad had been shut down because it broke official rules, newly disclosed documents reveal. The review found that the unit – known as the Special Demonstration Squad (SDS) – operated without tight controls, ignored ethical issues and gathered information that had no use in fighting crime. The 68-page review was completed in 2009 but concealed by Scotland Yard until a freedom of information battle forced the Metropolitan police to disclose a censored version to the Guardian. It was produced a year after the SDS was closed down by the Met as an exercise to see what lessons could be learned from its operation.It paints an unflattering picture of the SDS, finding that “a number of ethical/moral dilemmas arose from the activity of SDS operatives and the management of them”. It finds that “in the vast majority of cases” the SDS dealt with the problems “internally and on occasions informally”. The review adds: “In some instances apparent ‘ethical/moral dilemmas were simply not addressed as they formed part of the ‘accepted consequences’ of such operational deployments.”The review concluded that the closure of the SDS “resulted from an inability to transform its processes and systems to comply with the present” guidelines that had been drawn up by senior police officers.The disclosure of the previously secret review comes as a leading judge, Lord Justice Pitchford, is due on Tuesday to open the first public inquiry into undercover policing in Britain.Women need protection from undercover officers | Owen Jones Pitchford’s inquiry was launched by the home secretary, Theresa May, after a series of revelations about the conduct of undercover officers, who formed long-term relationships with female campaigners and had children with them, spied on the family of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence, and hid evidence in court cases. The SDS was run by the Met and collected what the review called “high-grade intelligence” on protesters during “deep infiltration operations”.Established in 1968, the unit planted more than 100 undercover officers in more than 460 political groups, until it was wound up in 2008. The undercover officers adopted intricate fake personas and pretended to be campaigners for spells of usually five years. The SDS spies were deployed to gather information about protests organised by campaigns including those of grieving families seeking the truth about police misconduct, environmentalists and anti-racist groups. The operations of the SDS were kept secret from the public and were known to only a small number of police officers, government ministers and Whitehall officials. However, behind the scenes senior police officers chronicled the failings of the SDS, whose use of undercover infiltration is one of the most intrusive surveillance techniques in the police’s repertoire. The 2009 review concluded that SDS “directed its own operations with significant tactical latitude with minimal organisational constraints”. The squad collected information on “inappropriate” and “peripheral” targets that appeared to have no “value to the policing of London”, it added. In the late 1990s – around the time the unit was gathering information about Stephen Lawrence’s family – the SDS was presenting descriptions of its operations on one side of A4 paper to be rubber-stamped by its superiors. Met police to pay more than £400,000 to victim of undercover officer “Clearly the SDS preferred the less bureaucratic approach and directed their operational activity without intrusive supervision management at that time,” the review says. In the 1970s and 80s, the SDS’s superiors only scrutinised its operations after they had happened and then only in an annual report “justifying the continued expenditure provided by them for the operation”. The review reported that the secrecy surrounding the unit was so intense that there was “little evidence of regular or systematic” scrutiny of its operation by outsiders. Towards the end of its 40-year existence, the unit had become isolated from the rest of the police. A source involved in the discussions to close it down has previously said the unit had spun so far out of control it had lost its moral compass and become a “force within a force”.In a prescient prediction, the officer writing the review warned that a number of aspects of SDS operations posed a significant threat to the Met’s reputation if they were exposed to the public.Without elaborating, the officer said these included “targeting, activity falling outside of the law, arrests and ‘relationships’ with criminal proceedings, finance”. Police chiefs have been compelled to disclose more details of the undercover infiltration of political groups after revelations about the SDS’s activities started to appear after 2010. On Tuesday, Pitchford is expected to outline the future course of the inquiry, which is likely to start hearing evidence at a later date.The Met said the public inquiry “represents a real opportunity to provide as complete a picture as possible of how the SDS came to be”. It added that the police’s internal investigation into the SDS showed that “there has been some behaviour and practice by this unit that today causes us concern, but even when it is uncomfortable for us we are determined to face up to the facts and learn from the past”. 