When Sir Robert Mark was appointed as commissioner of the Metropolitan police in 1972, he was given the task of cleaning up a force that had been tainted by institutional corruption. His aim at the time, he recounted in his autobiography, was "to make virtue fashionable". During his five years in charge, 478 officers left the Met after disciplinary proceedings, a rate of departure six times higher than in the immediately preceding years. The result was a cleaned-up force with both morale among the uniformed police and public confidence greatly restored. Now the current commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, has to act in an equally bold fashion.The issues Stephenson is facing, after up to five police officers were reportedly paid bribes totalling £100,000 by the News of the World, are not as grim and dark as those that confronted Mark, who had to deal with detectives who routinely asked for pay-offs from pornographers and even armed robbers to drop charges or tip them off about raids. One bank robber, the late Bobby King, said that it was a relief in the 60s and early 70s when detectives came calling after a bank raid as the robbers knew they could pay them off speedily and relax. Stephenson was able to deal with part of that culture but no large, power-wielding organisation, whether police force or media company, will ever be able to eradicate corruption entirely. There have been pockets of dishonesty within the police ever since, whether "noble cause corruption", in which someone that the police believe to have committed a crime is stitched up, or for personal gain.It has always been known, by both police and the press, that some officers will trade information for money. Victims of crime or tragedy are often amazed at the speed with which the media arrive in the wake of the emergency services. Now they know why. What has also emerged, in addition to confirmation that bungs have been paid for information or tip-offs, is that some officers have been prepared to jeopardise inquiries for the sake of cash. One of the most disturbing aspects of this case is that one target of the dirty tricks department was detective chief superintendent Dave Cook, the officer investigating, with great diligence and commitment, the 1987 murder of private eye Daniel Morgan and the involvement of corrupt officers in that investigation.So what now? Reporters facing prosecution for paying police officers may well reveal the names of their contacts. Junior officers under investigation may point the finger at senior officers. Deborah Glass of the Independent Police Complaints Commission has promised a "robust" inquiry and it is certainly one that needs an outsider involved, one with no links to those who may have taken Murdoch shilling. Stephenson himself has said that among the 55,000 people employed by the Met, there will inevitably be some who are corrupt. It will be a painful task rooting them out, not least because any other case involving these officers will be tarnished. Defence lawyers will now be watching out for the names of the officers arrested or disciplined with a view to seeking appeals for their clients. Upcoming prosecutions may be derailed, too, if it is found that officers under investigation were involved in them.Reflecting in his book on the depth of corruption that he faced at Scotland Yard in the 70s, Mark was moved to quote Hamlet: "The time is out of joint: O cursed spite that ever I was born to set it right." The current commissioner may curse that he now has to spend his dwindling resources on investigating his own officers and News International journalists rather than murderers, terrorists and robbers. Indeed, one of the great ironies of this whole affair is that an organisation that prided itself on tracking down the bad guys is now tying up dozens of detectives who would otherwise be chasing more traditional criminals. Stephenson will not have to oversee the departure of so many officers as his predecessor did but, if public confidence is to be restored, he has to "set it right".• To comment on this story or any other about phone hacking, please visit our open thread