In the centre where families wait to see inmates at Manchester prison (also known as Strangeways), Kirsty, 10, is engrossed in the crossword from a new comic. "'18 across: Man's best friend, three letters,'" ponders Kirsty. "Is that a gay?"The comic has been devised by a charity, the English Churches' Housing Group (ECHG), to help prepare children to visit their fathers in prison. The charity hopes that by keeping the children of prisoners happy the family will continue visiting, stay together throughout the sentence and help prisoners to readjust to society on their release.The governor of the prison, John Smith, says: "I don't think we can conceive of how terrifying it must be for a child to be separated from its dad and then see him in this terrifying environment. One of the saddest things as a governor is seeing the children in the visitor area."The comic helps children to understand what to expect in the prison itself, mainly through the character of Ginger, who encounters the same high-security searches, x-ray machines, guards and dogs the children will soon face."We've seen how upset some children can be by visiting prison and the strain this puts on families," explains the ECHG's prison centre manager, Mike Gorman. "By helping relatives it keeps families together and leads to less family breakdown and homelessness." The housing charity found that many of the people who came into its supported housing were ex-prisoners. Home Office research shows that prison visits are falling fast, with 30% fewer visits a prisoner over a five-year period. According to Mr Smith, this is a recipe for recidivism. "If someone doesn't love you, then you get feelings of worthlessness, which can lead to chaotic living, drug abuse, reoffending. Families and partners play a critical role in sustaining prisoners feelings of being valued," he says.Peter Walters, chief executive of the ECHG, says the charity's work in prisons is "about families and providing a smooth exit when prisoners are released. We're more than bricks and mortar - we concentrate on vulnerable people, helping them to keep their lives together." Manchester prison's visitor centre was developed after the riots at Strangeways in 1992, and now 55,000 people, including 11,000 children, use the facility each year. Mr Walters welcomes the comic as a way of easing "the complete fear and bafflement of kids who come here". Security is such that even babies are searched, having their nappies changed by prison staff. Veronica Rugg, 37, married Kirsty's father - who is serving a life sentence - in the hospital wing of the prison. She says of visiting: "It's horrible when you go in there for the first time. Your stomach's in your mouth, because you don't know what to expect." The centre, she says, has made her weekly visit - a long day's round journey from Utoxeter - much easier. "There's nothing worse than if a child's got nothing to do," she says. "Here, it's great, because they can sit, draw, read, play, whatever." Ms Rugg has built relationships here too. A volunteer comes to tell her that one of the other prisoner's wives won't be able to see her next week because her husband has been paroled. "See? That's brilliant," says Mrs Rugg. "A screw wouldn't have done that."The centre also offers advice on health, welfare and benefits, aiming, it says, to address all these issues in the context of a warmer environment than families might find elsewhere. The last word on its latest venture should go to the target audience. So what is Kirsty's verdict on the comic?"It's good. The jokes are funny," she says. "But the crossword is a bit hard."