The shock of riot cracks the carapace of civilisation and the abyss gapes beneath our feet. The social veneer wears thin when among the usual suspects appearing in court were also an organic chef, an opera house steward, a primary school assistant – not well-paid but not unemployed either, showing how easily people are tempted by wide-open Comet and Argos stockrooms. Ha! That proves it! This is sheer criminality, pure and simple: bang them up, end of story.But just a week since rioting kicked off, the political significance has yet to dawn. So far, the small-staters are losing. A small state means – and Cameron has not budged – a smaller police force and shrunken social programmes, with more potential for anarchy. The politics of this are dangerous for a Tory government. In any public clash with high-ranking police of Sir Hugh Orde's stature, Tory ministers would be wise to beat a retreat.The small-staters blame the collapse of moral values, school indiscipline and feral beasts without fathers or consciences, as if removing government allows morality to flourish. But take government and regulation away and see discord follow – from Sir Fred (Scottish Calvinist) Goodwin to all the other looters. Grab what you can, winner takes all, no wealth is ever too much, this neoliberal amoral creed has reigned unquestioned since Margaret Thatcher. Boris Johnson blames the rioters' "extreme sense of entitlement", but his success from Bullingdon restaurant-trasher onwards has been based on never questioning his own entitlement. L'Oréal's "Because I'm worth it", the slogan of our times, is a close relative of "Because I can", which stretches from Barclays chief Bob Diamond to the Debenhams window-smasher.Yet the "bring back morality" right rages on. So let's try agreeing with Cameron and the Mail. Yes, murderers ought to get life. The rest of the rioters are getting harsher than usual sentences. So lock up the wild beasts in prisons already so overcrowded they will learn nothing, most emerging to steal again almost immediately. Go on, take away their benefits, evict them from their council homes. But then what? Nothing at all, no government action, no state interventions? How will doing nothing else stop it happening again?Posturing and denial in parliament forbade anyone to speak of causes: Cameron batted away Ed Miliband's call for an inquiry to consider these events in cooler retrospect. But all can see how most of this began and burned fiercest in – yes – poorest places. Observers protest some rioters didn't look poor, with iPhones and bling: on those estates, they may be acquired from theft or drug-dealing, while those without are excluded unless they join gangs too. But once you have exhausted the vocabulary of outrage and banged up those you can, what does the government do next? Perish the thought, but the only possible next actions are liberal ones as you look for remedies for fractured communities.The Mail gleefully blames "the liberal intelligentsia" for soft policies, but what can the illiberal unintelligentsia do but follow the logic of liberal remedies – or be broken by further outbreaks of riot. This week Labour banned anyone from saying cuts were to blame: some had yet to take effect and no one said the rioters were political. But Ken Warman, head of BSix, a good sixth form college in Hackney, has no doubt the cuts have ricochetted through the London borough already – 70% at his college rely on the education maintenance allowance being withdrawn next month.Last month I met one of his students with a rare Oxford place if she gets good A-levels – but she had missed weeks of lessons early on when she wasn't getting EMA and her family couldn't afford the fares to college. Warman's students had been out on EMA and tuition fees demos, but he worries most about local teens he tries to entice back to education now completely cut adrift, with so many youth services cut or shut, and no Connexions careers guidance. "There's just no work for the young," he says, and holiday schemes have few places, while family incomes have dropped through job losses and benefit cuts. "Of course the timing this summer is no coincidence."No, his words are not an excuse for criminality – but it's a fact the government will have to confront. Blame bad parenting and low morals, but where is the Michael Heseltine of 1981 to say action must be taken, or else? The Future Jobs Fund needs restoring, along with the youth job guarantee. The government can't demand young people work without a "New Deal" to make it happen.All social remedies are slow, difficult and expensive, with no quick fixes, taking a "wall of money" whatever Cameron pretends – but that's cheaper than crime and chaos. What's needed is consistent public and political will to make gains over generations, without abandoning schemes that never deliver to electoral timetables. The dumb moralisers don't have to be wrong, but moralising and plastic bullets won't be enough.