The call to the police must have seemed clear enough. A man carrying a silver pistol had been spotted on the street in Brixton, south London. Three officers, two armed, sped to the scene and found the man on the first floor walkway of a low rise block of flats. When the "weapon" was pointed at the officers, one of them took aim with his 9mm Glock 17 pistol and fired six times.It was only after the man fell to the floor fatally injured that it became clear that the weapon was not a handgun but a cigarette lighter in the shape of a pistol. The shooting on Monday has intensified the debate over the police's use of weapons and prompted calls for the government to work harder to find alternative ways of arming the police. Only last Thursday, Andrew Kernan, who suffered from schizophrenia, was shot dead as he wielded a samurai sword, to the fury of relatives who argued he could have been disarmed without being killed. While declining to comment on the shootings in Brixton and Liverpool, the home secretary, David Blunkett, stressed that the police needed to take a "proportionate response". The Home Office confirmed that research was under way into new technology that could lessen the need for police to carry guns. But many police officers argue that especially in London, which has seen a dramatic increase in gun crime, an armed police presence is necessary. The police complaints authority, which is already investigating the shooting of Mr Kernan, will now consider the shooting of the man in Brixton, who was named by relatives as Derek Bennett, a former traffic warden. More details about the shooting emerged yesterday. Three police officers, two of them armed, had gone to Loughborough Road, Brixton, at 3.05pm after a member of the public reported that they had seen a man with a gun.  Threatening  By the time they got there he had left but they tracked him down to flats in nearby Crowhurst Close. The man was threatening two other men on a first floor walkway with what police believed was a handgun. One of the men ran away down some steps as the "weapon" was pointed at him and at the police officers. The "gunman" then grabbed hold of the other man. It is believed that the armed officers, one carrying the Glock pistol, the other with a Heckler and Koch MP5 rifle, took cover behind concrete pillars. They say they ordered the man to put down his weapon but he did not do so. As children played nearby, the officer with the pistol fired six times. The other officer did not open fire. It is believed that Mr Bennett, who is understood to have been known to police, was hit five times. Upon hearing the shots, neighbours came running out of their flats. Sherice Cabette, 16, who lives five doors down from where the victim fell, said: "I saw one policeman standing up over the man and one, who had a gun, crouching down. The man was in a folded up position and they pulled both his arms and dragged him until he was lying down on his back. I saw two wounds. They were trying to revive him but he didn't look like he was breathing." Freda Benao, 38, who lives at the end of the estate said: "I cried and said this man is somebody's dad or somebody's son. I couldn't even eat last night because I was so shocked." Mr Bennett was pronounced dead in hospital. The "gun" was found to be a replica gun cigarette lighter, its handle reinforced with tape. The man's uncle, Dalton, said: "I can't believe he's dead. He was here on Sunday sitting upstairs talking. He was a good boy. I don't know what happened but he was not a bad man. Derek was a traffic warden for Lambeth council. How can he have been a bad man? We are all devastated." The issue of police and firearms came under public scrutiny last month when the chief constable of Sussex, Paul Whitehouse, resigned following the death of James Ashley, 39, who was naked and unarmed when he was shot dead in front of his girlfriend during a botched raid on his flat. Yesterday campaigners were asking why in both the Liverpool and the Brixton shootings the men could not have been disabled rather than shot dead. Roger Bingham, spokesman for civil rights group Liberty, said: "This was a shocking incident, especially after the shooting in Liverpool. The police have a duty to use minimum necessary force. This cannot just be about better weapons and training. The police must look to less harmful alternatives." A spokeswoman for the pressure group Inquest, Deborah Coles, said the police were at "crisis point". She said: "People are becoming concerned that too many peo ple who are being shot are found to be unarmed or carrying fake weapons." It is up to the individual officer to decide whether to shoot, and the officer knows that he or she may be called upon to defend the action in court. An officer is allowed to use "reasonable force", which can include "lethal force". But experts point out that it is not practical for a firearms officer to attempt to wound a suspect. The officer would open fire in any case only if he or she believed an officer or member of the public was in mortal danger. And merely to wound a suspect armed with a gun would not necessarily stop the suspect returning fire. Firearms specialist Mike Yardley, who gave evidence to the Cullen inquiry after the Dunblane tragedy, said: "The police are taught to shoot to kill. They shoot for the centre of the chest. The idea is to instantaneously stop the suspect."  Tranquilliser guns  Research is being done for the Home Office into tranquilliser guns, which Mr Blunkett is said to favour. He said: "We are looking at alternatives and we will want to come forward with the chief constables to avoid incidents of this sort." Rank and file officers are not sure that tranquillisers are practical, pointing out that they would have to stop a suspect instantly - and safely. Dave Rodgers, vice chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said: "We will happily look at anything which is effective but not lethal. But it does need to be accurate and instantaneously effective. At the moment there is not such a thing on the market." Meanwhile, a demonstration outside Brixton town hall was organised last night by the civil rights group Movement for Justice, which is based in Brixton. Alex Owolade said: "We are calling people to come out and protest and show the authorities we are not prepared to accept this." Lee Jasper, senior policy adviser on policing to the London mayor, Ken Livingstone, added: "Given the explosion of black gun crime within the black community, our message to people is that if you are carrying a toy gun as a fashion accessory then that is a very dangerous thing to do." Related articles 17.07.2001: Demonstration planned after police shooting 17.07.2001: Appeal for calm after police shoot man dead in Brixton17.07.2001: Mother denies shot son was threat16.07.2001: Criminal gun use 'rose 40% after ban'15.07.2001: Police to be armed with stun gunsThe victims: Air rifles, a sword - and a table leg  July 12 2001  Andrew Kernan, a 37-year-old schizophrenic from Liverpool, was shot twice in the chest by police while he was armed with a sword.  October 30 2000 Patrick O'Donnell, 19, was shot by a Metropolitan police officer after a siege at a house in Islington, north London, in which he took his mother and girlfriend hostage.  September 24 2000 Kirk Davies, 30, died after being shot by a West Yorkshire police officer in Wakefield. He had an air rifle and had threatened a police officer earlier in the evening.  September 22 1999 Painter and decorator Harry Stanley, 46, from Hackney, east London, was shot dead by police marksmen as he walked home from a pub carrying a wooden table leg. The decision not to prosecute the officers involved is to be re-examined after Mr Stanley's family applied for a judicial review.  June 22 1999 Derek Bateman died instantly after being hit with a single shot when police were called to his house following a domestic dispute. The 47-year-old from Dorking, Surrey, was unarmed.  April 10 1999 Devon and Cornwall police fatally shot Antony Kitts in Falmouth. He was reported to have threatened officers with what they thought was a shotgun. It turned out to be an air rifle. An inquest last year returned a verdict of lawful killing.  February 26 1998 Michael Fitzgerald, 32, was shot in the chest by police in Bedford after a two-hour stand-off. Neighbours had mistaken him for a burglar. It later emerged that he was in his own home and carrying a fake gun.  January 15, 1998 James Ashley, 39, was naked and unarmed when he was shot dead in front of his girlfriend during a raid on his flat in St Leonards, East Sussex in the early hours of the morning. One officer was acquitted on charges of murder and manslaughter. Paul Whitehouse, the chief constable, resigned last month.  November 20 1996 David Howell, 40, a mental health patient, was shot dead by police marksmen when he ran amok with a knife in a Birmingham shop and took the manager hostage. An inquest jury later returned a verdict of lawful killing.  September 23 1996 Diarmuid O'Neill, 27, a suspected IRA terrorist was hit and killed by 10 bullets when officers raided his lodgings in Hammersmith, west London. An inquest ruled last year that the unarmed man was lawfully killed.  April 28 1995 A prisoner on day release, David Ewin, 38, was shot twice in the stomach by a police officer after he was spotted in a stolen sports car in Barnes, west London. He died in hospital three weeks later.  April 24 1995 James Brady, 21, was shot dead in an ambush by police officers acting on a tip-off. He and three friends were thought to be about to steal from a club in Westerhope village, near Newcastle. The torch he had been carrying was mistaken for a firearm.  Sally James Gregory  Useful links Metropolitan police Lambeth borough police Inquest Brixton online