The prime suspect in the murder of French film-maker Sophie Toscan du Plantier in West Cork seven years ago will not face any criminal charges, according to gardai.Several witnesses who testified against freelance journalist Ian Bailey in his controversial libel action against eight newspapers, which linked him with the brutal killing of Du Plantier, have been told by gardai in Cork that no criminal charges are likely to be brought in the case. After Judge Patrick Mahon ruled last month that newspapers were correct in identifying Bailey as a key suspect, gardai had indicated to witnesses that criminal charges would be brought 'within weeks'. However, the same people have now been told that no such charges are likely to happen. 'After the libel case was over, the Garda contacted us to tell us not to speak to the media because a criminal trial was going to take place very soon. Now they have admitted that's not the case,' said one woman who appeared for the defence during the two-week hearing last December. 'It's very disappointing. Everybody wants this whole affair over, so we can move on with our lives. But also so we can get justice for Sophie and her family,' she said. Another witness said gardai explained there was still not enough physical evidence to proceed with the case. 'I think after the success of the libel trial, they were a bit gung ho. But nothing has changed, in that there's mountains of circumstantial evidence around the murder, but little or no forensic proof,' said the witness. 'My impression is that the Garda is really split over this case,' he said. Bailey was arrested twice by gardai in connection with the murder but was released without charge. He has not returned to the farmhouse outside Schull, in West Cork, which he shares with his artist partner, Jules Thomas, since the courts found against him three weeks ago. He is believed to be in Dublin and locals say the couple plan to sell up and leave the area. Meanwhile the parents of Du Plantier intend to proceed later this year with a civil action against Bailey for damages arising from the death of their daughter. Most of the 26 witnesses who gave evidence for the defence in the libel trial have been approached by the family's solicitor to do the same for them in the civil case. The witnesses included Bailey's neighbours, senior gardai who took part in the investigation, and reporters who covered the story. All have agreed to take part. Du Plantier, 39, was bludgeoned to death at her home on Schull on 22 December, 1996. She was the wife of French film producer Daniel Toscan du Plantier and had one child. During the hearing, several people testified that Bailey had admitted to them that he had killed her. These included Malachi Reed, then aged 14, who said Bailey had confessed to him that he had 'bashed her brains in', and locals Rosie and Ritchie Shelley, who claimed he had told them on New Year's Eve 1998 that he had committed the murder. Bailey vigorously denied all of the accusations. Robert Dore, the Dublin solicitor for Du Plantier's family, said that they are encouraged by the 'success' of the libel trial. 'It is heartening from our point of view that a judge felt that, on the balance of probability, what was published by eight newspapers relating to Bailey's involvement in the unlawful death of Sophie Toscan du Plantier was true,' he said. 'In our civil action, we have the same onus of proof. It is a balance of probabilities; not "beyond all reasonable doubt".' Marguerite Bouniol, Du Plantier's mother, said: 'We are putting all our hope in the revelations that came out in the libel trial,' she said. 'For justice to be done, for Sophie, but also for the people who so bravely testified.' Costs for the libel case, which are estimated at around €600,000 (£413,000), will be awarded by Judge Mahon at the Circuit Court in Cork next Thursday.