Police were last night investigating whether a depressed mother had killed her two young children before taking her own life, in what could be the fourth case of its kind this month.The bodies of the 27-year-old woman, understood to be called Natalie Ndayiragije, and her five-year-old daughter and three-year-old son were found in a bedroom in the family's home in Dupont Gardens, New Parks, Leicester, yesterday morning. Neighbours said that Ndayiragije had a stillborn baby during the summer and had suffered from severe depression. One described how she would call round to find her lying in bed crying.Police are understood to be working on the theory that the mother, of African descent, may have killed her daughter, Anika, and son, Amsa, then started a fire in the home before committing suicide. Curtains in the two upstairs rooms were visibly fire-damaged yesterday, while the walls of the two-bedroom terraced property had been blackened by smoke. Their bodies were found by Ndayiragije's partner, who is not the father of the dead children, after he returned from work just after 1am yesterday.One neighbour, Sandra Gordon, 31, whose daughter played with the two dead children, said: 'It is an absolute shock. I can't believe it has happened. Natalie was very depressed and upset about losing the child. I used to go round and console her and often she would just be lying in bed crying about it.'Although police have yet to confirm any motive behind the deaths, it appears that the tragedy may be the latest in a recent series of shocking cases where parents are alleged to have murdered their children. Earlier this month Sayrah Riaz, 16, and her sisters, Sophia, 15, Alisha, 10, and Hannah, three, were killed by their father, Mohammed, after he set fire to the family home in Accrington, Lancashire. Their mother, Caneze, also died. Mohammed died later in hospital. In August, John Hogan, 32, from Bristol, threw his six-year-old son, Liam, to his death from a hotel balcony in Crete. Moments later he jumped with his two-year-old daughter, Mia. Both survived. Hogan is accused of murder and attempted murder.Yesterday morning, Neil Crampton, a 34-year-old former taxi driver appeared in court in Newcastle accused of murdering his two children, his ex-partner and her brother in a knife attack. Steven, aged five, and Abigail, 12, were found dead in their pyjamas inside their home in Kenton, Newcastle. Crampton's former partner, Funke Sobo, and her brother, Yemi, were found dead downstairs from multiple stab wounds. He was remanded in custody.Last Friday 35-year-old Perry Samuel appeared in a north Wales court charged with murdering his two children, Caitlin, five, and Aidan, three, while he was babysitting for his estranged wife.In none of these cases are the full circumstances and motives known. However, criminologists say it is the cases involving mothers who murder their children that elicit the strongest reactions. Studies suggest that, in most cases, they tend to be mentally ill, often suffering from some form of postnatal depression . In contrast, men who killed their children tended to struggle with feelings of rage, jealousy, revenge and hatred, which were most commonly triggered by their wife leaving them.Research from the US has found that parents who kill their children rarely have a criminal record. Most, in fact, are described as devoted and doting.Analysis of government data suggests that the widely held fear among parents of 'strangers in the park' is misplaced. Most children who are murdered are killed by their parents. In the majority of cases, the attacks are premeditated, according to experts. The latest Home Office figures show that, of 58 child victims in 2004-05, only 16 per cent were killed by strangers.In America - where 10 'murder-suicide' cases are recorded each week - criminologists have branded such killers as 'family annihilators'.Criminologists warn that cases now appear to be on the increase in Britain, with a number of particularly alarming incidents involving mothers. Earlier this month a court heard that Angela Schumann, 28, had jumped 100ft from the Humber Bridge with her two-year-old daughter, Lorraine, in her arms. They both survived. Schumann had written a note on her stomach, blaming her estranged husband. In April 40-year-old Alison Davies jumped from the same bridge, killing herself and her 12-year-old autistic son, Ryan.Tragic toll1 November: Mohammed Riaz, 49, douses the family home in Accrington, Lancashire, in petrol and sets fire to it. The blaze kills his daughters Hannah, three, Alisha, 10, Sophia, 15, and Sayrah, 16, along with their mother, Caneze. Riaz dies later in hospital .17 November: Perry Samuel, 35, appears in court charged with murdering his children, Caitlin, five, and three-year-old Aidan at their home in Bodelwyddan, north Wales, on 6 November while he was babysitting for his estranged wife. The children, who died from asphyxiation, were found in a bath.18 November: Neil Crampton, 34, is remanded in custody in Newcastle upon Tyne, charged with killing his five-year-old son Steven, his daughter Abigail, 12, his former partner Funke Sobo, 36, and her brother Yemi Sobo, 41. All four died of multiple stab and slash wounds in an attack last Monday.