A teenage boy was chased by a gang shouting "kill him" before being stabbed to death in front of horrified onlookers, a court heard yesterday.Kodjo Yenga was ambushed in a quiet London street by about a dozen youngsters armed with knives and bats. The 16-year-old tried to escape but was cornered and stabbed in the heart. The gang ran away laughing as the teenager lay bleeding in his girlfriend's arms. He died later in hospital.Six boys, aged between 14 and 17, deny murdering Kodjo in March last year. Yesterday the Old Bailey heard that moments after the attack a teacher saw a "psyched" youth brandishing a bloodied knife.Sir Allan Green QC, prosecuting, said Angela Quinn had been cycling in Hammersmith Grove, west London, when she saw a group of teenagers running towards her. He said: "They were shouting, very excited. She heard a girl shout 'he's going to stab him'. Then apparently the same girl shouted 'he's stabbed him'." After going into a nearby shop to ask someone to call for help, Quinn began pushing her bicycle down the road and came face to face with a youngster brandishing a knife. "The boy had a knife in his hand. The knife was shiny, shaped about five inches long and less than an inch wide," said Green. "She had got the impression the handle was black. There was wet blood on the blade of the knife. The boy was holding it out at arm's length with the blade pointing upwards. He looked proud as if he had done something by way of an accomplishment." Quinn asked him: "What have you done?" The court heard that the boy replied: "Shut your mouth." Quinn then called him "a bastard", Green told the court.Another witness, Deepika Kohli, was walking up Hammersmith Grove with her child in a pushchair when she saw Kodjo being chased by the gang. Green said: "Behind him was a group of 10 black youths. She noticed two girls as well. She could hear a few members of the group shouting catch him, kill him."The court heard that two or three members of the group caught him and appeared to stab the back of his jacket before Kodjo managed to slip their grasp and stagger away. Green said the group ran off "laughing and smiling".The court heard that on the day he was killed Kodjo had agreed to have a one-to-one fight with a member of a local gang known as the MDP. According to Green, the gang used to regularly challenge non-members to one-to-one fights only to turn up with several friends; in the past the tactic had culminated in a "serious assault with various weapons".The case continues.