Police investigating child abuse on Jersey have been scrutinising allegations of assaults from as recently as the last few months, it emerged yesterday as the first pictures were released of the care home cellar where officers have been searching for human remains.While many of the crimes being examined date back to the early 1960s, others took place in recent years and one was allegedly committed a few weeks before Christmas. It is unclear where that offence is said to have taken place: the home at Haut de la Garenne where part of a child's skull was discovered nine days ago closed in 1986, but officers are investigating allegations of abuse at other institutions on Jersey. A spokeswoman for the island's government declined to identify the institution yesterday but indicated that a member of staff had been suspended.Police have compiled a list of 40 suspects, many of whom worked at Haut de la Garenne, after talking to more than 160 alleged victims and several dozen witnesses. Among the suspects are people who had "some official connection with the Jersey establishment", according to the island's chief police officer, Graham Power.Police confirmed yesterday that one individual against whom serious allegations have been made is Wilfred Krichefski, a business leader and politician who died in 1974. Officers are understood to have spoken to at least one former resident who claims to have been repeatedly raped by Krichefski at Haut de la Garenne in the early 60s.Only one person who worked at the home has been charged, and it may be weeks before others are arrested. In the meantime, detectives are understood to be keeping a watch on ports and airport for any suspects leaving the island.Police say they have reason to believe that a former care worker at Haut de la Garenne has threatened a former resident in an attempt to dissuade him from cooperating with the police investigation. Lenny Harper, the detective leading the investigation, warned that anyone attempting to pervert the course of justice would be committing a "serious criminal offence", and added: "This is a stark warning - we will not tolerate it."Police sources disclosed yesterday that officers had been monitoring some islanders' use of child pornography websites for up to 12 months before the existence of the operation was made public in November last year. Although police kept the inquiry secret for a year, there have been rumours on the island about abuses at Haut de la Garenne for a generation or more.The Rev Lawrence Turner, the Anglican vicar of St Martin's, the parish within which the home lies, says he first heard whispers about physical abuse shortly after arriving in the area in the mid-60s. He was told of a number of specific incidents by a senior figure within his parish and advised the man to contact the authorities. "Either he didn't tell them, or he was ignored. That is the bad part; that is the thing we all have to live with." Photographs of the cellar that is being searched, released yesterday, show a low bath or cattle trough that is said to feature in a number of statements taken from abuse victims. Many have talked of being held in the cellar. One photograph shows a pillar supporting the ceiling on which someone has scrawled "Ive been sad 4 years & years". The pictures also show the dirty, rubble-strewn conditions in which police search teams are slowly searching not only for any human remains but also for any other pieces of evidence.Officers have discovered that there may be as many as four rooms beneath one wing of the 140-year-old building, and suspect there may be other cellars beneath the building that will need to be examined. However, it is now thought that shackles found in a cellar last month may have been used to restrain livestock and may have played no part in the abuse.Yesterday a mechanical digger was raking back undergrowth in the grounds of the home in preparation for further digging today. Police think it may be another 12 months before the investigation is completed and a team of 12 detectives from across England and Wales has been gathered to join the inquiry.