For a time it seemed as if Raoul Moat might come quietly. It was past midnight and Britain's most wanted man was sitting cross-legged beside the river Coquet, looking relaxed as he sipped a bottle of water under police floodlights.For almost five hours the former nightclub bouncer had been talking, sometimes passionately, sometimes softly, to a three-strong specialist police negotiating team. At 12.10am today Moat appeared placated; a satisfactory outcome to the most sophisticated manhunt ever conducted in Britain seemed to be within the grasp of the police.But as the drizzle worsened and the chill set in, Moat became noticeably more anxious. Witnesses from the terraced homes in Rothbury bordering the strip of meadow where the talks were taking place heard shouting. Shortly after 1am, a female negotiator tried to pacify the gunman and his rising temper.Throughout the six hours of negotiations that preceded the tragic finale, officers had tried to befriend Moat, addressing him only as Raoul while repeatedly offering assurances that he would not come to any harm. He kept telling them he had to nothing to live for. "I haven't got a dad," he said an hour into the talks, referring to the fact that he had never known his real father. The negotiators would have been briefed that the reported comments from his mother last week that she would rather see him dead would have gravely undermined his desire to live.Just before 9pm, 100 minutes into the negotiations that would end with him fatally shooting himself, Moat was overheard telling police "nobody cares about me". Psychological profiles had portrayed the 37-year-old as a fragile character who felt alone in the world. Now he was confirming their projections.The conciliatory approach adopted by police continued, officers empathising that they understood he had endured a "bad year" in reference to his spell in prison and the loss of his girlfriend Samantha Stobbart to Chris Brown, 29, who, almost a week earlier, he had shot dead with the weapon he would later turn on himself.Throughout the negotiations, Moat never let go of his sawn-off shotgun. For most of the talks the former fugitive steadfastly pointed the weapon at his own neck. In turn, 10 trained snipers crouched in firing positions behind the negotiators. During the early stages, one witness counted eight weapons trained on the gunman.At 10.40pm an unmarked car was allowed through the inner police cordon blocking the B6341 that runs parallel to where the negotiations were taking place. Its driver was Moat's best friend, Tony Laidler. The pair had spent many an afternoon fishing in the river during happier times. He was led through the cordon to help persuade him to surrender. Some reports indicate Laidler may have even tried to convince officers that Moat's shotgun contained no ammunition. The police could not afford to believe him. Laidler is thought to have last spoken with Moat by phone on Tuesday, three days into the search.Bizarrely, minutes before Laidler's arrival, another fishing friend, footballer Paul Gascoigne, had also turned up, carrying a can of lager and a fishing rod. The 43-year-old appeared to suggest he had brought the wanted man a "can of lager, some chicken, a mobile phone and something to keep warm".A slurring Gascoigne, who had been attending an all-day funeral wake, was politely turned away.Throughout the negotiations witnesses described Moat's body language as veering from seeming resignation to high agitation. For the first hour or so he was forced to lie on his stomach by the riverbank. Later he was allowed to get up on his knees, where the 6ft 3in, 17st gunman could be seen rocking from side to side to relieve the pressure on his limbs. After 9pm he was allowed to stand up, still with the shotgun to his neck, a move that offered the police better sight of their captive.About an hour later Moat sat down, his demeanour appearing to have stabilised, before deciding to stand up again around 1am as his temper turned ragged. At times, he could be heard screaming at officers, who were careful to remain 10 yards from him. A female negotiator could be overheard taking the lead in attempts to calm him.James Matthews, who lived close enough to hear exchanges between Moat and the police, said at some points even she sounded "animated and emotional".The end came quickly. A single shot rang out at 1.15am, followed by screams and shouts. Residents who had gathered behind the police barricades 100 yards away gasped in shock. But officers nearby knew that a lone shot indicated Moat had fired it himself. Any shot directed at police would have precipitated a volley of fire; their rules of engagement stipulated that action could only be sanctioned if Moat aimed at an officer.Even now, however, disturbing questions present themselves. It emerged today that officers twice fired a Taser at Moat during the critical final moments of the negotiations, and investigators are already focusing on whether the high-voltage shots were fired the instant before Moat took his own life. The Independent Police Complaints Commission will also be examining statements from one witness who claims officers rushed the gunman in the final fraught moments.Undisputable, however, is the speed with which police and paramedics gathered around Moat as he bled from a fatal head shot. He arrived at Newcastle General hospital at 2am and was pronounced dead shortly afterwards.For the negotiators it was a traumatic denouement to a draining task. They had succeeded in averting the murder of a police officer or member of the public, but Northumbria's strategy was predicated on bringing Moat safely into custody and the inquest into how he dictated the terms of his fate has begun.The Rev Peter McConnell, senior force chaplain for Northumbria police, is among those who will be tasked with comforting those officers involved. "My job is to keep morale up, spirits high," he said two hours before Moat was spotted at 7.20pm yesterday, scurrying along the riverbank towards the village. Some accounts suggest he was being pursued, others that he simply walked into a couple of officers patrolling the Coquet. Witness Margaret Blanchard told how, moments before he was caught, she came across a "grubby" man walking by the river, a distinctive mohawk haircut visible beneath his baseball cap.What is clear is that as news that Moat had been apprehended broke on the police radio network, pandemonium erupted among the 200 or so officers from 15 forces in the two-mile exclusion zone around the village. Two squad cars collided outside the Queen's Head pub. Messages were broadcast from the force headquarters in Ponteland, seven miles south of Rothbury, telling the public to stay indoors. Scores of armed officers were scrambled from across the region – units were still arriving three-and-a- half hours into the negotiations. Urgent warnings for the public to stay indoors were routinely ignored as tensions mounted among Rothbury residents and group spilled from the village's four pubs.The village was oddly quiet today, the main approach still cut off as police continue forensic work on the riverbank. A white tent over the site of the shooting was visible through mesh screening around flood damage repairs being done to the main bridge. Residents and the media took turns to lift a flap and glimpse police coming and going from squad cars at the other end of the meadow.A scattering of shoppers on the high street, where Moat was spotted just two days ago, were overseen by dozens of police. Residents, though, said it was a huge relief that the siege atmosphere of the last week had finally gone.Investigators began arriving today, combing grassland for clues as to the chronology of events leading up to Moat's death. Close by, officers combed the large culvert which winds beneath the centre of Rothbury, helping relieve the Coquet after heavy rain. This is where many believe Moat hid in underground storm drains.Across the river loom the woodlands of the National Trust's Cragside estate. Just 24 hours earlier, its gardens were at the centre of one of the biggest manhunts in British criminal history. Today it remained closed because of police follow-up searches, the last acts of a week Rothbury will never forget.