 4.32pm BST Afternoon summary• Nicky Morgan, the education secretary, has said that teachers involved in allowing extremism in Birmingham schools will face misconduct hearings after a report found a "disturbing" effort by Islamic hardliners to gain control of some schools in the city.• David Cameron has said the government will legally oblige doctors, social workers and teachers to report female genital mutilation (FGM) if they see it.• Theresa May, the home secretary, has announced a public inquiry into who killed the former KGB spy Alexander Litvinenko by radiation poisoning in a London hotel in 2006 – a move set to anger Vladimir Putin, the president ofRussia.• May has announced a major shakeup of the police complaints and disciplinary system, including proposals to hold police disciplinary hearings in public.• The Office for Budget Responsibility has said that the decision to abandon the sale of the student loan book is likely to cost the government £12bn over the next five years and will require a review of the public finances.• David Davis and Tom Watson have announced that they will mount a high court legal challenge to the government's new "emergency" surveillance law, which was rushed through parliament last week.• Esther McVey, the welfare minister, has announced that Remploy, which gets disabled people into employment, is to be part privatised. She revealed the plan in a written ministerial statement (pdf).• A report commissioned by the Department for Work and Pensions has revealed systematic problems in the way the government administers and imposes benefit sanctions, including disproportionate burdens on the most vulnerable. Commenting on the report, Frances O'Grady, the TUC general secretary, said: While this report identifies some important areas for improvement, its limited remit means the worst excesses of the current sanctions regime look set to remain in place.Jobcentre Plus staff want to build trusting relationships with claimants, but instead they are being made to harass them. With sanctions increasingly forcing people to rely on food banks to feed their families, a full independent review – which looks at all benefit sanctions and the culture of harassment at Jobcentre Plus – is now urgently needed.• A government report on EU rules about free movement of labour and migrants' rights to welfare has concluded that the current system must be reviewed. In the latest of of a series of reports covering EU powers (the "balance of competences" review), the government said: The government considers that now is an appropriate time to review the EU level rules with a view to modernisation and ensuring they are fit for purpose in the EU of today. The rules have evolved beyond the original scope as the EU has evolved and the interaction between rules on residence and social security coordination becoming increasingly complex. This complexity has led to an increasing number of challenges through the European court of justice, creating uncertainty and, in the majority of cases, weakening the ability of member states to determine how their systems operate. These problems are magnified by the fact that the EU of today is very different to when the rules were created. There are many more member states and much greater diversity in how their social security systems operate. Migration patterns have also changed significantly, with much more migration than in the past, including more migration of non-working people including jobseekers. Without reform, legitimate public concern about how EU migrants access social security in other member states is likely to significantly undermine support for the principle of free movement.That's all from me for today.Thanks for the comments. 4.03pm BST Liam Byrne, the Birmingham Hodge Hill MP and a shadow minister, has put a lengthy statement about the Clarke report on his blog. Here's an extract. The reports of the last few days paint a damming picture of how parents and children were let down. Our parents want the very best education for their kids. But now they fear the reputation of the school will slow them down in life. Pupils have told me directly how TV cameras were poked in their faces on their way to their exams, putting them off their stride. Others have told me how city firms have turned them down for work experience when they found out where they went to school. This is appalling. Our children have been let down by the adults. Last week, Sir Albert Bore was fulsome in his apology. But Park View has been an academy for nearly two years, answering to the Department for Education; yet the secretary of state today refused to say sorry. That was shameful. 4.00pm BST Here's a short afternoon reading list.• James Kirkup at the Telegraph says a YouGov poll suggests Ukip supporters are shorter than the supporters of other parties. YouGov have been kind enough to supply me with their data from the poll – conducted earlier this month – which breaks down respondents' self-reported height by their party affiliation.And on the basis of that data, we can suggest that the tallest party in Britain is the Liberal Democrats, followed by the Conservatives and Labour. The shortest is Ukip.  Height and party affiliation Photograph: /James Kirkup• Luke Akehurst at LabourList says Ed Miliband has been able to achieve a remarkable mood of unity in the Labour party. We also have internal party elections going on. Compared to previous rounds I can honestly say the feeling is completely different. Previous elections have been characterised by quite a bit of sectarianism and negative campaigning. This one is good natured and comradely.None of this means debate or diversity of opinion has disappeared from Labour. Any party with wide enough support to win power is going to include a broad range of opinions, currents and traditions. But the way we treat each other as we conduct those debates and elections seems to be getting more good natured. We are looking more for what we can agree on than disagree. More effort is being made to show respect for fellow members who share the same core values and vision of a fairer society even if they differ around the policies needed to get there.Creating and sustaining this mood of unity is a huge achievement for Ed Miliband. 3.32pm BST My colleague Patrick Wintour points out that a rather damning line, which was included in the draft of the Peter Clarke report leaked to the Guardian last week, has mysteriously disappeared.In the draft Clarke said: In theory, academies are accountable to the secretary of state, but in practice the accountability can almost amount to benign neglect where educational and financial performance seems to indicate everything is fine.That sentence has gone. Clarke still makes the point that academies are not always subject to sufficient oversight, but he does so in a way that is less embarrassing to the government. In the final report he says: The autonomy granted to those who run academies is generally a welcome development yet can make those institutions vulnerable to those without good intentions. Academies are accountable to the Secretary of State but that accountability can prove inadequate in circumstances where the governors are pursuing an inappropriate agenda but where the educational and financial performance of the academy indicate that everything is fine. 3.23pm BST Chris Keates, the general secretary of the NASUWT teaching union, has issued a lengthy statement about the Clarke "Trojan horse" report. Here's an extract. The report is an inconvenient truth for the coalition government; it exposes a litany of failures which strike at the heart of the coalition government’s education policy.The majority of the 15 recommendations made by Mr Clarke are directed at addressing failures by the Department for Education over a lack of suitable controls to ensure that public interests are safeguarded at all times.Mr Clarke’s report presents a direct challenge to the coalition government’s policy direction, which has included: the repeal of the requirement for all teachers to hold Qualified Teacher Status; the abolition of a national regulatory body for the teaching profession; and the failure to apply any national standards or to properly regulate leadership and governance of schools. 2.46pm BST Nicky Morgan's statement on the 'Trojan horse' report - SummaryHere are the main points from Nicky Morgan's statement about the "Trojan horse" affair. She addressed the Commons shortly after the Department for Education published Peter Clarke's report into the affair (which was leaked to the Guardian in draft last week).• Morgan said that some of the teachers involved could be banned from the teaching profession. The National College for Teaching and Leadership will take the extensive evidence provided by Peter Clarke so that its misconduct panel can consider whether any teachers involved should be barred from the profession. • The Labour MP Khalid Mahmood, who represents Birmingham Perry Barr, demanded an investigation into three Birmingham council officials and one councillor whom he accused of being at fault. He said: Mr Speaker, may I use parliamentary privilege to name a few individuals I think a further investigation needs to be made on: David Hughes, a former council official; Les Lawrence, a former cabinet member in Birmingham; Jackie Hughes and Kira Buttwell, all officers of the local authority included in this huge tragedy of keeping these schools in a position they should not have been in.Morgan said the department would consider this. • Morgan announced that she was appointing a new education commissioner for Birmingham schools. She also said she would be willing to take futher powers to intervene in Birmingham education if the situation did not improve. I have spoken to Sir Albert Bore and we have agreed that I will appoint a new education commissioner within the council to oversee its actions to address the fundamental criticisms in the Kershaw and Clarke reports, while building resilience in the system as a whole. The commissioner will report jointly to Birmingham’s chief executive and to me. If we are unable to make rapid progress with these new arrangements, I will not hesitate to use my powers to intervene further.• She said that Sir Bob Kerslake, the head of the civil service, would carry out a review of "wider weaknesses" in Birmingham council. Morgan said:  [Eric Pickles, the communities secretary] has also spoken to Sir Albert Bore about the need to address the wider weaknesses that these events have highlighted in the governance culture of the council. They have agreed that Sir Bob Kerslake will lead a review of governance in the city council, reporting with recommendations for both the short and medium term by the end of 2014.• Tristram Hunt said that the Clarke report was "a devastating indictment" of the government's education policy, and in particular its decision to allow academies to function without proper local oversight. He said that Morgan's decision to appoint an education commissioner for Birmingham meant she was adopting a Labour policy. The free market model of schooling pioneered by your predecessor has been sunk by the events in Birmingham. Why not a schools commissioner or a director of schools standards for Liverpool, for Manchester, for London?Because what Peter Clarke's report reveals is that coalition education policy is bust and has fomented the crisis in Birmingham. The truth of the matter is this. The chaotic, deregulated, fractured education policy this government has pursued has increased the risks of radicalisation in English schools ...The commissioner is a right step but will you not admit what your predecessor failed to realise. You can't run tens of thousands of schools from behind a desk in Whitehall.• Morgan rejected Labour's claims and said that the academy programme would continue.  I want to be clear those who seek to use this case to undermine this government’s reform agenda will be disappointed. Today there are more than four thousand academies and free schools serving pupils and parents up and down the country. They are helping thousands of young people, regardless of their background, to unlock their potential and become valuable and rounded members of society. The expansion of the academy programme has been one of the great success stories of this government and the actions of a small number of individuals will not divert us from this path. • Morgan said she would consider allowing Ofsted to inspect academy chains. She said so in a response to a question from the Labour MP Bill Esterson. Michael Gove had resisted this proposal and Hunt said this amounted to a U-turn. (See 1.41pm.) Esterson also welcomed the move.Bill Esterson (@BillEstersonMP)encouraged that @NickyMorgan01 will look at inspection of academy chains not just the schools in the chains in answer to my questionJuly 22, 2014• Morgan said she was toughening the advice given to the National College of Teaching and Leadership's misconduct panel so that teachers who invited extremist speakers are banned. New advice was published today.  Advice to the panel already provides that actions which undermine fundamental British values should be viewed as misconduct. I will strengthen that advice to make clear that exposing pupils to extremist speakers should be regarded as a failure to protect pupils and promote British values. I will also strengthen the advice to make it clear that prohibition from teaching should be imposed while such cases are investigated and a prohibition without review made where misconduct is proved.• She said the government was cutting the funding to the Oldknow Academy trust. This means the school will be taken over by new management. • She said she would strengthen the Department for Education's due diligence and counter extremism division.• She said she would provide further advice to schools on how they should "improve the social, moral, spiritual and cultural development of pupils".• She said she would tighten rules about who can be a governor. We will strengthen our regulations to bar unsuitable persons from running independent schools, including academies and free schools. Anyone barred in this way will also be prohibited from being governor in any maintained school.• She confirmed that Ofsted were extending the use of no-notice inspections.  I am pleased that HMCI has already decided, and notified schools earlier this month, that he would be broadening next term the criteria Ofsted uses to judge whether unannounced inspection is required for a particular school.HMCI believes there are advantages to extending no notice inspection to all schools and will use his consultation in the autumn on changes to the 2015 inspection regime to consult on whether universal no notice or a different change to the no notice regime should be made.• She said she would respond to some of Clarke's other recommendations later this year.  Nicky Morgan Photograph: /Parliament TVUpdated at 2.49pm BST 1.41pm BST Tristram Hunt, the shadow education secretary, says he's identified two U-turns in Nicky Morgan's statement.Tristram Hunt (@TristramHuntMP)Nicky Morgan's two U-turns on schools policy: 1) Schools Commissioners; 2) OFSTED inspection of academy chains. Is she seeing the light?July 22, 2014 1.31pm BST Philip Hollobone, a Conservative, asks what the department will do to give people afraid of being accused of Islamophobia the confidence to tackle extremism.Morgan says that further work will address this.The statement is now over. I'll post a summary shortly. 1.28pm BST Here is the full text of Nicky Morgan's statement. 1.26pm BST Bob Stewart, a Conservative, asks if there is a pamphlet telling teachers what British values are.Morgan says the list of British values is in the Ofsted inspections handbook. 1.25pm BST Labour's Heidi Alexander asks about the £2m fraud in the Haberdashers' Aske's chain. When will the government accept its oversight mechanisms aren't satisfactory?Morgan says she does not accept that there is an oversight problem.  1.23pm BST Andrew Stephenson, a Conservative, asks for a reassurance that the government will not abandon support for faith-based schools.Morgan gives that assurance. None of these schools were faith ones, she says. 1.20pm BST Labour's Nic Dakin says Morgan seems to be recognising the need for local oversight of schools. How will new new Birmingham education commissioner interact with the new regional schools commissioner for the West Midlands.Morgan says they will work together.  1.18pm BST Labour's Lyn Brown asks if was a mistake for Michael Gove to remove the requirement to promote community cohesion as a duty on schools. Will she change that?Morgan says she will discuss this with Ofsted. But just ensuring a school ticks a box does not address the problem. 1.16pm BST Morgan says some of the schools involved were outstanding. But still problems occurred. That is why she is going to be expanding her department's counter-extremism department. 1.15pm BST David Ward, a Lib Dem MP, says he is concerned about the use of the word of extremism. What extremism were the children exposed to? And would these activities have been out of place at a faith school?Morgan says extremism is defined as opposition to fundamental British values. They include calling for the death of members of the armed forces. The details of a WhatsApp conversation in the report on this are shocking, she says. 1.12pm BST Robert Wilson, a Conservative, asks if Morgan believes in beating back the crocodiles as a means of combating extremism, or draining the swamp.Morgan says she believes in working with the Muslim community to tackle extremism. The vast majority of Muslims are opposed, she says. 1.08pm BST Shabana Mahmood, the Labour MP for Birmingham Ladywood, says the way this affair has been handled, including leaks, has led to children at the schools involved being stigmatised and bullied.Morgan says Mahmood is right to say there are issues for everyone to address. The question is, who do we move forward, she asks. This is going to require months or years of work. But she is convinced it can be turned around. 1.06pm BST Labour's Richard Burden asks why Morgan is pressing ahead with education reforms when there is a problem with oversight of schools.Morgan says she has seen no evidence of fragmentation. There is close cooperation between schools and councils. 1.04pm BST Labour's Bill Esterson asks Morgan if she accepts the needs for the inspection of academy chains.Morgan says she is going to look at this issue. It does need to be considered, she says. 1.02pm BST Liam Byrne, the Labour MP for Birmingham Hodge Hill, asks what will be done to improve Park View school. Its best days are ahead.Morgan says the school needs to move on.The trust will be instigating disciplinary proceedings against some people, she says.And there could be disciplinary action against some teachers, she says. 1.00pm BST John Hemming, a Lib Dem, asks Morgan if she accepts that having conservative religious views does not make someone an extremist.Morgan says that the report found only a small group of people at fault. 12.59pm BST Khalid Mahmood, the Labour MP for Birmingham Perry Barr, names some individuals from the schools involved and from the council whom he says should be investigated further.Morgan says that the department will look into this. 12.57pm BST Andrew Mitchell, the Conservative former cabinet minster and Sutton Coldfield MP, welcomes the fact that Clarke found no evidence of radicalisation. 12.56pm BST David Blunkett, the Labour former education secretary, welcomes Morgan to her post. It is the most rewarding job in government, he says. Does she agree too many governors are self-selecting?Morgan says the Clarke report only refers to a small group of governors.Ofsted will be looking at governor arrangements much more closely in their inspections. 12.55pm BST Graham Stuart, the Conservative chair of the education committee, says his committee will be looking into this. Will Morgan delay her next steps until it has reported?Morgan says she will have to look at the timelines. 12.53pm BST Morgan is replying to Hunt.She says Clarke says, on page 90, that there was no problem with governance generally. The problem was with a few governors in Birmingham, she says.This is not a matter for partisanship, she says.This is about what happened in a small number of schools. The tone of Hunt's remarks did not reflect the seriousness of the situation, she says. 12.51pm BST Tristram Hunt, the shadow education secretary, is responding.He says this report is a "devastating indictment" of government policy.Morgan has appointed an education commissioner for Birmingham. That is Labour policy, he says.The report shows that the "fractured" education policy that the government has pursued has increased the risk of radicalisation.The Department for Education was warned about problems in Birmingham in 2010. But it did nothing. That was "malign neglect", he says.Clarke says there was no proper system of oversight for administration of academies.Will Morgan accept Labour's plans for a system of local oversight and accountability for schools?Morgan says allegations of radicalism and terrorism have been shown to be unfounded.But segregation should have no place in modern schools. They should encourage multiculturalism.He says he is happy to support no-notice inspections, and disciplinary reforms.But he says he also backs Clarke's recommendation 10, relating to school governors. The story of Birmingham is the story of systemic failings in the government's policy. The chickens have come home to roost, he says.  Tristram Hunt Photograph: /BBC Parliament 12.45pm BST Morgan says he has spoken to Sir Albert Bore, leader of Birmingham council, and a new education commissioner for the council will be appointed.If necessary, Morgan says she will use her powers to take further control over Birmingham.And a review will be conducted by Sir Bob Kerslake, she says.Teachers who invite extremist speakers will also be subject to disciplinary proceedings, she says.Michael Gove asks Ofsted to look at the feasibility of no-notice inspections. Morgan says Ofsted has now decided to widen the use of no-notice inspections.She says she will expand the Department for Education's counter-extremism capacity.Further measures will be announced in the autumn, she says. But those who want to use this case to undermine the government's reform agenda will be disappointed, she says. There are more than 4,000 academies and free schools. That programme will continue. 12.39pm BST Nicky Morgan is starting her statement now.She says schools should prepare children for life in modern Britain, and for the modern world. Parents want their schools to open doors, not close them. That is true for the majority of Muslims too, she says.What Peter Clarke found was "disturbing". There was evidence of an effort by a small number of governors to take control of a small number of schools.There was no evidence of direct radicalisation or violent extremism.But there were people in these schools with a narrow interpretation of their faith, failing to prepare pupils for the modern world. The problem focused on people associated with the Park View Educational Trust. Evidence for this was in emails from the Park View Brotherhood Group.Morgan says Birmingham council failed to deal with these problems because of concerns about being accused of Islamphobia. 12.24pm BST Peter Clarke's 'Trojan horse' report - More conclusionsAnd here are more extracts from Peter Clarke's conclusion. I neither specifically looked for nor found evidence of terrorism, radicalisation or violent extremism in the schools of concern in Birmingham. However, by reference to the definition of extremism in the Prevent strand of the Government’s counter terrorist strategy, CONTEST, and the spectrum of extremism described by the Prime Minister in his Munich speech in February 2011, I found clear evidence that there are a number of people, associated with each other and in positions of influence in schools and governing bodies, who espouse, endorse or fail to challenge extremist views.It has been suggested to me that the ambition of those involved was only to create high achieving schools reflecting the communities they serve, following the wishes of the majority of parents. I do not agree. On the contrary, while the majority of parents welcome the good academic results that some of these schools produce, they do not demand that their children adhere to conservative religious behaviour at school. Indeed, I received evidence that this would be supported by only a minority of parents. I was told how some of those who claimed most loudly that they were acting for the community either Report into allegations concerning Birmingham schools arising from 'Trojan Horse' letter protest alone or co-opt relatives to protest with them. I was also told by many witnesses that the majority do not have the confidence to argue against the articulate and forceful activists who seek to impose their views, for fear of being branded as disloyal to their faith or their community.I heard the argument several times that the explanation for dysfunctional relationships between staff and governors is that the governors are only trying to improve results at a school. This is, of course, what governors do up and down the country but I found evidence in Birmingham that some governors went beyond this and used the argument about raising standards to justify increasing the influence of faith in those schools ...Many witnesses who spend their lives in education have told me that they have three deep concerns about the impact on children of what has happened in a number of schools.First, I have been told by teachers that they fear children are learning to be intolerant of difference and diversity. There is evidence that this is the case both inside and outside school, such as on school trips. Second, although good academic results can be achieved through a narrowing of the curriculum and a focus on core subjects, it comes at a cost. This is that young people, instead of enjoying a broadening and enriching experience in school, are having their horizons narrowed. They are not being equipped to flourish in the inevitably diverse environments of further education, the workplace or indeed any environment outside predominantly Muslim communities. They are thus potentially denied the opportunity to enjoy and exploit to the full the opportunities of a modern multi-cultural Britain. Third, the very clear evidence that young people are being encouraged to accept unquestioningly a particular hardline strand of Sunni Islam raises concerns about their vulnerability to radicalisation in the future. I have heard evidence to the effect that there are real fears that their current experiences will make it harder for them to question or challenge radical influences.  12.22pm BST Peter Clarke's 'Trojan horse' report - ConclusionHere is an extract from Peter Clarke's conclusion At the centre of what has happened are a number of individuals who have been, or are, associated with either Park View School or the Park View Educational Trust. Time and again, people who have been either teachers or governors at Park View appear to be involved in behaviours at other schools that have destabilised headteachers, sometimes leading to their resignation or removal. The tactics used are too similar, the individuals concerned too closely linked, and the behaviour of a few parents and governors too orchestrated for there not to be a degree of co-ordination and organisation behind what has happened. The clear conclusion is that the Park View Educational Trust has, in effect, become the incubator for much of what has happened and the attitudes and behaviours that have driven it.There has been co-ordinated, deliberate and sustained action, carried out by a number of associated individuals, to introduce an intolerant and aggressive Islamic ethos into a few schools in Birmingham. This has been achieved by gaining influence on the governing bodies, installing sympathetic headteachers or senior members of staff, appointing like-minded people to key positions, and seeking to remove headteachers they do not feel to be sufficiently compliant. Some of these individuals are named in this report; most are not. Whether their motivation reflects a political agenda, a deeply held religious conviction, personal gain or a desire to influence communities, the effect has been to limit the life chances of the young people in their care and to render them more vulnerable to pernicious influences in the future.  12.14pm BST Peter Clarke's 'Trojan horse' report publishesPeter Clarke's report has just been published.It's 129-pages long. Here it is (pdf).  12.12pm BST Nicky Morgan's statement on 'Trojan horse' allegations about Birmingham schoolsNicky Morgan, the new education secretary, will be making a Commons statement about Peter Clarke's inquiry into the "Trojan horse" allegations about Islamist extremism in Birmingham schools.Here's some background reading• Ofsted's report into the "Trojan horse" affair, and Michael Gove's response last month, as covered on my live blog. • Patrick Wintour's report last week based on what a leaked draft of the Clarke report says.• Liam Byne, the Birmingham MP and shadow minister, telling the Today programme this morning the Birmingham schools system is now "so fragmented it feels at times likes the Balkans". 11.59am BST Tom Watson and David Davis seek judicial review of Data Retention ActThe Labour MP Tom Watson and the Conservative MP David Davis are taking the government to court. In a move backed by Liberty, they are seeking judicial review of the government's emergency surveillance legislation (the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act) passed last week.Here's an extract from the Liberty news release. Liberty is arguing on Mr Davis and Mr Watson’s behalf that the new legislation is incompatible with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), the right to respect for private and family life, and Articles 7 and 8 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, respect for private and family life and protection of personal data.Since 2009, communications data has been retained by public communications services and network providers under a 2009 EU Data Retention Directive. But in April the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) ruled that the Directive was invalid because it was so sweeping in its interference with individual privacy rights. The judgment made clear that existing UK legislation, including the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (RIPA), required urgent review.However, on 10 July 2014, DRIP was introduced by Ministers claiming that “emergency” legislation was necessary. The Bill was privately agreed following discussions between the three main party leaders. It became law within just three days – rendering proper parliamentary scrutiny, amendment and even debate impossible. 11.44am BST You can read all today’s Guardian politics stories here. And all the politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today’s paper, are here.As for the rest of the papers, here’s the PoliticsHome list of top 10 must-reads, and here’s the ConservativeHome round-up of political stories in today's papers.And here are two articles I found particularly interesting.• Janan Ganesh in the Financial Times (subscription) says Tony Blair may be seen as the last truly national politician. We have come to believe that, because Mr Blair said the word “bold” a lot, he actually was. In truth, he was a gradualist prime minister whose place in history does not derive from any rupture in policy or revolution in the state. His place in history comes from the magnitude of his political success. He might turn out to be the last truly national politician: the last to win support in every region of the country and the last to achieve 40 per cent of the popular vote ...This stalemate is written all over the Labour and Tory campaigns for next year’s general election. Labour is not, as alleged, aiming to win just 35 per cent of the vote – that figure actually represents their estimated floor of support – but neither is it straining to lure voters who are not already left-leaning. A squeaked victory on a leftwing platform is preferred to the centrist landslides in which Mr Blair specialised.The Tories, too, suspended their Blair-ish “modernisation” some time ago. They dwell on the conservative votes they have lost to the UK Independence party, and devote all campaign resources to 40 seats they are trying to retain and 40 more they aspire to gain. Their brashest off-the-record predictions are of a sliver of a parliamentary majority.This is not because politics became small, but because Mr Blair was not a replicable model. He had supernatural gifts as a communicator and gazer into the public mind that occur in a politician once every few generations. He also governed in an economic era that was literally too good to be true: the usual unpopular choices between taxation and expenditure were largely fudged for a decade.• Steve Richards in the Independent says Tony Blair's advice to Ed Miliband is rather vague. Blair’s precise advice is fairly vague. Having listened to many of his speeches in recent years I find that general assertions are rarely backed up by detailed prescriptions in relation to the dilemmas that Miliband now faces. Partly Blair is being discreet, but that is not the sole explanation. Blair argues there is no left and right division any more, the only divide being between those who seek “open or closed” societies. The assertion might reflect his personal journey but to extrapolate a global trend from that is quite a leap. I can see what he means in relation to immigration, Europe and dealing with Ukip. On all of these, he is impressively forensic. But on other mighty issues, he offers no clear route map. Who pays for health and elderly care when people are living longer? With good cause, Blair regretted the closure of Sure Start centres, but does that mean he believes Miliband should pledge to reopen some? The answers will be determined partly by whether an advocate is on the left or right. 11.28am BST The Treasury has today announced that councillors' travel expenses will be exempt from income tax. David Gauke, the financial secretary to the Treasury, revealed this in a written ministerial statement (pdf). Local councillors perform a vital but frequently unsung constitutional role working on behalf of local people, often in addition to other professional and personal commitments. They are required to perform their duties in both the communities they serve and their council offices and most receive no payment other than allowances in recognition of the time and expenses they incur. The Government wants to ensure that nobody is discouraged from representing their local community as a local councillor and therefore intends to introduce this new exemption so that in the future, travel expenses paid to local councillors, including those to cover the costs of journeys to their council offices, are not subject to income tax or NICs.  11.18am BST Ashcroft poll shows Ukip winning in two key marginals - and Labour on course for overall majorityLord Aschcroft has published a new marginal seats poll. It covers 14 of the 26 marginal seats that he covered in a poll published in May.In a post for ConservativeHome, he summarises the key findings. Here's an extract. The most striking feature is that rising support for UKIP has eroded the swing to Labour. Though the Tories are down a point on their share in March and April in these seats, Labour are down by three points and UKIP are up five.There are three points worth noting about this. First, the most immediately striking effect of this shift is that UKIP now lead in two seats – Thurrock and Thanet South. They have also jumped to second in Great Yarmouth, where the Tories are now ahead, having been behind Labour in my previous round of polling.Second, it means that UKIP’s national vote share is not the most useful guide to their prospects at the election. Though they score 21 per cent across this battleground, their vote in these seats ranges from 9 per cent in Hendon to 31 per cent in Great Yarmouth, 33 per cent in Thanet South and 36 per cent in Thurrock. We will see whether the party can sustain this level of support in these constituencies for another ten months. But with Nigel Farage planning to concentrate his party’s resources in just 25 targets, UKIP’s impact is likely to be felt in a series of local contests to which their headline vote share may bear little relation.And third, it means that if UKIP’s vote share erodes between now and the election, the Conservatives are unlikely to be the only beneficiaries ...A nine-point fall in the Tory vote share in these seats since 2010 (from 40 per cent to 31 per cent) points to a 4.5 per cent swing to Labour, whose score is unchanged at 38 per cent. This would be enough for Labour to win 53 Conservative seats if repeated across the board at the general election – which, combined with the 17 seats my recent polling suggested they could gain from the Lib Dems, would be enough for a small overall majority.The earlier poll showed Labour on course to win Thurrock, and the Tories on course to hold Thanet South. 11.00am BST May confirms public inquiry into death of Alexander LitvinenkoTheresa May, the home secretary, has confirmed that there will be a full public inquiry into the death of Alexander Litvinenko, the former KGB officer who died in London after drinking after drinking tea laced with radioactive polonium-210 with two ex-colleagues at a London hotel in 2006. It will be chaired by Sir Robert Owen, the judge who had been conducted the inquest into Litvinenko's death. That inquest has now been suspended.The full details are in May's written ministerial statement (pdf). Here's an extract. It is more than seven years since Mr. Litvinenko’s death, and I very much hope that this inquiry will be of some comfort to his widow Mrs. Litvinenko.  Alexander Litvinenko in intensive care before his death in 2006. Photograph: Natasja Weitsz/Getty Images 10.39am BST Health workers to be balloted on strike actionUnison has announced that it is going to ballot its NHS staff members over strike action. This is from Christina McAnea, Unison's head of health. Balloting for strike action is not an easy decision - especially in the NHS. But this government is showing complete contempt for NHS workers. It has swept aside the pay review body's recommendations and ignored the union's call for a fair deal. Our members are angry at the way they are being treated and we are left with little choice but to ballot for action. We hope to work closely with the other health unions to plan and coordinate action. It is not too late however for [health secretary] Jeremy Hunt to agree to further talks, without pre-conditions, to settle the dispute.Unison says the government's decision not to implement the 1% pay rise recommended by the NHS pay review body will deny 60% of NHS staff and 70% of nurses a pay rise for the next two years. But the government says they will get an increase through progression pay (the system that ensure staff get paid more by virtue of length of service) even if they don't get a formal rise.The ballot will begin on August 28 and run until September 18. Strike action would take place in early October.The Royal College of Midwives is also balloting its members on industrial action. It is the first time in the union's history it has done so. 10.24am BST On a day like today (it's glorious in London) it's easy to forget that we're often at the mercy of terrible weather. But that is one of the concusions of a report published today by Patrick McLoughlin, the transport secretary, looking at whether the transport system is prepared for bad weather conditions.The report (pdf) concludes that, although the system responded reasonably well to to the winter storms, more needs to be done. Here's an extract. Whilst it is difficult to attribute any one of these episodes of extreme weather to climate change, the consensus view among the scientific community, as provided by the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is that we will see an increasing incidence of extreme weather events in the future because of climate change.It is therefore important that we plan for this and ensure that our transport networks are as well prepared as they can be to minimise the impact of extreme weather events. The principal weather events we need to plan for are more rainfall over sustained periods in winters, more intense localised rain storms particularly in the summer, albeit summers on average will be drier and hotter overall with higher peak temperatures, and more severe storms, against a background of rising sea levels.In the main, we consider that our various transport networks rose to the challenges presented by last winter's weather well. There was clear evidence of lessons learned from the experience of previous weather disruptions being applied. Much determination and dedicated work ensured that where services were interrupted or routes closed, they were restored relatively quickly, and there was a clear focus on doing what was seen to be the best for passengers and users.But we also believe there are a considerable number of lessons that can be learned, to better anticipate the impact of extreme weather events, reduce the vulnerability of our transport networks to them and speed up the restoration of normal services.McLoughlin's written ministerial statement welcoming the report is here (pdf).  A train leaves Saltcoats station as a large wave crashes nearby on December 27, 2013 in Saltcoats, Scotland. Photograph: Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images 10.02am BST This is what Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, said as he arrived at the EU foreign affairs meeting in Brussels. Everybody wants to see a balanced set of measures going forward, but the world has changed since the European Council last week. The events of last Thursday have changed public expectations on us and we have to send a clear signal from our meeting today that we recognise that and that we are going to go further ...This meeting today is an opportunity for us to send a very clear signal to Russia. We’re obviously pleased that there is movement now on repatriating the victims; we’re pleased that there is some access being granted to the site. But we mustn’t forget the overall context: This terrible incident happened in the first place because of Russia’s support to the separatists in eastern Ukraine, because of the flow of heavy weapons from Russia into eastern Ukraine. We have to address that issue today and I shall be urging my colleagues and our partners to send a very clear and strong signal to Russia today.I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome. 9.50am BST For the record, here are today's YouGov GB polling figures.Labour: 38% (up 1 point from YouGov in the Sunday Times)Conservatives: 34% (up 2)Ukip: 11% (down 2)Lib Dems: 9% (no change)Labour lead: 4 points (down 1)Government approval: -21 (up 5)According to Electoral Calculus, this would give Labour a majority of 46.And here are the figures from yesterday afternoon's Ashcroft poll.Labour: 35% (down 1 point from Ashcroft a week ago)Conservatives: 27% (down 5)Ukip: 17% (up 3)Lib Dems: 7% (no change)Labour lead: 8 points (up 4)According to Electoral Calculus, this would give Labour a majority of 90. 9.12am BST It's the last day that the Commons is sitting before the summer recess and, as usual, that means that we're get a host of announcements that ministers need to present to parliaments while they've got the chance. As you can see from the order paper (pdf), there are 31 written ministerial statements coming. We've also got an oral statement from Nicky Morgan, the new education secretary, about the Peter Clarke inquiry into the Birmingham "Trojan horse" affair. My colleague Patrick Wintour revealed the contents of the draft report last week. I'll be covering the statement in detail.Here is the agenda for the day.9am: Alex Salmond, Scotland's first minister, speaks at the Commonwealth Games Business Conference in Glasgow. 10.30am: Greg Dyke, the FA chairman, gives evidence to the Commons culture committee about the 2022 World Cup.12.30pm: Nicky Morgan gives a statement to the Commons on the "Trojan horse" affair.1.15pm: Theresa May, the home secretary, gives a statement to the Commons on police leadership and integrity.2pm: George Osborne, the chancellor, speaks at the Commonwealth Games Business Conference.2pm: Marina Litvinenko, the widow of murdered spy Alexander Litvinenko, holds a press conference. Theresa May is due to announce a new inquiry into his death.2.45pm: James Brokenshire, the immigration minister, gives evidence to the Commons home affairs committee.There is also a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels this morning, where further sanctions against Russia will be discussed. Mark Tran will be covering this on our MH17 live blog. And the annual report from David Anderson QC, the independent reviewer of terrorist legislation, is being published today. As Alan Travis reports, Anderson has said he thinks terrorist legislation is too wide-ranging, because it can apply to political journalists and bloggers who publish material that the authorities consider dangerous to public safety.And David Cameron is hosting a Girl Summit, where new measures to tackle female genital mutiliation are being announced. As usual, I will also be flagging up any breaking political news, posting summaries with a round-up of all the day’s developments, and highlighting the most interesting political articles on the web.If you want to follow me on Twitter, I’m on @AndrewSparrow.Updated at 9.22am BST