Police and prosecutors are regularly failing rape victims by wrongly recording many cases as "no crime" and dropping others prematurely without following possible lines of investigation, according to a report today by the independent watchdogs for both services.Officers routinely fail to follow home office guidelines, said the joint report. Nearly one in three of the cases police recorded as "no crime" should have been properly investigated as rape.Police made the decision to record "no crime" because the victim withdrew her complaint or because they felt she lacked credibility due to inconsistencies or factors such as alcohol consumption. But they should not have done so unless they had "verifiable information that no crime was committed", according to guidelines. The failures not only inflated police perceptions of the scale of false allegations, but led to a loss of information about perpetrators and risked undermining the victim's credibility if she made a later report of rape, the report said.While recorded reports of rape are soaring - up 40% in four years to 13,721 in 2004-05 - the number of rapists convicted each year has been rising only slightly, from 640 in 2002 to 728 in 2005. The result, said the report, is that "the justice gap for victims of rape is widening".Of a sample of 752 rape reports in 2005 looked at by the inspection team, 179 were "no-crimed", of which 57 should have been recorded as crimes. Among the eight police areas studied, the rate of no-criming varied hugely - from 4% to 47%. Katherine Rake, director of the Fawcett Society, said: "Wholesale reform is needed to give women confidence in the system, deliver justice to victims of rape and prevent violence against women in the first place."The inspectors found that some prosecutors were taking decisions prematurely to drop a case when further steps were possible. They were failing to follow a recommendation of a previous inspection in 2002 that they should get a second opinion before closing the file. They were also overlooking new laws allowing hearsay and evidence of a defendant's "bad character" to be produced in court. Prosecutors tended to consider only previous convictions, although previous acquittals and rape reports to police are also admissible as evidence of bad character.Other problems included wide variations in the quality of medical examination services for victims, with some services outsourced to private companies recruiting doctors from abroad on short-term contracts. There were poor examination facilities, "unacceptable" delays, the taking of inappropriate samples and a lack of expertise.In one case an elderly victim who had been raped and violently assaulted was forced to wait over six hours at the sexual assault referral centre. In another, when a child victim on holiday with her mother had still not been seen by a paediatrician after three days, the mother took her child home to London, where she made her own arrangements. "This level of delay is unacceptable and is a factor that is likely to contribute significantly to victims withdrawing their complaint before the investigation has properly commenced," said the report.The Home Office minister Joan Ryan said the government would be making a further £1m available to extend the number of sexual assault referral centres from 15 to 40 by the end of 2008. The director of public prosecutions, Sir Ken Macdonald QC, said: "I am determined to improve the way we deal with these cases from start to finish. We owe it to the complainants, who are showing more confidence in coming forward, to do our best for them."The Metropolitan police assistant chief commissioner John Yates said the police and others in the criminal justice system must redouble their efforts. "The police service has a number of priorities, but this has to be close to number one."