A man is in a life-threatening condition in hospital after being restrained and arrested by about seven police officers in an incident being investigated by the police watchdog. The 32-year-old, who has not been named, is being treated in hospital for head injuries after he became unresponsive in custody an hour after being detained in front of a number of people in Exeter, Devon, on Wednesday. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating and is appealing for witnesses to come forward. CCTV footage collected from the city centre is being examined as part of the inquiry.IPCC commissioner Amerdeep Somal said: "This incident unfolded in a busy part of Exeter city centre and it is important for our independent investigation that anyone who witnessed events or saw or spoke to the man before police attended comes forward. This was a very serious incident involving several police officers and a man is now in a serious condition in hospital. We are reviewing relevant CCTV footage of the city centre and are anxious for the public's help in determining exactly what happened."The incident unfolded after police were called to a disturbance at the junction of High Street and Paris Street shortly before 11am, according to the IPCC.It is understood the man was remonstrating with a number of people and the police were called. Four uniformed officers and three police community support officers After the police arrived the man was restrained and arrested, then driven to Heavitree Road police station. In the course of the next hour concerns grew about his condition when he became unresponsive, the IPCC said. At 12.15pm he was taken to the Royal Devon and Exeter hospital., where he is now in a serious condition suffering from head injuries. Eyewitnesses claim he was being abusive in the street and was arrested on suspicion of a public order offence.John Hunt, who heard the commotion, said:"The man was being abusive and threatening. He was detained by police and handcuffed."But he started being abusive again and police put ankle ties (restraints) on him. They were with him for about five to ten minutes before he was put into the back of a riot van and taken to the police station."The arrested \who was arrested around 11am yesterday man is known to the mental health services.The IPCC said the man was wearing dark clothes, a baseball cap and glasses at the time. He was speaking to several people before his arrest and a number of other members of the public were milling around a tourist coach nearby.The IPCC said in a statement: "Devon and Cornwall police notified the IPCC of the incident and investigators were swiftly deployed to Exeter to begin an independent investigation."Investigators are reviewing CCTV footage of the area and from the custody suite, and gaining initial accounts from officers and witnesses. The IPCC has made contact with the man's family to inform them of our involvement and explain how the investigation will progress."Witnesses should contact the IPCC on 0800 096 9077.