Fears of renewed racial violence in south-east London were raised yesterday after charges against two teenagers accused of murdering a black schoolboy, Stephen Lawrence , were dropped. The Crown Prosecution Service said there was 'insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of a conviction' in a case which has sparked anti-racist demonstrations across London. The two boys, aged 16 and 17, both from Lewisham, had been accused of stabbing to death Stephen Lawrence , aged 18, at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London, in April in what police described as an 'outrageous and senseless' racially motivated attack. They were due to be committed for trial next week. Stephen Lawrence 's family , who were visited by the African National Congress leader, Nelson Mandela, when he was last in London, said they were devastated by the decision. 'We were constantly told by the police to trust them and that they were doing all they could. It obviously wasn't good enough. As Nelson Mandela told us, 'Black lives are cheap',' said Cheryl Sloley, Stephen's aunt.  His parents were to travel back from Jamaica, where they took their son's body for burial, for next week's hearing. At his funeral in Woolwich last month, Stephen's father, Neville, called for the closure of the British National Party headquarters in nearby Welling.  Stephen, who was an A level student and hoped to become an architect, was with a friend waiting to catch a bus home when they were set upon by a group of four to six white youths.  Scotland Yard, whose detectives have interviewed 2,500 people, refused to comment on the CPS decision but said the murder inquiry would continue. Two teenagers arrested on May 7 remain on police bail.  The family's solicitor, Imran Khan, said he feared the decision could spark local racial unrest. 'It is quite unbelievable that the police have been unable to secure the evidence required to commit these youths for trial after three months.'  Peter Bottomley, Conservative MP for Eltham, said he was surprised by the decision but appealed to the local community not to take the law into its own hands, warning that only injustice would follow. He urged the Attorney-General to ask the CPS for a full explanation of their decision. 'We have to trust the CPS.'  But the Anti-Racist Alliance last night claimed the decision proved that 'there is something rotten at the heart of the Crown Prosecution Service when it deals with racist murders' and demanded that racial violence be made a specific criminal offence.