The former wife of Siôn Jenkins begged him while he was awaiting trial to admit murdering his foster daughter Billie-Jo, the appeal court was told yesterday.Lois Jenkins wrote to him that his four natural daughters would be relieved of "enormous burdens" if he confessed. Under intense cross-examination she conceded that she was desperately keen to prevent two of her daughters being called to give evidence, but rejected the allegation that her letter was part of a "ploy" against her ex-husband. On her second day in the witness box Mrs Jenkins broke down and had to rush from the court after saying that seven years on she could still not talk to the children properly. She and her daughters still felt like a "chased family". Jenkins's legal team is arguing that he was not given a fair trial because his older daughters, Annie and Lottie, 12 and 10 at the time of the killing, did not give evidence. The defence did not call them, even though they were with their father on the afternoon of the murder at the family home in Hastings and their evidence might have helped clear him, because Mrs Jenkins had "consistently lied" that they had turned "hostile" to their father. Clare Montgomery QC, for Jenkins, read part of the letter in which Mrs Jenkins wrote: "The girls would, I know, be relieved of enormous burdens if they felt human beings had the capacity to own up to things. "I'm living in constant awareness of the need for the children and others to experience again the reality of honesty and confession." Miss Montgomery suggested the letter was a "ploy". Mrs Jenkins, facing her former husband across the court, replied: "I think if you had to ever write a letter to your husband who was charged with murder, and it was referred to as a ploy, that's very difficult." She continued: "I did not see Siôn Jenkins kill Billie-Jo. I will never be 100% sure. There's a difference between being 100% sure and thinking." Miss Montgomery questioned Mrs Jenkins in detail about how Annie, who is now 20, had reacted when she learned two years ago what her mother had been saying about her before the trial. Jenkins's case is that after the "ploy" to get him to confess failed, Mrs Jenkins made sure her daughters would not be called by telling the police that their evidence would be unhelpful to their father. Miss Montgomery suggested that Annie had run from the room in which she was being interviewed for the appeal and was "hysterical" because she had found out that her mother had been lying. She suggested that Annie had refused to come to London from Tasmania, where the family now lives, to give evidence in the appeal because she would have had to tell the court that her mother was a liar. Mrs Jenkins said it was up to Annie to decide whether to give evidence. She added: "Annie is totally confused about everything; not just about this - everything." She said that Lottie, who did give evidence last week, had come in search of "closure", but they all still felt like a "chased family". Mrs Jenkins repeatedly said that after her husband's arrest she had made it a rule not to discuss the case with her daughters in case they were called as witnesses. She told the court that she had been forced to say: "Children, I can't talk to you." The appeal will next focus on scientific evidence which Jenkins's team says shows he did not kill Billie-Jo.