The parole board has had a raw deal, receiving unjust and misguided criticism from home secretaries and parts of the media. Whenever a prisoner released into the community on parole commits a high-profile crime it is only too easy to conclude that he was let out "too soon" and to blame the softie bleeding hearts on the parole board.Lock Them Up or Let Them Out, an excellent, honest three-part documentary starting tonight on BBC2, shows the reality of the process. It had generous access to prisoners seeking parole (eight of them, killers included, over the three programmes) and to the board members making the decisions. It is quickly apparent that these are not people easily taken in or swayed by sentiment. They are not softies. Their job is to assess the risk to the public if the prisoner is released. If in doubt they keep them in.It is particularly unfair to blame the board for allowing premature release when it is the Home Office itself that slashed its funds and forced it to abandon a valuable procedure for assessing prisoners.Until recently everyone being seriously considered for release was visited and interrogated by a member of the parole board who could assess his or her honesty, determination to go straight and capacity to refrain from crime (and abstain from drugs) when back in the community.As a result of the cuts that important face to face meeting has been severely restricted. Now only prisoners serving life sentences are entitled to put their case to the board in person. All other board decisions are taken on the basis of reports and prisoners' own written pleas for freedom. How can their sincerity be judged without the opportunity to question them?· The Innocence Project, an eight-part drama series starting on BBC1 on Thursday, is loosely based on two real life exemplars. In the US an organisation of that name - co-founded in 1992 by Barry Scheck, once attorney for OJ Simpson and the English nanny Louise Woodward - has had extraordinary success in using DNA technology to prove the innocence of prisoners convicted of serious crime in the pre-DNA past, some having spent many years on death row.In Britain law faculties of several universities have set up programmes devoted to scrutinising the evidence in cases of alleged miscarriages of justice. The research is conducted mainly by law students, who draw up dossiers - to be submitted to the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the body responsible for sending cases of possible wrongful conviction to the court of appeal. Results, as measured by successful appeals, have been modest, but the students have occasionally uncovered significant injustices. In principle it ought to make for good television drama. I am loath to come to a judgment on a multi-part series after having seen only the first episode, but I found it a big disappointment and an opportunity missed.None of it was close to being believable - not the plot, nor the law student characters, nor the glib, know-all, breathless dialogue. It offers little insight into the issue of miscarriage of justice. Future episodes may be better.