Sex offenders face tougher penalties and restrictions on their movements under new laws proposed by the home secretary, David Blunkett, today. Under the white paper to reform the law on sexual offences, all sexual intercourse with a child under 13 will always be treated as rape in a bid to close the loophole where paedophiles claim their victim's consent. A new offence of adult sexual activity with a child will also criminalise any ostensibly consensual activity with a young person aged 13-16. Mr Blunkett said: "All sex crimes are abhorrent but none more so than those committed against children."We do not believe that any very young child truly gives consent to an adult. In a recent case a 32-year-old man was tried for having sex with a 12-year-old. The judge pronounced he was not a paedophile. I beg to disagree. "In future, such cases will be treated as rape. The issue of consent, where a child of 12 or younger is involved, will not be relevant."The sex offenders register will be tightened for convicted sex offenders to register annually with the police instead of every five years. Any sex offender who changes their address or name will have to inform the police within three days.They must also disclose their movements when they spend more than a week away from their home address. The white paper, Protecting the Public, will also criminalise a range of indecent behaviour including inducing a child to take their clothes off. In a bid to tackle the growing number of children abducted after being befriended by a paedophile on the internet, a new offence of sexual grooming will combat those who seek to ensnare children under 16 in order to abuse them. This offence will cover grooming on or offline.A new civil order will also prohibit adults from engaging in inappropriate sexual behaviour such as sexual conversations with children on the inernet or hanging around playgrounds. There will be new offences of commercial sexual exploitation of children and adults in a bid to tackle prostitution, and the trafficking of people for sex will carry a maximum penalty of 14 years. The rape laws will be reformed in a bid to tackle the rise of "date rape". Defendants will have to prove that they took "reasonable" measures to gain the consent of their partner. Further protection will be given to people lacking the capacity to consent because of a learning disability or mental disorder. The home secretary also swept away the so-called cottaging laws, which he said discriminated against gay men, however, a new offence will deal with sex in public.