Can Piers Morgan, the editor of the Daily Mirror, be serious? Does he really think that paying a convicted killer a six-figure sum for an interview is in the public interest? Or does his blatant breach of the editors' code of practice have a more cynical, commercial motive?My hunch is that it's a bit of both. He has probably convinced himself of the rightness of his case, but there is no doubting that, with his paper in circulation decline, he believes sales are more important than ethics.He will also have calculated that he could publish and be damned, because the press complaints commission is in disarray after recent decisions in which definitions of the public interest have become clouded to the point of opacity. If the Mirror is censured - and I don't see how the PCC can reach any other conclusion on the available evidence - he will either laugh it off or defy the commission by criticising its decision in public, bringing it into further disrepute. Lawyers may be predisposed to ridicule press self-regulation but it's hard to disagree with Mark Stephens, a media lawyer, who argues that this episode has demonstrated the "contempt and disdain with which editors hold the PCC". Morgan's public-interest defence for his chequebook journalism is totally undermined by what Martin told the Mirror yesterday. The 2,900-word interview was laughably trivial, revealing nothing of genuine significance. It portrays Martin as a befuddled individual with a short attention span and a weight problem, who exhibits no sign of remorse. Towards the end of the tedious article, Martin said: "I am not bitter. Yes, I am angry. I didn't get justice. I got rough justice." Informed by his interviewer that a mobile police unit was parked outside his farmhouse in Norfolk, he exclaimed: "A police station has fallen out of the sky at my house? And people think I am crackers! The police are looking after me. Isn't that a case of shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted? The world has gone quite, quite mad." According to the Mirror's editorial, this unremarkable statement - referred to by the hyperbolic leader writer as "a sick irony" - is the main plank of its public-interest justification for buying Martin's story. It is certainly interesting, of course, which is why those quotes also appeared in later editions of the Daily Mail and the Sun, plagiarised in time-honoured tabloid fashion. But in what way could these views be said to be of public interest? Are they so challenging and so revelatory that they merit a man profiting from his crime? Just as important was paying Martin the only way to obtain those views? In the past, the PCC has reached conclusions on similar cases by deciding whether payment was the only way important matters would emerge into the public arena. If the PCC had been consistent then this would be an open-and-shut case: we could say with certainty that Morgan would be found guilty of breaking the code. It would, incidentally, be his third major breach. As editor of the News of the World, he intruded on the privacy of Countess Spencer and was even admonished in public by the paper's owner, Rupert Murdoch. Later, as editor of the Mirror, he received the most vitriolic adjudication ever handed out by the PCC for his role in the City Slickers share scandal. Morgan's fate is not assured, though, because of the PCC's recent adjudication against the Guardian for paying £720 to a prisoner who wrote a "right of reply" to Lord Archer's prison diary then being serialised in the Daily Mail (for which Archer was not paid). The PCC rejected the paper's public-interest defence. The Guardian retaliated with an unprecedented public criticism of the commission's ruling. Then the PCC asked for information about payments made by the paper to another prisoner, Erwin James, who writes a weekly column. That prompted the Guardian to threaten pulling out of the PCC should the paper be censured. To complicate matters further, the PCC has let it be known that it has exonerated the News of the World for paying £10,000 to a convicted criminal who engineered a fake plot to kidnap Victoria Beckham. In this instance, the PCC thought there was a public interest justification, despite the fact it resulted in five innocent men spending seven months in jail. Publication of that adjudication has been delayed at the attorney general's request. There is a further important point: it is surely inappropriate for the Daily Mirror, with its left-of-centre traditions, to provide a platform for Tony Martin. Embarrassment was implied in Morgan's editorial which stated: "The Mirror does not condone what Martin did. Nor does it support some of the more extreme demands based on his actions."Quite. So why pay him? · Roy Greenslade, Professor of Journalism at City University, was editor of the Daily Mirror, 1990-91roy.greenslade@theguardian.com