Shami ChakrabartiDirector, LibertyThe respect agenda is a perversion of the English language; it is about coercion rather than respect. But I think the tide is turning. When we represented boys in Brent a few years ago who were given antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) and named and shamed, the letters from the public were worse than those we receive for representing terrorists. But we've seen a change in our postbag as the public has realised that vulnerable people have been swept up with criminals, such as the boy with Tourette's syndrome whose Asbo banned him from swearing. Love alone isn't enough to instil respect: children do need some discipline, but we've had too much of the tough stuff. This government has been tough on rhetoric and legislation; now it's time to do the tender stuff, supporting parents, making sure young people have things to do. This may be rubbished as out-of-date 1960s liberal nonsense, but it can lead to miraculous results. My fear is that if the government keeps playing soundbite politics we will end up with a generation whose only engagement in society is with the police, and we will be in grave danger of intergenerational strife.Matt FootLawyer and coordinator, Asbo ConcernI don't think there should be a respect action plan. We've had 900 criminal laws brought in under this government, two antisocial behaviour acts, and further legislation that gives enormous discretion to the police - and there is no evidence that it works. The government's own research shows that for a few cherry-picked offences - in "trailblazer" areas where it has pumped in a lot of money - crime and the perception of crime has gone down a tiny amount. Yet there could be other reasons for this. We need investment in prevention to get to the root causes - often mental illness, or drug dependency. Clients of mine who are in prison for breaching an Asbo are unlikely to see a drug worker for the whole time they are there, even though they have serious drug problems, because there are not enough of them. The government says it wants to invest in community facilities for young people, but it has sold off more than 2,500 school playing fields - about the same number of Asbos it has served on young people.Melvyn DavisProject manager, Boys2Men, north LondonI would question whether the government can legislate for respect. I recognise the government's desire to address it, but in an attempt to get a positive response from young people it puts punitive measures in place. Any parenting programme will tell you that giving praise and encouragement, and making children feel valued, is the way to tackle the feelings of disaffection that lead to antisocial behaviour. Victims need support and measures to be put in place so that their rights are not violated, but there are usually mitigating circumstances why young people are engaging in bad behaviour. It is easy for us to say: "You can choose to show respect." But if you have never felt valued by your parents it is much easier to vent your frustration. I would like to see the government providing more support for families. Nothing else will work.Irene LawrenceChair, Sharston Tenants Association, Wythenshawe, east ManchesterAsbos are only ever used as the last resort when all other options have been explored with families. It is a last-ditch attempt to help. People see them as a punishment, but they can be used to help turn around families and allow them to instil some respect in their children. There's a big problem, especially round here, with single parents feeling too constrained to discipline their children for fear they could be accused of maltreatment and see their children taken away by social services. I don't know of anyone that has been sent to jail for breaching an Asbo, but that's part and parcel of it. Tenants' associations can't apply for an Asbo; that is down to the landlord or the council. But we can approach the landlord about problem behaviour - or we can go and talk to the parents ourselves and take our life into our own hands. I have spoken to some parents with rowdy kids and the majority of the kids are really not bad, they just need something to do. We used to have youth clubs in my day, but now they are few and far between. So we get a lot of teenagers on street corners who are perceived to be troublemakers. I think if you make older children feel part of something by getting them to contribute their ideas and take part in decision making, then respect follows automatically. We asked kids what they wanted in Holyhead Park. Some of their ideas were excellent, and since we've had the mini-football pitch that they wanted put in they have really looked after it.Harry FletcherDeputy general secretary, National Association of Probation OfficersIt is abundantly clear that there is an unacceptable level of antisocial behaviour, in every village and every metropolitan area of Britain, so the government is right to be concerned. But its principal response, Asbos, does not deal with why there is antisocial behaviour in the first place. Instead, it tries to prohibit the behaviour by imposing often ridiculous and impossible conditions attached to Asbos. As a result, around half of all Asbos are breached, and of those people who breach their Asbos half end up in prison. It is regrettable that the next phase in this drive against antisocial behaviour appears to go down the road of more compulsion and prohibition. What we need is government investment in preventive measures to deal with the causes of antisocial behaviour, such as early intervention and intensive supervision to help parents. A court order cannot make someone a better parent. They have to be motivated, with support from the probation service, social services and voluntary organisations, and that can cost thousands of pounds a week, whereas an Asbo costs next to nothing.Frank FieldLabour MP and author of Neighbours from Hell: The Politics of BehaviourWe need some proposals that empower neighbourhoods to be able to nip bad behaviour in the bud. Communities shouldn't have to mediate through middle-class professionals - police, social services, and landlords - to get an Asbo served; they should have the power to get someone bound over for bad behaviour. However, we can't solve antisocial behaviour by just cracking down, and it would be useful for the respect agenda to admit that this is not the solution. We used to be taught in families to have respect for each other, and that was our map and compass for the outside world. That has broken down. Government needs to renew citizenship. At the registering of a birth, there should be a ceremony that sets out your responsibilities as a parent and the responsibilities of the state to help you. If you break this contract, there have to be penalties, such as losing entitlement to housing benefit, but the crucial thing is to get people to want to sign up. Laws can play a part, but this has got to be an affair of the heart. Government should get back to what politics is about - deciding what sort of citizens we should be.