A schoolgirl found strangled and stabbed to death at her home at the weekend was named today by police as 12-year-old Tia Rigg.Detectives are continuing to question a 37-year-old man arrested at the house in Cheetham Hill shortly after a 999 call was made on Saturday afternoon.Postmortem results are not expected until later tomorrow but Tia's body had strangulation marks and multiple stab wounds. Greater Manchester police would not comment on local reports that the man in custody is one of the girl's uncles.They also declined to release information about the murder weapon or who made the emergency call. But they said that they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the killing. Det Supt Mary Doyle, who is leading the inquiry, said that police officers arrived to find the child already dead, after suffering "significant injuries."She said: "Tia was a happy, normal, healthy 12-year-old girl, she had friends and socialised normally. She was in the flush of youth. It is just an absolute tragedy."All murders are terrible but when it's an 12-year-old girl it's just horrendous. The family are devastated, the world's falling apart for them They are supporting each other as best they can"It is very, very raw for them and it's going to take a long time for them to get over it. We have officers supporting them."The parents of Tia and her three younger brothers and sister are understood to be separated but she was part of a lively network of schoolchildren in Cheetham Hill. Neighbours described Tia as "a beautiful, bubbly girl who was going to do well in life" and said the child's mother had run out into the street shouting "Why? Why?" shortly after police arrived and entered the house after the emergency call.A Facebook page called RIP Tia Rigg had attracted over 650 members by last night and a stream of tributes and messages of sympathy.They include: "Tia Rigg i know we wernt the closest of friends but when we spoke u made me laugh u made miss williams goo MAD haha but now that you have gone i cant believe it ... i cant sleep and i cant stop crying but i will c u again and when i do BIG HUGS"Others said: "i carnt belive ur gone im so gutted im ganna miss u loads and loads i will neva 4geT U LOVE U LOADS :( " and "Tia you are in gods care now, sleeping with the angels. You have joined the welcoming family of angels, god bless you little one, night night xx."