 Police powers New "street bail" without taking suspect to station; detention without charge for 36 instead of 24 hours; possession of cannabis to be arrestable offence where aggravating factors.Pre-trial Crown prosecution service to take over charging from police. Defence to make greater disclosure of nature of its case. Magistrates' sentencing powers increased from six to 12 months and possibly 18 or 24 months. Previous conduct Goes beyond current "similar fact" rule to allow evidence of previous convictions and conduct to be disclosed where considered relevant by judge. Jury trials Judge-only trials in complex fraud and financial cases and where there is evidence of jury tampering or intimidation. Jury service Abolish current exemptions for everybody except mentally disordered people, the Queen, and those with criminal convictions, of those who can serve. Means ministers, peers and judges will be called for jury service. Double jeopardy Will allow retrials in very serious cases where new and compelling evidence has come to light, such as DNA evidence. Will be retrospective and will apply to about 30 offences. Sentencing New sentencing guidelines council to issue guidelines after consulting home secretary and MPs. New community sentence Will bring together all existing community penalties for over-16s in one generic sentence, options including compulsory work and curfews. Custody Plus Will replace all short prison sentences under 12 months. Short period of up to three months in prison and minimum of six months under supervision in community . Intermittent custody Will allow introduction of weekend prison so that inmate can keep job. Custody minus New suspended sentence for between six months and two years on condition offender does equivalent of new community sentence above. Sentences over 12 months Release automatic at the halfway point; remain under licence until end of sentence with possible recall to prison. Dangerous offenders Serious sexual or violent adult offenders assessed as dangerous and given sentence of at least 10 years will be subject to new sentence of imprisonment for public protection or discretionary life sentence. Juveniles New sentences of detention for public protection and variable protective custody for serious offenders under 18. · Criminal justice bill, TSO, £14.50.