A girl who gave evidence in the Oxford child sex exploitation trial, in which seven men were found guilty of abusing, raping and torturing girls as young as 11, said her attackers had threatened to cut off her face and kill her family.The men, who were in the dock on Wednesday for the first of two days of sentencing, heard how their actions had damaged the lives of their victims and were warned that they faced life prison sentences. They were found guilty last month of 43 charges relating to six victims, which included trafficking, forcing girls into prostitution, procuring an illegal abortion, rape and physical violence.Statements from some of the victims' parents were read out at the Old Bailey before the gang's sentencing, detailing how the girls had been left psychologically damaged. They were suffering from depression, panic attacks and insomnia, and were self-harming. The girls – all of whom were in care – were abused by the gang of men of mainly British-Pakistani descent between 2004 and 2012 by the men, who groomed them and plied them with drugs and alcohol. before using them as sexual playthings.The girls were repeatedly raped, often by groups of men several men at a time, and some were subjected to "torture sex"tortured, the jury heard. The three-and-a-half month trial at the Old Bailey exposed a series of failings by Thames Valley Police and Oxford social services. Despite being told on several occasions by the girls and their parents about their abuse, the two organisations failed to act until 2010.One of the defendants, Mohammed Karrar – who was accused of branding an 11-year-old, forcing her a girl of 12 to have an abortion when she was 12 and subjecting her to gang rapes – initially refused to come up from his cell.The mother of Girl C – who told the Guardian she had begged social services staff to rescue her from the gang – said that her daughter's abusers had threatened to cut the girl's face off. and promised to slit the throats of her family members. She said that they had been forced to leave their home after the men had threatened to decapitate family members. "Our lives have changed irrevocably as a result of the abuse she suffered," The mother said in a statement. that her daughter had developed chronic insomnia and had suffered a minor stroke, believed to have been brought on by the stress of what had happened to her.The court heard that Girl A, a key witness in the case who refused to have a screen between herself and her abusers when she gave evidence, felt that she had been robbed of her childhood. In a statement her father, who repeatedly had combed the streets of Oxford looking for his daughter but was told by police to desist, said: "These men took away [her] teenage years, what should have been the best days of her life turned into the worst."He added: "If these men hadn't been doing such vile things to my daughter then we wouldn't have had to deal with social services, children's homes or police. I don't want any other parent to feel as impotent as we were."Her mother said Girl A and her family would never recover. "She went from a loving, sweet young child to a sullen, frightened and evasive child. She went to being frustrated and aggressive towards me if I tried to reach out to her," she said in a statement. "I guess that was her way of trying to deal with what was happening to her. She was protecting me from the truth and horror of what she was being subjected to. They took my daughter's teenage years, which I'm sure seems obvious, but those teenage years were taken from me too."Girl A's mother said the police and social services had failed to protect the girls; instead, they that she and other family members were made to feel as if they were overreacting. She said: "I can recall countless incidents when I have been upset and frustrated by various professional bodies."Prosecuting, Noel Lucas, QC, said the girl felt that she had missed her education. "She has suffered psychological issues. She has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and aggressive bouts of anxiety and depression as a result. She mentions that although she has managed to have a successful job and make a life for herself, she has missed out on a vital part of her education," he said.Her self-confidence had been shattered. "She struggles with trust and with romantic relationships. Physical affection is something of which she is wary." In a statement, Girl A said: "It's hard for my family when I go through depressive stages because I'm prone to self-harm."A serious case review will look into the failure to stop the gang. Three men who ran the Nanford Guest House, regularly used by the men to rape the girls, were arrested this month by officers working under Operation Bullfinch, the in a joint investigation by Thames Valley Police and Oxford social services into child sexual exploitation.Jeremiah Cronin, 81, and his sons Bartholomew, 49, and John, 48, were arrested on suspicion of a range of offences including causing or inciting child prostitution.