It is unarguably a tragic thing to be mourning a police officer. In so far as violent deaths can ever be considered relative to one another, this is a sadder event than most. Put simply, people who expose themselves to danger for the good of the community are the best of us; they are more altruistic, and more honourable. The loss of them is more keenly felt, and by more people. So the funeral of PC Sharon Beshenivsky, which took place on Wednesday in Bradford, was bound to be an impassioned affair; it is unarguable, however, that the main engine of all this passion is not just the fact that she was a police officer, but the fact that she was also a She.It is never a good time to point out how anachronistically women are treated when they die in the line of fire: the point at which it is relevant is the point at which it is insensitive. And yet there are sentiments, notions, symbols and attitudes that emerge at a time like this which, if we're ever to have any understanding of the extent and nature of gender equality, really need to be examined.Shortly after Beshenivsky was shot in November last year, the Times did a survey of all the policewomen who have ever died in the line of duty. There have been six in total, out of 1,600 police officers who have died since the modern force began in 1829. These deaths have all occurred since 1973, when equal opportunities legislation forced the police commissioner to give women handcuffs and truncheons and send them out on patrol (prior to that, they had mainly been confined to the station, waiting for lost children). "Today," the article continued, "they ride motorcycles on traffic patrol, are part of the armed units protecting the Queen and other prominent individuals and carry weapons in firearms units - all of which puts them firmly in the path of danger."The implication is that there is something remiss in all this. Its rueful tone conveys a hangdog comprehension that, if we're to be equal, then of course women have to be allowed on motorcycles, coupled with a quiet, told-you-so undertow of "wouldn't it be better if this weren't the case? Wouldn't it be nicer if, instead of equality, those six ladies were still alive?"It's like shadow boxing; there's no argument to attack, since there's no statement beyond, "It's sad when policewomen are killed." And of course, it is sad, and it feels churlish to point out, no sadder than when it's a policeman. Not pointing it out, though, allows to go unchallenged the idea that women's lives are more precious than men's; if that were a message that held outside the context of policing, then, well, it would still be dubious, but it would be a different argument. In fact, it does not hold generally. In a terrorist attack, the female victims do not get the lion's share of the attention, unless they turn out to be pretty (again, a different matter).So, when people unleash extravagant sorrow, on behalf of combat-unit females, it is about more than grief. It is about world order. The difference in the way dead male soldiers are discussed compared to dead female ones is the difference between the way you would discuss a dead parent, compared to a dead child - in the first instance, it is a cause of lasting sorrow, but it's part of life. In the second instance, it is discussed as aberrance. This should not have happened. This is against nature. This must never happen again.The situation is compounded when the victim happens also to be a mother. Much was made of the fact that the only reason Beshenivsky wound up in the line of fire was that she had swapped her shift in order to be home in time for her daughter's fourth birthday party. Naturally, the story is in the detail - information like that does your imagination's work for you, but would you ever get this little titbit about a father?Mothers are more valuable in a tragic narrative than fathers; yet that is rooted in sentiment rather than fact. We treat motherhood like the Victorians treated childhood - lavishly emotional in fiction and myth-making, callously (if metaphorically) shoving them up chimneys in real life. And actually, when reality and image jar like this, it's not just a random paradox - the sentimentality is a function of the harshness that underpins it, and to see this sentimentality puff out its cheeks makes you feel especially grubby at a sorrowful time.Having said all this, even as an unbending feminist, I feel a shiver of discomfort at the idea of being subjected to physical danger, as a woman, in the service of my country. I wouldn't join a war and, while I would pretend that to be on pacifist grounds, it is partly also a sense that, being female, I shouldn't have to. I suspect we all experience a shiver of unease at the prospect of women fighting. Some of us accept that unease as the price of feminism, while others reject it as too high a cost for an unsought and worthless prize.There is a dated but tenacious biological determinist line that all society converges to protect its fertile women, since they are as close as a species gets to a nest egg. I think it more likely to be a cultural hangover; the model of men as physical protectors is as old as civilisation, and its collapse could never be without resonance.The florid display of grief, though, as witnessed with Beshenivsky - the streets lined with mourners, each colleague's tear solemnly recorded, space at the funeral service mordantly over-subscribed - is not the simple act of honouring a public servant that it purports to be. It's an act of rather furtive mourning for a lost era - an era which, even at the cost of women's lives, we've done well to escape.