They were heinous crimes against women and, at first glance, unconnected. A multiple murderer had embarked on a prolific killing spree against prostitutes in rural Suffolk. Ninety miles south in the London borough of Croydon, a serial sex offender had brutally stabbed and raped a teenage girl on the doorstep of a suburban home.The strands that bind the two depraved perpetrators together run to the heart of the British criminal justice system. Both exposed, again, the curse of hard drugs as the principal driver of modern crime. But more pressingly they raised vexed questions about the use of DNA evidence, increasingly policing's most potent weapon in weeding out the killers in society's midst. Last week, two of the most macabre murder trials of recent British history ended with the conviction of the accused men. Forklift truck driver Steve Wright, 49, was sentenced to life in prison last Friday for killing five prostitutes in Suffolk. Within two hours, pub chef Mark Dixie, 37, was told he would spend at least 34 years in jail for murdering 18-year-old would-be model Sally Anne Bowman in a frenzied attack in her Croydon driveway. Yet both men might be free today had their genetic profiles not been entered into the national DNA database for relatively minor, unconnected offences. Yesterday an impassioned debate over the rapid expansion of the national DNA database showed little sign of abating. There was mounting speculation that the government had been seduced by the two high-profile convictions and was considering making the database compulsory.However, police minister Tony McNulty said the current operation of the DNA database was 'about right'. And Lincolnshire's chief constable Tony Lake, chairman of the national DNA database board, said: 'I have to say that I and many of my colleagues are not convinced of the need for a universal database.'The Home Office, meanwhile, would not be drawn into the row, saying only that a compulsory database raised 'significant practical and ethical issues'. Yet detectives who helped crack the Suffolk and Sally Anne cases believe such objections are outweighed by the bottom line: two killers are today in jail. Police forces, rather than wanting to row back from the controversy surrounding the use of DNA evidence, increasingly rely on the technique. Once forensics were used merely to support the main planks of evidence. Not any more. Instead, 'forensic biometrics' have become the primary means of identifying men such as Wright and Dixie. Wright's DNA details were entered into the national database five years ago after he was convicted of stealing £80 while working as a barman. A pair of gardening gloves that were marked with his DNA and that of his fourth victim, Paula Clennell, were enough for the police to press charges. They knew then that they had their man. Dixie's DNA was similarly entered into the database for a relatively trivial and unconnected offence. He might have got away with stabbing Sally Anne, and then raping and biting her as she lay dying, had he not been involved in a pub brawl during a World Cup football match nine months after attacking her. It was then that his DNA sample was taken as a matter of routine. Within five hours Dixie was in custody for the killing. It is no surprise that Detective Superintendent Stuart Cundy, who led the investigation to find Sally Anne's murderer, is demanding that the DNA of everyone should be sampled and stored centrally. Even so, civil liberties groups were yesterday adamant that only the DNA of sexual or violent offenders should be entered into the database. Britain, they claim, is heading for a universal forensic database introduced by stealth. Most senior police officers preferred to avoid comment yesterday, recognising that it was a debate largely shaped by organisations perturbed by the government's accumulation of personal data and opposing groups that advocate universal testing, with backers including Linda Bowman, the mother of murdered Sally Anne . But Gary Pugh, director of forensic services at Scotland Yard, told The Observer that the technology should be considered a profound asset in fighting crime. 'The technology exists to locate, scan and search marks from the crime scene with a suspect potentially being identified in less than 30 minutes and the arresting officer to be waiting outside the perpetrator's last known address when he returns,' Pugh said. Its use, he added, also held inherent safeguards against possible miscarriages of justice. 'The use of forensic biometrics is arguably one of the most effective safeguards for society against being wrongly accused or falsely convicted. As some recent high-profile cases have shown, investigators can be convinced they have the right suspect and juries that defendants are guilty, but one fingerprint comparison or DNA test can exonerate the innocent.' It is certain that the debate will continue. So too will the government's plans to tackle drugs and crime. This week the Home Office unveils its 10-year drugs strategy, following the release of figures showing that up to half of all thefts and the majority of violent sexual offences are drug-related. Among the plans are powers that will allow officers to seize assets from drug dealers immediately upon arrest, and the ability to seize criminal proceeds earned decades ago. The convictions of Wright and Dixie have, say police sources, underlined the role of drug addiction in many of society's most brutal crimes. All five of Wright's victims sold their bodies to buy heroin, an addiction the serial killer exploited to terrible effect. Dixie's crimes too were fuelled, partly at least, by drugs. He had developed a long-standing cocaine addiction that previous girlfriends said made him violent and unpredictable. Already a serial sex offender who had so far escaped justice, Dixie's mind was twisted by cocaine, cannabis and alcohol when in September 2005 he spotted Sally Anne Bowman being dropped off by her boyfriend yards from her front door.With hindsight, it is perhaps the least shocking element of the case that Dixie, a man whom police believe may be responsible for three unsolved murders in Australia, was about to commit a dreadful crime while high on cocaine. Nearly half of all London street crime is, according to police figures, committed by offenders addicted to cocaine or apparently dependent on the drug. Among the grim truths exposed by Wright's murderous spree was confirmation that heroin's grip is as entrenched in rural England as in its more traditional metropolitan strongholds. Wright preyed on women who would offer full sex for £30, enough for three 0.1g bags of 'skag'. Most serial killers leave a long gap, often years, between the first and second murders. Wright struck five times in weeks and, according to police, had already identified a sixth victim. The Observer can reveal that the Suffolk Constabulary murder squad found the details of another woman when they raided his home a week before Christmas 2006. Desperate to prolong his frenzied murder spree, Wright was already planning his next strike. There, scrawled in hurried handwriting, were the contact details of the 'Suffolk Strangler's' intended target. Detectives had raided 79 London Road, Ipswich, in the early hours of 18 December, and arrested Wright on suspicion of murder. As forensic officers swabbed his home for the DNA that would lead to his conviction, officers stumbled across an intriguing slip of paper. On it were the 11 digits of a mobile phone number, found in the room where police believe Wright may have killed all five of his victims. Checks were authorised. The number belonged to a woman they knew. She was a prostitute and heroin addict. Police told her that she was on Wright's 'hit-list'. Aged 33, she would have been his oldest victim. Now for the first time, the story behind the one that got away can be revealed. Using a pseudonym - she is still working in Ipswich as a prostitute - Erica described how officers called at her flat shortly before Christmas to talk about a man 'who lived down from Tania's'. Tania Nicol, 19, was Wright's first victim. Erica said: 'The police asked, "Do you know Steve Wright? Give us your mobile number." They sort of demanded it. 'They told me that Steve Wright had my mobile phone number written on a piece of paper in his apartment. They said that I was the next one on the list if they hadn't caught him. We went through it in great detail and it was obvious Wright wanted me to be the next'. Twice during the weeks of the 49-year-old's killing spree Wright tried to meet Erica outside Halfords, a bicycle and car parts superstore on a retail park five minutes from where he lived. On both occasions, he seemed anxious to see her. The first call was on 8 December. Annette Nicholls, 29, Wright's fifth victim, had just gone missing. 'Around about the time Netty went missing, he [Wright] rang. I couldn't make it. The second time I wasn't available again. He told me to come and see him. I said come up to mine, it's only five minutes away . He said no, meet me outside Halfords. I didn't. If I had had the night off, then I would have definitely seen him'.Erica was questioned for 45 minutes by murder squad officers about her relationship with Wright. She had originally met him after being introduced by Annette, whose stable family background and bright future had, like the rest, been corrupted by heroin. Wright, ironically, was one of their most normal customers. Most clients tended to be jumpy and a touch odd: Wright, if anything, was a bit straight. 'Steve seemed so quiet and normal, he didn't really say much about anything. He always seemed very relaxed and didn't come across too brash at all,' said Erica. 'He was really trusted by the girls, he was no stranger,' she said, adding that that was presumably how Wright managed to commit his murders undetected for so long. Yet what Wright's precise motives were remains a mystery. Conjecture points to a simmering hatred of women after his mother walked out on the family when he was a boy. Dixie too suffered a traumatic upbringing. His parents separated when he was very young and, later, his stepfather allegedly abused him. Finally, aged just 12, his mother dumped him outside a children's home in south London and never got in contact again. Next month Suffolk Constabulary will hold a meeting with other forces to discuss other questions surrounding the case, although what seems certain is that Wright was not involved in the disappearance of estate agent Suzy Lamplugh, the 25-year-old who vanished in 1986. Police sources maintain that Lamplugh's killer is in fact likely to be John Cannan, who is serving a life sentence in Full Sutton prison, near York, for the rape and murder of another young woman. Cannan, though, has always denied having anything to do with Lamplugh's disappearance. Another issue that the Wright case has raised concerns the laws governing prostitution, which many argue serve only to make a dangerous profession still more dangerous. Visitors to the maze of streets around Ipswich's London Road will these days find few, if any, prostitutes plying their trade. But a series of police crackdowns has only succeeded in moving the trade away from the area where Wright once lived. 'Despite the conviction of Wright, women don't feel any safer. Fundamentally, nothing has changed. The policies that were in place at the time remain,' said Niki Adams, a spokeswoman for the English Collective of Prostitutes. She added that women like Erica were, if anything, in graver danger than before the Suffolk Strangler struck. 'Women are being displaced to different areas, which are more isolated and dangerous. Many of the Ipswich prostitutes have moved to Norwich and other towns where they face fresh dangers,' Adams said. In fact one of Wright's victims - 24-year-old Anneli Alderton - had been forced to move from Huddersfield to Ipswich following a crackdown against prostitution in west Yorkshire. Last month, Home Office minister Vernon Coaker announced a fresh six-month review into the law. He visited Sweden, which has introduced legislation to criminalise the buying of sex, while decriminalising its sale. The idea is that prostitution should be regarded as an aspect of male violence against women. For Erica, last week brought closure and a chance to reflect that justice had been served in the name of the five friends Wright had murdered. But her fears continue. 'I lost five good friends and Wright has got what he deserved, but has anything made me safer?' she asked. For the detectives who helped to convict her friends' killer, their brief may soon get much tougher. Next week there will be a crucial hearing at the European Court of Human Rights that could impede the use of DNA as a crime-solving aid. The two applicants, Michael Marper and a teenager known as 'S', both from Sheffield, will discover on Wednesday if their human rights have been compromised by a decision to leave their details on the national database, despite the fact that they have never been found guilty of a crime. The ramifications of their case are obvious. In the week following one in which proponents of the database savoured two if its most high-profile scalps, it now faces one of its greatest challenges yet.The technologyDNA profiling is the most powerful forensic tool available to police and scientists today. The discovery of DNA evidence at a crime scene triples prosecutors' chances of obtaining a conviction compared with crimes where no DNA is found.The technology involved exploits the fact that small sections of our DNA repeat themselves over and over, and that different people have different numbers of repeats. These genetic 'stutters' can be counted, producing a digital read-out.Current tests produce a sequence of 20 numbers. Such a read-out is highly specific to an individual. The chances of a stranger's DNA exactly matching each of the 20 numbers that make up your profile are about one billion to one.Equally importantly, the capability to turn a person's DNA into a read-out means that the numbers that pinpoint a person from their genes can be stored in computers. British authorities hold the DNA records of more than 4 million people and matches between individuals and crime-scene samples are now frequently used to channel investigations in specific directions.The crucial point about DNA profiling is it is a potent technique for highlighting promising approaches for detectives to follow. But other evidence is often needed to corroborate what the DNA evidence is indicating. Robin McKieTrapped by DNAIan O'Callaghan, 38Serving a life sentence for killing 66-year-old Shirley Leach in a toilet at Bury bus station in 1994. Forensic evidence pinpointed him 12 years after he sexually assaulted, murdered and then mutilated her. He had been arrested on suspicion of drink driving.Craig Harman, 23Jailed for six years after admitting the manslaughter of lorry driver Michael Little, 53, in March 2003. He threw a brick from a bridge onto the M3 in Surrey, which hit Little. He was caught after DNA on the brick was checked against the national database and was similar to the DNA of one of his relatives. Geoffrey Godfrey, 42Received a six-year sentence last October for the rape of a 36-year-old woman beside a Somerset canal in 1993. Cold-case review detectives had asked Godfrey to provide a voluntary DNA swab to discount him from their trawl of potential relatives of the offender, who had left DNA evidence. Colin Pitchfork (born 1961)His was the first murder conviction using DNA evidence. Found guilty in 1988 of the separate murders of two schoolgirls, Lynda Mann and Dawn Ashworth, both 15, in Leicestershire. Semen samples were found on their bodies.Bradley Murdoch (born 1958)Serving life for murdering British backpacker Peter Falconio and tying up Falconio's girlfriend, Joanne Lees, in the Australian Outback in 2001. DNA on the ties established he was 100 million times more likely to be involved than