A black IT worker who hurried home through back streets to avoid being sucked into last year's Birmingham race riot was ambushed and murdered by three Asian youths wearing bandanas and hoodies, a court heard yesterday.Isiah Young-Sam, 23, was stabbed through the heart by attackers who jumped from a vehicle as he and three friends attempted to navigate the terrace streets of Lozells. The victim, his brother and two friends were seeking to evade the trouble that had broken out following days of tension between black and Asian communities over a rumour - unsubstantiated but widely circulated - that a West Indian girl had been gang-raped by 19 Asian men in a beauty products shop. Mr Young-Sam, his brother and two friends set out to attend a protest meeting on the issue, but turned back at the first signs of trouble on October 22.A jury heard that they seemed to have evaded the danger zone when they were spotted and set upon by a group of Asian men travelling together in a Toyota Corolla. The party tried to escape, but Mr Young-Sam was quickly surrounded by men who produced weapons from under their clothing while shouting abuse. By the time his friends turned back to try to rescue him, one of the four, Locksley Byfield, had been stabbed in the buttocks and Mr Sam-Young had been fatally wounded. "That was, we say, a pointless and in the context of what Isiah Young-Sam was doing, a wicked killing of someone who was a total stranger to those involved in the attack," Adrian Redgrave QC, prosecuting, told Birmingham crown court. "This killing was brought about by the group behaviour of men who chose to pick upon and chase this group of four men. They stopped their car and got out, not to ask the way or to have a discussion about anything, but to attack with a deadly weapon."Detained in Dubai  Mr Redgrave told the court that having left Mr Young-Sam to die, defendants Waqar Ahmed, 26, Azhil Khan, 23, and Afzal Khan, 22, immediately fled to Huddersfield before returning to Birmingham the following day to buy themselves one-way tickets to Pakistan. But they made the mistake of rejecting a direct flight to Islamabad which would have left within hours, in favour of a flight the following day that stopped off in Dubai. Once there, they were detained by the authorities and flown back to the UK. Each was charged with Mr Young-Sam's murder and wounding with intent to cause grievously bodily harm to Mr Byfield.All three men, who live in the Handsworth area of Birmingham, deny the charges. Mr Redgrave showed the court CCTV pictures of the two groups converging. He said the prosecution would not seek to establish who struck the fatal blow but would instead ask the jury to find all three defendants culpable. "The striking of that fatal blow was not some isolated individual act by somebody acting alone. It was part of a group activity with the participants in that group activity sharing responsibility for the consequences," he said. "There is no sure proof of which of the group of Asian young men stabbed Locksley Byfield in the buttocks or stabbed Isiah Young-Sam through the heart, but that doesn't mean that no one should be convicted of participation in that murder or stabbing. Not only the killer himself but anyone who helped or encouraged him may be convicted of murder."The court heard how the murder occurred in a district brought to fever pitch by the unsubstantiated rape allegation. Police became aware of the rumour around October 17 and quickly elevated the issue to the status of a "critical incident". Two protests occurred outside the premises where the rape was said to have taken place, one on the Tuesday attended by 200 people and another on Saturday morning, which attracted 400 and lasted for four hours. Both were peaceful. Police briefed a community meeting at a church late on the Saturday afternoon but at the same time disorder began to break out in the vicinity. Mr Redgrave said the trial was not about the rape allegation but he described the murder as "one specific attack during the course of the rioting that ensued". In front of a packed public gallery that included Mr Young-Sam's relatives and friends, Mr Redgrave said the four black men had been acting prudently when they decided to turn back. "It was clear that in Lozells Road there was a noticeable police presence and trouble in the air.In the context of what was going on it was a sensible move on their part and a sensible route for them to take. Unfortunately in this same area at this same time were these three accused." He added: "It was not just these three. There were many others." Their car, he said, was distinctive "and its progress in Lozells Road can be traced from CCTV footage". All were Asian young men. He said the jury would examine transcripts of conversations between Azhil and Afzal Khan, taped while they were being held in a police station.Police obtained permission to conduct "intrusive surveillance" and obtained tapes of them talking in English and Kashmiri.Surveillance The QC said the conversations conflicted with accounts they gave in police interviews, when both claimed to have left the area without involvement in any violence. During a whispered exchange, one recalls "when we went after the black man" and Afzal Khan says: "We should have been just in the riots, throwing bricks and shit." As British citizens, all three were obliged to obtain visas before travelling to Islamabad and Mr Redgrave showed the jury copies of the forms they had filled in.Azhil Khan said he needed an entry visa to deal with a "family crisis" and Afzal Khan that he wanted to visit family. Ahmed sought a visa on humanitarian grounds. The entry on his form read: "Disaster in Pakistan has left my grandmother alone with no one to look after her." The trial is expected to last two weeks.