Scotland Yard is bracing itself for racial controversy as one of its senior officers prepares to publish a no-holds-barred account of how fellow officers, including the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, dealt with unfounded corruption allegations against him.Urgent talks are being conducted between Chief Superintendent Ali Dizaei, a borough commander in Hounslow, west London, and senior officials at Scotland Yard over his autobiography Not One Of Us, which is scheduled for publication, newspaper serialisation and prominence as BBC Radio 4's Book of the Week.It is rare for an officer, even such a high profile one, to be allowed to air controversial views while still in post. Chief Supt Dizaei has been asked to give advance warning to some officers about the content of his book.The book tells how Chief Supt Dizaei was targeted by Operation Helios, the ill- fated £7m investigation into claims that he criminally abused his position. Despite being investigated for almost five years, the 20 serious allegations involving criminal or disciplinary offences came to nothing. He was acquitted of two relatively minor charges at the Old Bailey in 2003. He did admit to making an abusive phone call to a former girlfriend. After the collapse of the criminal inquiry he is reported to have received £80,000 compensation.Chief Supt Dizaei was legal adviser to the National Black Police Association at the time of the investigation. The wide scope of the inquiry prompted claims that the NBPA and black officers in general were being pursued.Against a backdrop of improved race relations within the Met, there is concern at the highest level about the effect the autobiography may have on the force. The officer makes few specific criticisms of Sir Ian - who supervised the inquiry while deputy commissioner - but there are uncomfortable references to others involved, including Chief Supt Barry Norman who had day-to-day control of Operation Helios. He is now borough commander in Islington, north London.Two months ago an investigatory powers tribunal headed by a high court judge found the Met guilty of illegally tapping Chief Supt Dizaei's phone.The tactics used by detectives during Helios are being internally reviewed. Some friends of Chief Supt Dizaei are suing the Met over the way they were treated during the investigation.A friend of Chief Supt Dizaei said: "He feels it is important that the right lessons are learned. Helios and the issues it raised are still impacting on people's lives."John Azah, speaking for Scotland Yard's independent advisory group, said: "We feel the Met has made great advances. That said, we see issues that, like Helios, continue to challenge the organisation." He added: "Our advances must not be compromised by individuals pursuing their own private projects."A Met spokeswoman said the book was "a personal matter between employer and employee".