Manchester has earned itself the dubious soubriquet of being the "Asbo capital" of England and Wales. Gorton, to the east of the city centre, where Channel 4's Shameless is filmed and where I happen to live, is believed to issue more orders than any other area of the city. According to the People newspaper at least, this makes the area the epicentre of antisocial behaviour.Recently, a reporter and photographer from the People went to Gorton to test the hypothesis. They parked an old BMW in one of the area's "grey desolate streets". Within minutes, the paper breathlessly reports, "the car was surrounded by tearaways looking to plunder it of anything worth stealing". In the car, the journalists had left behind several items, including "alcohol, mobile phone, CDs and laptop computer bag". Approximately 47 minutes after the car was parked (what took so long?), a youth cycled by, spotted the items and left. He returned on foot, with a scarf hiding his face, forced the car window, stuffed the items under his jacket and scarpered. Six minutes later, the youth (by now a "yob") was back. He hotwired the car and accelerated away, with a "screech of tyres". What a story, what a strike for the sword of truth! Somebody leaves a haul of goodies on show in a motor in a deprived area and the car gets broken into. What would have happened, I wonder, if the car and contents had been left untouched? Would the paper have run a story praising the honesty of Gortonians? Reading the piece, I was torn between anger and amusement. But it really wasn't a laughing matter. The newspaper also ran a comment piece, which opined that Gorton needs a massive influx of police to tackle the yobbos. Actually, that is the last thing this area needs: the first is the provision of recreational facilities for the young. Earlier this year, I wrote an article for Society Guardian about living in Gorton. I complained about the scandalous lack of amenities in the area: that within a half-mile radius of my house, there wasn't a single patch of ground that could safely be used for playing football or skateboarding. There still isn't. The nearest safe play area for toddlers is still almost a mile away. The local baths have long closed, and the splendid facilities of the nearby Sports City are still out of the price range of local families. The street corners remain the only recreation area for the kids, and the Asbos continue to pile up.But to return to the nicked car and contents. Perhaps it's me, but the story left a nasty taste in my mouth - and it wasn't put there by the young miscreant. I would bet good money that if that honeytrap of a motor had been left unattended in Sloane Square for an hour the result would have been the same. So why pick on a blighted area to demonstrate that there are thieves about? Of course crimes are committed in Gorton. There is burglary, vandalism, drug addiction and all the other signs of urban deprivation. But there are also many decent, hard-working parents who struggle to raise their kids in an area that seems designed to encourage children to behave badly. Yet instead of helping these families, by providing their kids with something to do and somewhere to go, those in power talk tough and issue more Asbos. This spectacle of mainly privileged politicians demonising the children of grossly underprivileged parents ought to be a matter of shame for a government publicly committed to reducing inequality. But it seems that, like my fictional near neighbours, our leaders are devoid of shame. The Labour party conference is in Manchester next year. I offer my services as a tour guide of the "Asbo capital" to the visiting ministers who - in the words of a local kid I recently spoke with - "care Jack Shit about us". · Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent.