A woman whose five-year-old granddaughter was killed by the family's pit bull terrier while she was looking after her was under the influence of drink and drugs at the time, a court heard today.Liverpool crown court was told that Jacqueline Simpson, 45, had also flouted a family rule by allowing the powerfully built dog into the house in St Helens, Merseyside.Ellie Lawrenson when the girl was killed in the early hours of New Year's day when the dog, Reuben, locked its jaws around her throat and shook her. She had 72 injuries. Today, Neil Flewitt QC told the court Ms Simpson's judgment may have been impaired by her having smoked cannabis and drunk alcohol. He said: "It was the view of the forensic scientist who carried out the analysis that 'the concurrent presence of these drugs has the potential to have affected her actions at the time of the incident', although he was unable to say to what extent she may have been affected." Ellie was dead by the time paramedics arrived. Ms Simpson, who witnessed the attack and was injured while trying to save her granddaughter, had known about previous attacks and was supposed to have kept the dog outside, the prosecution said. Mr Flewitt said that on May 29 last year Reuben, who belonged to Ms Simpson's son Kiel, 24, had attacked a neighbour's dog in an incident the grandmother witnessed. On November 21, six weeks before Ellie was killed, Reuben had attacked Ms Simpson's daughter Kelsey. Mr Flewitt said: "According to Kelsey Simpson, she saw something in Reuben's eyes that she had never seen before. They were bulging, red and horrible." He added: "Reuben tried to grab hold of Kelsey Simpson's top with his teeth. "He then sank his teeth into Kelsey Simpson's right leg just above the knee and tried to shake her." The jury of seven men and five women heard that the dog was no longer viewed as a pet after that, and it was always locked outside when Ellie was present. Mr Flewitt said: "There is no doubt that the defendant was aware of, and agreed to and generally complied with, these arrangements so as to ensure that there was no contact between Reuben and either Kelsey Simpson or Ellie." But minutes before the fatal attack, which Simpson told police might have been sparked by a firework, she took pity on Reuben. The animal had been "crying and whimpering" outside. In a police interview, the defendant admitted she should have kept the dog outside, the court heard.She told officers: "I shouldn't have let him in, should I?" Mr Flewitt added: "She knew that Reuben had become dangerous and she knew that precautions had been put in place to ensure he did not come into contact with Ellie. "Yet, for no good reason, she allowed Reuben to have access to Ellie in circumstances that undoubtedly led directly to her death." Police shot the dog dead after two handlers agreed they could not deal with him. Ms Simpson denies manslaughter by gross negligence. Her son Kiel admitted owning a dangerous dog earlier this year.