It might be easier for politicians to respond to anxieties about violent crime among young people and children if the public could be persuaded that "paedophobia" is a bigger threat to its peace of mind than paedophilia.Today's Guardian/ICM poll, however, suggests suggests the underlying mood out there is more thoughtful.Yet polls routinely report that many people in Britain are more afraid of crime and antisocial behaviour than the facts - bad enough in themselves - warrant. They are certainly afraid of teenagers congregating in our streets, whether they are drunk, hooded, aggressive or simply boisterous.As a result, politicians are expected "to do something". After the murder of 11-year-old Rhys Jones last week, Gordon Brown staged a youth crime "summit" at No 10. Jacqui Smith, surely the first home secretary to weep on live TV as she watched Rhys's parents, promised more "resources and attention" to tackle street gangs.As for David Cameron, whose "anarchy in the UK" speeches won headlines last week, he will unveil a package of meaures to "tackle Britain's crime crisis" today. But he too is aware of the pitfalls of instant policy. If Mr Cameron really believes the behaviour of individuals, families, whole communities, must change, he will also have been told that changing behaviour is one of the hardest things to do.It can be done, though: smoking is down thanks to government action on the back of a growing public consensus. Cheap drink, knives, guns: they are not inevitable either.Governments tend to move in long cycles. After Michael Howard's "prison works" and "zero tolerance" rhetoric pushed up prison numbers, Tony Blair's gentler promise in 1997 to be tough on the root causes of crime as well as on the criminals struck a chord.But successive Labour home secretaries, with the partial exception of the unlucky Charles Clarke, found that "tough" sounded better.That may reflect the prejudices of the mouthy tabloids. ICM's findings for the Guardian suggest that, asked less emotive questions, voters prefer non-custodial forms of punishment to the "lock 'em up" option, even in so distressing a month as August 2007.That is not because the (admittedly narrow) majority are complacently soft on crime; more that they are aware that prison is the University of Crime for many inmates. As with other forms of higher education, student numbers are up - by one third since 1997. Surely not what young Blair intended.