There's a great programme on the telly on Sunday nights. It is called Without Prejudice and it starts at 9pm. On it a panel of judges decides which of six contestants they should award a prize of £50,000 to.All the contestants have to do to win is be themselves. And therein lies their problem, because they are each then evaluated on their looks, personal life, history and most importantly the prejudices of those who sit in judgment of them.They are voted out one by one. The winner is the last one left and tends to be the person whose lifestyle is most like the majority of those on the panel. The show had a particular resonance with me last Sunday, because it aired about 45 minutes after I had faced my own battle with prejudice, except in my case it wasn't a game. I had just got back from Manchester with my girlfriend, Yvonne - we'd been to the United/Arsenal match and made a weekend of it - when, as we turned into the driveway, a police car flashed us. I went to roll down the window but as I did four officers appeared, two on either side of my car. All were armed. They told us to get out of the vehicle and turn off the engine. We were then shocked to see down the road, behind us, at least 30 more police officers, who had come in vans and cars, some with dogs, others with more weapons. We were frisked and I was asked what I did for a living. I told them I was the editorial director of the Ethnic Media Group. When I saw it meant nothing to them, I explained we were the biggest minority publishing group in Europe and that among our titles were the market-leading Asian newspaper, Eastern Eye, and New Nation, the biggest selling black weekly title, which I also edit. I might have said I was an unemployed crack dealer for all the difference it made. Another officer searched me; at the same time a policewoman searched Yvonne. 'What the hell is this about?' I demanded. 'There's a lot of gun crime in this area,' came the answer, 'You fit the profile. It's a section 60.' Now I give you two guesses why he said that, although having looked at the picture that accompanies this piece you will probably only need one. That's right. I'm black and so is Yvonne. What compounded my sins is the fact that I also have the audacity to drive a fancy car - a Jaguar. After they searched us, they started on the vehicle - front seats, glove box, back seats, boot. In the meantime, we were humiliatingly forced to stand on the street in the freezing cold wearing flimsy clothing (Yvonne had been stripped of her coat and I had nothing on under my jean jacket) as people in my apartment block peeped at us out of their windows. Half an hour after they first detained us the police, having satisfied themselves we were not jail fodder after all, let us go. 'So we'll be reading about this in your paper then will we? Sorry for the inconvenience, Michael,' one of them smirked as they left. The incident came on the day the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir John Stevens, said on BBC1's Breakfast With Frost: 'The tactics we are using [to combat armed crime in the inner cities] are working.'Many took that to mean the random stopping and searching of 'suspects' had been replaced by the more efficient 'intelligence-led' policing, and the decrease in crime was a result of that change. They couldn't have been more wrong. Especially when a section 60 order is in place. Originally brought in to combat football hooliganism, section 60 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 effectively re-enacts the much-hated sus laws of the 1970s and 1980s. It states: 'Where a police officer of or above the rank of superintendent reasonably believes that: (a) incidents involving serious violence may take place in any locality in his area and (b) it is expedient to do so to prevent their occurrence, he may give an authorisation that the powers to stop and search persons and vehicles conferred by this section shall be exercisable at any place within that locality for a period not exceeding24 hours.' The Act empowers a police officer in a section 60 zone 'in the exercise of those powers, [to] stop any person or vehicle and make any search he thinks fit whether or not he has any grounds for suspecting that the person or vehicle is carrying weapons or articles of that kind'. The police believe they are able, therefore, to confer on themselves the right to stop and search anyone for any reason whatsoever. Stop and search has been a major issue of contention between black people and the police for as long as I can remember. It was one of the main causes of inner city riots in the 1980s. It reared its ugly mug in the 1990s when the first statistics were bandied about. And the new millennium has seen a continuation of the old order. Almost a year ago to the day, Mike Best, the now former editor of The Voice, was practically knighted after he ludicrously said he saw nothing wrong with the random stopping and searching of black people. His remarks sparked a debate. The police, who have obviously learnt a lot from the Government about how to tell a story, cleverly portrayed themselves as the victims. In the wake of the Macpherson report into the death of Stephen Lawrence, their poor little officers, they said, were scared to stop and search black people for fear of being deemed racist, even though Macpherson was pretty silent about the arbitrary harassment of black people in the street. The net result is the statistics have got worse. Basically if, like me, you are black, you are eight times more likely to be stopped and searched by the cops than if you are white, despite the fact that the average black person is no more likely to commit a crime than the average white person. Alarmingly, this figure has gone up. At the time of the Macpherson inquiry - four years ago - I was only five times more likely to be stopped and searched than the average reader of this article. But can random stop-and-search, which is practised over a protracted period only in areas that have a large black population, ever really cut down on crime? Police Superintendent Bob Parker, the man who invoked the section 60 order in the area in which I live, Clapton, east London, believes it can. He pretty much admits the reason I was stopped was because I am black and drive an expensive car. 'It was part of an operation which is targeting armed crime in the black community. A number of these criminals have a liking for expensive vehi cles,' he says. So was the much-vaunted intelligence-led policing nothing more than spin? 'We have a good deal of intelligence but the fact that there have been 23 firearms-related incidents in the area since the beginning of the year means that, sadly, we do not have intelligence on all the perpetrators of such crime. 'The reason we use section 60 is that it allows us to expand the powers of police in a given area for limited periods. This is a specific operation to tackle a specific problem.' He says the reason there were so many officers involved was as much to act as a deterrent to criminals as it was necessary to carry out the particular stop-and- search. 'It's a bit of a cliché,' says Parker, 'but it's about transferring the fear of crime from the victim to the criminal.' Parker comes across as a decent bloke who wants to do his job and get rid of the scum on his patch who go around shooting and killing people. I'm sure that's what he is, but I don't buy his argument. Once again the statistics back me up. As the Guardian wrote in a comment last November: 'Stop-and-search rose ninefold between 1986 and 1998, but the proportion leading to arrests dropped from 17 to 10 per cent. Some 900,000 of the one million people stopped in 1998 were found to be breaking no laws. The main crimes of the other 100,000 were carrying small amounts of cannabis, an offensive weapon, or stolen goods.' The trouble with the needle-in-a-haystack approach to policing is that it is wasteful and too simplistic a solution to a sophisticated situation; and while every so often the police get lucky, more often than not they don't and they end up offending innocent people going about their daily lives. The result is that when the police want their help, they don't get it. You don't do a favour for someone who has just humiliated you. And not everyone has the ability to get hold of the private number of the likes of Superintendent Parker and chat to him on the phone about why they were detained. Most simply end up hating the police. As one typical respondent to a vox pop on attitudes to the police carried out by New Nation said: 'I'd rather be a dustman than join them [the police]. You get more respect.' Ken Livingstone's adviser on race, Lee Jasper, who is also chair of Operation Trident (the London-wide police squad set up to investigate armed criminality in the black community), has long been critical of random stop-and-search. He says: 'Basically, it's racial profiling. The question is: is it a tactic reflected in policing elsewhere? My answer to that question would be no.' Imagine the outcry if police in the City of London, aware there was serious fraud being committed in that vicinity, stopped and searched, in an arbitrary fashion, every white man with a briefcase. Any criminal activity can be profiled but most societies simply would not tolerate that approach to solving crime. The police find it difficult to understand the resentment they cause when they judge people on such meaningless markers as the colour of their skin or the cost of the car they drive. But if an officer wants to know how ridiculous it is to make a judgment about someone based on the flimsiest of evidence, let him turn on the telly at 9pm tonight and watch Channel 4.