"I'm not actually a traffic warden, sir," Hacer Ramadan reassured the anxious driver as he gestured towards the parking meter.He took a second glance at her uniform, and spotted her blue enamel hat badge and the Metropolitan police patch on her jacket. Then he beamed. "We need more of you around," he said. "You're doing a good job, you security people." Yesterday's encounter on a Belgravia street encapsulated the public's response to police community support officers (PCSOs). They love them - once they understand them. In independent studies, between 50% and 70% of residents said they felt more secure because of the extra staff, who focus on lower level crime, disorder and anti-social behaviour as well as assisting fullyfledged police officers. Their popularity has prompted the chancellor to promise cash for 15,000 more PCSOs within the next three years. There are 3,800 nationwide, around 80 of whom are in Belgravia. The job has also brought a more diverse range of recruits: in London, 35% are from ethnic minority backgrounds (compared with 6.6% of all officers) and 30% are female (compared with 18.4%). Yet PCSOs were mocked by the tabloids as "plastic policemen" on their introduction in 2002, and faced suspicion from regular officers who feared that welltrained staff would be replaced by powerless novices with only a month's training under their belt. "We did have a few teething problems - I don't think [officers] had been briefed for exactly what our role would be. But I think over the last two years we have earned their respect," said Lesley Thompson. "We free them to do other things and act as their eyes and ears." In the last few days she has passed on intelligence about counterfeit notes, checked passes at New Scotland Yard and monitored the cordon at the scene of an attempted murder - in addition to regular duties such as ticking off litterbugs and graffiti artists and confiscating alcohol from street drinkers. Yesterday she was patrolling with two colleagues. "Riding on pavements is illegal," Ms Ramadan said as a couple of girls sped past on bicycles. The pair dismounted.  Then she stopped to say hello to a homeless woman at Victoria station. "She's a new one," she said. "I'll be keeping an eye on her, and if she doesn't get anywhere [to stay] I can refer her."   Another was less friendly: "I'll move on when a proper plod tells me to," he snarled, but picked up his bag as requested. "The hardest thing is knowing that you have limited powers and there is only so much you can do," Ms Thompson admitted. She can, for instance, issue fixed penalty notices, seize vehicles causing alarm or distress and request the name and address of anyone behaving anti-socially. But the power to detain suspects is available to PCSOs only under pilot schemes running in six forces. Perhaps as a result of the job's limitations, many recruits see it as a step towards a traditional police career.  But in Belgravia the residents and business people say the presence of PCSOs is enough to cut crime rates. They praise the initiative as a return to the "bobby on the beat" principle. "The drunk guys used to get upset and try to smash our windows and door if we tried to minimise their drinking," said shopkeeper Mohammed Ibrahim. "Now they don't. Shoplifting has gone down too. Just the fact the officers are there deters crime. They're much more like the normal police should be."