A nightclub bouncer who relished violence was jailed for life yesterday for the "merciless" murder of a man he stabbed to death in a case of mistaken identity.Jason Grant, 22, was part of a gang that broke down the door of Naresh Shah, a 42-year-old chartered accountant, looking for another man who had been involved in a fracas at a Yates's Wine Lodge. The Old Bailey was told that Grant licked blood from his fingers and said he loved "claret" [blood] as his victim lay dying from 13 stab wounds in the living room of his home in Hounslow, west London. "You admitted this killing with relish and said whereas you used to get pleasure from 'knocking the fuck out of people', you now had the taste for blood," said Judge Graham Boal. "Naresh Shah was the wrong man in the wrong house. You have shown no sign of remorse for what happened. Indeed, you seem to have taken pride in what you did. "This reinforces my conclusion that you are an extremely dangerous young man from whom the public will need protecting for a very long time." Grant, also from Hounslow, shouted "scum" to jurors as he was taken to the cells. They found him guilty last month of murdering Mr Shah and conspiring to cause grievous bodily harm to another man. Sentencing had been adjourned pending reports. Two other bouncers, Mark Young, 33, of Uxbridge, west London, and Paul Hilton, 23, of Clacton-on-Sea, Essex, were jailed for eight and six years respectively for conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm. Young's girlfriend, Samantha Easton, 25, of Hanworth, west London, was jailed for two years on the same charge. Two other men and a 17-year-old woman were cleared on all charges last month. The gang broke into Mr Shah's home in March last year, looking for a man who had been involved in a dispute at Yates's Wine Lodge in Hounslow, where Young and Hilton worked. They had been given the wrong address. The 5ft 3in, seven stone accountant never stood a chance, the court heard. Judge Boal described his murder as particularly abhorrent. "Murder is always the gravest of crimes, but this murder has features which single it out as being one which all right-minded people would regard with horror," he said. "A perfectly innocent man - kind, gentle, intelligent, successful - was ruthlessly and mercilessly done to death in his home." Mr Shah, who moved to the UK from Kenya with his family 30 years ago, was a hard-working man who had built up a successful business. "Our suffering is lifelong and endless," Mr Shah's brother, Atul, said, describing his brother as "an asset and a pillar" to all who knew him. "My brother was an extremely kind person who would not harm anyone and yet, on that day, he was butchered without being shown a shred of human kindness. Even animals are slaughtered in a more humane way."