Think Liverpool, think gangs, and you think of Toxteth, the area in south Liverpool that was ravaged by riots in 1981. In the aftermath Yardie gangs dominated the area, controlling the drugs trade and making parts of Toxteth no-go areas.Meanwhile Croxteth, in the north of Liverpool, has been plagued by a more subterranean form of gang culture. People here will tell you things changed for the worse 15 years ago when two extended families - the Gees and the Wrights - came to dominate the area's drug trade.The Gees -many of whom are now in prison - are described as psychopaths. 'They weren't organised like the Yardies, they didn't have global ambitions,' said a local. 'They weren't into importing drugs, just distributing. They were extremely violent.'The Wrights were less visible, maybe more intelligent. Between them, the two families carved up the local drug trade. Throughout the 1990s they created their own laws and meted out punishments. One favoured method was to pick up the child of someone with drug debts from school. 'You'll see them again when you pay up' was the threat.The Gees and the Wrights thrived in an area that became one of the most neglected in Britain, as work in the nearby factories dried up and unemployment soared. 'They were sink estates and they policed themselves,' one local said. The police were reluctant to intervene. Much of the violence was simply down to drug dealers competing for territory. Shootings rarely made more than the local headlines.The emerging culture of violence polluted the area. Amid the lawlessness more gangs sprang up - younger, less focused. Bouncers at local pubs and clubs started wearing bulletproof vests. Two gangs became particularly powerful: the Croxteth Crew and the Strand Gang of Norris Green. The feud between the two came to a head last year when Liam 'Smigger' Smith, 19, a member of the Strand Gang, was shot in the head after visiting a friend in Altcourse prison in the suburb of Fazakerley. Last Thursday three teenagers were convicted of his murder, sparking fear of reprisals. At the trial the jury heard that the rival gangs had fired on each on at least 17 occasions since 2004.The new wave of violence saw Merseyside police launch a specialist unit called Matrix to tackle gun crime. Between January 2005 and January 2006, 6,500 people were arrested and hundreds of rounds of ammunition were recovered. But the operation has done nothing to dismantle the gun culture. Locals say they regularly see youths walking around the community proudly wearing T-shirts bearing the slogan 'Nogzy soldier' - a reference to their membership of the Strand Gang. 'If you lived around here, you'd carry a gun,' said one person who works with young offenders in the area.It was against this backdrop that Rhys Jones was killed. In the immediate aftermath, the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary hastily convened a meeting of police and youth workers. Most who attended argued it was not simply a case of passing new laws. 'It's about how you get to the hardest-to-reach youngsters,' said Graham Robb, interim chairman of the Youth Justice Board, who attended the meeting. 'They live in chaotic homes; they have not been receiving any education, they're going to be drug users, and if someone tries to intervene through their parents, they're not there. It's going to take really tough action to make sure they comply with court orders.'Ultimately, though, many of the problems come down to socio-economic factors, none of which can be fixed overnight. 'Gang members are almost exclusively from deprived backgrounds,' said Doug Nicholls of union Unite, which represents youth workers. 'Their tales are of isolation and rejection from work and family. They see no horizon beyond this.'