Judges are poised to scrap their wigs in civil court cases in a move which will end more than 300 years of legal tradition.Although the final details have yet to be hammered out, a consensus against the retention of wigs for civil cases has emerged from a review set up by the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips.But judges presiding over criminal trials are expected to keep their wigs for the time being. Criminal court judges and barristers argued that the horsehair headgear confers a degree of anonymity, protecting them from confrontations outside court with criminals, and adds to the dignity of court proceedings, helping to keep order.Lord Phillips has long felt that wigs contribute to the public view of judges as fusty and out of touch. He has described the judges' large wardrobe as ridiculous and favours a simple European-style black robe fastened with Velcro.He set up the review after taking over from the lord chancellor as head of the judiciary under constitutional reforms last April. Previous lord chancellors had consulted on court garb twice since the early 1990s but taken no action.The issue was brought to a head by pressure from solicitor advocates, who appear alongside bewigged barristers in higher courts. Apart from a handful of solicitors who have won the rank of QC, solicitor advocates have no right to wear a wig.They argue that the distinction makes them seem second-class advocates in clients' eyes and are demanding parity, with either all or none wearing wigsFor the civil courts, the issue is expected to be resolved by abandoning wigs for both judges and barristers. For the criminal courts no decision on lawyers' garb has yet been taken.The reform would be in line with public opinion, last canvassed by the lord chancellor's department in a review which cost £110,000 in 2002. Just 31% of 2,000 people surveyed wanted civil court judges to keep their wigs, while 68% thought criminal court judges should retain them.Judges in the commercial court, part of the high court, have already jettisoned wigs, claiming they are fusty and inappropriate to modern business litigation, much of it with an international element.Judges and barristers also go bareheaded when cases are in chambers, which includes most cases heard in the high court's family division.In the highest court, the house of lords, the judges wear no wigs or robes. The law lords, who will become Britain's first supreme court justices in 2009, will continue to hear cases bareheaded but may adopt a simple black robe.The most senior judges have long favoured jettisoning wigs for fear they contribute to an image of remoteness.Their fears were borne out in 1999 by the biggest survey of attitudes to the legal system in England and Wales, which revealed that two out of three thought judges out of touch with ordinary people.Even more worryingly, the Paths to Justice survey of 1,100 people by University College London found only a bare majority were confident they would get a fair hearing if they went to court with a problem. One interviewee, asked what was so objectionable about wigs and robes, answered: "I don't like that feeling that they are so grand and you're just this small little person."BackstoryIn the late 17th century, during the reign of Charles II, wigs became essential wear in society. The fashion came from the court of Louis XIV. Wig is short for periwig, which derives from the French perruque.When wigs went out of fashion during the reign of George III, judges and barristers continued to wear them in court. Judges wore the shoulder-length "full bottom" wig, now used only for ceremonial purposes, until the 1780s, when they adopted the smaller wig with a tail at the back for civil trials. The full-bottomed wig continued to be used for criminal trials until the 1840s, when the small "bench" wig, used to this day, took over. Each high court judge receives a tax-free clothing allowance of nearly £15,000. A judge's court wig costs around £800 and full-bottomed wigs about £2,000.