Depending on the paper you read, Maxine Carr is variously a killer's moll, a second Myra Hindley, the most reviled woman in Britain or the object of some of the most imaginative pieces of media mythmaking in modern times. Wherever the truth lies, it is beyond dispute that everything about Carr's life takes place in a 24-hour media glare. In recent weeks alone, there have been stories about her prison sex life, her weight, her hair, her clothes, her demands for protection, her lack of contrition and, of course, her relationship with the Soham murderer Ian Huntley. This week, as Carr prepares to come of prison, the attention level is rising once more. Two newspapers had her on the frontpage yesterday. Others are likely to do so again before the week is out.Carr is a criminal who has almost served her time. She will be eligible for release on licence at the end of this week. Her release will take place strictly according to the rules. Sentenced last year to three-and-a-half years for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, she has been in prison since her arrest in August 2002. She cannot now be kept in prison any longer (though David Blunkett - who has already changed the early release rules once to keep her inside - would certainly not hesitate to pander to the tabloids if he could). When Carr is released she is likely to assume a new identity, at public expense, and to try to begin a new life. Let us hope that this is possible. It is certainly in Carr's and the public's interest that it should be. For that to be the case, however, both Carr and the press must act with a restraint that has not always been shown in the case. This will not be easy. As the Daily Telegraph's home affairs editor sagely pointed out yesterday, some of those who affect most outrage at the cost of establishing Carr's new identity are precisely those whose demonisation of her has made it so necessary. Once she is released, though, the stakes will be higher. Attempts to reveal details of her new identity or her new life may be morally and legally an incitement to violence, or worse. The less we now hear about Carr the better for us all.