Jenny Williams was six when she first visited her father in jail. The memory is etched in her mind. "It was strange," she recalls. "My hair was tied up, but they took it down and searched in it, and they felt my body. I can remember them taking away my mum's stuff and putting it in a locker and a man standing high on a [platform] in a big room."Jenny, now 11, is a bright, articulate girl. Poised on the edge of the white leather settee beside her parents, Anne and Jack Williams, her older brother, Thomas, and younger sister, Mia, she enthuses about Eminem, dancing and sport, and of her dreams of becoming a model.She also talks with frankness about how she felt when she found out her father was in jail, a month after he had been imprisoned. Her mother had kept the truth from her. "I was upset and angry. I felt embarrassed by my dad and ashamed. And I felt angry at my mum for lying to me."Anne interrupts. "I said he was on a job building a football stadium," she says. "Thomas really believed it, I think, because he was mad about football and really wanted to believe it."They were so young when Jack went in, just five and six (Mia had not been born), and I wanted to protect them. But Jenny was curious and started asking questions."She said to me one day: 'Mummy, why are you lying to me? Is Daddy in a bad place?' I asked her why she was asking that and she said she had seen prisons on telly."Jenny says that while she is glad she knows the truth about her father, she is not ready to tell anyone about his crimes or time in prison. She says: "I worry that even if I tell a few people, what if I fall out with one of them and then they tell someone else at school and then it gets around that way?"Thomas, now 13, is more subdued. He spends much of the time fiddling with his mobile phone and, like other children on the cusp of their teenage years, is monosyllabic. Was he upset when he found out about his dad? "Yeah." Was he angry about it? "Yeah." He casts his eyes downwards."Thomas still gets very upset and emotional about it," his mother says. "Christmas was very hard when Jack was away. One year, Thomas threw his presents across the room. He said he wanted his daddy, not presents. He didn't open any of them."Jack says he only faced up to the effects of his imprisonment on the family six months ago (four years after release from his most recent term, a two-year stretch for multiple burglaries).He says: "Anne was telling me about how the kids started wetting the bed or how they would look for me when I wasn't there, or crying on the train after a visit, asking when their daddy was coming home. When she told me, it was the first time I cried."Anne says she wanted her children to have as normal a life as possible, but that bringing them up alone for years was a struggle. Trying to make ends meet financially from benefits and the added burden of fortnightly trips to the prison in London from Hertfordshire — which sometimes meant spending nearly the whole day travelling — put an extra strain on her and the children."There were many times when I just felt like walking away from it all, but I didn't because I wanted my kids to have a mother and a father," she says.But Anne's stoicism did not hold up indefinitely. "I literally cracked up after Jack came home," she confesses. "I had had a good 13 years of solid stress and I suppose something had to give."She tried to kill herself. "I was taking the tablets and didn't realise it, but Jenny was in the room behind me and saw me do it. It was terrible."What did Jenny do? "I tried to help my mum," the girl says timidly.The Williams family is far from alone in trying to come to terms with the incarceration of a parent. According to the government's social exclusion report in 2002, around 7% of children in the UK will experience a parent being in jail at some point during their school lives.But despite the numbers — around 150,000 children have a parent inside in any given year — campaigners for families' rights claim their needs are too often ignored by government, leaving them to pick up the pieces as best they can alone.More families are being affected because the number of prisoners in Britain's jails is at a record high. According to the latest government figures, published last month, jails in England and Wales now hold an unprecedented 75,550 inmates, up more than 15,000 since Labour came to power in 1997.In addition, campaigners warn that the number of women prisoners has soared too (trebling to around 4,500 in 10 years), causing further harm to children separated from their mothers.Lucy Gampell, director of the charity Action for Prisoners' Families, (APF), says the impact of having an imprisoned parent, whatever the child's age, can be "profound" and "immensely traumatising", with long-term consequences."From performance at school to behaviour, it can all be affected," she says. "They are more at risk of committing crimes themselves, and something like 30% of the children will suffer from a mental health problem. Some worry that they will be labelled and ostracised if they tell people. Tragically, many assume adult roles and end up becoming young carers."In the case of women prisoners, two-thirds of whom are mothers, the fall-out on children can be devastating, according to Gampell. Just 5% of of women prisoners' children remain in the family home after their mother has been sentenced.There are "glimmers of good practice" from some quarters, such as prisons that offer child-friendly visiting facilities, APF say. But Gampell says these are too few and far between. Prisons are not obliged to provide them, and the experience of visiting a parent can leave children traumatised further.Too many families feel isolated, Gampell says, "putting extra strain on the parent at home. Families aren't even told really basic information by the authorities, such as where the prisoner has been sent."And there are other system failures. Prisoners are quite likely now to be incarcerated many miles away from the family home (the average travel time is five hours), which "can make life unbearable", Gampell says.APF runs a free helpline providing practical and emotional support for families, the only one of its kind in the country. The charity is also publishing a series of books for children up to the age of 11, with stories aimed at helping those such as Thomas and Jenny Williams to make sense of what is going on in their lives.The books deal directly with the issues that affect children, such as fear of stigma, being lied to by parents, and coping with the anger and embarrassment. Gampell says the aim is for libraries and schools to stock the books, as well as prison libraries where inmates could read them to their children during visits.The latest in the series, Finding Dad, written by Dan Lee, will be launched at the Guardian Hay Festival on June 2 with the help of children's author, Jacqueline Wilson.APF says it wants the government to make prisoners' families a higher priority. "Prisoners' children always seem to be left out of the big initiatives for children," Gampell says. "Prisoners are treated like lepers by society, and society is quick to judge the children by the crimes of their parents."The government says it is committed to helping families. A Home Office spokeswoman points to policies such as the Action Plan to Reduce Re-offending and to specific schemes it has launched, including Fathers Inside, where prisoners are coached in life skills and parent craft. But Gampell says that "with no targets and no serious funding, there is no real priority".Back at the Williams's house, Jack agrees. He is adamant that his family would have benefited from better advice and support from the start. "We know that people are much less likely to re-offend if they have a stable family to come back to," he says. "Prisoners and families need a lot more help."In prison, Jack says, he "built a brick wall, cut himself off emotionally", and that it is only with the help of a psychologist since release that he has been able to turn his life around. "It's only in the last few months that I can honestly say I have been like a real father," he says. "I am still learning to be a dad."Jenny adds: "It's good at the moment because my dad's a lot calmer and my mum's a lot happier."Some names have been changed.• For information on the APF books for children call 0208 812 3600, email info@actionpf.org.uk or go to www.prisonersfamilies.org.uk • The APF Prisoners' Families freephone helpline is: 0808 808 2003 and is open 10am-4.30pm (Mon-Fri) 10am-3pm (Sat). Eric Allison: 'Why did it take me so long to realise what a lousy dad I'd been?'If there was a league table for fathers absent due to prison and crime then, to my shame, I would be near the top. In the 16 or so years that I was "together" with my wife and children, we lived openly as a family for about four years in total — and that was split into three parts. For the rest of the time, I was either in prison or on the run from the police. The five-and-a-half years since my last release from prison has been the longest period that I have ever been "available" for my two children.It was in the mid-1990s, when I was starting a seven-year sentence, that I finally began to think clearly about my family. During a phone call home, my youngest daughter started crying. She was angry and called me a "selfish bastard". At the end of the tirade, I gathered that she had fallen out with her mum and simply felt in need of a sympathetic ear. And of course, yet again, I wasn't there to help out.Why did it take so long for me to realise what a lousy dad I'd been? The simple answer — not excuse — is that I was so utterly steeped in criminality, I deluded myself into thinking that as long as I was earning money — and I earned lots of the stuff — I was fulfilling my familial duty. I further deluded myself that my absence was justified by the pot of gold that would undoubtedly come my way and which would ensure their financial future. But they didn't care about money; they wanted, and deserved, a proper dad.It helped that my wife was and is an excellent mother, who always put the children first. They were in good health, received a good education and were turning into generally sound people. I did my bit, I told myself, by helping their education along by sending them regular, extremely lengthy letters, packed with expressions of love, and stories, poems and questions for and about them.That phone call with my daughter did not make me decide, there and then, to stop the villainy, but I believe it started the process. I was nearer 60 than 50 at that time. If it took that long for the penny to drop for me, a supposedly mature, reasonably intelligent man, how much more difficult is it for uneducated young dads inside today? My other daughter once wrote a story about an exciting day out. Going all the way to London, on a train, then the underground, followed by the top deck of a big red bus. At the end of the journey, a "castle" where her dad lived. Bless her, she made it sound like a fairy tale. I was in Wandsworth at the time. Not much of a castle, nor much of a Prince Charming, come to think of it. Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent.