The government yesterday set out plans to replace law lords with independently appointed supreme court justices despite criticism from a Commons committee calling for the changes to be delayed to secure political consensus.Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs secretary, outlined the final shape of the proposed supreme court as the all-party constitutional affairs committee of MPs accused him of "undue haste" in rushing through the reforms for primarily political reasons.The committee said abolition of the office of lord chancellor, held by Lord Falconer, should be delayed until the reforms were established. The legislative timetable was too tight for such complex reforms.Lord Falconer admitted yesterday that no home had yet been found for the supreme court. The current timetable will leave the law lords squatting in the House of Lords after they have been transformed into supreme court justices. He confirmed the 12 existing law lords would be the first justices of the supreme court. A supreme court appointments commission will put forward between two and five names for future vacancies. One name will be selected by the constitutional affairs secretary then forwarded to the prime minister who will recommend the appointment to the Queen."As the key objective is to achieve a full and transparent separation between the judiciary and the legislature, they will no longer be entitled to sit or vote in the House of Lords," he said.The lord chief justice, the master of the rolls, and the lord president of the court of session in Scotland will also lose the right to sit in the Lords.The committees point out that delay in finding available accommodation for a new supreme court has raised the possibility that the new court might continue to sit in the House of Lords. Yesterday Lord Falconer said he had commissioned "an extensive property search" to identify a suitable home for the court, based on requirements agreed with the law lords. The law lords are opposing the government's two preferred sites, Somerset House and Middlesex Guildhall in Parliament Square. Appearing before the Commons liaison committee last week, Tony Blair accepted that the announcement of the constitutional reforms had been badly handled last summer. Yesterday the committee chairman, Alan Beith, said: "It is a matter of considerable regret that these proposals were formulated and announced in a way that was hurried and evidently without the knowledge of many who should have been extensively consulted. The committee rejected claims by Lord Falconer that the legislation needed to be pursued quickly to maintain political momentum.