· Rape Clarifies the law on consent. New offence of sexual assault by penetration which will include penetration of the mouth; new offence of causing another person to commit a sexual offence; increased penalties for drug rape. No anonymity for the accused in rape trials and no separate provisions for date rape cases.· Children and consent Children under 13 will not be capable in law of consent and any sexual intercourse will be treated as rape. Cases involving children aged 13 to 16 will be covered by the new law against an adult committing a sex act with a child which carries a 14-year sentence. · Gay sex Laws against buggery, gross indecency and soliciting by men repealed. New offence of protecting the public from unacceptable sex practices in public places applies to all. · People with learning disabilities or mental illness Three new offences recognise their lack of capacity to consent. · Grooming Will apply to those who groom children for abuse.The accused will have had to meet the child in person. New civil order will ban adults deemed to present a risk from sending explicit emails to children or hanging around playgrounds. · Sex offenders' register Offenders obliged to register each year, providing finger prints, photographs, and national insurance details. In the future 'eye scans' will be used to check identity. No proposal for tracking implants. · Child abuse New offence of adult sexual activity with a child, carrying sentences of up to 10 years for non-contact abuse, such as persuading children to take their clothes off, to 14 years for physical contact. · Incest New wider laws on familial sexual abuse of a child and prohibited adult sexual offences to cover all those living in a household, not just those with blood ties. · Prostitution A review of the overall laws to create safer neighbourhoods and an escape route for those trapped by vice. · Child prostitution New offence of commercial sexual exploitation of children which will make it illegal to buy or deal in sex with children, including 16- and 17-year-olds. · Indecent exposure Includes those who intend to shock but not streakers or naturists. · Bestiality New offence for those who sexually abuse animals. · Necrophilia New offence of sexual interference with human remains. · Voyeurism Covers peephole webcams, where somebody is secretly observed when they have an expectation of privacy.