Detectives investigating the death of a 20-year-old woman moments after she was abducted in front of her fiance yesterday released CCTV footage of a suspicious vehicle.The body of Stephanie Hammill was found lying on the roadside near the village of Wrenthorpe, near Wakefield, early on Saturday. Minutes earlier, she and her 22-year-old partner James Garland had flagged down a dark coloured saloon car, which they wrongly assumed to be a minicab. But before Mr Garland could get into the vehicle, it sped off with Miss Hammill, a rear door left open. He watched in horror as the car disappeared towards Batley. West Yorkshire police said that as Miss Hammill apparently tried to escape from the car, she was struck by another vehicle travelling in the opposite direction, which did not stop. The vehicle could have been a 4x4 with bull bars on the front. Officers were studying the CCTV footage from the area in an effort to piece together what happened to Miss Hammill, who worked at a travel agency in Wakefield. They released a picture yesterday of the vehicle which is suspected to have picked her up, in an attempt to trace the car. Detectives were also appealing for two drivers to contact them to explain the sequence of events. Mr Garland managed to flag down a passing police van and found his fiancee's body 1 miles down the road. As the police headed off in the direction the car had taken, reports of a serious road accident in Batley Road came over their radio. It is not clear whether Miss Hammill had attempted to escape from the moving car, or whether she had been pushed out. But it is more likely that she was trying to escape. She was pronounced dead at the scene and tests revealed she had suffered multiple injuries consistent with being hit by a car. Detectives are appealing for information. Detective Superintendent Howard Crowther, who is leading the murder inquiry, said: "This was a horrendous incident. The car sped off with its rear door open and it is only a matter of five to seven minutes later she was found dead 1 miles up the road. "It is crucial for that person [the driver] to come forward now if they are not responsible for her death. All the expert opinion that I have available at this time, from forensic pathology to the accident investigation branch, would indicate that this car may not be the vehicle that hit Stephanie. "We are looking more and more towards the scenario of Stephanie getting out of the abductor's car and being struck by another vehicle." He said he believed the vehicle seen on CCTV could be the suspect's vehicle, although officers are not definite. Officers are hoping to digitally enhance the image to reveal more details about the vehicle. Mr Crowther urged people to come forward to explain the sequence of events, if it was a series of incidents that were unintentional. Childhood sweethearts Miss Hammill and Mr Garland had been due to get married next year. He is said to be traumatised by her death. Neighbours described Miss Hammill as beautiful and friendly. One said: "They were a quiet couple. James is quite shy, but I think she was full of life and very friendly. "She would always say hello and was very caring and kind. We used to chat when we saw each other in the street. She was a lovely girl. They seemed very much in love and very happy together." Mr Garland left a single white lily at the scene of her death, next to a picture of the pair in each other's arms. A card read: "I will always love you, James."