When Lesley Pulman took the stand in a Manchester court last year, she was the only person on her estate to use the law against a gang who had terrorised her neighbourhood for the best part of a year.The former market-stall holder was told she would be 'burnt out' for being a grass after she printed leaflets telling residents of New Moston, in the north of the city, what they could do to stop the gang. But the 54-year-old, who now suffers from multiple sclerosis, refused to be intimidated. The trouble started when a family moved into her road and began smashing cars, abusing passers-by and attacking people in the street. More than 20 teenagers, adults and children would gather outside her house every night, drinking heavily and taking drugs. They threw bottles at cars and rubbish in the street. Nine teenage boys assaulted an Asian family one night, beating a mother and son. Another couple were attacked walking their dog. Pulman encouraged fellow victims to keep diaries and video the gang's activities, evidence that was presented in court. In one clip, the youngsters are jumping on Pulman's car. Her actions led the court to issue three anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos) to the teenage ringleaders of the gang and the family was eventually evicted. In total, 391 orders have been handed out in Greater Manchester, dwarfing the number in all other authorities, and the city has been held up as an example of how to make Asbos work. In May, Pulman was invited to meet Tony Blair at a Downing Street reception to reward people who had taken a stand against anti-social behaviour. Now the government wants to make the actions of people like her the model for street wardens, who would be empowered to act against graffiti, abandoned cars and nuisance neighbours. Hazel Blears, the Home Office minister responsible for tackling anti-social behaviour, wants local people to be able to instigate Asbos and is considering a range of options to trigger action, including petitions, town hall meetings or referendums. Blair and other senior Labour politicians are convinced they can make a crackdown on anti-social behaviour work for them electorally. Feed back from the doorstep during recent local elections has convinced them that anti-social behaviour is now the number one concern of the British public. It is a high-risk strategy for the government. Having invented the expression 'anti-social behaviour' to describe a range of activities from vandalism to assault, it now has to demonstrate that it can do something about it. Blears said that she has made this point to the Prime Minister: 'This agenda is very visible: getting rid of graffiti, cleaning up the streets, getting rid of gangs of youths. If you succeed, you rebuild trust in politics in communities.' Pulman believes her case is proof of how Asbos can transform neighbourhoods. Talking about the threats to 'burn her out', she said: 'I told them to do it and kill me. I would rather be dead than live next to them.' The situation became so bad that estate agents told people they would not be able to give their homes away. Then the Asbos were handed out. 'It was like a magic wand,' says Pulman. 'The trouble stopped dead. But we knew they would breach it, so we were ready. When they did, the two boys ended up in jail. The trouble disappeared overnight.' A mother pushing her baby down the street says she is thankful: 'I could not leave my house after five o'clock when they were here, and the place looked a tip.' Councillor Eddy Newman, Manchester's executive member for housing, claimed that the orders target the ringleaders. 'Asbos are preventative, not punitive,' he says. 'In 65 per cent of cases they are not breached and are a tool that assists the vast majority of law-abiding citizens. Most other areas in the UK are trying to catch up with Manchester.' But not everyone in Manchester is convinced of the benefits of Asbos. The housing charity Shelter has been forced to set up a special project in the borough of Rochdale to help people at serious risk of eviction. The council works with the Shelter Inclusion Unit to offer support for anyone who has a history of anti-social behaviour. Jeana Haigh (not her real name), 37, had a final eviction warning when she was referred to the centre. She was having loud arguments with her partner all night and failing to clean up the mess made by her two dogs. After successive complaints, the council was ready to evict. 'I was getting complaints once or twice a week,' she says. 'I drank heavily from morning to night and the nasty letters from the council were adding to my pressure.' But after a period of support, Jeana's behaviour has completely changed and she has not had one complaint. 'If I had been evicted I would have lost my home, my daughter and my pets. I probably would have attempted suicide.' The inclusion unit helped Jeana to decorate one room in her home and she decided to continue with the rest of the house. They took her out on day trips to get over her fear of leaving the house. Project manager Sinead O'Connor said government policy was too punitive. Out of the 60 families who had been taken on by the unit, not one has been evicted despite receiving final warnings. Paul Beardmore, head of strategic housing services in Rochdale, added: 'People who are evicted for anti-social behaviour often come with a history of vulnerability - we are here to support them. It is a long way down the line that we actually use Asbos.' Across Britain the use of Asbos and measures such as curfews and dispersal orders has been patchy. It remains up to local councils and police forces whether they use them and many do so sparingly. Wiltshire, for example, had used just eight at the latest count. Shelter director Adam Sampson said that the charity's own polling showed that anti-social behaviour was a real concern, but challenged the government's strategy: 'There is no necessary opposition between taking an approach that has elements of coercion and taking positive moves to persuade people to change their behaviour. There is no doubt that the Home Office is taking a determined lead on the coercive elements, but no one is taking a lead on the rest.' He also warned ministers that they would now be expected to deliver: 'They have created this ill-defined monster and will be expected to do something about it.' Additional reporting by Zoe Smith 