Would you call yourself a "vulnerable" person?You probably wouldn't but if someone labelled you "vulnerable", how would it make you feel? In need of protection, worthy of pity, inferior or, perhaps, incapable of attracting hatred?Disabled people are often described as "vulnerable" – by the government, legal system and media. The government definition of a vulnerable adult is: "An adult who is or may be in need of community care services by reason of mental or other disability, age or illness and who is or may be unable to take care of him or herself, or unable to protect him or herself against significant harm or exploitation".The legal definition of vulnerability is wider and includes those targeted because of their "age, youth, disability or the job they do".While I appreciate the need for definitions in government policy or the law, these particular descriptions put forward a view of disabled people as intrinsically vulnerable.As a disabled person myself I would argue that vulnerability is situational, not innate. I am not vulnerable because I use community care services (although I might be if I didn't get the services I needed). I could be vulnerable in circumstances where someone wishes me harm, but this vulnerability does not extend to every aspect of my life. Aside from the fact there is something inherently disempowering about the word "vulnerable", its use – or indeed misuse – becomes more sinister in the context of disability hate crime.The government defines hate crime as "any incident which constitutes a criminal offence, which is perceived by the victim or any other person as being motivated by prejudice and hate". A disability hate crime is a criminal offence motivated by hatred or prejudice towards a person because of their actual or perceived disability. Disability hate crime is not a separate offence but is recognised under section 146 of the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) 2003, which imposes a duty on the courts to increase the sentence for any offence aggravated by hostility towards the victim based on their disability.There is no official government data on the prevalence of disability hate crimes – statistics are collected on racially and religiously aggravated offences but not specifically on disability hate crimes. In addition, until April 2007, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) did not collect disability hate crime prosecution data separately. However, anecdotally, disability hate crime seems to be widespread and there is a significant gap between reported crime against disabled people and their experiences.Failure to recognise disability hate crime when it occurs is the biggest barrier to tackling it. A report published last August by Scope, UK Disabled People's Council and Disability Now, entitled Getting Away with Murder showed that the language used to describe crimes against disabled people was a key factor in this. Disabled crime victims were usually described as "vulnerable" or attacks detailed as "senseless" or "motiveless" – in many cases these terms were used as an explanation for crimes motivated by hostility towards disabled people.Routine use of the word "vulnerable" often masks the real motivation for such crimes and undermines the gravity of the offence. This confusion between vulnerability and hostility means that disability hate crimes are not always identified, and so are not prosecuted and punished for what they are.The importance of language in all this cannot be under-estimated – it influences the way we view ourselves and others. Just look at the recent furore over how Prince Harry described an Asian colleague. "Paki" is associated with abuse and violence against Asian communities and we are right to be shocked.Likewise, disability hate crime has its origins in wider disablist attitudes ingrained in our society where disabled people are often viewed as inferior, and where derogatory terms such as "spaz" or "window licker" are casually employed without any thought to the offence they cause.As Sir Ken Macdonald, former head of the CPS, has pointed out: "Section 146 (of the CJA) requires evidence of hostility and this is not the same as taking advantage of vulnerability."But as "vulnerability" is applied practically wholesale to disabled people, making this distinction is more challenging.At a conference today, Scope, Disability Now and the UK Disabled People's Council, will be highlighting this and other issues that foster disability hate crime – such as the considerable barriers for disabled people in the criminal justice system.We do not believe these issues can be addressed without our active involvement. As disabled people we have a key role to play in working alongside members of the criminal justice system to tackle them.This process has to involve radical cultural change within the criminal justice system – and beyond. Employing the right language to tackle disability hate crime is not enough – but it would be a good place to start.• Alice Maynard is chair of disability charity Scope. Scope, Disability Now and the UK Disabled People's Council are hosting a conference on disability hate crime today