Five of Britain's category A jails are being equipped with a new biometric security system to scan the fingerprints of tens of thousands of visitors and prisoners. Matching photographs will also be stored.Deployment of the Inmate Management System (IMS), which already features at a few privately-run institutions, is being expanded after development at two prisons and an immigration detention centre. The access-control procedure, devised by a London firm, Unilink Systems and Software, is intended to speed up the processing of visitors and ensure inmates do not escape by swapping places with visitors. Banned visitors can be more easily excluded and suspicious patterns of visits tracked. IMS will be installed at Woodhill, near Milton Keynes - where it goes live this week - as well as at Belmarsh, Manchester, Long Lartin, and Whitemore. All are high-security jails holding many of the most dangerous inmates, including terrorist suspects. The procedure, which the Home Office prefers to call a "visitor recognition system", saves records of visitors' fingerprints and their photographs on local computers. There is no plan at present to link all the jails' computers into a single network. The Home Office has not revealed the cost of the contract, agreed in a closed tender process, but it is thought to be about £200,000. The scans replace a biometric system that recorded the shape, or geometry, of hands. The Guardian understands that that system was scrapped because the computer response time slowed down as more records were stored. Several reports by the chief inspector of prisons criticised delays at Belmarsh caused by the procedure. The Home Office refused to reveal how much this previous system, installed in 1996, had cost. Electronic fingerprint scanning is increasingly popular for systems verifying identity which need to handle large numbers of people. The US uses similar methods, imposed after the September 11 attacks, for airport arrivals. Alternative biometric security checks using electronic scans of the iris were rejected both because the technology was too expensive - it is still under patent - and because it was thought too intrusive for visitors and inmates. Bronzefield, a women's jail, in Ashford, Middlesex, which opened in June and is run by the private firm UKDS, is the latest example of the enthusiasm for biometric security. It is equipped with an IMS, that also registered the staff. New visitors to the jail are photographed and electronic scans are taken of their left and right index fingers. There are nine scanners in the prison. "The prisoners have been very happy with the system," said Dave Mcaulay, of UKDS. "They can see the benefits of a system which streamlines the process. It's improved the efficiency of visits. If you get an ex-inmate coming in to visit the system can flash up if there's a record on their file of assaulting staff. It can help us." Staff insist there are no privacy implications since such information is already stored on the Prison Service's local inmate data system. The system's optical scanner records the information from the fingerprints as an algorithm. "It measures the distances between the whorls in the fingerprint pattern," said Peter Whitaker, of Unilink, "but it does not have enough information to reconstruct an image of a fingerprint." The system at Bronzefield already has 18,000 matching fingerprints and pictures. Staff say it pulls up information on prisoners and visitors almost instantaneously. Theoretically, scanners could also be used to control access to the prison's wings, though the Home Office says it has no plans for that. There has been some discussion about installing the system in courts to ensure that the correct prisoner goes on trial. At Harmondsworth immigration detention centre, near Heathrow, also run by UKDS and using IMS to monitor visits, there was a recent escape attempt by a detainee who tried to swap places with a visitor, according to Francis Toye, a director of Unilink. "In France last year there was an inmate who swapped places with his twin and escaped," Mr Toye said. "We believe our system makes prisons easier places to run." Fingerprint scanners can be fooled. A Japanese professor used gelatine to transfer a copy of someone else's prints on to his finger. The resources for such techniques are unlikely to be available in prison.