David Blunkett yesterday promised a full-scale legal battle over the future of Humberside's chief constable after the local police authority refused the home secretary's request to suspend the embattled officer.Mr Blunkett said he would take "the necessary legal steps" at the first opportunity next week to ensure that the authority complies with the law and suspends David Westwood. He said: "I have looked again at my decision in the light of the police authority's request this morning that I should reconsider. But in the absence of any new arguments, I have decided to maintain my decision. I should emphasise that I have not required the police authority to sack Mr Westwood." Once the chief constable, who turned up for work yesterday in full dress uniform, has been suspended the case for his removal will be investi gated by an independent inquiry before any final decision is taken under a protocol agreed with the police and local authorities last year. Humberside's refusal to confirm Mr Westwood's suspension and Mr Blunkett's decision to go to the courts to test his new powers represents a major escalation in this clash of national and local power in the aftermath of the Soham inquiry. The official report by Sir Michael Bichard into the murder of the two schoolgirls by Ian Huntley said Mr Westwood had to take personal as well as corporate responsibility for the serious failings in the senior management of the Humberside force over the case. Humberside police committee met for two hours in Hull before dividing 12-5 on the call to Mr Blunkett to reconsider his suspension demand. Colin Inglis, the authority's chairman, who also leads Hull city council, had already showed his support of the chief constable, describing him as a man "driven" by a mission to reform the force. Mr Inglis said before the meeting that if anyone could sort out the problems highlighted by the Bichard report, it was Mr Westwood. Mr Inglis is thought to have won the backing of most of the five independent members of the committee, who sit with nine councillors - three Labour, three Conservative and three Liberal Democrat - and three local magistrates. John Neal, a Lib Dem councillor, said he had opposed the decision on the grounds that the police authority was under an obligation in law to suspend the chief constable and allow the inquiry and due process to take place: "Some people voted within the law and some people in a sense voted outside the law, I would say." He said that Humberside was the second worst force in the country. "I always say you have more chance of seeing a unicorn in People's Park [in Grimsby] than seeing a policeman on the beat," he added. Authority members had been subject to vigorous campaigning on behalf of the chief constable, including a comment piece on the front page of the Hull Daily Mail the day before the meeting. This called on them to unite behind a "man of courage and integrity" who was being used as a fall guy. Ruth Henig, who chairs the Association of Police Authorities, said that any police authority would want to look carefully at Mr Blunkett's request bearing in mind it was made under new legislation which had not been tested in the courts.The Labour MP for Great Grimsby, Austin Mitchell, appealed to all sides to avoid a "gunfight in the OK Corral on Humberside" over Mr Westwood's future. He described Mr Blunkett as "pretty determined" on the issue and appealed for a quick settlement rather than a drawn out conflict which risked damaging Humberside. His fears were echoed by the shadow home secretary, David Davis, and the Liberal Democrat spokesman, Mark Oaten. Mr Davis, who is also a Humberside MP, said: "It is now descending into political chaos. This mess should be sorted out sooner rather than later for all concerned."