Northumbria appears to be the best police force in England and Wales and Nottinghamshire the weakest according to new performance data published by the Home Office yesterday. The police performance figures also reveal that the proportion of crime being detected and the number of offenders being brought to justice has fallen in the past year in the majority of forces. Although the number of detections rose nationally by 8% during the year, the detection rate fell in 32 out of the 43 forces in England and Wales with a 25% drop in one force.  The new performance data places 42 of the 43 police forces in England and Wales in a "family of most similar forces" so that small rural forces are not compared with big city ones. The tiny City of London force is dealt with separately.  The new figures for the year until April 2003 show wide variations in performance around the country with seven forces scoring heavily as underachievers compared with their similar forces. The findings are likely to fuel the debate within the police and in government for a major reorganisation of the police service. The home secretary, David Blunkett, expected to respond next month to a call for amalgamations from a group of "modernising" chief constables so that 15 to 20 regional police forces are set up to deal with volume crime.  The rating of each force is set out in an eye-catching "spidergram" which plots its rating according to five key areas of policing: reducing crime, investigating crime, citizen focus or public satisfaction, levels of fear of crime and feelings of public safety and their use of resources measured in the number of days lost through sickness. The indicators are to be expanded to include domestic violence and gun crime next year.  The police minister, Hazel Blears, said yesterday that an attempt had been made to make the monitoring data more easily understood by introducing bar charts, alongside the spidergrams, which show how well each force is doing against its peer group.  The bar charts show that there are seven forces out of the 43 which are the poorest performers compared with their peers on at least two out of the five key measures.  The worst performer is Nottinghamshire which comes out bottom compared with its peers on reducing crime, using resources and citizen focus. Its record in investigating crime and promoting public safety is only marginally better. The force saw a 15% increase in burglaries and a 9% rise in car crime while the detection rate in Nottinghamshire fell by 12%. The force did however have some success in increasing the rate at which it brought class A drug dealers to justice. Six other forces had the poorest record of similar forces on two out of the five indicators. They were: Avon and Somerset, Cambridgeshire, Humberside, Merseyside, the Metropolitan Police and Norfolk. The force with the best record on these performance measurements is Northumbria which covers Newcastle and came out best on all five indicators. Its burglary rate is nearly half and car crime is at about two-thirds that of similar forces.  Ms Blears said half a dozen forces were already collaborating with the Home Office's police standards unit to drive up standards in areas where there was scope for improvement. They include Avon and Somerset, Cambridgeshire, Cleveland, West Yorkshire and Nottinghamshire. The police standards unit is also about to go into Humberside and Greater Manchester.  "These performance measures helped to sharpen focus on performance within the police service and make clear where improvements are needed," said Ms Blears.  "The performance monitors enable the public to judge for themselves the relative performance of their local police. This will help the public to hold to account those responsible for the police service they receive."  But the Association of Chief Police Officers said they were concerned that the limitations of the data were not clearly understood.  "The performance monitors are currently biased towards crime," said David Stevens, the chief constable of Essex. "Of course crime is extremely important but the police service has an even wider range of commitments. Almost half of police activity such as dealing with anti-social behaviour, responding to calls for assistance and reassurance patrolling is not represented in this data."  He said he hoped that more comprehensive yardsticks could be developed over the next couple of years.