Oh England, my England. As I write, Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss has just stepped down as chair of a panel due to investigate historical allegations of child abuse, which covered, it turns out, the period when her brother, Sir Michael Havers, was the attorney general. Realising that she would be in charge of determining whether or not her sibling had failed in his duties, Butler-Sloss resigned. The interests, you see, they conflict.This sorry little episode (save Butler-Sloss' own sense of duty, which impelled her both to accept the role and then to relinquish it) is part of a much larger and still-unfolding saga of the evil men can do, and which lives on for their victims long after the perpetrators have gone. It is also a core sample of so much that is perverse and rotten in the system that it is hard to know where to begin to analyse it. Perhaps I should start with the fact that, when I use the word "perverse", it is with a glad heart, uplifted by the fact that it is on one of its rare outings to connote mere corruption and not the sexual abuse of children.Let us recap.A welter of appalling stories, court claims, police investigations, allegations, acquittals and convictions, testify in varying degrees to endemic child abuse by men protected by celebrity, money and power, and by the wilful blindness and ignorance of others. Out of these came public calls for – one might almost say a public need for – an independent inquiry into how it all happened, so we could learn from, and try not to repeat, history. When claims then emerged that more than 100 Home Office files, comprising part of a dossier alleging paedophile activity in Westminster, had gone missing, those calls intensified.No, said Michael Gove, the man formerly in charge of our children's education and David Cameron's trusty of trusties, you don't need one. Nothing to see, nothing to do here. No need to try to wrest sense or learning from this sprawling horror. Less than 24 hours later – so quickly that you wonder a hook didn't stretch out of the wings as Gove was speaking and pull him offstage by the neck – the government said yes. Yes, there would be an enquiry. Specifically, into those lost files, and more generally into how rich, powerful, famous men might have been able to move like sharks through children's peaceful waters, leaving only blood and shame and misery behind.Then the band of Bullingdon boys who rule our lives played find-a-lag for a while, and came up with Dame Elizabeth. Perhaps they knew that she had headed the Cleveland inquiry with great compassion and intelligence. Perhaps they even went so far as to think that a woman in this overwhelmingly male and murky world would act as a beacon of hope. But they didn't go any further. No one thought hard enough to realise that in a country essentially owned and run by four or five families (depending whether you count the Windsors – they're not that rich and they're a bit, well, figurehead-y), there might be a scuppering connection or two. Why would you, when your aim is simply to placate a populace you privately conceive of as a stepping stone to more lucrative jobs once you've got "Four years of running UK plc" on your CV? When you don't really care about a process, let alone an outcome? When it doesn't promise to be directly in your own best interests?And so the world, with all its manifold evils, turns.