Despite the 2005 terrorist attacks and the public's mistaken belief that crime rates have risen remorselessly, Tony Blair leaves Britain a safer place.Crime has fallen by 44% since 1995, two years after Blair got the job of shadow home secretary after writing an article arguing it was necessary to be tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime. Labour's 1992 manifesto had devoted just three paragraphs to law and order, one of which promised to fence off derelict land. Fifty-three criminal justice bills later, with the creation of an "Asbo generation" and despite warnings of an incipient "surveillance society", Blair can claim to have neutralised the Tories' reputation as the party of law and order.His success came at a price. The repeated law and order bills provoked damaging civil liberty revolts that brandished him as an authoritarian PM. His detailed knowledge of the issues meant he became the most interventionist prime minister in Home Office history, whether it was employing the full weight of the cabinet's crisis machinery to tackle street crime or announcing a target halving the number of asylum seekers.The first-term pledge to halve the time it took to get a teenage offender into court took more than five years to implement. Police reform only brought community support officers and "Big Brother" technology. Plans for more fundamental change were unveiled on the morning of 9/11 and from that moment the need to focus on the terrorist threat meant fixing the dysfunctional criminal justice system had to take second place. Blair's attempts at penal reform were always undermined by the record prison population. The Home Office's "split for purpose" between security and justice was the final logical conclusion.As for tackling the causes of crime, a massive expansion of the drug treatment programme never reaped its political reward. Downing Street strategists now worry that a slowdown in economic growth hitting employment of young men will put at risk the cuts in crime.