The stepfather of schoolgirl Shannon Matthews had more than 100 indecent images of children on his computer, a court heard yesterday.Detectives confiscated Craig Meehan's computer from the home he shared with Shannon's mother Karen Matthews in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, after Shannon went missing in February.The nine-year-old was found 24 days later. Meehan denies the indecent images have anything to do with him.Yesterday David Holderness, prosecuting, told Dewsbury magistrates court that Meehan faced charges relating to 134 indecent images of children. All but one image found on his mobile phone were on a secondhand computer Meehan bought in 2006.The prosecution said 16 images were classed as level four on a scale of one to five of which five is the most serious. Most were level one with others classified at level two and three.Holderness said Meehan had pointed the finger at other people who had allegedly used his password protected computer. "There are substantial amounts of material which, when put together, provide a convincing and overwhelming picture that it was Mr Meehan who was the person who downloaded the relevant materials," said Holderness. He said part of the prosecution case would be matching the times at which the images were downloaded with former supermarket fishmonger Meehan's work record. He said the password to the computer was "reggie07" and Meehan had told police his nickname was Reggie. The prosecution said in police interviews Meehan had denied any interest in pornography until police recovered a collection of adult videos from his bedroom. "He specifically denied in his interviews that he downloaded indecent images of children," Holderness told the court. Meehan could not explain how the images came to be on the computer but text messages, work records and witness statements would be used to prove he downloaded them.In court yesterday Meehan was asked again if he continued to deny the allegations. Karen Matthews and an uncle of Shannon's, Michael Donovan, 40, have been charged with kidnap, false imprisonment and perverting the course of justice in connection with Shannon's disappearance. They will go on trial at Leeds crown court in November. Both deny the charges.Shannon, a pupil at Westmoor junior school in Dewsbury, vanished on February 19 on her way home from a school swimming trip. After a three-and-a-half-week search she was found hidden in the drawer of a bed in a flat in Batley Carr, a mile away from her family home.Her disappearance prompted one of the most extensive missing persons inquiries ever, involving 250 uniformed officers and 60 detectives. The investigation cost £2.7m.Meehan's trial is expected to last for five days.