The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday August 5 2005 Contrary to what we said in the report below, neither John Prescott nor his department, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, sought to prevent £50m being transferred from his department's neighbourhood renewal fund to the Home Office's respect unit. In fact, the deputy prime minister was not referred to in any of the "leaked" correspondence quoted in newspaper reports.     The Whitehall row over how to deal with antisocial behaviour deepened yesterday with the leak of a memo showing John Prescott's office refusing a Home Office request to hand over £50m to fund the work of Tony Blair's Respect Unit. The government's whole third term "respect agenda" has been blighted by what looks like an escalating turf war over the unit, co-ordinated by the prime minister himself, and run by the controversial Louise Casey. The leak reveals that the Home Office failed to persuade the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister to hand over £50m of its £1.1bn neighbourhood renewal fund. The money was to "to be spent in particular specified neighbourhoods to get swift action to build momentum towards a cultural shift in the way they tackle antisocial behaviour and its causes and the broader aspects of the respect agenda (parenting, worst families, school attendance and community engagement)". Following the rejection, the Home Office minister, Hazel Blears, wrote to the department saying: "This is extremely disappointing and I believe it will hamper the cross-government respect agenda and will cause considerable problems in bringing about the rapid and effective change we are looking for in these deprived areas." The leak follows weeks of internercine warfare between the departments over the conduct of the respect agenda. At one point before the election, it was expected that David Blunkett, the former home secretary, would take on the role of communities secretary within Mr Prescott's department, but his appointment was blocked by the deputy prime minister himself. It has also been briefed that the home secretary, Charles Clarke, did not have confidence in Ms Casey and wanted her dismissed for an abusive after-dinner speech that was subsequently leaked. Mr Blair intervened personally to keep his civil servant in post. He admires her determination "to get things done". In return, there have been briefings that Mr Clarke was told by Mr Blair to have a greater sense of conviction about the antisocial behaviour agenda. Mr Blair is now chairing a cabinet sub-committee on respect, a move designed to end the feuding. Number 10 said yesterday that it refused in principle to comment on leaked memos, and denied Mr Blair had given Mr Clarke any lecture.