The small gazebo still stands in the front garden, the drinks and snacks are on the table and the barbecue grill is in the opposite corner. A few knocked-over chairs are the only sign that a party ended in violent mayhem.A group of 30 had gathered at the house in Park Village, Wolverhampton, last week to celebrate the owner's 32nd birthday. By 11.30pm the celebrations were in full swing and the night warm enough for the guests to remain outside. A dark-coloured vehicle with it headlights on main beam pulled up a few doors away, and up to four men clambered out and made their way along a raised walkway. Seconds later, six or seven shots rang out. 'I was in the kitchen when I heard what I thought were fireworks,' one guest said. 'People came running in screaming. I went outside and found two of my friends both bleeding from their legs.' The victims, a 17-year-old girl and a woman of 23, were rushed to hospital and are recovering under armed guard. The attack came amid a spate of shootings on the increasingly lawless streets of the West Midlands. Two days earlier, 19-year-old Daniel Bogle was blasted in the head in nearby Smethwick by a gunman who leapt from a passing car. He died a few days later. Last week another teenager was shot and wounded in the shoulder in the same area. The next day at least nine shots were fired at a 19-year-old in Winson Green, Birmingham. He escaped with minor injuries to his leg and arm. Last Thursday a taxi driver was shot in the Aston area while chasing a gang of car thieves. The week before, Denise Marriott was shot while leaning out of the window of her home in Aston. She had heard shots and looked out to see two gangs in the middle of a gunfight. As she yelled at her three children to come inside, a stray bullet hit her in the shoulder. West Midlands detectives have described the shooting at the barbecue as indiscriminate and say the target is unclear. However, an investigation by The Observer has revealed that the dramatic increase in gang warfare - now at record levels - is linked to a brutal battle for supremacy in the local drug trade and that much of the violence has come about as a direct result of one man. Born in Wolverhampton 31 years ago, he spent most of his teens in the New York district of Brooklyn, earning him the street name 'Yankee' on his return. He is credited with moving the crack cocaine trade out of the inner cities and into the suburbs, where prices are far higher. Working with Jamaican Yardies and indigenous black gangs, Yankee has made millions from the trade and left death and destruction in his wake. Police in Aberdeen announced earlier this year that the city was being targeted by crack gangs after at least 30 Jamaicans were arrested there during a single swoop. The influx was the work of Yankee, who had realised that crack cocaine prices in the Scottish city were at least twice as high as in the rest of the country. When amateur footballer Kevin Nunes was found dead in a country lane, Yankee was an immediate suspect. Nunes had become involved with drugs gangs and was arrested in Aberdeen less than 24 hours before his body was found. Police went to Aberdeen, where they arrested and questioned Yankee, but he was released without charge. He has since returned to Wolverhampton and divides his time between a number of addresses. Most often he can be found at the home of his 32-year-old sister, whose birthday barbecue party was disrupted last week when two of her guests were shot. Gang insiders believe the shooting was an attempt to kill Yankee. They point out it was the second time in as many months that shots had been fired at the house. Until recently, most gang violence in the Birmingham area could be linked to the activities of the Burger Bar Boys and the Johnson Crew. Both were formed in the mid-Eighties, ostensibly as vigilante organisations to protect the local community against growing threats from the Far Right. When the threats lessened, the gangs evolved into crime syndicates. 'Over the past couple of years, the Johnson Crew have tried to keep a low profile, just getting on with selling stuff, while many Burger Boys have been sent to prison or moved out,' says a gang associate. 'What we're seeing now is the remaining Burger Boys fighting among themselves and with smaller gangs for a bigger share of the action.' The new gangs include the Champagne Crew, the Raiders, the Rally Close Crew and the Badder Bar Boys - supposedly a younger version of the Burger Bar Boys, who pride themselves on being more violent than the original. The current feuding began at the start of this year when 18-year-old Letisha Shakespeare and Charlene Ellis, 17, were shot dead at a New Year party in Aston. The killings were initially portrayed as an indiscriminate slaughter, but it has since emerged that two of Ellis's brothers are gang members, one in the Burger Bar Boys and the other in the Johnson Crew. Two girls are due to go on trial charged with shooting alleged Burger Bar member Yohann Martin. They were arrested days before Ellis and Shakespeare were murdered. Detectives believe they have a clear picture of the events that led to the double murder, but their only evidence is contained in a handful of unsigned eyewitness statements. There have been eight arrests so far, but no charges have been brought. Although the car used in the shooting - a red Mondeo - has been traced, it was completely burnt out and yielded no DNA or other forensic evidence. One of the guns used in the shooting, a Mac-10 automatic capable of firing 600 rounds a minute, is said to have been melted down at a local foundry. Almost every shooting leaves the police facing a wall of silence. Even when cases reach court, witnesses are often too terrified to speak. Two years ago, when a man was charged with the murder of Corey Wayne Allen, a leading Burger Bar boy, key witnesses retracted statements at the last minute for fear of reprisals. One told the judge that he had been hit over the head with a gun a week earlier and was suffering from amnesia. Another was jailed for five days after appearing in the witness box but refusing to testify. Amadeep Bassey, investigations editor of the Birmingham Sunday Mercury, has been covering the gang wars for four years but recently found himself more personally involved. This month he named a local boy, Tafarwa Beckford, the brother of pop singer Jamelia, as a key suspect in the shooting of Ellis and Shakespeare. A few days later, Beckford was shot in the head. He remains critically ill under armed guard in hospital. Bassey now risks gangland reprisals, but is determined to go on writing about the feuds. 'I get very frustrated with the fact that, while everyone - including the police - know who is responsible for many crimes, people are too scared to give evidence.' he said. 'By naming those believed to be behind the violence, I guess I'm trying to encourage others to do the same.'