A campaign to enforce the ban on the sale of knives to teenagers is to be launched today by the home secretary, Jacqui Smith. Under the plan, 21 big retailers have agreed a package of measures including more training for staff and greater theft prevention to stop knives falling into the hands of teenagers. Other measures include displaying signs in stores announcing the ban, putting up reminders to staff at tills, monitoring attempted knife purchases by under-18s and sharing the information with the police. As well as the anti-theft measures - such as not having knives on open display - shops will introduce safeguards to prevent internet sales to underage buyers.The campaign, to be launched at a branch of Asda, aims to enforce legislation that came into effect in October 2007. The law was not designed to prevent the legitimate use of knives, for example by 17-year-old cooks or those setting up home. Teenagers are required to get an adult to buy the knife for them.The move comes as Smith prepares to publish amendments to the policing and crime bill which will legalise the use of civil injunctions to tackle elements of gang culture. They include bans on wearing "gang colours" and gang members associating with each other, and restrictions on travelling into areas they consider to be their "territory".The change in the law will overturn an appeal court ruling in October which prevented Birmingham city council from using such injunctions against 30 gang members in the city.The launch of the measures to tackle knife sales comes after yesterday's "burglary summit" at which a new £20m Home Office fund was unveiled to help families equip their homes with locks and secure front doors. The Home Office estimates that 14% of homes do not have window locks and 18% do not have adequate front doors.Smith led a crime discussion in the cabinet on Tuesday, detailing the new measures on burglary, knife crime and gangs and insisting that the onset of the recession will not inevitably lead to an upturn in crime. The official crime figures for the last three months of 2008 already show that the burglary rate has increased for the first time in five years.The amendments to legalise the use of civil injunctions are likely to prove controversial. The appeal court ruled that Birmingham's use of injunctions under the 1972 Local Government Act was not appropriate. The original judge had dismissed the applications, saying the case against the named individuals was "very thin on the facts".The amendments to the bill will make it clear that local authorities do have the power to use civil injunctions - with their lower standard of proof - to tackle gang culture.