Nostalgic Conservatives, who yearn for a return to the days when the party held the keys to No 10, would have felt a warm glow yesterday.In a pre-election bid to seize back the Tories' reputation as the party of law and order, Michael Howard delivered a hardline speech reminiscent of the famous 27-point plan to crack down on crime that established his reputation as Britain's toughest home secretary. Lambasting Labour for increasing the rights of criminals, he said: " 'I've got my rights' is the verbal equivalent of two fingers to authority. There is now a palpable sense of outrage that so-called human rights have tipped the balance of justice in favour of the criminal and the wrong-doer - rather than the victim and the law abider." Mr Howard's uncompromising tone in Middlesbrough yesterday was deliberately designed to echo his notorious 1993 Tory conference speech, in which he told the nation's criminals: "If you don't want the time, don't do the crime." The world may have been transformed beyond recognition in the nine years since, but one theme links the two speeches, which explains Mr Howard's decision yesterday to abandon the more emollient tone of the likes of Oliver Letwin. That theme is Tony Blair. Mr Howard's 1993 speech came eight months after the landmark declaration by his young Labour counterpart that he would be "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime". Mr Blair's historic soundbite, which marked the moment when Labour finally began to undermine the Tories' position as the party of law and order, panicked the Conservatives into an abrupt shift to the right.In the nine years since, Labour has skilfully prevented the Tories from regaining their position as the party of law and order. The prime minister gave a taste of this last month in the Commons, knocking Mr Howard about when he tried to turn the agenda back to crime. How could the Tories attempt to reclaim law and order when they have failed to guarantee the Home Office budget, Mr Blair asked. Central office insisted that yesterday's speech was not a panic response to the prime minister. Aides said they had always intended to return to the issue of crime this summer, after using the first period of Mr Howard's leadership to focus on public services. "It was important to show Michael is not a one-horse show," one aide said of Mr Howard's pledge to all but match Labour spending on schools and hospitals. At the final meeting of the 1922 committee of Tory backbenchers before the summer recess, Mr Howard insisted he was not shying away from the pledge to public services but that the most he could hope to achieve was to neutralise Labour's lead on schools and hospitals. On crime, however, the Tories should try to outstrip the government. This would mean setting out "clear blue lines" between the Tories and the government on, for example, prisons and adopting hardline language to try and appeal to voters fromacross the income scale who live in fear of crime. One centre-ground Tory warmly welcomed this: "Crime is our issue and we should not be ashamed of saying that. Nobody understands all this stuff about choice in schools and hospitals." Such Tories hope that Mr Howard will strike the right balance by steering a sensible course between the conciliatory language of Oliver Letwin and the populist rhetoric of William Hague. Mr Letwin won rave reviews as he contrasted his liberal credentials with the hardline approach of David Blunkett. His speeches included such gems as: "The Kantian half of the truth about virtue and vice is that they are chosen: the Aristotelian half of the truth about virtue and vice is that they are learned." Mr Hague, by contrast, provoked a major row in 2000 when he said of the report into the death of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence: "The Macpherson report has been used to brand every officer and every branch of the force as racist." Mr Howard included populist rhetoric. But aides hope that his language on the highly sensitive issue of the Macpherson report shows he is not falling into the same trap as Mr Hague. The Tory leader rejects a key recommendation about stopping suspects, but passes no judgment on the report. "There was some in-your-face stuff but over all it was better rounded than when Michael was home secretary," one aide said.