The Home Office gets money to tackle crime and drug abuse. But hidden in the detail are plans to return at least 30,000 failed asylum seekers every year by "enforcing refusals of asylum more vigorously".The immigration service is to receive an extra £400m for each of the next three years to deal with the crisis backlog of nearly 100,000 cases and to get decision times down from 18 to six months. However, the extra money - far more than was expected to be saved by scrapping welfare benefits for asylum seekers - comes with the Treasury's expectation that the annual removals of "those with unfounded claims" will rise from the 7,650 who left last year to "at least 30,000 a year". The Home Office already plans to build three more immigration detention centres, and the places available to hold failed asylum seekers pending deportation are to increase in two stages from 900 places to 2,700, and then to a capacity of 4,000 secure spaces. Overall the increase in the Home Office budget from £8.1bn this year to £10.6bn in 2003-04 represents a real terms increase of 6.4% a year. Most of the extra money, £1.6bn, will go into the police to give them a 3.8% annual funding increase to help meet targets to reduce car crime and burglary. In the light of the latest violent crime figures, they are to get a new target to reduce robbery in "our principal cities" by 14% by 2005. The extra money will also buy computers to analyse crime data and share it with health, education and social services. Each police force is to be set a target detailing the improvements it has to make to match performance of the best forces. The best-performing local police divisions are to share in a £5m reward fund. The number of extra officers to be recruited is to be announced today. At least £160m a year for each of three years is to be spent on crime reduction to help meet targets of cutting car crime by 30% by 2004, burglary by 25% by 2005, and the robbery target. The Treasury documents also promise the long awaited "national strategy on alcohol misuse" will be published. A national treatment agency is to be set up to give help to the 200,000 problem drug addicts, funded by the Home Office and the Department of Health. Money on drug treatment will rise from £234m to £401m in three years' time. There is also to be extra money for child, adolescent and adult mental health services. While police and the anti-drugs initiatives are well funded, the Treasury expects the prison and probation services to find 3% a year "efficiency savings" from their budgets. Extra will be available to increase the 70,000 capacity of the prisons, and help is to be given the prisons with literacy and numeracy classes for inmates. The effectiveness of community punishment is to be increased on a "what works" principle, with targets set for reducing the rate of reconvictions of those sentenced to probation, community service and other orders. The cross-departmental review on crime reduction has also produced targets to reduce school truancy and exclusions, and for literacy of school children. A target is set to tackle the crime rate for children in care, three times higher than the child average. Ministers have decided that, once they have achieved the 1997 election pledge of cutting the time to get a young offender to court from arrest from an average of 142 days to 71, they will try to "maintain the level thereafter". But a target will be set by March next year to cut the time it takes to get all defendants to court. The courts and police are also to be asked to improve by 5% within two years the satisfaction levels of victims and witnesses with their treatment, and to increase the proportion of recorded crime for which an offender is brought to justice.   Targets • Remove 30,000 asylum seekers each year. • Reduce robbery by 14% in principal cities by 2005. • Increase detection rates for recorded crime. • Cut reconviction rates by 5% by 2004. Useful links Andrew Rawnsley: analysis Spending review: full text Full text of chancellor's speech The issue explained