Detectives last night warned women not to go jogging on their own after a 39-year-old was left fighting for her life following a knife attack by a man believed to be responsible for murdering another female runner.Police believe there is a link between the attack on Friday evening and the murder of American artist Margaret Muller 10 months ago in an east London park. The latest victim of the serial attacker, a local woman, was stabbed several times in the upper body while jogging in Clissold Park, Stoke Newington, north London, at about 5.15pm The victim was jogging a mile and a half from the scene of Muller's murder when she was attacked. She was stabbed several times in the torso by a man wearing a hooded jacket. After a violent struggle, she managed to get away and staggered for a few yards before collapsing in a pool of blood. She survived only due to the intervention of a passing doctor, who prevented her from bleeding to death. The woman has not been identified and was being treated last night for multiple stab wounds at a London hospital. Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford, leading the hunt for the attacker, said his team would be 'demonstrably robust' in searching for the perpetrator. 'We are going to work on the basis that the man responsible for this attack is the same man responsible for the attack on Margaret Muller and we will continue on that basis until we prove otherwise. 'While we do not wish to be alarmist, we would ask that women who are jogging in parks or exercising their dogs try to be in the company of a friend,' he added. 'There are a large number of similarities between the two attacks. Both involved women of small stature, jogging alone through parks. Both women were stabbed a number of times in the torso. There are also similarities in the parks themselves in that both have deer enclosures, which offer an element of cover as well as providing open landscape.' The park is expected to remain closed for the next few days while specialist forensic officers conduct a fingertip search. Teams of police divers will also be brought in to dredge several ponds in a bid to find the attack weapon. Last night the victim remained under sedation with police waiting at her bedside hoping to interview her as soon as she regained consciousness. Muller was found slumped on a path between a rose garden and a playground in Victoria Park, Hackney, on 3 February, after other joggers heard her screams. The 27-year-old, 4'11" artist had been stabbed repeatedly in the back. Her killer has never been found. Anyone with information is asked to contact Shoreditch police on 020 7275 3404 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.