The ban on prison officers being active members of the British National party and other far-right groups should be extended to the probation service if it is to retain the confidence of minority ethnic communities, according to the chief inspector of probation.In a report published today, entitled I'm not a Racist but ..., Andrew Bridges says that in most cases probation officers fail to challenge the attitudes and behaviour of convicted racists and sometimes explain away their racism as drunkenness or acting out of character. "In some assessments case managers argued that, although the offence had been proven to be racially aggravated, it was not in their opinion racially motivated ... It is a concern that it is so easy to minimise or dismiss racist offending," he reports. Mr Bridges says that it is an apparent anomaly that prison officers are banned from membership of the BNP but not those in the probation service."Whilst there are risks in pursuing such a course of action, both in human rights terms and in the risk of creating publicity for far-right groups, we take the view that if the national probation service wishes to retain the confidence of all the communities it serves then a similar prohibition should apply to all probation staff." The chief inspector's report says that many of those convicted of racially motivated offences feel they have been unjustly prosecuted and labelled as racist. In too many cases the official assessments made of the offender rely too heavily on their account of the incident, and often the pre-sentence reports to the courts minimise the significance of racist incidents. "For example, a pre-sentence report included a statement: 'Mr X tells me that he is not racist and acted out of character ... he has a number of black friends.' These comments were not challenged or put in context," Mr Bridges' report says. "In some reports there were verbatim accounts of the offensive racist insults that had been used by perpetrators. Unfortunately, there was a lack of any analysis or statement of the unacceptability of the insult to give a sense of context to these accounts. As a result the reports inadvertently gave the impression of condoning the language ..." The Home Office said last night that it accepted 15 of the 16 recommendations in the report, including the need for a national strategy to tackle offenders' racist attitudes. But the BNP ban would be considered by the probation service's strategy board. "There is little evidence to suggest that there is a significant problem in the national probation service of membership of rightwing groups," said a Home Office spokesman.