Ministers' claims to have slashed crime are based on misleading evidence that masks thousands of 'missing offences' that go undetected by police and never reach the criminal justice system, a controversial new study of government statistics reveals.Home Secretary David Blunkett says crime has been cut by 25 per cent under Labour and that the chance of becoming a victim of it is at its lowest for 20 years. But the report to be published later this month by the Crime and Society Foundation, a new criminal justice think-tank, will claim that the official crime statistics are an unreliable measure of the true level of offences.The government's measure, the British Crime Survey, which asks 37,000 householders about their experience of illegality, excludes sex offences, drug-dealing and using, murder and fraud. Yet even its estimate of 11.7 million crimes outstrips the 5.9 million recorded by the police. The foundation's report, the most authoritative and far-reaching analysis ever of official crime figures, concludes it is impossible to trust the crime survey, which has shown a consistent fall in crime since Labour came to power in 1997, or the police's recorded crime statistics, which show a steady rise. The paper, by the think-tank's director, Richard Garside, concludes that the entire exercise of measuring crime may be spurious: 'Seeking a definitive figure for crime levels is akin to asking how many headaches there are, or how many beetles.' It challenges government estimates that half of all crimes are committed by 100,000 repeat offenders, and questions whether the criminal justice system has any effect on crime levels. White-collar and environmental crime, for example, are not covered by government statistics, suggesting the figures themselves force the criminal justice system to concentrate on offences - burglary theft, common assault, wounding and robbery - carried out by the 'usual suspects' from poor communities. 'A prolific car thief might blight the lives of tens of hundreds of people. The misselling of endowment policies has blighted the lives of many thousands,' the study says. 'A child's graffiti might cause an unsightly mess. A factory knowingly polluting the environment might damage the health of tens of thousands of people.' The report will challenge the government to tackle the social effects and causes of individual crimes rather than become fixated on statistics. News of its findings comes as a £350 million funding black hole is set to derail the government's drive against crime and anti-social behaviour, leaving local councils across the country unable to pay for the scores of new police and community support officers demanded by new anti-crime initiatives. Last week, Blunkett told the Labour party conference that the crusade against crime and anti-social behaviour would dominate the party's election manifesto. He pledged extra cash for 2,000 new support officers, but local chief constables believe the Treasury has still not provided the Home Secretary with enough central government money to pay for existing police. Chief constables and the police authorities that employ the country's 140,000 police have warned ministers that councils will face the stark choice of cutting the number of police on the streets or raising council tax. The black hole is likely to put further strain on the relationship between the Home Office and the Treasury. Chancellor Gordon Brown announced a four per cent increase in the Home Office budget last July, but this will also have to fund initiatives such as an agency to deal with serious and organised crime and a national police intelligence system. Some forces, including Linclonshire and West Mercia, have already voiced their concerns about cuts. Lincolnshire Police Authority chair Roger Butterty said the force faced a £3.5 million deficit. 'We will have to seriously consider reducing police staff and taking police officers off front line duties, which is stupid.' Baroness Henig, chair of the Association of Police Authorities said: 'Our concern is that we will not be able to maintain and improve the quality of policing services we provide for our local communities unless this funding gap is bridged.'