Hysteria still reigns. Field Marshall Lord Bramall, named in an accusation of historical child sex abuse, was last year subjected to a high-profile and heavy-handed investigation by the Metropolitan police. Eventually, they concluded that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute the war hero and former chief of defence staff, and last week he was told he faced no further action.Demands that the Met should apologise to him now emanate from many quarters. But the police were only doing their duty. Surely Lord Bramall is perfectly capable of understanding that even the most studiously decent of citizens may sometimes be drawn into unpleasant and awful police enquiries through no fault of their own? Lord Bramall says his treatment has caused him great pain after a lifetime of public service, and that is, of course, regrettable. But co-operating with the police in the course of their investigations is itself a public service, a call we should all be prepared to answer.Met explains why it investigated Lord Bramall over child abuse allegations This is not to say that Lord Bramall has not been tremendously unlucky. The huge extent to which victims of sexual abuse have not been listened to over the years has only recently been fully revealed. And there has been a rush to right those wrongs, with attendant lurid publicity. But it’s not so easy, investigating accusations that have been ignored for years.Had “Nick”, the man who named Lord Bramall, been listened to as a child, then I daresay his accusations could have been investigated relatively easily. We now know that “Nick” and many other people were dismissed. Yet the terrible derelictions of the past cannot be counterbalanced by over-zealousness in the present.It has often been said, in the wake of the Jimmy Savile revelations, that the most important thing is for the victims of sexual crime to be listened to. But that’s not true. The most important thing is for potential perpetrators of sexual crime to know that their victims will be listened to. Because the primary aim is to stop abuse from happening in the first place.I don’t believe the Metropolitan police should apologise to Lord Bramall, any more than they should apologise to anyone else who helps them with their inquiries. But I do believe that they should thank him. That we all should.It’s important for it to be crystal clear that accusations of abuse are taken seriously, no matter how eminent, how elderly, how lauded the accused may be. It’s important for all of us to understand that mistakes will sometimes be made. Rushing to judgment simply because a person has been implicated in a report of a crime does not help.On the contrary, if the aim is to make people feel confident about reporting their suspicions about sexual crime, then our whole society has to make an effort to change its attitudes. Loudly declaring that there’s nothing more awful than being falsely accused of a sexual crime sends a message that those who report such crimes are the bad guys. Why can’t people see that this is precisely the mindset that ensured people either weren’t taken seriously in their accusations, or understood that it wasn’t even worth trying?Fear of whistleblowing at BBC allowed Jimmy Savile to abuse, says leaked report It’s often argued that those accused of sexual crimes should have anonymity, just as those who make the accusations do. I couldn’t disagree more strongly. Again, this state of affairs has developed because it is the victim of a sexual crime who feels shame. This too, is useful to a perpetrator. We need to work towards a climate in which there is no need for a victim to claim anonymity, because they fully understand that they are in no way in the wrong and that the culture around them also understands this.The media does not help, when, of course, it should. Nothing can clear the name of a person accused of sexual crimes, especially organised and repeated crimes, quite as well as plenty of publicity. The opposite applies, too: if others come forward, offering a pattern of evidence, then that strengthens the case against someone who may be used to getting away with such crimes.But the actions of police and media too often seem designed to inflame. It’s all about getting the story and presenting it with the greatest possible flamboyance and prurience. It was disgusting that the BBC sent a helicopter to report on a police raid on Cliff Richard’s house last February. It was disgusting that the police tipped them off, even supplying an aerial photograph of his house, so that the pilot could identify it.Meanwhile, a new report says that post-Savile, the BBC is even less likely to report suspicions that one of its staff is a paedophile. The kind of sensationalism in which the BBC now takes full part only serves to make accusations such a big deal that there is even greater reluctance to make them. Tainting all of the BBC by association with its predatory star has been similarly counterproductive. Report suspicions of abuse by a colleague at the BBC and you’re reporting all of the corporation, including yourself.It’s crucial that neither those making accusations of abuse, nor those who are mistakenly accused, should feel shame. Lord Bramall’s personal suffering has been for a noble cause. He is the hero of this story, not its victim. It’s awful that the police, the media and the general culture have made him feel like one. A personal apology is the least of what’s needed here. A total re-evaluation of deep-rooted attitudes to sexual crime – of which the strident calls for apology are a symptom – would be considerably more appropriate.