'We need help ... now." Kevin Green's words are barely audible over the crackly police walkie-talkie. He and his fellow community support officer Lisa Preston have been left isolated and exposed. They want to know why their colleagues Jill Lynes and Laura Taylor have abandoned them. "We're on our way," Lynes assures Green. "We'll be with you in 10 minutes. Don't panic."Yes, the Children in Need charity car wash is well under way, and Green is anxious to get some assistance with the foaming buckets. There are a dozen saloons in the car park of the Black Bull and only two community support officers (CSOs) to wash them. They need reinforcements fast. Welcome to community policing, Merseyside-style. Home secretary David Blunkett last week announced proposals for a new style of policing - less distant, more visible, community based. The initiative was instantly christened "Dixon of Dock Green with a mobile": old-fashioned attitudes; new-fangled technology. In St Helens, on Merseyside, they like to feel they already have it: neighbourhood policing was introduced across the region in 2001 by the former chief constable Norman Bettinson, and over the past year two districts in St Helens - the town centre and the residential area of West Park - have been part of a national pilot to test so-called "reassurance policing", the basis for the scheme that Blunkett intends to roll out nationally. That is why on a grey, drizzly afternoon, four community support officers in bright yellow tunics are washing people's cars while officers from the neighbourhood action team hand out free steering locks, keyrings and pens. It's a confidence-building, meet-the-public opportunity, even if, with half a dozen officers and a couple of police cars outside the pub, it looks like a major crime scene. The police are trying really hard to present a new image. You can tell this from the terminology they use: cells are not called cells any more, they're "custody suites"; and St Helens area commander Andy Ward doesn't talk about the police force, he talks about the "extended police family" - police officers, CSOs, volunteer special constables, and "community advocates", people who act as a link between police and public. CSOs are the newest members of the family and a welcome addition, not least since they are so different from the conventional image of the don't-mess-with-me policeman. Lynes, who joined as part of the first intake in 2003, is 36 and did a classics degree as a mature student. "The Latin comes in useful in St Helens," she says. Happily, Virgil Street is part of her beat. The cliche is that the CSOs are the "eyes and ears" of the police. Truncheonless, they patrol small areas, by bike (they have snazzy, non-PC cycling tops) or on foot, getting to know every dodgy household, fly-tipped alley and secluded den favoured by teenage drug users. They have no powers of arrest, but Laura Taylor, who became a CSO this year, thinks that is an advantage. "If we say we don't have any powers, people respond more positively," she says. "They tell us a lot more than they would tell the police because they're frightened of any retribution if they tell the police. Kids will chat to us and they tell us more than they realise." Well, perhaps. As Taylor and Lynes walk up and down Cambridge Road, there are some smiles, but also a few nervous glances. "If I said hello to you, I'd get my head kicked in," says one young man who will evidently not be taking his car to the charity car wash. But when they visit community advocate Janet Travis, who runs the local farm shop, the greeting is warm, not just from her but from her customers too. Critics have derided CSOs as "plastic policemen", and there have been suggestions that PCs themselves are unhappy with them because their own wages will be undercut - a CSO entering the service will earn around £16,000, £5,000 less than a new constable. But there is no evidence of suspicion in St Helens. At the morning briefing in West Park, Inspector Don Blackburn makes a point of drawing the two CSOs into the conversation alongside his sergeant and three PCs, asking for information on known troublemakers and discussing ideas on how to combat the sudden rash of thefts from cars in the area. There is no sense of the CSOs being inferior, just different: they won't be called away to attend emergencies; they won't spend endless days giving evidence in court; they'll just keep plugging away on the same streets, dealing with so-called "quality-of-life" issues and addressing problems that local residents have highlighted at public meetings. Underlying reassurance policing is an attempt to give decayed communities fresh meaning - to make them take responsibility for what is happening around them. "People don't belong any more, they just squat," says Phil Pawley, a community advocate in the town centre district and a man who juggles a remarkable number of jobs. Pawley is the Bishop of Liverpool's church growth adviser, chaplain to the St Helens rugby league team (the high-flying team and the heritage of glass-making are the two things by which St Helens defines itself), chair of the local residents association and organiser of the Merseyfest arts and community festival. He is a New Zealander who found God when he was 21. He hopes everyone else will find God, too, but failing that they can at least report vandalised bus shelters and pick up litter. "People are quite lethargic," he says. "They have no sense of engagement with the idea of transforming the community. I think that reassurance policing is bang on in terms of dealing with 'signal' crimes - crimes that send a signal to the population that you're in a crime zone, things like vandalism, fly-tipping and graffiti. It's partly a matter of the police noticing things like that, partly it's about educating the community." Pawley has a useful outsider's view on St Helens, which over the past 20 years has suffered the sort of identity crisis that has affected many old industrial towns. "The coalmines have closed and most of the heavy industry has gone. The economic structure of the town has changed. I'm not sure the older population has really grappled with the changes they face, so you've still got an old mentality - there's still a chunk of the community that thinks of itself as an industrial town. We're post-industrial but pre-something else." Cambridge Road at lunchtime is a bit dull - the car wash is a welcome diversion - but the town centre at dusk is livelier. Anne Carrera, another new CSO, is making sure there are no drug users hanging round in front of the church - a favourite haunt of old - and doing a final check on the shops. She talks to the manager of a store that recently suffered a robbery, makes sure the two women in the card shop are OK (she sees shops staffed only by women as most vulnerable) and is approached by a homeless man called Johnny Wellies, who tells her a man suspected of a bag snatch is hiding in another church nearby. "You can't take everything Johnny tells you as gospel," she says. But she coolly takes a look anyway, removing her hat as she enters the empty church. Carrera enjoys the job hugely, especially visiting schools. "We do activities with the children," she explains. "They learn that crime doesn't pay and enjoy themselves at the same time." The downside for her and all the CSOs is that they are on short-term contracts: the CSO scheme, which is mainly financed by central government, only has money for three years. It's not quite clear what happens after that. "At the moment, it seems too good to be true," the owner of a nightclub says later, "and I'm worried that the police won't be able to keep it up." Things will get tricky if paying CSOs has to come out of police budgets. How do you trade PCs off against CSOs? The current harmony would surely be tested. Reassurance policing doesn't just rely on CSOs. About half the PCs in St Helens are assigned to neighbourhood duties too - the rest are detailed to react to emergencies - and in the evening I join PC Brian Pearson in an unmarked car on a tour of the town's car parks, part of the attempt to find out why car-related crime is soaring. Despite a suspiciously parked Audi and some dodgy-looking young men in hoods and baseball caps, he doesn't solve the puzzle. But he does stumble over (and summons) a young man urinating on the edge of a car park: the urinator can't quite believe his misfortune and is mortified when Pearson goes beyond a friendly warning. "Happy Christmas to you, too," he says as the officer leaves. Pearson says it's a disgusting habit and he won't tolerate it. He also happens upon a young couple arguing and manages to reunite them; three young boys about to visit the canal (a bad idea, he suggests, but he has no powers to stop them), and lends assistance to two officers dealing with an alleged assault outside a pub. The haphazardness of it all is enjoyable - never quite knowing what's around the next corner. Pearson, who joined the police force relatively late at 31, evidently thinks so, too. In the St Helens police canteen, the noticeboard is plastered with A4 sheets detailing the successes of the reassurance scheme: 50 arrests made in the past three months for drug-related offences, a crack house closed, "needle hotspots" cleared up, alley gates installed, drugs outreach workers targeting users in the town centre, drinking banned from the streets, persistent beggars asbo'd, urinators pissed on from a great height. The mix of the deadly serious with the bathetic is sometimes bizarre - the "wheelie-bin marking pilot" may be an initiative too far - but there is no doubting the good intentions. By midnight, the "night-time economy" is in full swing, with sullen-looking lads and young women in unseasonally short skirts eyeing each other suspiciously in bars. Pearson has arrested a man for being drunk and disorderly, and unearthed what he thinks may be two ecstasy tablets in his pocket, while Sergeant Frank Rennison, the licensing officer, is making his nightly tour of the clubs checking that the doormen have the required licences. At Panama Joe's they greet him like an old friend and, as he stands there talking, clubgoers navigate around his large frame to get in. "Isn't it bad for business, you standing in the doorway?" I ask him. "No, I'm around so much they're used to me," he says. "And the ones that don't know me think I'm a strippergram."