Every neighbourhood in England and Wales will today be promised its own neighbourhood policing teams within the next two years, with residents able to contact named local beat officers on their mobile phones and by email to deal with their complaints.The promise to make 1960s Dixon of Dock Green-style neighbourhood policing the norm rather than the exception lies at the heart of the white paper on police reform being published by the home secretary, David Blunkett, today. It will also include a 10-point "customer commitment charter" that will see community panels given powers to ensure that police and local authorities do something about problems such as antisocial behaviour and abandoned cars. Hazel Blears, minister responsible for the police, said yesterday: "We want to make sure that nobody is in a position where the authorities are failing to take action on their behalf." The white paper will also try to forge a new relationship between police and public based on much better handling of calls from the public. "If you tell people that, all right, you can't come straight away but you'll be there between 2 and 4 and you turn up and you do what you say you will do, that will build trust with the public," said Ms Blears. The return of 1960s-style policing comes after 18 months of trials working with local communities and other agencies. The results from 16 "national reassurance policing pilots" show that the building of community trust generates local intelligence that in turn helps cut crime. In London, the dedicated beat teams will be made up of a sergeant, two police constables and three community support officers, but they will vary across the country and include wardens. In rural areas a village community support officer will form part of a wider neighbourhood policing team. Ministers also want to see the widespread use of a North Wales police website where residents can type in their postcode and see a photo of the neighbourhood beat officer with their email address and mobile phone number so they can be contacted with non-emergency problems.