Richard Taylor arrived in London from Nigeria yesterday and spoke of his final telephone call with his son, in which Damilola told him of being bullied.Mr Taylor said his son told him: "Daddy, they are beating me. You must come to London now." Mr Taylor, a manager with the Nigerian ministry of defence in Lagos, reassured his son that he would be with him at Christmas and would end the bullying. Mr Taylor was critical of the headmaster of Damilola's school, Oliver Goldsmith primary. "In Nigeria those responsible [for bullying] would have been confronted immediately. "But from what I hear this headmaster seems to have been afraid of a confrontation. He didn't want to upset people," he said. "I have great faith in the British police. But they must have a strong idea of who killed my son. Why have they not caught them yet?" Mr Taylor believes his son was killed by people of Afro-Caribbean origin: "It was not racism in the same sense as we know it, but it was still racism in a way." "My wife says there were three of them. They saw Dammy as different. They said he was half-caste and called him gay. Gay! He did not know what that meant." Mr Taylor said his son would never have been attacked in such circumstances in Nigeria. "Do you think this could happen in Lagos? No! It could never have happened there." He said Damilola's dream had been to become a doctor to find a cure for the epilepsy suffered by his sister, Beme. "They killed this lovely child. They knew he was being bullied. They knew Dammy was in danger. Why did they let it happen?" Mr Taylor said: "I miss my son. He was my darling, my heart. He was such an innocent boy, a handsome boy. "You cannot understand how great a loss it is to me." Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate