He could barely stand, let alone walk. Even so, the drunk crumpled at the bar was still demanding to be served. Just after 2am he stumbled from the austere lounge of Glasgow's Corus Hotel back to his room.There he wasted no time raiding the mini-bar before flicking on the television. A breaking newsflash revealed Cambridgeshire police had located the naked body of student Sally Geeson. She had been raped and strangled. The occupant of room 616 tuned into the porn channel. Less than 200 yards away, detectives from Cambridgeshire had long finished drinks at their hotel bar in Anderson, once the city's infamous red-light district. News that the body of 22-year-old Sally had been found had left them disconsolate. They had travelled to Scotland looking for her murderer. And they knew Lance Corporal David Atkinson was not far away. Shortly before 4.30am, the man in the small sixth floor apartment at the Corus unscrewed the lid of a jerry can holding five litres of unleaded petrol. Soaked in fuel, he fumbled for his matches and, then, wreathed in flames, leapt 100 feet to his death. Residents remember a thud, others dismissed the fireball as a gas leak. Officers who searched Atkinson's £35-a-night room last Sunday found a scrawled note explaining how he had murdered Sally with his 'bare hands' after picking her up in Cambridge while posing as a taxi driver. For the Cambridgeshire detectives it was case closed. For the Army, however, it raised uncomfortable questions over why they had failed to control an employee they knew had a record of extreme violence against women and whom they had put on trial for indecent assault seven years earlier. On at least three occasions police had told Army officials that Atkinson was alleged to have attacked women - yet there is no evidence that the 31-year-old was ever offered help to cure his demons. For many it is unfathomable how an organisation which has a duty to care for troubled individuals, those whose minds are mangled by the stresses of combat and the rigours of barrack life, could have failed to spot Atkinson's psychological breakdown. Late on Friday night, the Ministry of Defence admitted that police on both side of the border had identified Atkinson as a 'person of interest', a serial offender so unstable he might be wanted for a string of unsolved sex attacks and even murders. Yet the signs that Atkinson had become a turbulent character capable of sexual deviancy had been evident for years. In the tight-knit community that prevails on military barracks, he openly bragged of attempts to lure young women into his car. Former servicemen say it is inconceivable that senior officials would be unaware of such claims. And the fact that last April he was posted to Waterbeach Barracks, notorious for its proximity to the bars and young students of Cambridge just six miles down the A10, has only aggravated misgivings over the Army's ability to deal with men like Atkinson. Psychologists are unanimous that spotting Atkinson's mental state would not have been difficult. His decision to torch himself in a final blaze of glory is telling - his self-loathing was such that it would have been impossible for him to hide it from those who worked alongside him. 'But I think his hatred for others would be far greater,' said Dr Mike Isaac, a consultant psychiatrist at South London and Maudsley NHS Trust. 'If he was a serial sexual offender, then a hatred of women in general would certainly be a particular element in his make-up.' Atkinson was a prolific offender. Despite his short time at Waterbeach, Cambridgeshire police are already aware of six women in the area who last week claimed they were attacked by him. More will surely follow. Everywhere Atkinson was stationed in his unremarkable 12-year career in the forces he is likely to have preyed on women. 'I would suspect there was a risk wherever he was placed of similar patterns of behaviour', said Ian Stephen, a consultant forensic psychologist and adviser to ITV's criminal psychology series Cracker. It is difficult not to stare at the well-maintained house in Troon Avenue where Atkinson grew up and wonder what turned the baby-faced boy into such a brutal sex offender. His mother Betty, 48, and father David, 49, are reticent about venturing any clues, with both remaining in hiding last night following their son's self-immolation. Troon Avenue lies in a working-class district of East Kilbride, a nondescript satellite town on the outskirts of Glasgow. Although it has a reputation for tough streets, most youngsters rarely require karate to hold their own. Even so, the discipline became Atkinson's first passion in life. By the age of 13 he was a black belt. His trainers recall 'a lovely wee boy.' Although his parents split when he was in his mid-teens, Atkinson appeared to take the break in his stride. Nobody can deduce where his hatred of women first stemmed from. 'We can't help but think it must have been something that happened in the Army that affected him,' said his former karate coach, who remains a close friend of the family. Before 1992 when he joined the Royal Engineers as a 'postie' Atkinson had no criminal record. Now fresh revelations concerning the once well-behaved boy are coming to light by the day. Most stick to the same template: a crude abduction followed by a desperate attempt at sexual assault that would often conclude in violence. But for years Atkinson's attacks were characterised by another element: luck. Only 18 months before Sally Geeson was murdered, Atkinson attempted to abduct a secretary in Chatham, close to the barracks where he was then serving. Kent police were informed of the attack in May 2003, and subsequently contacted the Army. However, the allegations were later withdrawn. It was the same when his former wife Liane complained to military chiefs in 1996 after Atkinson's volatile temperament led to routine beatings. Again the complaint was withdrawn. Later Atkinson would escape charges over an alleged sexual assault on a 17-year-old three years ago in Ripon, North Yorkshire, after the claims were dropped. Even when he was caught, Atkinson still managed to squirm through the net. After dragging a young Polish woman into his car and sexually assaulting her Atkinson was arrested and trialled for court martial. Documents from the judge advocate summing up the case felt that Atkinson's behaviour warranted a spell at a military correction and training centre where he could have received counselling and medical treatment for his disturbing behaviour. Instead he was fined £1,000 and told by the judge to 'put this behind you as quickly as possible.' Atkinson, however, kept on attacking. It is not known how many times he struck, and it is likely the true figure will never be known. But police forces across Britain are today sifting through new testimonies from potential victims. In Germany, where Atkinson lived between 1995 and 2001, a series of sexual assaults, rapes and the murder of a prostitute in Krefeld, near Dusseldorf, will be re-examined this week. Sally Geeson would have felt safe in The Avery. After all, she was friends with the young staff serving the new year's eve revellers crammed beneath its bright lights. Her gregarious nature meant that although those she had arrived with had left, meeting new companions would never be a chore. For some reason, though, she suddenly left, within moments climbing into a tatty H-registered silver Range Rover parked outside Lloyds TSB a few yards from the pub. Although the car was parked in the middle of the main artery of Cambridge, no one saw the woman with the shock of auburn hair accept her final lift. By the time her friends had ushered the last partygoers onto the street at 3am, Sally was dead. Her last text messages begging for help had been delayed in the New Year's Eve telecommunications greetings frenzy. For hours only Atkinson, who had dumped her body in a copse near the village of Madingley, knew she was missing. Although his attacks were marked with acts of seemingly uncontrollable violence his abductions largely appeared carefully planned. Atkinson would strike only in streets he knew well. And the serviceman knew the bustling historic environs around The Avery intimately. He was a regular drinker in the area during his time in Cambridgeshire, and would often pop into the newsagent 20 yards from The Avery entrance with a friend to buy cigarettes, boasting to the staff about his intentions to get drunk. 'He would come in here telling how he was gonna go out and get blotto, then he just disappeared. I thought it was odd until I saw his face in the papers,' said a sales assistant at Regent Street convenience store. Atkinson had always liked a drink - indeed he was disciplined nine years ago while on duty in Germany for drunkenness. On another occasion he was rebuked for failing to turn up for training. Most of his colleagues would drink to relieve the tedium of life in Waterbeach Barracks, a windswept base on the flat plains of the Fens. Atkinson, it is now clear, had a different agenda - one no doubt aided by an appearance that seems almost angelic. Army photographs depict a neat, respectable man whose brown eyes offer no clue as to his perverted intentions. A week on from the events at the Corus Hotel and the British Army appears unable to explain why Atkinson was allowed to offend so repeatedly. And it is likely that notes on his behaviour during his time in the services will remain confidential, prompting accusations concerning the accountability of the Army. A week after Atkinson leapt from room 616, the MoD cannot even reveal a complete picture of precisely where Atkinson served and for how long. Now that Atkinson is gone, some believe attempts may begin to erase his existence. Already workmen have resurfaced the charred patch of James Watt Street where he fell last Sunday morning. A smear of fresh black tarmac now marks his final moments. But for many women his memory will take far longer to smother.