It is not often that politicians are faced with a serious national problem for which the solution is already known - but that is broadly the case in the current epidemic of mobile phone theft. Robberies involving mobile phones are now so rampant that they are distracting attention from a generally encouraging reduction in crime. In Birmingham 41% of all robberies involve phones, and in central London this rises to 48%. In Paris it is 40%. Yet practically every mobile has a unique 15-digit number (obtainable by typing *#06# on a handset), which is transmitted to the network before a connection is made. So if a phone is stolen the user simply has to give the service provider the number and it can be disconnected. End of story.Not quite. Two main operators, Vodafone - which is the world's biggest - and BT Cellnet will not play ball. They say this is partly because their technology is not as up to date as more recent arrivals like Orange, and they give other practical reasons. They argue that criminals can use techniques readily available on the internet to change the serial number by interfering with the software. But Nokia, the world's largest manufacturer of mobiles with 40% of the global market, denies that this can be done easily. Even if some criminals did manage to find ways around this, it is not a reason for failing to get involved in the crime-fighting scheme. This also applies to the operators' second line of defence - that if they deactivated stolen phones with unique numbers then those phones would be shipped abroad (as, they claim, has happened in South Africa). That is a silly reason for not trying. And it is even sillier coming as it does from a truly international industry capable of tracing not only the unique number of a phone, but also its rough geographic location. The third argument of the operators - that there are lots of duplicated numbers around - also doesn't hold water. A handful of companies dominate the world market. It ought to be a simple matter to devise a system in which there aren't any duplicated numbers. And if there are duplicated numbers, any inconvenience caused to a tiny number of innocent people who would get temporarily disconnected would be a small price to pay for reducing mobile theft. Of course, it isn't quite as simple as that. Much mobile theft, as the operators rightly claim, is the result of bullying and trophy hunting in and around schools. This problem won't be solved until it is tackled on a number of fronts simultaneously, involving teachers, parents and insurance companies as well as the operators. But it must start at the top. There is already an excellent precedent in the way that the motor industry cooperated with government to make cars and car radios much less easy to steal by sanctioning such solutions as the widespread fitting of electronic immobilisers. This resulted in a dramatic fall in thefts related to cars. The same could happen, even faster, with mobile phone theft. Earlier this week Lord Chief Justice Woolf foolishly announced a draconian sentencing policy for mobile phone muggers. He ought to be asked to repeat again and again the words "prevention is better than cure". Mr Blair should also take a very close interest, because he has a much better chance of delivering dramatic results over a short period of time in this area than he has with most of the other initiatives he has adopted. If he starts in earnest now he would have enough time to be able to deliver dramatically improved statistics before the next general election.