Scotland Yard has identified two new suspects whom detectives believe may have been involved in the murder of Stephen Lawrence.The two are believed to be associates of the five prime suspects in the unsolved racist stabbing of the black teenager at a south London bus stop in April 1993. The development comes as detectives led by the Metropolitan Police deputy assistant commissioner, John Grieve, grow increasingly confident of being able to bring charges over the murder. The case is being handled by CO24, the race and violent crimes task force that was set up by the Met after it was branded institutionally racist by Sir William Macpherson in a public inquiry into why the force's murder investigation had been so flawed. One of the two new suspects is the "fair haired" attacker identified by some witnesses. Both suspects have never been interviewed over the murder by police. The development comes days before the first anniversary of the publication of Sir William's findings, which rocked Scotland Yard. Doreen Lawrence, mother of the dead teenager, told a meeting on Saturday marking the anniversary that she did not believe the police when they promised they had learned the lessons of the scandal. She said: "I have concerns as to how and when any of the recommendations are going to be implemented." According to a Guardian/ICM opinion poll published today, a majority of the public believes the police are learning from the mistakes they made during the murder investigation. A total of 75% of those polled believe the police are making progress, and only 12% disagree. This large vote of confidence in the police approach to racial attacks comes after a weekend in which the Lawrence family's solicitor, Imran Khan, said that the police had not changed. "For the Lawrences, there appears to be too much talk and too little action. Committees and advisory groups are all well and good, but they end up as talking shops. What is most galling for the Lawrences is they see police forces up and down the country not changing, not learning lessons. "It is the same old story of officers criminalising the black victim, not taking race crime seriously," Mr Khan told the meeting in central London. But the Guardian/ICM poll results show that fewer people believe the police are racist than did a year ago. A clear majority, 57%, believes that most officers "tend not to be racist" or are "not racist at all". Those who believe the majority of police officers are not racist at all has jumped 10 points from 20% to 30%, as compared with a similar Guardian/ICM poll in February 1999. Only 18% believe that most police officers "tend to be racist". A significant minority - nearly one in three - shares the analysis of the official inquiry report that the police do have a problem with institutional racism. Although 49% disagree, some 30% do believe that, whatever their intentions, the way that the police operate leads them to discriminate unfairly against black and Asian people. Although this is a slight fall compared with 12 months ago, it shows that a significant section of the public believes that the police have not yet tackled the problem of indirect or institutional racism. ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,205 adults aged over 18 by telephone between February 11 and 13, 2000. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.