When Cherie Booth told the home affairs select committee that she worried about whether her children were safe on the streets of London, and that official crime figures understated the danger they were in, she was accurately reflecting a horrible new reality. Teenagers in cities – particularly boys – inhabit an alternate universe which is only partly visible to adults, and it is one in which they have to be constantly aware of potential threats.Every teenage boy I know in the capital has been mugged, or punched in the face, or threatened with a knife. It isn't possible for them to follow rules that would protect them from risk, because there is no time and no place which is guaranteed to be safe. Poor Ben Kinsella was stabbed to death in the early hours of the morning, and some bloggers have wondered why he was out at what might be a dangerous time. But boys are assaulted in the mornings on their way to school, on Saturday afternoons returning from the cinema, or in the early evenings while scooting home. And the brutal lesson that they learn from their very first mugging is that if they are attacked, they are on their own. Whether they are sitting on a bus, waiting outside a shop, or walking across a park, the adults who might once have intervened will simply watch or look away.Aggressive and territorial behaviour by young men is an age-old phenomenon, but the surge in the use of knives, accompanied by the spread of adult fear and indifference, has made teenagers' daily lives much scarier than they were. My own teenage friends, a generation ago, feared being beaten up. Sometimes there were gang fights, or groups waiting outside school to get a victim. But these were occasional events, and they only happened if they could stay below the radar of the grownups. The presence of outraged teachers or passing adults was usually enough to break up fights. No one died, no one went to hospital, no one feared for their lives.The withdrawal of adults from that kind of public responsibility has been sanctioned and encouraged by the government, which piously urges people not to endanger themselves, or to intervene, but to rely on the police. In practice what that means is that there is now a power vacuum in public spaces, and it can be exploited by the violent at any time. The result is a vicious circle in which many frightened teenagers who don't want to fight nevertheless decide to arm themselves with knives, because they know that if they are attacked, self-defence is the only thing that might protect them.It's vital to look at the causes of knife crime, and the anger and alienation that is driving the indifference to human life. It's crucial to reconsider the role of policing. But as long as adults decide to give up all responsibility for upholding social order and protecting the vulnerable, our children will continue to be threatened and killed.