The operation to spirit Maxine Carr out of prison and into a life of obscurity far from the prying eyes of an angry public and a bloodthirsty media was never going to be easy.But yesterday the plans to provide her with a new identity and fresh start were thrown into farcical confusion after important documents relating to her were stolen from the car of a Home Office official. Despite the difficulties inherent in hiding arguably the most instantly recognisable criminal in Britain, officials had been quietly pleased with the progress they were making ahead of Carr's official release date tomorrow. On Monday, Carr had appeared at Nottingham crown court where she pleaded guilty to a string of deception charges relating to false benefit claims and lies on job applications. Judge Richard Pollard, accepted the recommendation of probation officers that she should be given a community rehabilitation order. Carr was whisked away from court by a convoy including armed officers. There was speculation that she would be taken from there to a secret location and from there to begin her new life. But half an hour later Carr appeared back at Foston Hall prison, where she had been spending the final weeks of her three-and-a-half-year sentence for giving the Soham killer, Ian Huntley, a false alibi. Meanwhile, probation and police officers were putting the finishing touches to the operation which is designed to keep the woman dubbed the new Myra Hindley by some tabloids safe from any vigilantes and the media. The Home Office has said only that she will be supervised by a probation officer, as all prisoners released on licence or on rehabilitation orders are, and her safety would be the responsibility of the local police force. Police sources familiar with techniques used to protect the likes of Mary Bell, the schoolgirl who was convicted in 1968 of killing two young boys, and the killers of James Bulger as well as supergrasses, said experts would have started to put together a package of measures to protect Carr as soon as she was sentenced in December. She would have been provided with a new passport, national insurance and NHS number. It is also likely she has had training in anti-surveillance techniques. Only a very small group of people were privy to details of the plans. Even the most senior investigating officers in the Soham case have been kept out of the loop. The new home that had been provided would almost certainly have been fitted with a panic button connected to the local police station. She was also expected to have a 24-hour guard for the first few weeks or months. Carr's defence teams have punctured some of the wilder theories about her future which have been put forward by some tabloids, denying, for instance, that she was going to flee to Australia or Sweden and have extensive plastic surgery. Besides, the terms of her licence, which runs for another 10 months, and the rehabilitation order, to last until May 2007, mean that she would not be allowed to leave the country. It is understood, however, that Carr had been provided with a new personal history - a false life story which she was to use upon being given her new identity including details such as where she supposedly went to school, where she took her holidays, notable events from childhood. Nick Fyfe, an expert on witness protection from Dundee University, said people on such schemes often experienced huge difficulties learning their new life stories. He said: "It is one of the hardest things. It is as if they are losing a big part of themselves and that can be very hard." After her release from prison getting used to a new identity was one of the hardest things for Mary Bell. Her biographer Gitta Sereny wrote: "It was to be a long time before she could respond to her new identity, and it was never real to her." Police sources have said Carr was experiencing difficulty in getting to grips with her fake life story. Her reluctance to change her identity is hinted at in a letter sent to a relative while she was awaiting trial. "When things settle," she wrote, "I'll probably have bright red hair and green eyes with a name like Miriam or something naff." The theft of documents relating to Carr's release is hugely embarrassing to the Home Office, especially as its handling of the Carr case has already come under scrutiny. Ministers were criticised after changing the rules on an early release scheme specifically to stop Carr from getting out of prison sooner. And during Monday, Carr's barrister, Michael Hubbard QC, claimed the decision to pursue her on the deception charges was politically motivated. The worry is that the theft will compromise the operation to spirit Carr away. It is understood that they revealed the new name she was going to be using, possibly passport details and even clues to her new address. Police sources said that fortunately it was not thought the documents divulged details of Carr's cover story. It may be that she can be kept in another safe house for the next few days until another new address and new identity are created. Yesterday afternoon government sources were briefing that Carr was still being held at Foston Hall. By last night the Home Office was confirming she had been moved. Whether the briefings were diversionary tactics is not known but the Home Office insisted it was always planned to move her yesterday.