Harold Shipman, the GP convicted of murdering 15 patients, "honed his skills" as a killer in a Yorkshire town, a Labour MP claimed yesterday.Chris McCafferty, MP for Calder Valley, is calling for a public inquiry into Shipman's activities in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, almost 25 years ago. An investigation has revealed that despite his inexperience he signed 22 death certificates, considerably more than his colleagues in a group practice, over a 16-month period. Ms McCafferty said there were 30 to 40 more deaths than usual when Shipman was there. When he left, the death rate dropped again. "I believe he was honing his skills in killing in Todmorden," she said. "I am greatly concerned by the implications of these figures. "There is no doubt that Shipman was and remains an evil man. He could end the uncertainty of countless relatives by making a full confession, but it is apparent that he will not do this. "Under these circumstances, we may never know the full extent of his actions, but it is important that every lead is investigated." She is writing to Jack Straw, the home secretary, and Alan Milburn, the health secretary, calling for further investigations into the higher death rate at Todmorden. She also wants the Laming inquiry to be held in public. The inquiry was set up under the chairmanship of Lord Laming, after Shipman was convicted in January, to examine the case and the issues thrown up by it. "A thorough and open investigation is needed to seek to establish what happened while he was was working in Todmorden," said Ms McCafferty. "This can be best achieved by making all the existing information available to the Laming inquiry." During his time in Todmorden Shipman was addicted to pethidine and had to be driven around by his wife, Primrose, because he suffered from blackouts. A former patient, Elaine Oswald, nearly died after he gave her an opiate-based drug in 1974 when he was supposed to be taking a blood sample. Mrs Oswald, now a professor at Tennessee University in the US, said Shipman told her that she had had an allergic reaction to a painkiller. Shipman, 54, was given 15 life sentences in January for the murders of women patients in Hyde, Greater Manchester. Police said that his final death toll might be as high as 192 patients. The relatives of some of his victims will seek a judicial review on Monday of the decision to hold the inquiry in private. Lord Laming is expected to report to Mr Milburn by the autumn.