At first hearing, David Blunkett's plans to make the criminal justice system in general and the police and public prosecutors in particular more accountable to the community sound just like another government anti-crime initiative.But behind the detail of the plans for elected local policing panels and high profile American-style public prosecutors lies a glimpse of the "big idea" that will be at the centre of Labour's next general election manifesto.It is significant that before Mr Blunkett's speech outlining his plans tonight to the Community Service Volunteers, he gave a private presentation yesterday to Labour's national executive committee. The party is beginning to get the process of drawing up its manifesto plans for a third term into gear and Mr Blunkett is keen to set the tone and make sure that it has a "communitarian" flavour. You can tell which ministers are in the loop on the key discussions over Labour's third term plans. They are the ones that keep peppering their interviews and speeches with the words "empowering communities". For Mr Blunkett it is much more than a new fashion he has picked up from slightly dodgy American Clintonite "communitarian" commentators. In some ways he got there first. Twenty years ago he had a Fabian pamphlet he called Building from the Bottom, and a 1987 book, Democracy in Crisis. He says it is about developing a comprehensive agenda for civic renewal that strengthens communities by revitalising democracy. It is based on a direct challenge to the idea that we just can't be bothered to get involved in what happens in our local neighbourhood, or local school or whatever. In fact that is not quite true: some 16 million of us do some kind of voluntary work or are actively involved in the local community in some way. It is this local voluntarism that Mr Blunkett is depending upon to make his criminal justice reforms work. There is no point in having elections for a local police board or setting up a local neighbourhood panel if nobody can be bothered to vote or take part in the meetings. The home secretary hopes to overcome that apathy by giving neighbourhood panels some real power - such as a budget to buy in more street patrols, or CCTV cameras for their area so that they are not just talking shops. In fact, crime does get us going - and sometimes in the most ugly sort of way. One major argument against giving local communities more say in the way local policing works is likely to be what might be called the Paulsgrove challenge: that something done in the name of the "community" could result in a social authoritarian edge. (Paulsgrove is the area of Portsmouth where the local community set up vigilante squads to tackle suspected paedophiles.) In actual fact it could be said that vigilantism only flourishes in areas where there is no local consultation with the police. When Robert Peel first set up the Metropolitan police he always assumed that policing could only be done with the consent of the community. Despite complaints that successive home secretaries have imposed initiative after initiative on the criminal justice system it is perhaps the hardest public service to reform. It took five years just to persuade the police, the lawyers and the courts to halve the time it takes them to get a juvenile offender into court. Blunkett's promise of more community accountability can only help to maintain the pressure on one of our most "small c" conservative public services. &£149; Alan Travis is the Guardian's home affairs editor