A jobless salesman posed as a barrister or a successful businessman to befriend women in wine bars and nightclubs before cheating them out of their savings, Bournemouth crown court was told. Roy Moyse wore pin-striped suits and hired expensive cars to give the impression of being a well-heeled professional. He would then pretend to have cash-flow problems as he waited for a big inheritance or claim he needed a loan because he was buying a flat in an exclusive area. In fact Moyse was a 40-year-old unemployed cash till salesman who lived with his parents in Bournemouth, Dorset. Moyse was jailed for three years for conning four women and two men, but police said yesterday there may be many more victims who have not come forward. Roger Doerr, a financial investigator who helped police investigate Moyse, said: "This man is a danger to any women in their 40s in the Bournemouth area both financially and emotionally. He was a creature of nightclubs and pubs and chatted up women in order to milk them out of thousands of pounds."He toyed with their emotions before ripping them off, cleaning them out and moving on to the next victim. He has never been a rich, successful businessman or a barrister. He has either been a sales rep selling cash tills or jobless."No doubt there are other woman out there who haven't come forward yet. We are appealing for them to do so."One of his victims, Lisa Williams, a debt collector, said: "I am not a gullible person but he was so plausible. He was very softly spoken, gentle and was always immaculately turned out in a blue pin-striped suit with sparkling cufflinks. I thought he was a barrister."Moyse, an amateur football referee, met Williams in a wine bar and they played a game in which she had to guess what he did for a living. He cheekily assumed the identify of a barrister who was representing him in other deception cases. Eventually Moyse asked Williams for money to help him finance the purchase of an expensive flat at Sandbanks in Poole. Another victim, Christine Haslam, a former accountant said: "He had the gift of the gab, was always well dressed, had a wallet full of money and turned up on dates in a posh car. I would never have thought that I was one of those people who could be sucked in by someone like that but he was very convincing."A third victim was pub landlord Paul Nippard. Moyse told him he was waiting for the sale of a business to go through and persuaded him to hand over £60,000. Nippard was plunged into debts that cost him his job and house. Fern Russell, defending, said Moyse, who admitted obtaining money by deception, had not set out to deceive but was caught in spiralling debts after being made redundant in 2002. He was convicted of tricking £115,000 out of his victims.