Thank you for the articles by Mary Warnock and 'a grandmother' about the state of the law on illegal images (News and Comment, last week). The Warnock article was the first proper polemic I have seen that makes the important distinction between being a foolish or over-curious internet browser and a serious danger to children.My husband is serving a prison sentence for 'view-only' offences, dating back to a single episode in 1998. Like Chris Langham, he is adamant that he is not a paedophile and that looking at these pictures does not make him one.There is no easily available support for offenders and their families. The Lucy Faithful Foundation is primarily a child-protection charity, part-funded by the Home Office, with strong links to the police. If, in seeking help, an offender (or member of an offender's family) were to reveal information deemed as potentially confessing to child abuse, the foundation's website makes it clear that this will be conveyed to the appropriate authorities, i.e. the police. However, this is not made clear to those using the 'helpline' you list. It is quite possible that, in desperately seeking help, a wife could 'shop' her husband.The easy internet access to child pornography is almost always ignored or accepted as 'too complicated to address'. It is a strange form of justice which spends vast amounts of money on persecuting bored computer users like my husband, yet makes little or no effort to tackle the people who make the images and set up the websites, who are the real criminals in all this. Name and address suppliedIn the largest data set yet published, just over one in three of everyone arrested 'merely' for possession offences in the US had also engaged in paedophilic activity. Anecdotally, many paedophiles have claimed it was the images which set them off on a path which ultimately led to them abusing a child. People who knowingly engage with child pornography must accept that they are putting themselves in the same space as paedophiles. John Carr London NW3Mary Warnock's feeble distinction between 'thinking' and 'doing' is meaningless. Downloading images of horrific abuse is the slippery slope. Why try to suggest we stop people in the middle of the slide? Why not at the beginning? Baroness Warnock's argument that they 'might' be computer-generated images, 'convincing accounts of something that never happened' and 'not enough to jail a man' is absolutely unbelievable. Senga Frisken London W1Prosecution of the card-processing companies that facilitate this 'business' would soon reduce its presence on the web. David Mount BrightonDuring my teaching career, I taught many abused children who had suffered severe distress due to their abuse by paedophiles. I am glad that Mary Warnock can allow herself to believe these images could be computer-generated or cannot be stopped due to their not originating in this country. I am sure the children I have taught whose images are on the internet will be grateful for this insight. Justine Sinclair by emailMary Warnock is mistaken in referring to 'child pornography'. These images bear no resemblance to pornography as it is commonly interpreted. These are child-abuse images - nothing less. Child pornography as a term minimises and trivialises grotesque sexual abuse of the most vulnerable in society. Both press and public make this unnecessary error. It takes little to think of the victims and use terminology more appropriate to the crime. Simon Bell ShrewsburyWrite to usLetters, which may be edited, should include a full name and postal address and be sent to: Letters to the Editor, The Observer, 3-7 Herbal Hill, London EC1R 5EJ (to be received by noon Thursday). Fax: 020 7837 7817. Email: letters@observer.co.uk (please insert Letters to the Editor in subject field).