A father who drowned his severely disabled 14-month-old son because he wanted the child's "suffering to stop" was today ordered to be detained at a mental hospital.The life of Andreas Milakovic became dominated by the disability of the boy, Yacob, and he sank into a deep depression as he struggled to cope with the child's painful epileptic fits.On February 5 this year Milakovic, 38, fed Yacob the baby medicine Calpol and red wine before drowning him in the bath at their home in Sheffield, the city's crown court heard.The judge was told how the defendant, who is deaf and mute, then drank a litre of vodka and sat in a bath, expecting to drown himself.But he was later found alive on a bed by his partner, Sharon Hirschman."I just wanted Yacob's suffering to stop. I didn't know what else to do," Milakovic told police. "I wanted him to go to sleep. I didn't want him to cry or shock. As a father I felt it was my duty to do something for my child."I couldn't watch these 20 to 30 fits at a time. It was awful."The court heard how Milakovic, a social worker, was devoted to Yacob."It was obvious Andreas loved Yacob. The look of joy and love on his face when he looked at him spoke volumes," one nursery worker told police. "Tears would roll down his face if he was having a fit."Gary Burrell QC, prosecuting, told the court how Milakovic, born in Croatia and brought up in Germany, had had a series of problems after going deaf.He met Ms Hirschman, who is also deaf, at Bristol university and they both worked for Rotherham borough council as social workers specialising in helping people with disabilities.Mr Burrell said Yacob was a "much-loved and wanted child" but in June 2006 was diagnosed with West syndrome. The rare and serious form of epilepsy left the youngster unable to sit up, hold his head up or swallow properly.The condition also caused painful fits. As it progressed, Yacob's parents were told he was suffering from a rare degenerative brain illness that would "almost certainly have proved fatal in the long run".Mr Burrell said it was watching Yacob's fits that pushed Milakovic into desperation and depression.The court heard that Yacob had suffered 40 fits the day before his father killed him.By this time, Milakovic had been given leave from his job and spent all his time looking after the boy, and was afraid even to go to the toilet in case he had a fit in the meantime.The court heard that Milakovic's own disability was a severe barrier to him getting help for his worsening depression.Mr Burrell told the judge that four days before he killed Yacob, Milakovic went out to buy jewellery for his partner and started to write a suicide note on his computer.He also copied a series of pictures of his son on to a CD.Mr Burrell said that when the defendant was in hospital after the boy's death, he told a doctor: "I'm glad I did it. He's not suffering any more. He's in a better place."I only wish I'd done it in Holland. You know why that is don't you? It's unfair that I am going to get punished now for what is right."He later told a psychiatrist: "[Yacob] gave me eye contact as if he were asking me to help." Milakovic had pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility at a previous hearing.The judge, Mr Justice Holland, told Milakovic he was putting him in psychiatric custody because of his "moderate to severe depressive episode aggravated by grief reaction"."I'm aware that the circumstances of this case are such as to raise for consideration debate as to euthanasia - mercy killing," the judge said. "I'm aware that there are those who passionately believe that such is justified."I'm aware that there are those who passionately believe in the sanctity of life and as such [it] cannot be justified. None of that debate is a debate for me. I have to apply the law."Throughout the hearing, which lasted two hours, Milakovic sat in the dock concentrating on the sign language translation that was provided for him.Outside court, his solicitor, Sally Durham, said the family believed they had been "let down by the lack of support available to them".Detective Inspector Zaf Ali, of South Yorkshire police, said he agreed with comments made in court that Milakovic did not pose a threat to the general public and said he thought "justice had been done".Mr Ali said Ms Hirschman was standing by the defendant. "She'll continue to do that to try and piece their lives back together," he said.