A rejected wife who shot her husband's lover was jailed for life at the Old Bailey yesterday after being found guilty of murder. Rena Salmon, 43, killed Lorna Stewart, 36, by shooting her twice with a double- barrelled shotgun at her beauty salon in Chiswick, west London, last September.After four hours of deliberation, jurors unanimously rejected her claim of manslaughter due to diminished responsibility. They looked shocked as Peter Clarke QC, prosecuting, told them that, unknown to Salmon, the victim had been two months pregnant when she died. Judge Neil Denison told Salmon: "You know that there is only one sentence I can pass for the offence of murder: life." Ms Stewart's father and her estranged husband Keith Rodrigues, who is bringing up their two children, held hands as Salmon, looking shocked and drained, was led away. Outside the court Salmon's solicitor, Tan Ikram, said she might appeal against the verdict, adding that the jury had rejected the opinions of four psychiatrists, who believed she was severely depressed when she killed Ms Stewart, in favour of one psychiatrist who interviewed her for two hours. But Detective Inspector Steve Morris, of the Metropolitan police, described the killing as "premeditated and cold-blooded" and said Salmon's disturbed childhood was no excuse. The housewife had claimed that she knew only two things about her father: he was Asian and he paid her mother, a prostitute, "10 bob". She described her white mother - who denies the allegations of abuse and prostitution - beating her and taunting her as a "black bastard". Her younger sister echoed the stories of being scrubbed until they bled with bleach and scouring powder to lighten their skins. By the time Salmon ran away at 13 she was bingeing on food and smashing up her own belongings. She found stability when she joined the Royal Signals Corps at 19, meeting Paul Salmon, a divorcee, and marrying him in 1985. "It was everything. He was the first person to ever love me and it didn't matter that I was black," she said. She determined to give their son and daughter the warmth, love and material comfort she had never known. Paul became a successful IT consultant, and by 2001 they could afford a holiday home as well as their house in Great Shefford, Berkshire. In the mid-90s Salmon had suffered depression, apparently sparked by back problems which left her dependent on morphine. But neighbours knew her as a warm, sociable person, and her friendship with Mr Rodrigues, Ms Stewart and their children became particularly close. Then, in January 2001, Paul Salmon announced that he wanted a divorce. Salmon's younger, more glamourous friend Lorna assured her it was just a phase and even helped her shop for lingerie to rekindle his interest. The housewife was understandably devastated when she learned that her confidante was, in fact, sleeping with her husband. The episode set a pattern. The lovers seem to have been genuinely confused about their emotions and the implications of ending their marriages. But to Salmon, a deeply vulnerable woman, it seemed as if they were deliberately raising her hopes only to dash them. She bombarded them with threatening calls and text messages, scratched "whore" on Ms Stewart's car and attacked her. The couple in turn became increasingly brutal, either from exasperation or to shock her into leaving them alone. One text message from her husband read: "Busy shagging". On two occasions she overdosed in front of him, and claims he egged her on. Despite his repeated assurances that he saw no future with his lover, the pair set up home together in July. Salmon, a devoted mother, was so devastated that she formed a suicide pact with her children. One day she would swear to make a clean break; the next she threatened to cripple Ms Stewart by shooting her. Yet even her husband did not take the comments seriously enough to retrieve his guns. Then, on September 6, shortly after Salmon had managed to open the gun cabinet, her rival called. The housewife said Ms Stewart had announced that the couple were trying to have a baby and that if they did "it will look like us", white. "It was happening all over again," said Salmon. "Because I was black, because Keith was black, because our kids were black - we could be discarded." Four days later, Salmon loaded a gun and drove 60 miles to the salon. She claimed she planned to commit suicide, although defence psychiatrists suggested she had no clear idea of what she was going to do. The composure with which Ms Stewart greeted her seems to have been the final straw. "I thought she would be scared," Ms Salmon said. "I was standing there with a shotgun and I thought she would pacify me and tell me she would give him up. She didn't." The first cartridge tore a path six centimetres by three through the right side of the victim's chest, piercing her heart and lung. The second entered her back, hitting the lower spine, liver and kidney. She died almost instantly. But Salmon said that she still sees her rival every day in nightmares and flashbacks. "Paul moves on," she reflected in court. "He has a new partner already. Keith I hope will find a new partner. But I am still left with the pain. Everybody else might forget her and move on, but Lorna is as much a part of me as breathing is."