A sprinter claiming sick pay while competing in international athletics competitions told his boss he was in so much pain he could not even dress himself, a court heard .Matthew Thomas, 34, was signed off his job as a payroll officer for Newham council in east London after telling bosses he had fallen from a ladder and injured his back, a jury at Inner London crown court was told. Prosecutors said he received £13,892.12 in pay while off sick for seven months from November 2007 until he resigned in June 2008.But Thomas, from East Ham, east London, raced in the Birmingham athletic games in February 2008 and the Surrey county indoor championships in March 2008, the court heard. He also led regular 90-minute coaching sessions for an athletics scheme set up by the Metropolitan police - throughout the period, jurors were told.Rebecca Channon, prosecuting, "Plainly he was carrying on quite an active life," she said. Thomas denies one count of fraud and 10 counts of fraud by false representation. After he was signed off, Thomas told his bosses he was still in pain. He had a meeting with his line manager, Paula Astrella in January 2008, just two days before he took part in the Birmingham athletic games. She told the court: "He confirmed he had fallen off the ladder and was in a lot of pain and couldn't undertake day-to-day activities including dressing himself and driving and he was quite depressed.""He told me he thought his back injury had ruined Christmas for him and his family and it was causing him much distress. "No conclusion was made at that point about when he would come back because he was in so much pain. He was waiting for an appointment with an osteopath."Channon told jurors they would see video footage of Thomas coaching youngsters and sprinting on a running track during the time he said he was unfit to work."He says his reason for participating in athletics competitions was to use the free physiotherapy that was available at such events and also to test the progress he had made in terms of his injury," Channon said."In his interview, he said he was having difficulty sitting down for long periods of time and his injury had little or no effect on his ability to work as an athletics coach and to participate in athletics events but would not allow him to carry out his role as a payroll officer."He was saying his injury was not inconsistent with his participation in athletics."Ms Astrella told the court that by April 2008 she became aware that Thomas was racing.Asked how she felt, she said: "I was quite shocked. Matthew Thomas had always presented himself as being in significant pain and I was quite shocked to see if that was the same Matthew Thomas participating in what appeared to be professional races."The hearing continues.