Police investigating the murder of two women found battered to death in a Shropshire massage parlour said yesterday they were trying to track down a man wearing a purple bandana who said he had taken part in "some kind of pirate re-enactment".The two women, one in her 40s, the other in her 20s, were found lying next to each other on the ground floor of Rachael's health studio, close to the river Severn in the Frankwell district of Shrewsbury, in the early hours of Sunday. Detectives have described their injuries as horrific.Local shopkeepers said the studio functioned as a brothel, with its women working discreetly and keeping office hours.The man with the bandana was one of two seen drinking on Saturday night at the Wheatsheaf pub, next to the three-storey brick building with sash windows in which the massage parlour occupied the ground floor.Detective Chief Inspector Sheila Thornes, of West Mercia police, said officers wanted to contact about 30 drinkers at the pub. "In particular, at least four people - two men and two women - remained in the pub's beer garden after the premises closed."We think the two men, both thought to be aged in their 40s, were initially sitting on their own but may have started chatting to the two women at some point. One of the men was wearing a purple bandana and said he had taken part in some kind of pirate re-enactment."Ms Thornes said she believed a group of cricketers had also been in the pub after a local match. "Again, I would ask them to contact us," she said.A man who rents a flat above the massage parlour said he was horrified by the murders. "Everyone knew what the place was," said Gary, who declined to give his surname. "It was well known in the town. It was open from 9am till about 7pm. There was never any trouble, although we would sometimes get drunks ringing our doorbell late at night by mistake. The girls came down from Manchester or Stoke and then went home again. One woman I saw regularly was middle-aged, quite a large woman."When I came home at about 12.30am on Saturday after a night out, the door was open and all the lights were on, which was very unusual because the place was usually shut up long before that."Ellen Brannan, landlady of the Wheatsheaf, added: "I saw girls arrive in the morning and leave at night, with gentlemen arriving during the day. There was never any trouble."Stephen Williams, a Shrewsbury councillor and proprietor of a nearby furniture store, said the parlour had been in business for several years and appeared to be well run. "It has not given a moment's grief to anyone. The girls come and go, shop in various shops in the area and go home in the evening. There are no pimps - it's run by the women. It's far better that men go somewhere like that than cause problems on the street."Yesterday police teams carried out door-to-door inquiries and searched drains in alleys. Officers asked local businesses not to dispose of rubbish in dustbins and to hand over CCTV footage. A scenes of crime tent remained in front of the parlour, with traffic on one of Shrewsbury's busiest streets controlled by temporary lights.Ms Thornes urged the public to help in the investigation. "The murder scene premises front on to the main road. There are many people passing this spot on foot and in vehicles at all times of the day and night and we desperately want to hear from anyone who saw or heard anything which might be connected to this dreadful incident."