From a government which has been so trigger-happy about changing criminal law, the ministerial response at the end of last week to the latest proposals from their law reform advisers was pathetic. The law commissioners had been asked to examine whether provocation, a partial defence to murder that allows defendants to plead guilty to the lesser charge of manslaughter, should be abolished. What it found when it began its consultation exercise was widespread discontent with the murder law across a much wider front. It also found judicial concern that all that would be achieved by its current review would be an inadequate "patching exercise".To their credit the commissioners recognised that what was needed was a comprehensive review of murder - the first since the royal commission on capital punishment between 1949 and 1953 - along with another look at mandatory life sentences that convicted murderers currently receive. Even though the "breadth and depth of discontent" was strongest with respect to mandatory sentences, Home Office minister Baroness Scotland responded immediately, insisting there would be no move to change it. Why not? Both judges, whom ministers are ready to ignore, but also Joe Public, whom they normally slavishly follow, want change. The current system is totally irrational. There have been a number of mercy killings in the news columns in recent weeks: relatives who have helped children or relatives in the last stages of painful and incurable diseases to die. Does Baroness Scotland, QC, really believe they should receive the same sentence as a serial killer like the Yorkshire Ripper? About 75% of people consulted said there should be no custodial sentences in mercy killings. As the law commission noted last week, a logical system would grade into different categories the different forms of murder and assign different sentences. As for provocation, the commission did not believe it should be abolished as Harriet Harman, solicitor general, has urged. Instead it has proposed changes that would make it more available to abused partners who kill in self-defence and prevent it being used by murderers who kill for revenge. This looks a more judicious settlement. What all progressives should unite on is insisting that ministers follow their own mantra: the need for evidence-based policy-making. Fifty years on since the last comprehensive review of the offence, it is time for a new look. Far better this is pursued in a rational manner, than by a knee-jerk response to the media.