Police doubt they will ever be able to conclusively say which children were sexually abused by nursery worker Vanessa George, even if she does obey a judge and produce a list of her victims.If she does name the children she assaulted and photographed, police would have to try to corroborate her claims before being able to say with any certainty that any particular child was assaulted.Because the faces of the children are not shown in the indecent images and very few distinguishing marks appear, it still would probably not be possible to double-check her claims.Today Devon and Cornwall police confirmed they would speak to George's defence team about interviewing George for a sixth time. But one prosecution source close to the case said: "The problem is, would you trust what she said? Of course, it will help the investigation if she does co-operate. But might she miss some victims off deliberately and might she try to play games? Abusers like her are manipulators. They like to toy with people's emotions."Another prosecution source pointed out the judge had hinted it was in George's best interests to help. "So she may pretend to help but in the end keep on muddying the waters," he said.George and her co-accused, Colin Blanchard and Angela Allen, admitted a raft of sex crimes yesterday. The three all carried out serious sex attacks on youngsters and shared the images of abuse.The judge hearing the case, Mr Justice Royce, told George that before she is sentenced at Bristol crown court next month she should reveal the names of the children she abused at Little Ted's nursery in Plymouth.As it stands the investigation is centred on 30 children but at its peak there were concerns that more than 300 children may have been victims of 39-year-old George.The uncertainty has left families in a horrible limbo. Many suspect their children may have been abused but no one knows for sure.If she does agree to help, dealing with any list George produces will be very sensitive. Before approaching any families she names, Devon and Cornwall police will consult with an ethics committee that has been set up to guide this most delicate of investigations.The picture is further complicated, because though many do want to know for certain if their children were abused, others have made it clear that they do not wish to know but want to move on. Even within some families, one parent may want to know while the other does not.Meanwhile, George, Allen, 39, and Blanchard, 38, will all be seen by psychiatrists in the weeks before they are sentenced.The women have both tried to focus blame on Blanchard. Allen initially claimed that he had threatened her but later rowed back from that. George has suggested that she was encouraged, even groomed, to carry out the abuse at Little Ted's and take pictures of it happening, but police have always portrayed them as equal partners in depravity.In Plymouth parents, who cannot be named for legal reasons, continued to express horror at the crimes of George and the others.One father said many were torn over whether it was best to find out exactly who had been affected: "As horrible as it is, you want to know, but at the same time, you don't want to know." Another father said he had turned to drink because of the case.A mother said: "George should give the names of her victims so myself and other parents can put this behind us and try to move on. It's the not knowing that hurts the most. I still pass Little Ted's every day and it makes me feel sick to my stomach."Another set of parents said they were split. One parent wanted to know, the other did not.Yet another parent told how her son had told her he did not want to go the nursery because he had a "bad back". She added: "You later think, what child says they've got a bad back to get out of nursery?"Police dismissed reports that a fourth person was being looked for in connection with the case. Merseyside police said a 35-year-old woman had been arrested in June but the case against her was discontinued because of lack of evidence.