Una Padel, who has died aged 50 from cancer, was director of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies (CCJS), at King's College London from 1999, and throughout her adult life demonstrated an unselfish, single-minded commitment to penal reform. Her agenda was firmly rooted in a profound sense of social justice. Her contribution was analytical, but always practical. It stemmed from an incisive understanding of and empathy with the underdog. She kept a bright, well-organised light burning for decency and justice during a period when an increasingly party political mood of penal populism threatened to sweep away hard fought for principles and structures.Una was born in Hampstead, north London, and grew up in Wembley. She was educated at Preston Manor high school, and, after taking a degree in psychology and diplomas in social administration and social work at the universities of Durham, York and Newcastle, joined the Northumbria Probation Service in 1980. She served her apprenticeship in the east end of Newcastle doing general casework. But she then specialised in the work to which she subsequently made so singular a contribution - prisoners and their families - and for which she received an OBE in 2003. It became clear to her that the realities facing prisoners' families and prisoners on release demanded structural reform. In 1985, she was appointed deputy director of the Prison Reform Trust (PRT). There, Una learned the Whitehall arts alongside Stephen Shaw, now prisons and probation ombudsman. She prepared written and oral submissions for the home affairs select committee, wrote press releases, appeared in the media and spoke at numerous meetings. She built a reputation for even-handedness and integrity during a period when our prison system was going through much turmoil.In 1989, she became assistant director of the Standing Conference on Drug Abuse (now DrugScope), leading a small team to develop methods of providing HIV education to prisoners when hysteria about Aids was at its height. She co-authored a prison staff training manual and did much to civilise the manner in which HIV issues were dealt with in prisons.In 1993, she took on, as sole worker, a project called London Prisons Community Links (LPCL). Its aim was to set up visitors' centres at all 10 of London's prisons. Una understood the humiliation of having to stand in the rain outside Pentonville or the Scrubs waiting to get in and knew how difficult it often was for prisoners' families to locate their loved ones during frequent, unheralded transfers. But by 1998, largely due to her determination, there were decent visitors' centres at all London prisons and the worst of the operational anomalies had been eradicated. LPCL was wound up and Una, together with some of her LPCL trustees, formed Clinks, a national organisation designed to encourage and facilitate involvement of the voluntary sector in delivering services in prisons. Una became its founding director.Her reputation was such, however, that a year later she was offered the prestigious directorship of CCJS. When - three years later - she contracted cancer, she worked on undeterred.Despite her career having moved on, it was characteristic of Una that she continued to support the causes and organisations she was instrumental in founding or assisting. Her work as a student with Newcastle Women's Aid informed her involvement in the organisation Women in Prison in the 1980s, and her co-authorship of Insiders: Women's Experience of Prison (1988). She worked as a PRT volunteer long after she left the organisation. She served as an active management committee member of Action for Prisoners' Families and of Clinks. In her final year, she co-edited a collection of critical essays on the developing National Offender Management Service. She never forgot her roots, and worried about the potential dismemberment of the probation service to which she attached such value.Una's zest for life remained undiminished despite surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, which she underwent with steely determination and rarely a complaint. Her love of music - she played flute and violin - saw her recently at both Covent Garden and the Who concert in Hyde Park. During her last two years, she made memorable trips abroad. She is survived by her 16-year-old daughter, Morag, her parents, two sisters and a host of admiring friends.· Una Padel, criminal justice reformer, born July 21 1956; died August 29 2006