Police were trying tonight to establish the identity of a man arrested for minor driving offences who led them to the body of a teenage girl who vanished after apparently meeting someone over the internet.Detectives have been given several different names by the 32-year-old, who is being questioned on suspicion of murdering Ashleigh Michelle Hall, 17, from Darlington, whose body was discovered near a Little Chef restaurant at Sedgefield, County Durham.Chief Inspector Paul Harker, of Durham police, said during a news conference at the scene today: "This is a very tragic case. It came about from a strange set of circumstances. My message in terms of meeting people from the internet is please do not do it unless you are absolutely certain it is safe."He said there was a "strong suggestion" the man in custody was from Merseyside. He appeared to have links with Liverpool and Stockton-on-Tees, which is not far from Sedgefield.He was arrested early on Monday evening by traffic police who stopped him for erratic driving and became suspicious about his documents. He was taken to a police station in Middlesbrough where he asked to speak to officers, and then led them to the field close to the junction of the A689 and A177 roads where the girl's fully clothed body was found.The body was removed from the field late today and taken to Darlington Memorial hospital for a postmortem. Residents living along the lane which runs past the field said they were shocked by the tragedy."You often get people driving up and down the lane and parking up the top, but you never really take any notice," said a woman who did not want to be named. "This is not the sort of thing you expect to happen round here."It emerged this morning that the teenagerleft her home in Darlington on Sunday night, telling her mother she had arranged to spend the night at a friend's house. By Monday lunchtime she had not been in touch, and her mother failed to get any response from her mobile phone.There is no indication she had been sexually assaulted and the cause of death remains unknown.Police are anxious to know more about the man's dark blue Mondeo, registration S148 JNK, and its movements between 7pm on Sunday and 5.40pm on Monday, when the man was arrested. The car is being examined by forensic specialists while the man, who has given no fixed address, has been moved to Darlington police station for further questioning.Harker said: "This is a very, very unusual event. Parents should monitor their children's use of the internet if possible. Speak to them about it, speak to their friends, let them know the dangers."Forensic teams wearing white suits continued to work 300 yards from the Little Chef, where a white tent was erected over the patch of grass where the body was found. Initial checks suggest the body may have lain there for up to 24 hours.Harker said: "We are trying to establish exactly who the man is, including using fingerprints to trace his identity."