Behind the brick walls topped with curls of barbed wire, the atmosphere in Birmingham prison is calm. The Church of England chaplain munches his lunchtime sandwiches next to the chip-eating imam, who describes the place as "the prison United Nations" for its variety of coloured faces.The diversity officer sifts through complaints - each of which he will investigate - and a large Sikh prison officer, Raj Mander, explains how a transformation of the jail over four years has helped create a national benchmark for race relations in prisons. "A hell hole" is how the chief inspector of prisons described Birmingham, one of the UK's largest jails, in late 2000. It had "a deep and longstanding negative culture", his report said, with no respect between inmates and prison officers. Nearly 40% of prisoners at Birmingham are from ethnic minorities while, in 2000, frontline staff were overwhelmingly white. Malaysian-born Mander was given the task of rebuilding race relations. His first initiative was to visit local temples, mosques, churches and community centres to encourage people from ethnic minorities to apply for jobs in the prison. It was hard at first, Mander recalls. "People said things like, 'You just beat up black and Asian people in there'." But the message began to get through. The proportion of ethnic minority staff has almost tripled to more than 12%, reflecting the community outside. And there are representatives in every department and at every level, including senior management. "Seeing ethnic minority staff - and seeing them promoted - gives ethnic minority prisoners confidence in the system," says Mander. Mander introduced racial monitoring in all key areas of prison life, from rota duties to discipline - for prisoners and staff - and set up a confidential complaints procedure. Bright yellow complaints boxes appeared on each wing. For the first time, prisoners and staff could complain directly to the race relations officer. "Raj has made prisoners aware that they will be listened to and if they have not had a fair crack of the whip, they will get it," says the governor, Mike Shann. "There are a lot of prisoners who would have used the race card inappropriately and others who genuinely believe there is a race issue. Raj has taken a lot of that away. He has mediated." The prison is confident enough to allow a couple of random chats with ethnic minority prisoners. The first, a loquacious Pakistani Brummie, said he had never suffered race discrimination in the prison. His African-Caribbean neighbour had complained of a racist insult from a prison officer, but the complaint was rejected because it could not be corroborated. All complaints, however, are recorded. And not all complaints are from ethnic minority inmates against white staff. A Welshman made one complaint and inmates complain about each other. Diversity and racial awareness training is now compulsory for new staff and the prison education department runs an optional cultural awareness course for prisoners. Mander says it is always full. New prisoners arriving at the jail meet the duty chaplain - of whichever faith he is that day - and the diversity officer. Some offenders openly admit to being members of far-right political parties. "They generally keep a low profile," says Mander. "Race relations is an emotive issue," he adds, "but if you ram it down people's throats they become resistant." Birmingham's more subtle and practical approach has borne fruit. A Prison Service standards audit has awarded it a record 97% for race relations, and Mander recently received a Butler Trust Award for his work. Meanwhile, Mander has handed over the diversity job to a white colleague. This caused some consternation at first, but Mander is unapologetic. The system has to come of age to be able to function, whoever is in charge. What is essential, he says, "is an absolute commitment to equality for all".