As many as one in two offenders with mental health problems may have nowhere to live when released from short prison sentences, a report will say later this week. Although the government is now giving priority to improving the care of prisoners with mental health disorders while they are in jail - and an estimated 90% of inmates have a diagnosed psychiatric illness and/or a substance misuse habit - the study shows that problems do not end at the prison gate. According to the Revolving Doors Agency, the charity behind the report, prisoners with mental health difficulties are "incredibly vulnerable" when they leave detention. Of a sample of 101 such inmates at three prisons, 49% had no fixed abode on the day of release. "Unless more specialist accommodation is made available for this group, their mental health problems will probably get worse and they may be more likely to reoffend in future," says Crispin Truman, the charity's director. Revolving Doors helps people with mental health problems when they come into contact with the criminal justice system. As previously reported in Society, it is working with prisoners on short sentences or remand in four jails in London and the south-east. The charity's report, Where Do They Go?, to be launched on Friday, is drawn from experiences at three of the prisons: Pentonville and Wormwood Scrubs in London and Woodhill in Buckinghamshire. Of the 101 prisoners assessed, almost four in 10 saw their housing position worsen while in detention. Those who entered prison with a secure tenancy - more than half the sample - ran a 40% risk of losing it while in prison. The report says there is a demonstrable clear link between insecurity of housing and a propensity to commit criminal offences. Yet the system seems in many ways designed to promote such insecurity, with housing benefit is cut off automatically on the day of sentence for anybody expected to be in prison longer than 13 weeks. Revolving Doors is calling for reform of this rule, help for all prisoners with their housing needs and much greater provision of accommodation for those with mental health problems. Where Do They Go? - Mental Health, Housing and Leaving Prison will be available from Friday at £5 inc p&p from the Revolving Doors Agency, 45-49 Leather Lane, London EC1N 7TJ. Tel: 020-7242 9222.