Tony and I met and fell in love when I was 16 and he was 23. We had three children and worked hard to provide a comfortable home for our family. My parents were separated and I was extremely close to my mum and two sisters. One lived three doors away, another lived nearby, and my mum lived just down the hill. We saw one another every day, popping in for tea. My sisters were my best friends. Sometimes we used to walk around holding hands because we were so close.They say that the circumstances of your life can change in an instant, and that's what happened to me. One minute my life was normal; the next it wasn't. I never knew how good things were until they were taken away from me.One morning in the winter of 2000 I came home from dropping the children off at school to find five men I'd never seen before talking to Tony. They were from Customs and Excise and CID, investigating software piracy fraud. Tony ran an executive chauffeuring company, and on an ad hoc basis he also transported goods in a van for different companies. One of these was apparently involved in the fraud. It didn't sound serious at the time but we later discovered it was a global scam costing an estimated £50m.The officers proceeded to search our house (one said ours was the tidiest airing cupboard he had ever seen) and Tony agreed to be a witness for the prosecution.Neither of us thought too much about it until a few months later. I had gone to Ireland for a funeral and my mum was staying at our house to help look after the kids. She phoned me sounding panicked: Tony was in a bad state and I needed to get home immediately. Every kind of scenario went through my mind, but I couldn't get much sense out of either Tony or my mum so I travelled home through the night distraught and worried.When I arrived the next morning, Tony looked pale and nervous, and kept standing up and sitting down. He had been taken to an empty house somewhere by people connected to the defendants and warned that if he testified terrible things would happen to him and his family. Naively, we thought that if we ran away for a while, Tony wouldn't need to testify and once the trial was over we would be able to get on with our lives. We fled first to some cousins, next to a hotel in London, then to France. But after two weeks on the move we realised we couldn't stay away for ever. We had a mortgage to pay and there was no money coming in. The children had school, and besides, I missed my mum and sisters.As soon as we drove out of the Eurotunnel on the English side we were flagged down by police. Tony was put in prison for a week to prevent him from running away again before the trial. I started receiving phone calls saying that our house would be burned down with the children and me in it if Tony testified. Meanwhile, the police promised that if he didn't, he would go back to prison. We were cornered.When the police told us that one of the prosecution witnesses in the US had been shot, we were urged to go into the witness protection scheme and relocate. I was determined not to uproot our lives, not to leave my mum and sisters and our lovely home, so we said we would stay in the hope that after the trial our problems would be over.But the threats started to intensify. Tony received calls on his mobile demanding £10,000 in cash. Another voice on the line warned that someone would get into his cab and cut his throat. Our cars were twice daubed with acid. The final straw came when I was at home alone one day. On hearing Tony's car alarm, I went outside to investigate and saw a man crouched beside it. He ran off when he saw me, but a few minutes later the old lady from next door appeared holding up something the intruder had jettisoned into the bushes in her garden. It was a claw hammer. At that moment I knew the game was up. We were going to have to go into witness protection."We'll try to re-create your home for you in another part of the country," the officers promised. We visited various towns and eventually found one a long way from our old place where we thought we might be able to settle. We left our home with just three days' notice, and couldn't explain why to anyone. We had to hand over all our bank accounts, pension and child benefit details to the police. I don't know how they do it but they work with financial and other institutions and break the links with your former life. We no longer appear on the electoral roll and the police had to move our furniture for us. It was collected in an unmarked van and held in a depot for two weeks before a different van drove it on to our new home. That way, none of the people who had been threatening us would be able to follow us to the secret location where we were about to start a new life.We were told we could change our names if we wanted to, but that it wasn't essential. We decided to keep them. I felt that the people involved in the fraud had taken so much away from us and I didn't want them to take such a vital part of our identity too. I couldn't imagine suddenly calling my husband and children by different names.For the first six months the police visited us every week and then they gradually eased themselves out of our lives. They told us we had to invent a story about our past because it was too risky ever to tell anyone the truth. Our story, which was suggested to us by the police, was that Tony had sold a very successful business in a different part of the country - but part of the deal was that he could not set up a new business within a certain radius of where the old one had operated. I feel guilty about misleading the people we've met in our new life, and find it hard to look them in the eye when I tell them our fake story. We all think we know about the lives of the people who live close to us, but if our neighbours ever found out our truth they would be gobsmacked.One of the worst things about being driven away from the home we loved was being forcibly separated from my mum. Six months after we left she was diagnosed with terminal cancer. I was devastated and wanted to move back to our old home immediately so that I could be with her all the time. The witness protection officers said they would take me to visit her regularly but I felt that I couldn't ask them to do that all the time. I did rebel at times and visit her alone. I felt angry that so much of the control I used to have over my life had been taken away. One time I begged Tony to take me to my mum. I spent the night cuddling her and chatting to her. We didn't tell the police that we had made this secret visit. Nor did we tell the police immediately after she died. They said that if I wanted to go to her funeral they would have to take me there, but I didn't want to be taken to my mum's funeral by the police. So we went unescorted, and told them only afterwards.What has happened to us has changed me for ever. Apart from when I'm at home, I feel as if I'm leading a double life. We are much less happy now. Some people can just uproot themselves from one place and resettle somewhere else quite happily, but we're not like that. Work has been difficult, too. Tony hasn't been as successful as in the old place, and our former lifestyle was much more comfortable.These days I'm more wide awake to what's going on in the world. When I'm driving I constantly check my mirror to see who's behind me and at work I sit with my desk facing the window so I can see what's going on outside. Nothing can ever bring back the time I've lost, particularly with my mum. I feel very angry that the criminals convicted of the fraud are now out of jail and back with their families getting on with their lives while we are still stuck here.We made a decision to go into witness protection to get away from the circumstances we found ourselves in. We didn't understand the enormity of what it meant, but we can never go back. Even if the people who threatened us die, they have associates and sons, so it will never be safe for us to resume our old lives in the place we used to live. We will be in witness protection for the rest of our lives. It's a bit like being diagnosed with a terminal illness. You have good days and bad days, but you can never rest with it.· Anna Hall is a pseudonym and some details have been changed. As told to Diane Taylor.