An investigation into the high number of deaths among Harold Shipman's patients more than 18 months before he was charged with murder was abandoned because of lack of evidence. Shipman went on to kill three more women: Winifred Mellor, Joan Melia and Kathleen Grundy.Cremation certificates require the signature of a second doctor and in March 1998 a local GP, Linda Reynolds, became concerned at the number Shipman was asking her to sign. So she contacted John Pollard, the Tameside coroner. Dr Reynolds was based at the Brook practice opposite Shipman's surgery in Market Street, Hyde. She was new to the practice and was immediately suspicious about Shipman. She suspected he was carrying out fraud rather than murder. Family doctors earn money for countersigning cremation certificates - "cash for ashes". Dr Reynolds may have suspected he was earning money from fictional deaths. To limit suspicions, Shipman had rotated his requests among the GPs at the Brook practice. Inquiries at Donnebrook, Shipman's previous practice, showed that he had signed 41 cremation certificates in 1997 compared with the other GPs' average of 14. Dr Reynolds' anxieties coincided with jokey gossip about Shipman's death rate that was flowing through Hyde between doctors, medical professionals and even undertakers. Staff at Massies' funeral directors in Mottram Road, Hyde, were suspicious of Shipman's death rates and the fact that he always seemed to be the person who found his patients dead in their day clothes. The coroner, Mr Pollard, informed the police, and a detective inspector investigated for six weeks. No incident room was opened, nor was a team of officers assembled; Shipman was not questioned, and almost certainly knew nothing of what was going on. Police failed to check for any criminal record, and failed to make inquiries with the General Medical Council. The detective examined copies of dead patients' medical records deposited by Shipman with the local health authority and found they were consistent with the causes of death he gave on death certificates. (It emerged only during the later murder inquiry that Shipman had altered many records to falsify patients' medical histories.) The investigating officer could have gone to the high court for a warrant to seek the original records from Shipman's surgery; he could have gone to the coroner to seek a series of exhumation orders; and he could have gone to patients' relatives and explained that they suspected Shipman of some crime. But the lack of evidence meant that no action was taken. "There were two alternatives," said Mr Pollard. "On the one hand, Dr Shipman could have been a most evil person who was killing his patients; on the other, he could have been a very good doctor who just happened to be there with his elderly patients when they died. "From the investigation, I was satisfied that we were not seeing anything other than a conscientious doctor. This was backed up by his patients. I think at the time that the GP who had reported her concerns was pretty damned relieved that there was nothing in it." In a statement issued this week, assistant chief constable Vincent Sweeney said: "The concerns raised by the GP did not appear to be corroborated by the cross-examination of death certificates and medical records that was carried out by the health authority, who have ownership of those records. The absence of any evidence to support a concern effectively meant the investigation could go no further." West Pennine health authority said last night that its 1998 investigation into Shipman's medical records would now be re-examined. David Common, chief executive, said the medical adviser to the health authority, Alan Banks, who examined the records, had been suspended. Mr Common added: "Suspension is purely a neutral act and does not in any way imply wrongdoing by Dr Banks." In a statement yesterday Dr Banks said: "The decision to suspend me has come as a deep surprise and a disappointment. I will be happy to cooperate fully with the inquiry that West Pennine health authority are wishing to conduct." He added that in the meantime he did not want to add any comments and would be asking guidance from the Medical Protection Society to see what actions were open to him.