They talk nowadays about a 'sterile corridor'. This means an investigation that is free from infection by corruption, where informants are kept quarantined from police officers. It is a precise term, coined for a modern management concept - in the past, West Midlands' operations have not always been known for their sterile corridors. It is also an example of the force's limitless enthusiasm for jargon. And as a much more general description of a Birmingham police station, 'sterile corridors' would be difficult to beat.Kings Heath station is a sharply angled brick building on a busy inner-city thoroughfare. A modest slice of one ground-floor corner is reserved for the front desk, where members of the public sit beneath posters urging them to lock their windows, and wait their turn to be seen. Kings Heath is unusual in this respect. Its two sister stations cannot spare even this much for the clutter of passers-by, and both are permanently closed to the public. Kings Heath has a staff canteen but it is frequently closed. Contracted out to a private firm, it only opens on certain days, and most officers prefer a sandwich at the desk. The desks are spread over three floors: orderly, open-plan sweeps of carpet, punctuated by smaller offices, dotted with officers and civilians, tapping away in the low computer hum. In the control room, two stout women stare at banks of screens, orchestrating the rapid fire of radio and phone with implacable calm. Below, in the basement, the milky green custody cells are as clean as hospital wards. But for the uniforms there are few clues that this is a police station at all. Neat, computer-generated bar charts on pinboards show how Kings Heath is measuring up with this month's key performance indicators and, in places, the statistics fill entire walls. These could be the offices of a medium-sized finance company. The age range would be about right, as well; you see few people over 40. In the main, youthful enthusiasm outweighs experience.In a training room, the chief superintendent addresses a young team of new constables: 'What would be useful to do today,' he begins, 'is to tell you what we are going to be about for the next 10 years. We have to keep putting into practice what we hold dear on this Operational Command Unit. Things like valuing people. Integrity. And these aren't just words. Senior management is going to draw up a plan of how we put them into practice. 'But it's easy to make a plan, and we need to deliver. So as well, the management team will draw up a delivery plan for how we are to deliver that plan. And then we are going to have a sector away day. In simple terms, we are going for an away day, so that we can tell you what our business is. What the plan is. We will go away and talk very openly about what we are about. Does that make any sort of sense?'Soft faces stare back at their boss. If these young recruits with puppy fat were hoping for a career in The Sweeney, then their working life will have come as a surprise. This is nothing like The Bill. In many ways, being an officer in a modern police force is more like having a part in The Office. 'Right, folks. Hot spots! Yep, you guessed it. Beat 21 - vehicle crime.' The sergeant rattles off streets to watch out for, and names a handful of suspects. Technically, this is still known as 'parade', but the briefing takes place in a kitchenette, over cups of tea and chocolate biscuits, before the constables are sent out on an eight-hour shift. With four years' experience, PC Dean Watkins is considered a veteran here; his partner for the evening, PC Dawn Soar, has been in the job less than 10 weeks.For a while we drive aimlessly. The streets are wide and residential - 1930s houses with bow windows and front porches that have seen better days. It's a largely white area, scruffy and neglected, to the south of the city centre. A report crackles over the radio of a 12-year-old having his bicycle stolen in a park. The two suspects are described as teenagers, one with a heavy moustache, and so at first we conduct an 'area search' - which means driving around looking for them. When we arrive at the victim's house, his mother is consoling him on the sofa, while two younger sisters scamper about, electrified by the drama of uniform. Because he is so young, Tom, the victim, counts as a 'vulnerable witness', and permission must first be sought from the station to interview him. He sits and waits, his tiny head sunk in miserable shock, fretting about what his dad will say when he gets home. While PC Soar establishes whether the bike was taken from his person - this will classify the exact category of crime - the girls stare, wide-eyed. In whispers they try to resolve the matter between themselves.'What's the difference between robbery and theft?' 'Stealing is when you go into a shop and go Arrrghhhh!' 'Well I think murdering is the baddest.'The bicycle theft comes under the CID's Safer Streets department, and so in addition to the crime report, the vulnerable witness statement and the ordinary statement, PC Watkins also fills out a Safer Streets package, a 12-page document that serves as an official court exhibit. We are in the house for nearly two hours. Everything, from the name of Tom's doctor, to the stripe on the thief's trousers, is diligently recorded by hand. His mother seems surprised and impressed.'Does it mean I'll get my bike back?' Tom asks. 'To be honest,' say the officers, 'we don't know.' It is dark now. There are some fruitless call outs to fights that have finished before we get there, and one to an empty house where a gas fire has been stolen. The burglar gets away over a garden fence as we arrive. 'That's one thing you learn,' says PC Watkins. 'To cope with frustration. The thing you learn is not to take it to heart.' More forms are completed. The final call of the night is to a sports and social club where thieves have smashed a window and made off with the cigarette machine. Statements are taken, and a Scenes of Crime officer is summoned to dust for prints and swab a tiny trace of blood. The deputy manager is in a flutter. 'Sometimes I come five minutes earlier to open up. I'm so glad I didn't!' she says. Her husband just stares, silently brooding, at the shattered glass on the carpet. As more bar staff arrive, the men tend to be quieter than the women; they look wounded and humiliated.Back at the station, a sergeant explains that these are the sorts of crimes that matter: the countless petty offences that mess up people's lives. I still can't get over how much paperwork such modest offences have generated, or how many man hours they've consumed. And this was a quiet night for paperwork; had the gas fire burglar been caught, PCs Watkins and Soar might have been filling out forms until four or five in the morning. Had they spotted the bicycle thieves, the whole shift would have been spent in the station. Until two years ago, the Kings Heath Operational Command Unit was among the worst performing on the force. Last year West Midlands Police came out as the best performing force in the country, and its top performing OCU was Kings Heath. The man most responsible for this turnaround is Chief Superintendent Gordon Fraser - and he puts the success down to taking small crime seriously. Fraser loves his job. He is a young man, just 39, radiating enthusiasm, and the joy of a job well done. An impenetrable code of police acronyms pass for normal conversation in Fraser's office, but he pauses carefully to translate each one, concerned that his philosophy is made perfectly clear.'Some stations, you see, they think that the low-level stuff can wait, or isn't important enough. But our emphasis now is on reassurance - addressing the fear of crime. If you provide a quality service, even for low-level crime, that will make people feel better. It is time consuming, yes, and it can feel that you're dealing with trivia. But for the victims it's not trivia.' For him it is no longer trivia either. On the contrary, low level, high volume crime is of supreme importance - and influences greatly any analysis of a police chief's performance. A force's every single success, every single failure, is minutely recorded and assessed, and then measured against its official performance targets.Nothing can prepare an outsider for the importance of performance targets in modern policing. Targets are everything; they drive every operation, every meeting, every police man hour. The weekly briefing between the heads of every department is a statistician's dream, a blizzard of ratings and graphs where the key player seems to be the analyst, a rather severe young woman with a head full of numbers. The talk is all of budgets and targets, and everyone scribbles figures down on notepads. Performance culture has transformed policing, probably beyond even the wildest imagination of its architects. DC Mark Linnett joined the force 24 years ago, and gives the impression of a man who remembers some entertaining adventures in his career. A mountain of muscle, a former rugby international, his black leather jacket can scarcely contain his shoulders, and bright blue eyes stare out of a head that looks like a bullet. In his day, rugby was a recruitment policy. 'Good at rugby? Get him in.''When I joined in 1979 there was no performance culture whatsoever. You went out, done your job, arrested people, and you were doing your job. There were no statistics.' Are targets a change for the better or worse? Silence. 'I think,' he says steadily, 'it's a necessity.'His sergeant fills the next silence with a passionate endorsement of performance culture and police reform. Ten years younger, fired with energy, DS Angie Whittaker's enthusiasm crackles. 'Very modern,' DC Linnett grins.Recruits today are more promotionally minded, he thinks, and the social side of the job is dying. 'Part of it is the drink-driving scenario. Twenty years ago, no one gave a toss, but now it's no way, so the few pints over the road after work have gone out the window. Really everything's changed; the cameraderie has gone. And what with the political correctness, things that would have gone on years ago are not tolerated now. The jokes and the jibes and the micky-taking isn't acceptable any more - so you don't do it, because you know you would drop yourself well and truly in it.' The pair agree, for example, that young PCs are no longer scared to come and talk to CID. DS Whittaker offers this up as an example of progress, but DC Linnett looks privately disappointed.'Yeah, absolutely,' he says levelly. 'That's as it should be.' But his eyes grow wide as saucers, as though reading from an autocue, and I start to laugh.'What? Have my eyes gone round? They always do that when I'm lying.'But the serious tension does not really lie between old and new officers. DC Linnett and others like him have learned to live with reform, and those who cannot are leaving. Most of the senior police officers at Kings Heath are less like rugby players than born-again Christians, and they sing from one hymn sheet with great zeal, about transforming people's lives. There seems to be genuine commitment to the idea of policing as a force for change, and much talk of partnership with social services and housing, of anti-social behaviour contracts, and drug rehab liaison teams. Very senior, clever detectives are consumed by the petty thieving of offenders they call 'prolifics' - young car thieves and burglars with drug habits - and by their 'desperate', 'dysfunctional' lives.'Our business could be very simple if we were just about arresting offenders,' one explains. 'But we should be tackling it in a more sophisticated way. What we are trying to do is fundamentally change people's lives. We can disrupt and arrest and displace and imprison, but it doesn't change behaviour.' A colleague, a brisk and vigorous woman, leans across the table to come closer.'What you always have to remember is, every number on these charts is a real person. They may have had their lives changed forever by this crime. Not just the victim, but maybe the offender too. We are trying to change people's lives.'But here lies the conflict. How can they be expected to forge a clinically modern force, based on charts, yet inspired by progressive liberal ethics, which recreates old-fashioned community policing? Because, in essence, targeting minor crime is a wholly traditional, back-to-basics formula.For instance, new foot patrols have been introduced on the high street, and pairs of PCs now stroll in and out of shops, dispensing big waves and cheery hellos. They are considered innovative, and bask in local approval; the contrast in public attitudes towards officers on foot and in a squad car is palpable. 'Brilliant, these lads are,' beams a butcher on the pavement. 'Unbelievable, the difference they've made. This is the best thing that's ever happened round here. I'm not joking, you know. No bullshit. It is.'This is all decidedly Dixon of Dock Green. But fitting 1950s policing into the twenty-first century is not straightforward, and the attempt is creating fearsome tensions. There have been suggestions that in order to comply with the Human Rights Act, an officer on foot patrol should have to record a written note of every single interaction with a member of the public.If officers want to have a word with an informant - or, rather, 'Covert Human Intelligence Source' - they must first obtain authorisation at inspector level, in compliance with protection of the CHIS's human rights. To meet their targets, officers must inflate every broken window, every petty incident, into a great sheaf of paperwork, so heavy it ends up anchoring them to their desks.And then there are the conflicts between different targets. The police meet theirs by securing charges; the Crown Prosecution Service by getting a conviction, and the courts are judged on processing cases quickly. For an officer to prepare a marathon of paperwork for a case, only to see it dropped by CPS, or downgraded to a lesser charge, the level of frustration can become dangerous. Police conversation is peppered with the word 'frustrated'. For officers sick of finding their hands tied with red tape, when they're only even after petty criminals, it sometimes sounds like a euphemism for bored.The model flagship of modern-yet-traditional policing is a new crime-fighting team, set up by Operation Safer Streets but fashioned on the old model of bobbies on the beat. The team patrols a small area in a mobile CCTV van, liasing with other agencies and youth workers, getting to know troublesome youngsters by name, maintaining a profile. Two of the officers are scarcely older than the troublemakers, and the average police experience in the van hovers below two years each. It feels like a minibus full of life guards from a leisure centre - less evangelical than their seniors, almost laddish, but well-mannered and clean cut. Everyone on board is called mate, and teenagers hanging about on street corners are little buggers.We drive down dark avenues of drab houses, broken up by an occasional chippy or pub. It's not yet 7pm, but the pavements are almost deserted. Near a curry house, we pass a trio of teenagers; one is 'known' to the officers, and as this evening they have a Section 60 warrant, allowing them to stop and search, the van halts and they pile out.The youth they know has disappeared, so they make do with his brother, and lead him to the van. Half indignant, half amused, he scoops up his hood and slouches into a seat. Four officers crowd round, one taking notes. The teenager is white but, as is the fashion, speaks the language of the Bronx.'You don't know my bro. You know my bro? You don't know my bro.' 'You stink of cannabis.' He giggles, and mimics a drag on a spliff. 'I swear, I been good.' 'Well, you've given me a lot of lip.''You can't arrest me for that. Listen, yeah, I'm 17. Back in the day, you know, I did stuff, but I've stopped all that now.''I don't think so.''Could be - but you know what, I'm quick.' He is laughing at them now, enjoying himself. They scold like head prefects - 'Stop swearing' - but his pockets are empty, and with a shrug they let him go. He pauses, and turns.'You see, I'm the only one who ain't been to prison. All my mates, they done prison. Except for' - and he kisses his fingers - 'moi.'As the night wears on, and we drive around, and nothing much happens, I find myself growing frustrated. I wouldn't mind some action - a little rough and tumble. Doesn't the officers' patience wear thin? No, they all say, they treat everyone with courtesy. What about if a youth had wound them up for months? If he had done something really serious? With so much frustration in the job - so much paperwork, so much red tape, so many restrictions - could they be in danger of snapping?'No,' says one of the youngest PCs. 'In my experience, I've never felt like that. I just follow the procedure.' But his experience is scarcely a year. Who's who: the station castThe newcomer - PC Dawn Soar Just ten weeks into the job, and in her twenties, she is typical of the eager youthfulness that characterises much of the Kings Heath police station The reformer - DS Angie Whittaker Energetically endorsing the new 'modern' ways, DS Whittaker is intimate with the language of targets, and is a leading supporter of 'performance culture' The boss - Chief superintendant Gordon Fraser A young boss, in love with his job, Fraser is a new-style chief, whose ambition is to provide 'quality service.' Dealing with the small things is key: 'To the victims, it's not trivia.' The maverick - DC Mark Linnett A rugby-playing mountain of a man from the old school, he misses the banter and drinking sessions from the old days. DC Linnett is not a fan of 'political correctness' Say what? An insider guide to police and criminal speakAngler A thief who uses a rod or pole to steal from ground-floor windows. It has evolved to car-key theft from hall tables through the letterbox. Bamber, To do a UK police expression meaning to make a mistake. Derives from a 1986 murder inquiry in which Jeremy Bamber was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his family, after inadvertently revealing all to his girlfriend. Cush  Savings to fall back on. From cushion. Datastreaming  A growing crime where a hacker obtains credit card details to create counterfeit cards. End  Share of proceeds from a crime.Front  A person with a clean criminal record providing an acceptable face for a known criminal owning a club or business. Gate fever  The emotion shown by a prisoner nearing the end of his sentence. Hobbit  A prisoner who complies with the system. Also, hobbit hole: place where the Hobbits go, such as the TV room. Icecream  A narcotic.Jumper  A thief who steals from offices.Kremlin  New Scotland Yard. Lump, The  Building site fraud to avoid payment of income tax.M.O. Modus operandi. The way in which a criminal commits a crime.Nut  The expenses incurred by a thief setting up a robbery or theft.Obbo  Police observation on criminals.Padding  Unscrupulous police practice of adding to a drugs haul to upgrade an arrest and ensure a conviction. Q.E. Queen's evidence. An accomplice in a crime giving evidence in the hope of a lighter sentence.Ramp  A police search or a criminal swindle. Shoulder-surfing  Stealing PIN numbers at cashpoints for use later with copied cards. TWOC  To take without owners consent. A Twocer is someone who steals vehicles etc.Upstairs  To be convicted at the crown court. The dock is reached by climbing the stairs from the cells. VPU  Vulnerable prisoner unit, used to keep prisoners likely to be victimised away from others.Window warrior  A prisoner who constantly shouts from his cell window. YOIs  Young offender institutions.Zombie  A particularly nasty prison officer - one more dead than alive.. With thanks to James Morton's Gang Slang, published by Virgin