The shocking violence on the streets of Woolwich fills us with horror and Liberty's thoughts remain with the loved ones of the man who lost his life in this senseless attack. Acts like these and subsequent ugly reprisals are designed to terrorise and provoke, to draw bright red lines between races, religions, individuals and communities: to instil fear and foment grievances.As we try to make sense of senselessness we must not let those who seek to sow division and hatred achieve their goal. Barbarity and intolerance, like love and compassion, know no racial or religious boundaries. The intelligent response is a reassertion, not a dereliction, of the values that unite us. Humanity, dignity, equal treatment.We are still struggling to understand this brutality and, as information trickles in, build up a picture of events. The pressure on political leaders to provide answers is immense, so the prime minister's calm assertion that he is "not in favour of kneejerk responses" is as courageous as it is heartening. "One of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal lives". He is right.And he is right to deliver an indirect rebuttal to a small band of politicians whose siren voices are already back on the airwaves. It is deeply distasteful to play politics with fear, yet last night there were already calls for more surveillance and the return of control orders.The proposal being most pressed is the communications data bill known as the snooper's charter. The most ambitious surveillance programme in history, it was thankfully dropped from the Queen's speech last month. The proposal – to require phone companies and internet providers to collect, store and process new data on their customers' phone and web usage – would have intruded on the intimate online lives of every man, woman and child in the country. Contrary to the spin, it was not about "updating" powers but creating new ones that would have fundamentally re-cast the relationship between the individual and the State.Suspects can already be put under heavy surveillance and serious criminals would have been able to evade the new measures with pay-as-you-go mobiles or encryption techniques. Simply, you don't build a bigger haystack to find a needle. Nor would you install cameras and microphones in every bedroom in the land, just in case they become crime scenes one day. As history teaches, intelligence-led, targeted, criminal investigations are the best way to protect our safety and keep our society free.What unites the securocrat campaigners of varied political stripes is involvement with failed counter terror policies of the past. The shameful and naive internment of foreign nationals failed to prevent homegrown terrorism. The great ID card folly and discriminatory stop and search failed to ever catch a terrorist. Extended pre-charge detention may have salved editorial appetites but it was unnecessary, divisive and counterproductive.In the difficult days ahead, let us not be divided, terrorised or provoked. Let us instead unite around Britain's best traditions of empathy, freedom and the rule of law.• Comments have been removed for legal reasons