A criminology student who called himself the "Crossbow Cannibal" and claimed to have eaten parts of his dismembered victims was told he would die in prison after today admitting the "wicked and monstrous" murders of three women working as prostitutes.Stephen Griffiths, 40, who was "obsessed" with serial killers, pleaded guilty at Leeds crown court, to the murders of Susan Rushworth, 43, a mother and grandmother, Shelley Armitage, 31, a mother of two, and Suzanne Blamires, 36, who all worked in Bradford's red light district.Sentencing the former public schoolboy, Mr Justice Openshaw said: "The circumstances of these murders are so wicked and monstrous they leave me in no doubt the defendant should be kept in prison for the rest of his life."He said Griffiths, a PhD student at Bradford University whose thesis was entitled "Homicide in an Industrial City – Violence in Bradford 1847-1899", had shown no remorse. "He never said he regretted his actions or said in even the most perfunctory way he was sorry."Griffiths, who gained a psychology degree at Leeds University, was arrested when Peter Gee, caretaker at the housing association Holmfield Court flats on the edge of Bradford's red light district where Griffiths lived, routinely examined the previous weekend's CCTV at the flats on the morning of Monday 24 May.The horrific footage showed Blamires's final moments as she was seen running out of Griffiths's flat with him in pursuit. She was thrown or fell to the floor. Griffiths, who had a crossbow in his hand, pointed it at her and fired, then "gestured" by holding a finger up the camera before dragging her by a leg into the flat.When arrested, Griffiths told police: "I'm Osama bin Laden." Once at the police station he told officers: "I've killed a lot more than Suzanne Blamires – I've killed loads. Peter Sutcliffe came a cropper in Sheffield. So did I but at least I got out of the city."He claimed to have eaten some of her flesh, adding: "That's part of the magic."He added he was "only going to talk about five Bradford cases".Robert Smith QC, prosecuting, said 81 different pieces of Blamires's body were found in or by the River Aire in Shipley, after Griffiths dismembered her by hand. One member of the public found a bag partly submerged, opened it, and her head fell out. A crossbow bolt and part of a knife was embedded in her skull. The skin from the head was removed, as well as the nose and ears. Rushworth's remains have never been found and only a small fragment of Armitage's.Family members sobbed as the court heard the details, with Ruthworth's daughter, Kirsty, yelling "you fucking cunt" at Griffiths before storming out. He sat motionless in the dock, his chin on his chest, staring down. Dressed in the prison grey tracksuit, he looked thin and is said to have been refusing food in prison.The judge was told his mental health had been carefully examined and that there was "no question that he was fit to plead". The court heard he had undergone psychiatric assessments since he was 17, had convictions for possessing weapons, and had a long-standing preoccupation with murder. He had once told a probation officer he would become a murderer "in his 30s". Examined in 1991, he was described by one psychiatrist as a "sadistic, schizoid psychopath.""He had an idolisation involving Peter Sutcliffe," Smith told the court. He killed someone to kill something inside him.His flat was full of books, journals and documents all related to homicide. Two bloodstained crossbows were on an armchair and there were 30 knives.The court heard power tools had been used to dismember his other two victims, with Griffiths claiming to have eaten Rushworth's thighs, and he said the injuries to his own hands had been caused by "slicing and dicing". There was a "civil war" going on inside his head, he said.He had taken number of "disturbing videos and recordings," including one of Armitage lying dead in the bath, and another, unidentified, victim lying bound with twine on the living room floor.Furniture and walls in his flat were splattered with blood. Griffiths told police "it was just a slaughterhouse in the bathtub". He said he had cooked body parts of his first two victims, destroying his cooker in the process, but had tried eating bits of his third victim raw.There was evidence that both Rushworth and Armitage had bled in the flat.The judge said there was no reason to doubt Griffiths's claims of cannibalising his victims, and by doing so he was seeking to exert "utmost power and control over them". He had derived sexual gratification from the killings, he said. "It is one thing to terrorise and kill but to dismember and eat parts of the victims takes it to another level of the exertion of power."Within an hour of murdering Blamires, the last of this three victims, Griffiths had approached another street worker and offered her £80 for an hour to persuade her to go the flat where Blamires's body was. Had she agreed, she could have been his fourth victim.Speaking after the case, detectives said they had no evidence so far to link him with any other unsolved murders or missing persons. Asked if he thought he had killed anyone else, Detective Superintendent Sukhbir Singh, in charge of the investigation, replied: "No I don't."He added: "He is a heartless and controlling man who took advantage of vulnerable women. What he did can never be forgotten by the families of his victims."Families of the victims condemned him as a "coward". Christine Thompson, Rushworth's mother, said: "As a family we have not been able to put our daughter to rest because she has not been found, so we want to appeal to this man to tell us what he has done with Susan".Suzanne Blamires's mother Nicky said: "I wake up and think about my bright articulate and much loved daughter every day and I'm serving a life sentence as a result of what that man has done."All of those girls were people's daughters and much loved human beings."In police interviews, recordings of which have been released, Griffiths explained the murders by saying: "I'm misanthropic. I don't have much time for the human race."In another clip, when asked what sort of location he had put the bodies in, he replied: 'Can't know, where a robot, where a computer would put them, you know a rational, emotionless aberration would put it."