The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Tuesday May 11, 2004The article below about the British Crime Survey states that it was commissioned by the Home Office, but involved bodies such as the National Centre for Social Research. The National Centre for Social Research last carried out the British Crime Survey for the Home Office in 2000. Since then, the survey has been carried out by the Social Research Unit of BMRB International. The government must take urgent steps to uncover the true scale of Islamophobia and other hate crimes, a former Home Office minister warns today.Barbara Roche has called for a new process to independently assess the level of racial attacks, religious harassment, homophobic violence and gender-based crime.In 1994 MPs on the home affairs select committee recommended the creation of a nation-wide survey comparable to the British Crime Survey, which goes beyond official statistics in an attempt to find the true level of crime.They said the government should fund "local monitoring projects" to be carried out by the police, councils and other agencies to discover the underlying incidence of racial attacks and harassment. The recommendation has never been implemented.Today MPs - including Ms Roche - along with academics, police officers and policy makers, launch a series of policy seminars at the House of Commons with a discussion of hate crimes. The results may be used for lobbying purposes and to try to influence Labour's next manifesto.Ms Roche, who was part of the home affairs select committee's investigation, said a hate crime survey was needed: "Some things have been done but we now need to widen the whole thing out to include hate crimes generally. I don't want to be alarmist but we do need to know the full picture. There has, for example, been a rise in anti-semitism and I don't think that has been fully picked up."If people are worried about being attacked they can't play a full part in society."The British Crime Survey is commissioned by the Home Office but involves bodies such as the National Centre for Social Research.Unlike other evaluations, which rely on crimes actually reported to the police, the BCS involves independent research asking people about crimes they have experienced. It also reveals people's attitudes to crime and the criminal justice system.Despite its failure to implement the 1994 recommendation, a Home Office spokeswoman said it had made a great deal of progress in the way racist incidents were dealt with.She said the BCS had recorded that in 1995 there were 390,000 incidents that were considered by the victim to be racially motivated. By 1999 this had fallen to 280,000, a drop of 28%.