A bank of floral tributes marked the entrance to McGoldrick Park in the leafy Huyton suburb of Liverpool yesterday. They were left by people paying tribute to the murdered black teenager Anthony Walker. Many wept and hugged each other as they read the handwritten messages.Candles flickered in the wind and a painting of the Virgin Mary, weeping tears of blood, was left holding a heart which read: "Why this?"Three basketballs had been left near the park entrance, along with football shirts and scarves and a single red rose.Anthony was a keen basketball player and a devout Christian who was hoping to become a lawyer. But he was brutally killed on Friday night, struck by an axe which was left embedded in his head.He was also a talented dancer and rapper who listed his interests as "music, basketball and going out with girls". His musical influences included Boyz2Men, Usher and Michael Jackson. The results of his AS levels were due later this month.A 17-year-old boy was being questioned by Merseyside police yesterday in connection with the murder. An 18-year-old, who had also been arrested, was released on bail pending further inquiries.Police revealed they wanted to question two men - Michael Barton, the younger brother of Manchester City football player Joey Barton, and Paul Taylor.Marcus Binns was with his cousin Anthony and his girlfriend when they were racially abused by a group of white men near the Huyton Park pub.They had been walking Anthony's 17-year-old girlfriend, Louise, to a bus stop for the 10-minute journey to her home.In an interview yesterday, Marcus said: "I wish I'd done something different, I wish I could have saved him."They were so worried about the racist taunts that they walked on to the next bus stop. The trio were followed and as they walked through the park, they were confronted by a gang of up to four men.When Marcus and Louise realised the men had an axe, they ran off to get help, frantically flagging down taxis and banging on doors.They returned minutes later and found Anthony slumped on the ground with the axe embedded in his head.In an interview yesterday, Marcus said: "We turned round and the men were stood behind us - we were all frightened. We just ran and ran, but Anthony didn't get away."We asked someone for help and they took us back to where it happened, but just left us. We got there too late. I have got to live with that for the rest of my life."Marcus's tribute read: "Anthony, I don't know what to say lad. I miss you so much. I am sorry this had to happen. I am sorry I couldn't protect you ... I love you so much. I will see you again but not yet."Anthony's mother, Gee Verona, said it had been an entirely racially motivated attack. "This is on a level with the Stephen Lawrence case," she said. "My son was killed purely because of the colour of his skin."His close friend Jamie Sullivan, 18, said Anthony had previously been subjected to racist abuse but had turned the other cheek. "He had an infectious smile and even if you were in a bad mood, he would make you feel good," he said.Detective Chief Superintendent Peter Currie, who is leading the murder investigation, said there had been more than 50 calls from people with information."I would like to thank everyone who has come forward," he said. "Although we have made two arrests in connection with the incident, I would stress that we still need information. We are determined to find those responsible for this despicable and abhorrent attack."He said he wanted to reassure the community that "we will not rest until those responsible for taking Anthony Walker's life are brought before the courts."A book of condolence will be opened today at the Grace Family church in Aigburth. The church pastor, Di Stacey, described Anthony as a very special man."He was very sincere and always very willing," she said. "He wasn't a rebellious kid - he had a really sweet and good heart and all he wanted to do was help other people."Anthony's uncle, 44-year-old Shiloh Binns, arrived to pay his respects at the park, clutching his nephew's Bible. He said: "Marcus is saying, 'Why didn't it happen to me?' He is going through that soul-searching thing that survivors do."We'll all be spending a lot of time with him and telling him he is not to blame for this. We all know it is not his fault, but he blames himself."He said Anthony had been one of the good guys in his family, a practising Christian with aspirations to be a lawyer."Something has got to come out of this, because when innocence and goodness is killed by evil, there is another manifestation of the Christ child. His resurrection will come from this," he added.Mr Binns said that although there had been the odd racist comment, it had been like a waterfight with pistols.Anthony's death was like "dropping a nuke on us. It is off the scale."The attack has similarities with the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence, who was stabbed to death in south London by racists.The investigation by the Metropolitan police led to an inquiry that exposed institutionalised racism in the force.The Merseyside police chief constable, Bernard Hogan-Howe, said although there were similarities between the two murders, the police response to Anthony's murder had been different.Superintendent Ali Dizaei, of the National Black Police Association, said the attack proved that black youngsters still faced the threat of racist attack.He said: "It is an unequivocal indication that the cancer of racism is still here 10 years after the Lawrence inquiry. Unfortunately, young, innocent, black children are subject to it and I think it is a sad day."However, he said he was confident that the police would catch those responsible.