A gunman who shot dead a father-of-two as he lay in bed has been jailed for a minimum of 37 years.David Harrison, 62, from Bilston in the West Midlands, was given a life term at Birmingham crown court on Friday for the murder of Richard Deakin.Harrison's getaway driver, Darryl Dickens, 34, was jailed for life, with a minimum of 30 years, after he was also convicted of the murder.  Richard Deakin. Photograph: Staffordshire police/PABoth men had denied killing 27-year-old Deakin at his home in Burntwood, Staffordshire, on 5 July 2010. But they failed to convince jurors, who convicted the pair of what Detective Chief Inspector Darren Harding, of Staffordshire police, called a "cold-blooded and calculated" murder.During the six-week trial, the jury heard that a masked gunman – Harrison – walked into Deakin's home just minutes after his fiancee, Megan, and their two daughters had left for the morning's school run. CCTV evidence showed Harrison and Dickens arriving at the house at 8.30am.Described by the prosecution as a "professional hitman", Harrison, armed with a sawn-off shotgun, walked through the garden gate and into the house where he shot Deakin in the chest and the leg.Alarmed residents called the emergency services but Deakin was pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics.The getaway car, a black Vauxhall Corsa driven by Dickens, was found dumped in the entrance to a field nearby.The jury heard that, minutes before the killing, Deakin's fiancee had seen the Corsa drive past the house as she was putting Elle, four, and Jessica, two, in the car to go to school. In an identity parade 12 months later, she picked Dickens out as the driver of the Corsa.Other evidence which helped convict the pair included an appeal on BBC's Crimewatch which showed the CCTV footage, after which one of Harrison's associates called in and named him as the gunman.Examinations of mobile phone records showed Harrison was at or near the murder scene on three mornings in the weeks before the murder, showing he had carried out reconnaissance. After his arrest in June 2011 at an address in Folkestone, Kent, officers found a bag containing a wig, masks and £26,000 wrapped with banking bands which were dated to within two weeks of the murder. Prosecutors argued that this showed Harrison had been paid shortly after the killing.A witness reported that the gunman was wearing blue surgical gloves on the day of the murder, and a box of such gloves was found in Harrison's van after his arrest. During a search of his Bilston home, police found a newspaper cutting about the murder. Harrison had previous convictions for violent crime, was seen with firearms and had been involved in planning other shootings.After their sentencing, reporting restrictions were lifted on the results of other separate convictions against Harrison for drug offences at Stafford crown court in September. He was jailed for 12 years for conspiracy to supply cocaine and eight years, to run concurrently, for conspiracy to supply cannabis, having admitted both charges.Following Friday's sentencing, Harding, who led the 18-month murder investigation, said: "Richard's killers were cold-blooded and calculated. He was shot as he lay in bed, just moments after his two young daughters and partner said goodbye to him."It was a difficult, complex investigation, with many twists and turns. This led us to David Harrison and Darryl Dickens who, it was shown at court, carried out the murder following weeks of planning … These men deprived two girls of their father and left a massive hole in his family's lives. Our thoughts remain with Richard's family."In a statement, Deakin's family said: "We are happy with the outcome today and we feel some justice has now been done, if you can call it justice."We can now tell Richard's little girls the people that murdered their daddy are now in prison. This will not bring Richard back. All we live with are treasured memories of a perfect father, son, fiance, brother, uncle and grandson."All of our family are devastated that he was killed in the cold-blooded way that he was – he just didn't deserve to die. He will never see his little girls grow up. If love could have saved him he would have lived forever."They thanked the police for their continued support.