Crime in the UK is going down. New figures from Crime Survey of England and Wales (CSEW) released by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) today showed that there were an estimated 7.5m crimes in 2013 - a 15% drop on 2012 and the lowest number since the survey began in 1981.The Guardian's home affairs editor Alan Travis writes today: The fall is one of the biggest in the history of the authoritative Crime Survey of England and Wales and was driven by a 22% fall in violent crime, a 25% fall in some types of household theft and a 15% fall in vandalism.  ONS graph showing the number of estimated CSEW crimes in line and police recored crimes (bars). Photograph: /crime statisticsAs the chart above shows the number of crimes recorded by the police (3.7m) decreased by 2% on the year before. The CSEW is an estimate of all crimes committed against persons and households so is inevitably higher than the number actually recorded by the police - not all crimes are reported, for example. How many people are affected by crime?What makes the drop in crime particularly surprising is that despite a considerable increase in the overall population in England and Wales since 1981, the level of crime has had a relatively consistent decline since the mid 1990s. The chart below shows the percentage of people or households experiencing crime since 1981.In the mid 1990s almost 40% of adults had been in a household where someone was affected by crime. Today's figures show that proportion now stands at under 20%. On an individual level, one in twenty people aged 16 or over were victims of crime last year, compared to one in five in the mid 1990s.Other household theft consists of items stolen from outside the victim's home, as awell as burglaries from neighbouring buildings and thefts from the victim's dwelling by someone entitled to be there. Other theft of personal property refers to instances where items are stolen while away from home but not being carried by the person. The chart above looks at the proportional decline of all of the above types of crime since 1995 and also last year. There have been rather dramatic falls in the experience of crime across the board since the mid 1990s.Violent crime - down 22% on last yearThere were 1.5m violent incidents in England and Wales last year, the lowest since the survey begun in 1981. Violent crime includes everything from pushing and shoving to grievous bodily harm and murder. On a proportional level two in every 100 adults were victims of violent crime last year, compared to five in every 100 in 1995.Several explanations for the decline in violent crime were reported yesterday in response to research by Cardiff University. The report had suggested that the drop could be partially attributable to a decline in disposable income and a simultaneous fall in binge drinking.What crimes are the police recording more of?So we know which crimes people claim to be experiencing more of but what are police recording? The overall number of crimes recorded by the police in 2013 was down by 2% on 2012. Earlier this year the crime figures supplied by police were downgraded from their national statistics status, after controversy over whether incidents were being inaccurately recorded. Despite the 22% decline in violent crimes reported in the latest CSEW statistics, there was actually a rather surprising 1% increase in the number of incidents of violence against the person recorded by the police in 2012-13.The other two victim-based crimes that increased were shoplifting (up 6%) and sexual offences - up 17% to 60,894 in 2012-13, the highest number recorded since 2004-05. This trend has been happening for a while now, but again the number of sexual offences being reported to the police has increased. The ONS partially attributes this to what it describes as a Yewtree effect, where more people are coming forward in light of the Jimmy Savile revelations (the investigation is called Operation Yewtree). Almost everything else was down - except fraud that is, which was up by 25%. The ONS speculated that this might be down to the police's decision to look at fraud centrally rather than across different police forces.Download the data• DATA: download the full spreadsheetMore open dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianDevelopment and aid data• Search the world’s global development data with our gatewayCan you do more with this data?• Contact us at data@theguardian.com• Follow us on Twitter• Like us on Facebook