The judge in the trial of a man accused of a string of rapes and sex attacks today told jurors to put aside any feelings of "revulsion, distress or dismay" when considering their verdict.Mr Justice Owen told the jury of seven men and five women that they should judge the evidence heard during Antoni Imiela's seven-week trial in a "calm and dispassionate manner".Mr Imiela, 49, of Appledore, near Ashford, Kent, is accused being the "trophy rapist" who terrorised women across the south-east.He denies nine counts of rape relating to eight alleged attacks on five women and three girls under 16 between November 2001 and October 2002. He also denies the kidnap, indecent assault and attempted rape of a 10-year-old girl in Birmingham on November 21 2002. During his summing up, the judge told the jury at Maidstone crown court: "You may have heard evidence which aroused feelings of revulsion, distress or dismay. "You must put such feelings or emotions firmly to one side. They must not be allowed to influence your judgment. It's essential that you come to your decision based on the facts with your judgment unclouded and not distorted by emotions and feelings of the type to which I have just referred." The judge went on to give various directions to the jury on points of law and made particular mention of the DNA evidence heard during the trial. He said that while DNA profiling could be used to "exclude" somebody as the donor of a crime sample, it fell short of proving a person's guilt. "DNA analysis cannot provide absolute proof of identity but it may provide very powerful evidence of an association based on statistical analysis." He then gave the jury specific directions on how they should consider the prosecution's case that the alleged attacks showed powerful similarities. He said that if the jury found Mr Imiela guilty on one of the counts then that did not mean that they could draw the conclusion that he must be guilty of the others. However, he added that they could use evidence in one count to support their deliberations on another allegation if they felt that all the attacks must have been committed by the same man. He said: "If you are satisfied so that you feel sure that the circumstances of the offences so closely resemble each other, that the only reasonable conclusion is that they were all committed by one person, then evidence connecting the defendant with one offence will be relevant to the case against him in relation to other offences."