Twenty-eight years after he dumped her body in Coniston Water in Cumbria, Gordon Park was yesterday found guilty of the brutal murder of his wife Carol, who became known as the Lady in the Lake.The teacher bludgeoned his young wife to death with a climber's ice axe and weighted her body, dumping it in the eastern part of the lake. He concealed her remains, dressed in a babydoll nightdress, in a bag which he meticulously stitched from one of her pinafore dresses. She lay hidden for 21 years, until amateur divers stumbled upon the grim package in 1997. As the guilty verdict was read out yesterday, the victim's brother, Ivor Price, collapsed in the public gallery. Park, 61, now retired, from Barrow-in-Furness, bowed his head and placed a hand over his face. The judge, Mr Justice McCombe, sentenced him to life in prison with a recommendation he serve a minimum of 15 years before he is eligible for parole. He said there had been "considerable physical suffering" by Carol Park before her death. "Her eyes were taped, she had inhaled blood and suffered disfiguring wounds. She also tried to defend herself from the brutal blows inflicted." The judge said the "terrible concealment" of the body had led to "so much suffering inflicted on so many people over such a long period of time". He expressed the court's sympathy to those who held her dear. Gordon Park thought his 30-year-old wife would never be found. But her body landed under the water on a gradually declining slope; a few metres further out and she would have been lost forever at the bottom of the lake. Park was first charged with murder shortly after her body was found, but in 1998 the prosecution case collapsed before he was due to be committed to the crown court. He sold his story for £50,000 to the Mail on Sunday, vehemently professing his innocence. Life went on; he retired from his teaching job and enjoyed cycling holidays with his third wife while spending time with his grandchildren. Meanwhile, Cumbria police were carrying out a renewed, covert investigation. The breakthrough came late in 2000, after the broadcast of A Very British Murder, a television documentary which told the story of the victim, who acquired the Lady in the Lake soubriquet from the title of a Raymond Chandler novel. Michael Wainwright, a former prisoner, saw the documentary and told his girlfriend about a conversation with his cellmate, Gordon Park, who had been on remand in Preston prison. "He told me that he did kill his wife," Mr Wainwright said. "And she deserved what she got. She should have been more reliable to him and others." The police inquiry gained new impetus. Eventually, after consulting with the Crown Prosecution Service, the case was reopened and Park was re-arrested and once more charged with murder. Another former prisoner, with learning difficulties, came forward separately to say Park had confessed to him. Officers revisited the lake bed, where Carol's body had been found. With the help of sonar equipment, which had been used in the search for the wreckage of Donald Campbell's Bluebird, they recovered a piece of Westmorland green slate, which would not have naturally been found in the lake. It was very similar to slate which Park had used to build his whitewashed bungalow Bluestones. A rock recovered by the divers in 1997 matched rocks from the wall at Park's home. This became a key feature of the case against him. In his newspaper interview, Park claimed the police were "obsessed" with their belief over his guilt. "I did not kill Carol and I want people to know the truth," he complained. "I want to put the record straight and draw a line under these terrible events." The couple's three children all gave evidence during the 10-week trial. By an awful coincidence, Carol's sister, Christine, had been murdered by her jealous boyfriend 35 years ago. The Parks adopted her daughter Vanessa, when she was 18 months old. She gave evidence for the prosecution and has been ostracised by her family. Asked by prosecution counsel Alistair Webster if the subject of her mother's disappearance was ever raised in their house, she replied: "No, not really." She said her father was a strict man. On two or three occasions he would line the children up with a stick until one of them confessed to naughtiness. The couple's other daughter, Rachel, who was five at the time of her mother's disappearance, was a defence witness. In her original statement, she said the children were lined up and threatened with a cane and made to confess, but later retracted this. Detective Inspector Geoff Huddleston, of Cumbria police, who led Operation Steeplechase, said Park liked to be in control: "He would always try to keep himself under control during interview, but would at times become emotive and aggressive and would make personal comments towards the officers." The police investigation was made all the more difficult as Carol's missing person file had vanished from Barrow police station and two of the detectives from the 1976 inquiry had died. Only a small team of officers were aware of the new investigation, as the police did not want the news to get out. "We didn't want people trampling over the gardens taking photographs as happened last time," Mr Huddleston said. During the years since the original case collapsed, Park never contacted police to find out how the murder inquiry was progressing. Detectives regarded this as strange, given his professed innocence. There has never been any other suspect. When a police search team arrived on his doorstep at 7am on January 13 last year, he didn't appear "too surprised". Mr Huddleston said the inquiry brought justice at last for Carol Park. "She was only 30 years old - younger than her youngest daughter Rachel is now. She was a person who was vivacious, outgoing, likable, caring and devoted to her children and job." Ivor Price said he had "no doubt" justice had been done for his sister. "Carol was a lovely, bubbly girl who was very clever and intelligent. What has been said about her has been heartbreaking. This was about one thing: justice for Carol."