Detectives investigating the abduction and murder of schoolgirl Milly Dowler six years ago today named Levi Bellfield as the prime suspect in the case.The revelation came after Bellfield was found guilty at the Old Bailey of the murder of two young women - French student Amelie Delagrange, 22, and Marsha McDonnell, 19 - and the attempted murder of a third, Kate Sheedy, 18.Amanda Dowler, known as Milly, vanished while walking home from school in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, on March 21 2002.The 13-year-old's skeletal remains were found six months later by mushroom pickers on Yateley Heath, Hampshire, 30 miles from her home.Surrey police have been building their own case against Bellfield since he was arrested by the Metropolitan police in November 2004.Detectives hope the conclusion of the Old Bailey trial will lead to a breakthrough in the Dowling investigation, codenamed Operation Ruby.Bellfield could not be linked publicly to the investigation while he faced other charges. But police revealed today he was arrested and interviewed over Milly's death three years ago.Officers believe they have compelling circumstantial evidence linking him to the crime and will soon interview him again.Milly vanished on the afternoon of March 21. After leaving a cafe where she had been with friends, she began walking to her home a mile away in Walton, Surrey. When she failed to return, a huge hunt was launched and police concluded that she was taken by an opportunist abductor. Five people have been previously detained in connection with the murder. The last was a 57-year-old registered sex offender from London, who was released in late 2005. In June of the same year a 52-year-old prisoner was arrested and questioned. The previous month police arrested a 36-year-old man in Chertsey, three miles from Milly's home, but he was released the next day.Milly's parents Bob and Sally Dowler said today they would not find peace until her killer is brought to justice. "Six years ago our beautiful daughter Milly was callously murdered and still no one has been brought to justice," they said. "How can we find peace? How can we ever understand who could commit such an evil act and why?""Imagine not knowing how your daughter died, or where or when and by whose hand, and imagine how we as a family live. If you know anything that could help answer these questions, please find it in your heart to let us know."In their first statement on the case since 2005, the couple urged anyone with information to come forward. "We are pleading for anyone who knows anything to have the courage to speak up," they said."Nothing will ever bring Milly back, but even six years on you can still help start easing our pain by letting us know, finally, what happened on our daughter's final days."We grieve and always will for what happened to Milly, for the damage done to us as a family and to the future we have all lost."Detectives investigating the case have collected a database of more than 11,000 people, including several suspects - of whom the prime suspect is Bellfield.Surrey police have relaunched an appeal to help trace a red Daewoo Nexia captured on CCTV in Walton-on-Thames minutes after Milly disappeared. It can now be reported that a car of the same colour and model was owned by Bellfield's then-girlfriend Emma Mills. The Daewoo, an old banger worth no more than £500, was reported stolen several days after Milly disappeared and has never been found. Police fear it was crushed. Detectives have released the vehicle registration, N503 GLT, and chassis number, KLATF68V1SB554108, of the Daewoo in a new bid to locate it.It has not been seen since Mills reported it stolen from a Hounslow pub car park several days after Milly disappeared.Detectives cannot account for Bellfield's movements on the day Milly disappeared. His mobile phone was switched off. But they know he was familiar with Walton-on-Thames, and Milly's final resting place on Yateley Heath.They hope the end of the Old Bailey trial will encourage people to come forward with new information. The police source said: "We are looking for Levi Bellfield's girlfriend's car and have been for some time."We are appealing to people who may have been scared in the past and now, for whatever reason, are not. Or people who had allegiances in the past which may no longer exist. "We are appealing to Bellfield's criminal associates and we think they may have a change of heart now." The car was captured at the junction of Copenhagen Way and Station Avenue by a CCTV camera on the roof of the Unilever building at 4.33pm. Forensic experts believed the rear of the car appeared to be lower than normal, suggesting it was carrying a heavy load.Despite sending the CCTV to the FBI for state-of-the-art analysis, police were unable to identify how many people were in the car or any further details. The incident, written off by Surrey police as a "non-crime", was not initially linked to the Milly investigation.Bellfield was arrested while on remand in July 2005 and questioned by detectives investigating Milly's disappearance. But he made no comment about the case. Despite their suspicions, officers admit the method of Milly's abduction was very different from the offences dealt with by the Metropolitan police inquiry.Careful analysis of Milly's bones, scattered by animal activity, revealed no injuries. This is inconsistent with the explosive violence shown in the hammer attacks on Delagrange and Marsha McDonnell. None of Milly's clothing or possessions were recovered from the woodland. Officers found only bones and a small amount of hair. Police are still trying to trace her Heathside school uniform jacket, Nokia mobile phone and distinctive white purse with an ace of hearts logo on it. The police source added: "We have not given up on Milly. It is a current investigation and we have to keep plugging away until we get the break we want and the family get the justice they deserve."