A respected officer who had a nervous breakdown after 28 years of unblemished service with the Metropolitan police is facing financial ruin after a test case ruling that he is not entitled to a disability pension.The decision of the appeal court overturned a judgment that entitled Eric Stunt to backdated pay of up to £20,000 and leaves him facing legal costs of up to £50,000. Mr Stunt, 59, said yesterday: "I will have to sell my home. My savings have gone. I cannot understand why the Met has treated me this way." The ruling could have significant consequences for the emergency services, because the court supported a view that Mr Stunt's breakdown had not been sustained during "the execution of his duties". He claimed that the illness, which forced him into early retirement in August 1994, was the direct result of intolerable pressure from an unwarranted complaint against him. A doctor certified that he was "permanently disabled by depression". Mr Stunt had been regarded by the Met as a valued and experienced officer who had chosen not to seek promotion because he enjoyed working on the beat. He was first on the scene of the Irish National Liberation Army bomb that killed the Tory MP Airey Neave at the House of Commons in March 1979, cradling the shadow cabinet member in his arms as his life slipped away, even though there was a risk of a secondary explosion. Mr Stunt said the sight of Mr Neave, whose legs had been blown off and who was gargling blood, would remain with him for ever. An incident on July 9 1993 proved the turning point in his career. He arrested a headmaster at the St Stephen's Gate entrance of the Palace of Westminster who, he claimed, had become abusive because he was not allowed to "queue barge". Three weeks later Mr Stunt was informed that the teacher had made a formal complaint against him, triggering an investigation. The crown prosecution service dismissed the case, saying there was no basis for charges, and a police complaints authority review concluded no further action should be taken against him. While the complaint hung over his head, his health deteriorated sharply. A consultant psychiatrist described how Mr Stunt felt he was being "treated like a criminal". "He felt a mixture of anger, frustration and hopelessness at fighting against a seemingly implacable system." Mr Stunt said yesterday: "I saw my whole career being put on the line because of an unfounded complaint against me. I was a good, respected officer, and I found the experience of the internal investigation extremely oppressive." Mr Stunt applied for an injury award pension, which would have topped up his allowance by up to £300 a month. "I missed reaching my 30 years in service, which would have given me a full pension," he said. The high court ruled last May that he was entitled to the injury award allowance. The Met challenged the decision, and the appeal judges ruled last month that the investigation which brought on his depression did not constitute normal "police duty". A Met statement said Mr Stunt "was merely subject to normal disciplinary procedures. In order to obtain an enhanced pay it was necessary to show that he was injured in the execution of his duties".