Two teenage brothers were cleared at the Old Bailey today of the murder of schoolboy Damilola Taylor, as the second trial into his death failed to lead to any convictions.The jury were unable to reach verdicts on manslaughter charges against the brothers, aged 17 and 18, and were discharged by the judge, Mr Justice Leveson. Yesterday, they unanimously cleared the third defendant, Hassan Jihad, 20, from Peckham, south London, of murder, manslaughter and assault. The case was adjourned until Thursday when the police and the Crown Prosecution Service were expected to announce whether the brothers, who cannot be named for legal reasons, will face a retrial on the manslaughter charges.Outside court today following the verdicts, a lawyer for Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria, said the couple were "in shock". Reading a statement on behalf of the parents, Neil O'May said: "Mr and Mrs Taylor and their family are deeply distressed and profoundly disappointed that the jury today could not decide who killed their son". A retrial on manslaughter charges would be the third trial over the 10-year-old's death in 2000 in Peckham, south London. In a previous trial in 2002, four different youths were acquitted. A reinvestigation led to the current trial in which the jury heard that police had originally made mistakes in collecting DNA evidence.The prosecution alleged that recently discovered forensic evidence linked the two brothers to Damilola's death. It was alleged that a drop of Damilola's blood was found on the heel of a trainer allegedly belonging to the younger brother. Damilola's blood was also allegedly found in the weave of the right cuff of a sweatshirt belonging to the older brother. The prosecution claimed Damilola had died when his assailants had used brutal force against him when he resisted their attempts to rob him. But there were no witnesses of any attack and the defence argued that Damilola may have fallen over and cut himself on a bottle, bleeding to death in a tragic accident. The jury heard conflicting evidence from experts. Speaking to reporters today, Mr O'May said that it had been upsetting for the Taylors to listen for a second time to the details of how "in their eyes, their son ... was murdered". Reading from the family statement, he said: "Damilola was only 10 when he was killed - a beautiful life has been taken in a violent and senseless way."Mr O'May said the Taylors had renewed their appeal for anyone who knew anything about the death to contact the police. The couple later left the court after speaking to the police and CPS officials after the hearing. At one point today before the verdicts were returned, it appeared that the jury was deadlocked. The panel sent a note this morning to the judge indicating they felt they could deliberate on their verdicts no longer. But when Mr Justice Leveson asked if this was an accurate reflection of the situation, one juror indicated it was not. The judge then asked them to retire again to see if they could reach verdicts on which at least 10 of them were agreed on any of the counts. A few minutes later they returned with the not guilty verdicts but indicated they could not agree on the manslaughter charges.Tears at verdict As the murder verdicts were read out, the mother of the two teenager defendants collapsed in the arms of a female relative and wept in the public gallery during the remainder of the hearing. The jury of four men and seven women delivered the verdicts after more than 20 hours of deliberations, which had started last Wednesday. The brothers were also cleared of assaulting Damilola with intent to rob.Today Mr Justice Leveson praised Damilola's parents, who he said had attended the trial "assiduously". He said they had his "deepest sympathies", adding that this was not a comment on the jury's actions or any element of the trial. Originally from Nigeria, Damilola had only been in Britain for three months when he was killed. He was attacked after he had been working on the computers at Peckham library and collapsed in the stairwell on the North Peckham housing estate. He was found by a man who followed a trail of blood to where he lay dying.