It's a TV cop show cliché - detectives thumbing through dozens of ancient police mugshots trying to identify the villain.But new computer software could eliminate hours of work by sifting through thousands of photographs at the click of a mouse, and matching the suspect's picture with the closest likenesses. The hi-tech system, which uses an algorithm to compare millions of bits of data per second, can see through superficial things which can distract the human eye, such as hair colour and spectacles. Instead, it focuses on a detailed series of facial measurements. If two photographs were taken 20 years apart and the suspect has since gained weight, grown a beard and dyed his hair, it will still find him. Chris Cross, a retired detective chief superintendent who spent 34 years with Northamptonshire police, is now a consultant for Aurora, a firm specialising in facial recognition technology. "Facial recognition was previously used mainly in the construction industry where there have always been problems with fraudulent wage claims, based on 'buddy punching' - clocking on for someone else, or 'ghost workers' - saying they've worked shifts they haven't," he said. "However, there are obvious applications for police work. It's an investigative, not an evidential, tool. It relies on there being previous photos of a suspect on the police database, and usually has to be followed up with fingerprint and DNA tests. But you don't have to be a forensic expert to use it. "One detective summed it up by saying that in normal investigations you start off with a whole encyclopedia to flick through, but this can take you to the relevant chapter and sometimes straight to the right page." Facial recognition works by fixing on the eyes as two stable points in the photographs and carrying out a lightning-quick series of minute measurements to other facial features, such as the mouth, nose and chin, to produce a two-dimensional "map" of the face. It relies on matching the facial proportions, not the angle of the photographs, so it does not matter if the head is turned away from the camera, as long as both eyes are visible. The quality of the photograph is also relatively unimportant, so the system is able to match even grainy stills from CCTV cameras outside banks and petrol stations. And while it cannot scan a crowd, it can isolate an image from a crowd photo much more effectively than the naked eye. Mr Cross demonstrates by calling up on the computer two instantly recognisable photographs - of former Iraqi president Saddam Hussein, and the Yorkshire Ripper, Peter Sutcliffe. Within seconds, the computer has matched all the other available pictures of Saddam and Sutcliffe, many of which look nothing like the first two images that might well have been overlooked by officers flicking through piles of photographs. The process is currently being piloted by five regional forces - Greater Manchester, West Yorkshire, West Midlands, Hampshire, and Northamptonshire - and by Ministry of Defence police and the National Missing Persons Helpline. Det Supt Mick Fickling, head of scientific support with West Yorkshire police, said 70% of the images matched had provided useful intelligence. He added: "The system has already proved its worth, leading to arrests of suspects in a variety of cases. The use of images is rapidly becoming the third forensic science alongside fingerprints and DNA."