Forensic scientists, including a war crimes investigator, began digging at a remote quarry yesterday for the remains of a mother and child murdered almost 30 years ago.Two professors - Sue Black of Dundee University and John Hunter of Birmingham University - are leading the search for Renee MacRae, 36, and her son Andrew, three, whose disappearance in 1976 is one of Scotland's most discussed murder mysteries. Almost 2,000 trees have been cleared from Dalmagarry quarry near Inverness since the Northern constabulary revealed this month they had fresh leads in the case. Mrs MacRae left Inverness with Andrew, the younger of two sons, in her blue BMW on November 12 1976. A few hours later police found the empty BMW burning in a lay-by 12 miles south. Despite an investigating police officer reporting having smelled decomposing flesh during a cursory examination of the quarry, a few hundred yards from the lay-by, no proper search was carried out. Witnesses at the time spoke of a man pulling what seemed to be a dead sheep into the quarry, and of a man wheeling a pushchair, similar to the boy's, along the edge of the road. MacRae was separated from her husband, Gordon, a wealthy businessman. She was said by friends to have planned to leave Inverness with Bill MacDowell, an associate of her husband's with whom she had been having an affair and who was the father of Andrew. Over the past fortnight, diggers have felled more than 1,800 trees for the forensic team led by Prof Black, who headed the British squad examining mass graves in Kosovo and works with the Centre for International Forensic Assistance. It is the first time the centre has operated in Britain. Yesterday, she and Prof Hunter supervised the removal of topsoil ready for a fingertip search that could take up to two weeks. Speaking at the site, Prof Black said she had no doubt that, if the bodies were there, they could be identified. "There is a lot of information that suggests this is a site that has to be looked at," she said. "Hopefully there will be skeleton left. Any natural fibres will have gone, but man-made ones such as nylon or zips will have survived. Because we are possibly dealing with a three-year-old child, some of the things we are looking for will be no bigger than the end of a thumb. "However, if these remains are here, I'm in absolutely no doubt that we will be able to identify them, because the situation is so sufficiently characteristic." Relatives and friends of MacRae, meanwhile, said they were praying that the search would find her and her son. "I hope that my nightmare is coming to an end," said MacRae's sister, Morag Govans, 66. "I pray that the bodies are found and we can give them a decent burial. Then I can focus on someone facing justice at long last." The chief constable of Northern constabulary, Ian Latimer, has said that he felt they owed it to the family of MacRae and her son to bring the perpetrator of what he felt was a "violent and wicked" crime to justice.