The government is to increase police funding to rural areas after a Home Office-commissioned report found that the current government spending formula failed to take full account of the special costs of policing sparsely populated rural areas.The extra cash - which is likely to run into tens of millions - will act as a welcome relief to hard-pressed ministers facing an outcry from middle England over the disappearance of a visible police forces in rural areas. The issue has been highlighted by the life imprisonment of farmer Tony Martin, who was found guilty last week of murdering 16-year-old Fred Barras. Martin claimed he had acted in self-defence after Barras and an accomplice attempted to burgle his remote Norfolk farmhouse. He is expected to launch an appeal against his conviction this week and at the weekend won the limited support of the shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe. She said householders should not be prosecuted if they attack or wound burglars. "Where there's a dead body on the floor, there would have to be a trial," she said. "But if you go down to what is far more common, which is people who are hitting a burglar over the head, then my view is that it is unacceptable that a person is at risk of prosecution." The extra funding, likely to be announced in the summer as part of a wider review of the government's standard spending assessments for local councils, will also be trailed in the imminent rural white paper. Charles Clarke, the Home Office minister and by coincidence an MP for a Norfolk constituency, has already conceded the argument for further cash for rural police forces, saying independent research commissioned by the Home Office was "well made and widely accepted". The research, by ORH Ltd, was then examined and endorsed by an internal Home Office team last summer including police constables, police authorities and local authorities. The report found that it took a police officer three times as long to reach the scene of a crime or incident in a rural area than an officer in an urban area. Mr Clarke has also said that the report's findings have wide support among ministers. The extra cash would help police adopt more visible rural policing strategies. The government was reluctant to act until the completion of the standard spending assessment. Ministers were also nervous of acting because they feared the move would lead to a cut in police numbers in inner city areas. The Metropolitan police strength is already well down on the level before the last election. But the government now recognises that the political pressure to act on its own well-documented research is overwhelming. The pressure is likely to increase further when the countryside agency, the government's official rural quango, publishes a report showing rural public services are relatively underfunded. Home Office ministers also stress that the extra cash will not necessarily lead to higher police numbers since central government is not directly responsible for individual police force numbers. Tory MPs, especially in the south-west and East Anglia, have been furious that ministers did not act immediately on the ORH report and implement its findings in time for this financial year's funding settlement. Edward Leigh, the MP for Gainsborough, has claimed that the Lincolnshire police force has been underfunded. "We have the greatest sparsity of any county in England, and the distribution of population is unusually evenly spread. That means much higher costs for delivering any given level of police service." Mr Leigh also accused the government of delaying the research in 1997 despite an offer from the rural authorities to fund the report. He claims the report's findings could have been implemented two years ago. Ministers have defended their actions by pointing out that in 1995 3.9% of households in rural areas were burgled compared with 10.3% of those in inner-city areas and 6.3% of those in urban areas. People living in rural areas were also far less concerned about falling victim to crime than those living in other parts of the country. Meanwhile, Martin's solicitors said he would appeal against his conviction this week. Martin is being held in the hospital wing of Bullingdon prison near Bicester, Oxfordshire, and is said to be still in a state of shock. He is likely to serve his sentence in a segregation unit for his own safety once medical checks have been completed. Nick Makin, one of the solicitors, said: "There have been threats made to his life and to harm him, for example scalding him with hot water." Mr Makin said those threats had been made while Martin was being held in Norwich and added: "When I spoke to him he was still in a state of shock." Police were told that a £60,000 bounty had been placed on Martin's head after Barras's death, a threat that detectives said they were treating very seriously.