A woman has admitted hurling racist abuse at fellow passengers while travelling on the London Underground after a video of the incident appeared on the internet.Jacqueline Woodhouse, 42, directed an expletive-ridden rant on the Central Line between St Paul's and Mile End stations on 23 January. Police launched an investigation after a seven-minute video of the incident was uploaded to YouTube. It has since been viewed more than 200,000 times.Woodhouse, from Romford, Essex, admitted causing harassment, alarm and distress to Galbant Juttla, the man who filmed her.Westminster magistrates court heard that Juttla decided to film Woodhouse after she berated an unidentified black woman. She then sat down between two men and started another barrage of abuse.The video clip begins with Woodhouse, who appeared drunk, shouting about "fucking foreign shitheads" before turning to other passengers and asking: "Where do you come from? Where do you come from? Where do you come from?"The expletive-laden rant accused fellow passengers of being illegal immigrants. Woodhouse threatened to punch a Pakistani man sitting next to her after he began singing his national anthem. On seeing Juttla filming, she leaned into the camera, saying: "Oh look he's filming, hello. Hello government. Why don't you tell me where you're from?"Juttla replied: "I am British," warning Woodhouse to be careful what she says, to which she responded with more abuse.Claire Campbell, prosecuting, told the court that Woodhouse told Juttla that she hoped he paid taxes and was not receiving benefits, getting the response: "I pay more taxes than you, love."Juttla, who had been attending the funeral of a close family friend, eventually pulled the emergency alarm on the train and Woodhouse was removed. He then uploaded the video to YouTube.The court was told that Woodhouse had drunk an "unknown" quantity of champagne at a retirement party before getting on the tube at 11pm.Campbell said Woodhouse went to Mile End police station following a media campaign, telling police she could not remember the rant but recognised it was her in the video. The court heard that Woodhouse was fined following a similar offence on the Docklands Light Railway in December 2008.Outside the court, Juttla, who runs a print company, said: "I found it very distressing. I uploaded it to YouTube because I thought that was the fast-track process to catching this person."I also needed to show the public that kind of person is out there and not to put up with this kind of behaviour. My kids have seen the video and they are disgusted by it. They don't expect someone to shout abuse at their dad."Woodhouse will be sentenced on 29 May.