The law lords today ruled in favour of a convicted double murderer, by agreeing that to allow politicians to determine the minimum sentence served for murder amounted to a breach of human rights.The ruling could see home secretaries stripped of the power to determine the amount of time murderers spend in prison before they qualify for parole. The law lords ruled unanimously that the home secretary's power under the 1997 Crime (Sentences) Act was incompatible with Article six of the European Convention on Human Rights.Lord Bingham, reading the law lords' opinion, said human rights law mandated that a criminal trial must take place before a tribunal independent of the executive - and the home secretary is not such a tribunal.Parliament must now decide whether to introduce amending legislation to iron out the inconsistency. The Lords' ruling does not have the immediate effect of barring the sitting home secretary, David Blunkett, from using his sentencing powers.The test case was brought by Anthony Anderson, who was convicted in 1988 of killing two men. A trial judge recommended a 15-year minimum tariff, but that was increased to 20 years by the then home secretary.The minimum sentences for some 225 murderers which were set by home secretaries may have to be reviewed as a result of today's ruling. Of those, 70 have already served more than the minimum originally recommended by the trial judges. John Dickinson, a solicitor who represented Anderson, said the ruling would not mean automatic release for convicted murderers. "Strasbourg and our own courts accept there is nothing wrong with convicted murderers sentenced so that they die in jail. Today's judgement is not about that issue. Nor does this concern the length of tariff set for murder. Of course, prisoners still considered to be a danger to society by the parole board will not be released, even if they have come to the end of the tariff set by their judge," Mr Dickinson said.In Scotland and Northern Ireland, tariffs are already set by the judiciary. Currently, the home secretary receives recommendations on tariffs from the trial judge and the Lord Chief Justice. The period covers punishment and deterrence, after which, the prisoner may apply to be released on licence. Today Mr Blunkett said the government would now introduce legislation to bring about a "clear set of principles" within which judges would set minimum sentences. For the most serious crimes, "life should mean life", he said. Under the new legislation - which will be brought before parliament this session and could be law by next autumn - judges must explain themselves in open court if they do not follow the principles. "As I have said many times, my ability to set tariffs has ensured accountability to parliament within the criminal justice system for penalties attached to the most serious and heinous crimes," Mr Blunkett said.He added: "When parliament took its decision to abolish the death penalty for murder, it was on the basis that it was replaced by this principle of parliamentary accountability, which I am determined to maintain. This is fundamental to confidence in the criminal justice system and our democracy."The right to set the tariff for adult murderers is the only sentencing power retained by home secretaries after a succession of rulings from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.