The 30-year prison sentence which Ronald Arthur Biggs, one of the Great Train Robbers, began 15 months ago was abruptly placed in suspense yesterday afternoon when he was allowed out to exercise in the yard of Wandsworth Prison, London. With three other prisoners he disappeared over the 20ft.-high wall while his guards, obstructed by men still on exercise, watched helplessly.Like the train robbery itself, this operation was characterised by panache and flamboyance. If it was planned by the same brains that coaxed £2 millions from the Royal Mail train and, more recently, another of the robbers from Winson Green Prison, Birmingham, there was a ruthless innovation on this occasion - the introduction of firearms.At a minute or so after 3 p.m., a bright scarlet furniture van trundled off a side road passing the prison and past the notice that says "Private road ... speed limit 5 m.p.h." To the left of the road is the prison wall, to the right the prefabricated bungalows, occupied by prison officers and their wives and, in a cutting behind these, a busy railway line.So far as could be established last night, no one saw everything that happened. In the exercise yard, at 3. 05, a startled officer, one of four on duty there, saw a man's head, in a stocking mask, appear over the top of the wall. Among those on exercise under his care were 14 men on the "escape list". A Home Office statement about the affair said: "The officer in charge immediately rang the alarm bell and at the same time the man who appeared on the wall shouted and threw over the wall a rope ladder and a tubular steel ladder. Four prisoners immediately made for the ladder and climbed the top. The prison officers in the yard tried to stop the men as they were going over the ladder, but the prison officers were stopped by some of the remaining prisoners. Other prison officers arrived and the men were taken back to their cells."In the bungalows on the other side of the wall was Mrs Winifred Williams, the wife of one of the prison staff. She was busy doing her housework. She glanced through the window and saw a green Ford Zephyr pass smoothly by. "I thought nothing of it," she said. "Then a red van went up the road and I thought that someone was moving. Then I heard an engine running and I thought, 'That must by the baker.' I rushed out and took my handbag."I got to the door and saw the red van backing and the Zephyr following it. I saw a man get out of the van. He had a silk scarf over his head and tied on top: it looked like a coconut. I thought: "He's 'springing' someone." There was a platform on top of the van and something was going over the wall from it. It must have been the ladder. The man was quite stockily built, with blue overalls on."Then I looked at the Zephyr. A man came out with a silk stocking over his head, with a scarf and a peaked cap. I noticed he had a rifle. I thought, 'This is where I go in.'"I went in very quickly and shut the door and bolted it, because there was nothing I could do to help."After I calmed down I looked through the bedroom and saw two prisoners coming over the wall. I only saw two. They were dressed in blue overalls and striped shirts: prison uniform. I took the number of the Zephyr down and handed it in ... I didn't know whether to dive under the bed when it happened. I am still petrified. this was so well organized ..."Three carsThe three men who escaped with Biggs all had bad records: Robert Anderson, aged 27, serving 12 years for conspiracy to rob a subpostmaster; Eric Flower, aged 31, serving 12 years for armed robbery and conspiracy; and Patrick Doyle, alias Anthony Jenkins, aged 27, serving four years for conspiracy to rob. All were subject to special scrutiny inside Wandsworth.It is believed that there were, in fact, at least three escape cars. Once the four men were over the wall, they dropped the 6ft. or so on to the roof of the van and then, through a hole or a trap, into the interior. When police officers arrived at the scene they found that the van contained some overalls and a loaded shotgun. Late last night Scotland Yard issued a warning that the men might be armed.Inside the prison, urgent calls were made to Scotland Yard. The only immediate hope of capturing some of those involved lay in halting the green Zephyr - index number AYX 470B. A check was made on a number of other vehicles.'Collusion'As the hunt got under way, senior police officers and a senior Home Office official went to Wandsworth. Last night the Home Secretary, Sir Frank Soskice, himself visited the prison. Detectives began the job of questioning those who had not got away. As he left the prison, Detective Chief-Superintendent Dick Lewis, one of those leading the investigation, said angrily: "It was engineered without a doubt, with collusion inside the prison."In Whitehall, too, official telephones began fluttering anxiously. A bleak line in the Home Office statement said: "The Home Secretary was at once informed."