The gangster at the centre of one of Britain's longest sieges escaped death when a police bullet went through his mouth, only for him to shoot himself in the head, a coroner ruled yesterday.Eli Hall, 29, who had a string of convictions for violence, drug and firearms offences, spent 15 days holed up in a bedsit in Hackney, in east London, from December 26 2002, before setting the building alight and killing himself on January 9 2003. Paul Okere, 22, a student who lived in the same building, told the inquest at St Pancras coroner's court how he had escaped to safety five days earlier, after being held hostage by Hall for 11 days. The siege, which sparked a £1m Scotland Yard operation, started two years ago on Boxing Day, when police sent a civilian contractor to take away Hall's car for forensic examination in connection with other crimes. Armed officers were nearby in case Hall, who had shot at police on two occasions in 2002, returned to the car. But they had no idea the vehicle was parked outside his home in Hackney. Hall opened a window and threatened the contractor, who ran off. Hall then shot at armed officers as they tried to get him to come outside. Police negotiators were in constant contact with Hall in the days that followed, urging him to give himself up. But Hall, who fired on police several times throughout the siege, insisted he was not going back to jail. "The man in the street with a gun will always be top dog," he told them. "Bring it on. This is war." Officers initially thought Hall was alone. Mr Okere phoned 999 on Boxing Day evening, but his call was not linked to the standoff because of a misunderstanding about the address, and he was told to phone the local police station. The Nigerian student said he had woken late on Boxing Day to find the front door barricaded and the place surrounded by police. At first, he tried to reason with Hall, the two men even cooked meals together, but Mr Okere became increasingly terrified. Eventually, Mr Okere managed to escape while Hall was upstairs. The hostage negotiator, Detective Chief Inspector Sue Williams, said she had talked to Hall by mobile phone for hours, assuring him police would not harm him if he gave himself up. He had asked for a written guarantee that he would not go to jail, which she was unable to provide. PC Jim Stacey told how on January 9, Hall fired on police and he fired back - what turned out to be the shot which went through Hall's mouth. Then smoke was seen billowing from the windows and police fought to get the blaze under control. When they later got into the building, they found Hall's charred body in the hallway. He had a handgun on his chest, and four other guns, ammunition, and gun-making equipment were discovered in the house. Michael Heath, a forensic pathologist who examined Hall's body, said a bullet, which according to ballistics experts had been fired by a police marksman, entered Hall's mouth and lodged in his neck, but this was not the fatal shot. That, Dr Heath said, had been fired into Hall's right temple and, in his opinion, was a self-inflicted wound. Hall's body was found in the hallway, and Dr Heath thought Hall could not have got there and set the place alight had he been shot in the temple by police while at the window. Dr Andrew Scott-Reid, coroner for inner north London, said the only verdict that could be returned was suicide.