The police have fallen short on three key areas of reform on race that were demanded a decade ago by the landmark Macpherson inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence, the government conceded yesterday.A government report published today admits that stop and search rates remain higher for African-Caribbean Britons than for whites, targets to recruit more ethnic minority police officers have been missed, and, if they do join, black and Asian officers are more likely to leave the service earlier than their white counterparts.The new report, which maps how different racial groups are faring in Britain, was published to mark today's 10th anniversary of the report by Lord Macpherson into the bungled investigation of the 18-year-old's murder in south London in 1993. The inquiry found institutional racism had contributed to the killers of the black teenager not being caught. Launching the report yesterday, Sadiq Khan, the minister for communities, race and faith, said the police had made much progress, but areas of concern remained: "We have not reached the stage where we can say 'mission accomplished'. There are still huge challenges and we are determined to meet them."After the Macpherson report was published the police were given a decade to recruit many more ethnic minority officers, and set a target of 7%, which in 1999 was the proportion of black and Asian people in the British population. This has now risen to 10%, but they make up 5.3% of the police force. The government report said: "There has been steady progress, albeit slower than we would have liked ..."Khan said the target had been "ambitious", and part of the problem had been the very low turnover of police staff. Today's report also found Asian and black officers who join are more likely to leave early or be dismissed, especially in their first six months. It also noted that when the Macpherson report came out, Asian and black citizens were six times more likely to be stopped and searched by police - it now stands at seven times.Khan said he had seen "no evidence" this was due to police prejudice. A decade ago the Macpherson report said higher rates of stop and search for black people was in part because of police prejudice: "The majority of police officers who testified before us accepted that an element of disparity was the result of discrimination," the 1999 report said. Today's anniversary of the report will be marked by a conference on British race relations in the past decade. Sir Paul Stephenson, the Metropolitan police commissioner, will speak, as will Stephen's mother, Doreen Lawrence and the justice secretary Jack Straw, who ordered the Macpherson inquiry.Today's conference will also hear from the authors of two reports on the progress the police have made. A report from Portsmouth University says the Lawrence case has changed policing in Britain forever and had an "awesome" effect on the criminal justice system, altering the way in which race hate crimes are pursued. The report is written by the former top Met officer John Grieve, Nathan Hall and Stephen Savage."We suggest the legacy of Lawrence amounts to nothing less than a watershed in British policing - and beyond," Grieve said. A report by Richard Stone, an advisor to Lord Macpherson, reaches a more critical conclusion: "Black citizens and police employees have been failed .... almost nothing has changed in ten years."No fresh leadsThe murder of Stephen Lawrence is no longer under active investigation, 10 years after Lord Macpherson's report laid bare police failings. In late 2007 it was leaked that the Metropolitan police had made a breakthrough, with new forensic techniques. But sources with knowledge of the case say the development has not proved as conclusive as investigators want. Stephen's mother Doreen told the Guardian she believes the five suspects will not face court again. Neil Acourt, 33, has changed his name and claims that he has been forced to live as a recluse because of the publicity surrounding the case. His brother, Jamie, 32, has moved to Sidcup with his partner and son. He is said to want to move to Spain. Dave Norris, 32, had to leave the £800,000 home owned by his drug-dealing father, Clifford, three years ago after a legal dispute with Revenue and Customs. Gary Dobson lives with his partner and son in Woolwich. Luke Knight, 32, asked unsuccessfully to be rehoused by Greenwich council a few years ago, claiming he had been harassed by anti-racists.