Shortly after 6.15pm on 16 November last year Geeta Aulakh left her office for the routine trip she made almost every evening. After a brief bus ride she set off on foot down a series of tree-lined, suburban roads towards her childminder's 1930s semi-detached house in Greenford, west London.She never arrived. Some time close to 7pm, on a quiet corner only a couple of hundred metres from where her two sons, then eight and 10, awaited their mother after school, two men approached Aulakh out of the early winter dark.One of them, a teenager called Sher Singh, produced a 14in machete and hacked at her repeatedly, with extreme force. Aulakh, then 28, suffered appalling injuries to her head and body, and died soon after arriving at hospital. Her right hand was severed completely as she sought to shield herself from the blows.An already horrific crime took on a still more disturbing outlook as police uncovered who had recruited the attackers and sent them out that night: Aulakh's husband, Harpreet, the father of her sons.Detectives soon found that while the couple had spent almost 10 years together they could not have been more different. Geeta Aulakh, every friend and colleague agreed, was selfless, hardworking, uncomplaining and devoted to her children. Although her husband could be charismatic – notably when he first wooed Geeta – he was ultimately, to use the private words of one detective on the case, "a shit of biblical proportions".During the marriage Harpreet Aulakh routinely put down his wife in public while developing an apparent infatuation for her sister, Anita. When Geeta finally left him he became obsessed with the idea she was seeing another man, confronting male colleagues, hacking into her Facebook account and going to her flat to pore over receipts, seeking for evidence of a new attachment.When Geeta began formal divorce proceedings, the 32-year-old planned her death. The prospect of divorce was, police say, a humiliation too far for a man immersed in a shallow, narcissistic machismo, a product of both his male-dominated Punjabi Indian upbringing and his self-styled image as a gangster, involved in minor drug and immigration scams."It's sad, tragic. You have a hard-working young woman who dotes on her two children and only wants the best possible life for them. Then you have someone like him," said Detective Inspector John Finch, of the Metropolitan police, who led the investigation.Police have treated the murder as an "honour killing", although not everyone agrees with this definition.Avtar Lit, the head of Sunrise Radio, where Geeta Aulakh worked as a receptionist, calls it "nonsense". He said: "To me, it was much more simple – a completely stupid crime by a group of people who probably thought it was like they were still in the Punjab and if they weren't arrested at the scene they'd get away with it."What everyone agrees on is that when she ignored her parents' opposition and eloped to Europe with Harpreet Aulakh, Geeta Shinh, as she was before the wedding, made the biggest mistake of her life.She was the adored, English-born daughter of Hindu parents who had come to London and set up a jewellery business, establishing themselves at the heart of respectable life in the Indian-dominated suburb of Southall.Harpreet, in contrast, from a poorer Sikh family, was suspected by Indian police of involvement in a series of violent crimes even before he entered the UK illegally in his early twenties.Convinced he was a skilled criminal, Aulakh planned a murder he was believed could never be traced back to him. He recruited a friend, 30-year-old Jaswant Singh Dhillon, and Sher Singh, now 19, to ambush his wife while he drank in a pub under the watch of the CCTV cameras he knew were there.Police believe Sher Singh, who had entered the UK four months before on a student visa obtained by Aulakh, was chosen to wield the machete as a stand-in for the younger family member usually picked for an "honour" crime, perhaps because his family home in the Punjab was close to Aulakh's.He carried out the murder, it seems, simply because he was asked to."Sher Singh was young and impressionable, just a teenager," said Finch. "This man had got him into the country and helped him find a job and a place to live. He looked up to him. He probably felt he owed him."The plan fell apart when Dhillon approached police, initially claiming to be an innocent witness. He led them to the canal in Slough, Berkshire, where the gang dumped the machete and Sher Singh's jacket.The key breakthrough came when officers discovered the rare, Brazilian-made weapon was stocked by a shop just half a mile from Aulakh's home in Hounslow, west London. CCTV footage showed three people buying such a machete. Two were tracked down and still had them at home; the third was Aulakh.Despite such compelling evidence he insisted his innocence throughout the trial, calling Geeta his "first love". The dead woman's family were appalled to see him occasionally look up to the public gallery and offer them a sardonic wink, probably aimed at Anita.For them, and for Geeta's friends, there is also the question: could they have done more? Police say they do not believe she ever truly feared for her life, while work colleagues recall that she rarely troubled them with domestic worries."She told me a few things, but would say, 'I've made my own bed and I have to live with it'," said Seema Sidha, a close friend from Sunrise Radio. "I left with her on that evening. I waited for her. I asked if she wanted to get the train with me but she said the bus and walking was easier. I just wish I'd dragged her on to that train with me. It's what I keep thinking: I just wish I'd done something so that she didn't go there that night."Harpreet Aulakh was jailed at the Old Bailey today for life and ordered to serve at least 28 years.Sher Singh, who wielded the machete, and Jaswant Dhillon, who acted as a look-out, were also jailed for life and given minimum sentences of 22 years.