England international footballer Joey Barton was jailed for six months yesterday for a "violent and cowardly attack" outside a branch of McDonald's after he became embroiled in a street fight at the end of a drunken night out in Liverpool.The Premier League player, who signed for Newcastle in a £5.8m deal from Manchester City last summer, had drunk 10 pints of lager and five more bottles of lager before launching a sustained attack on a stranger and punching a 16-year-old boy in the face.The sentence means Barton, who earns about £60,000 a week, will be freed from jail in time for the start of the next football season. But last night his club would not be drawn on his future, releasing a statement saying: "Newcastle United notes the sentence passed to Joey Barton at Liverpool crown court today. The club is considering the verdict and will be making no further comment at this moment."Barton admitted the charge relating to an assault at about 5.30am on December 27 last year at the end of a night out with his brother Andrew and his cousin, Nadine Wilson.CCTV footage showed Barton rain up to 20 punches on an unknown man, in what the judge, Henry Globe, called a "violent and cowardly attack". Barton, 25, from Widnes, came out of the restaurant, knocked the man to the ground, then straddled him and punched him four or five times as his cousin threw food. He was seen to punch the man up to 15 times more. Wilson, 27, from Childwall, Merseyside, and Andrew Barton, 20, also of Widnes, pleaded guilty to their part in the assaults."Without doubt, the most serious of the three offenders is you," Globe told the footballer. "You were restrained by the others, but ignored them and acted in an extremely violent and aggressive manner."It also happened at a time when you were on bail for two other matters. If ever there was a time when you should be on your best behaviour, it was then. You have a high profile as a footballer and you know that draws attention to you." He said Barton had drunk to excess and behaved in an aggressive, disgraceful manner.Ian Harris, prosecuting, said that after leaving McDonald's, the Barton group can be seen clearly on CCTV involved in verbal exchanges. "An unknown man can be seen to make an offensive gesture to Nadine Wilson and she points it out to Joseph Barton. Barton punched this male with such force, he literally came off his feet."He said Wilson, who had drunk two or three bottles of wine, joined in - throwing food at the man. Andrew Barton managed to restrain his brother, but he continued the assault, throwing up to 15 blows at the man. Minutes later, Barton attacked a 16-year-old boy, punching him and leaving him with two broken front teeth. Barton was ordered to pay the teenager £2,500.The attack followed a series of confrontations outside the McDonald's. The prosecutor said none of the victims had been physically intimidating or threatening - in fact they were backing away. A witness said she was left shaken and sick by what she had seen. There was a suggestion the Barton brothers had been goaded by remarks about their stepbrother Michael, who is serving life for the racist murder of Anthony Walker in Liverpool in 2005.The incident took place as the player was awaiting trial for two other offences, which he denies; alleged assault and criminal damage of a taxi - for which he will appear before Liverpool magistrates on May 30 - and the alleged assault of a former Manchester City teammate, Ousmane Dabo, 31, to be heard in Manchester next month. Yesterday's hearing was told Barton was remorseful and he had admitted to an alcohol problem. He was jailed for six months for assault occasioning actual bodily harm and four months, concurrently, for affray. In mitigation, Stuart Driver, QC, handed a personal letter of apology from Barton to the judge. "He is willing to take responsibility for what he did and he pleaded guilty at the first available opportunity he had," he said. "Joey did what he did because he was provoked by violent actions and words. Joey is a very well known footballer ... When he is in public people stop, stare, approach, tag along, some friendly, some abusive. "Joey's family fragmented when he was young. His brothers went with their mum and he lived with his dad. Nadine lived on the same street, she was like a sister to him - if she is hurt he feels it." Sections of a character reference from Newcastle manager Kevin Keegan were read to the court in which he described a "massive change" in Barton. "He had taken stock of his life, he is more thoughtful in his actions and character. He is a far more responsible individual."Andrew Barton was sentenced to four months suspended for two years for common assault. Wilson received a six-month sentence suspended for two years for affray and ABH. Both were given supervision orders.As he was taken down, Barton kissed Wilson on the cheek and shook his brother's hand. He then handed over pieces of jewellery to a man in the public gallery.