Detectives investigating a fatal assault at a village pub have arrested a 61-year-old man on suspicion of murder. The victim was named locally as 48-year-old Dean Haverley, a father of five children. He died in hospital after being treated at the scene of the attack at the George Inn in Burnham, Buckinghamshire. The suspect was detained on Saturday night in connection with Haverley’s death, Thames Valley police said, and remained in police custody. Officers were called to the high-street pub at about midnight on Friday after reports of a man being assaulted inside the premises, shortly after last orders. The victim was described by friends on social media as an “upbeat, funny, guy who was a brilliant father”.Dougie McClean, Haverley’s son, paid tribute to his father on Facebook. In a post he wrote: “Even though we hadn’t seen each other for a while and I didn’t meet ya till late on in my life we still had some good times and laughs. I’m overly shocked and can’t get my nut around it r.i.p dad ... thoughts to all the rest of the family.”Haverley’s brother, Craig, told the Mail Online: “Dean was cruelly murdered while on a night out in Burnham around midnight on 12 August. He has left behind a wife, five children and two stepchildren. He was my best friend and my little brother and I’m going to miss him big time.”He described Haverley as a “brilliant father who doted” on his children. “He was a great dad and he absolutely loved all of them. He was an upbeat, funny guy, always laughing, and he had my kids in stitches. The last time I saw him was about two or three days ago when he came round to mine and we watched some TV and had a few beers.”DCI Simon Steel, leading the inquiry, described it as an isolated incident and appealed for more information. “My appeal is to anyone who was in the George Inn around midnight who witnessed the assault or has any information regarding the incident to contact police immediately.” A postmortem was due to take place on Sunday, police said.Haverley’s wife and children issued a message through the Thames Valley force asking for their privacy to be respected.