 Patrick Morley Age: 39Conviction: Rape, sentenced to life Diagnosis: Psychopathic disorderIn January 2000, after several years in prison, Morley was transferred to Rampton high-security hospital. There, he took part in a sex offenders programme, and, in January 2002, an independent psychiatrist reported that he was responding well and warned that he should not be returned to prison: "I have little doubt that if Patrick is returned to a purely custodial setting in which there was no understanding of his deficits and no capacity to work with him, the risk of repetition of his former antisocial behaviour on returning to the community, would be considerable." Nevertheless, three months later, Morley was sent back to prison. A new doctor had taken over his case and told the Home Office that Morley had a bad attitude, was not responding to treatment and that he presented "significant management problems". Morley had been accused of sexually assaulting another patient, although no charge was brought. On the same day that they received this report, the Home Office agreed to move him. In the background, two consultant psychologists and four trainees who had worked with Morley at Rampton objected to the move, warning that without this work, he was likely to commit more serious sexual offences. Another independent psychiatrist then reviewed the case and concluded: "I do not understand the rationale for prematurely curtailing Mr Morley's treatment at Rampton only for him to commence a similar programme in prison, but one in which the skills normally found in a hospital multidisciplinary team will be lacking." He added that evidence suggested that premature departure from the sex offenders treatment programme increases risk of reoffending. But the Home Office stuck to their decision. Morley's lawyers, Bindman and Co, went to court to complain, but the judges ruled that the decision of the doctor in charge was final, as long as it was fair and rational, and that the disagreement of others made no difference. Morley remains in a high-security prison unit.Gary Frank* Age: 32 Conviction: Rape, given seven years Diagnosis: Severe mental impairmentGary Frank drove a car in which another man abducted and raped a young woman. He was accused of knowingly assisting the attack. He was arrested, prosecuted and tried, jailed and held in three different prisons without anybody recognising that he was so mentally impaired that his IQ was in the lowest 0.1% of the population.He could not remember his birthdate, nor count money nor tell the time. The prison officers could see there was something wrong with him and took the unusual step of allowing him to sleep with his cell door open, and yet nobody diagnosed his severe mental impairment and nobody offered him any effective treatment for his depression, insomnia and anxiety. His lawyers sent in a clinical psychologist who reported that he had "a very low level of intellectual functioning" and was very distressed. The lawyers sent the report to the prison. Still he was offered no treatment. Action was finally taken when a visiting consultant psychiatrist recognised his low IQ and severe depression and concluded that he was "one of the most ill-placed people I have seen in prison in 20 years of forensic psychiatric practice". Even then, the visiting psychiatrist had to spend nearly four months making phone calls and writing begging letters before somebody finally provided a bed in a secure unit. The court of appeal subsequently ruled that his statements to police and to his original trial were wholly unreliable, and overturned his conviction.*Name changed at the request of the prisonerChris Edwards Age: 30 Arrested for: Breach of the peace Diagnosis: Mild psychosisChris Edwards was arrested for making inappropriate remarks to young women in the street. He had a history of psychiatric problems - some hallucinations, religious delusions - and he had been prescribed an anti-psychotic drug in the past. The police called a social worker to the cells where he was beating on the walls and removing his clothes and yet, despite all that, instead of using the "place of safety" law to send him to hospital to be assessed, they charged him with breach of the peace and, for this minor offence, he was remanded to Chelmsford Prison. That same evening, the prison was holding a man named Richard Linford, who was charged with serious assaults on a woman and her neighbour. He was being held in a single cell, because he had a history of severe psychosis as well as a record of violence, which included an assault on a cellmate. On his previous sentence, he had been transferred to Rampton secure hospital. During the the evening, as more and more prisoners arrived, Linford was moved, to share a cell with Chris Edwards.During the next three or four hours, prison officers realised the alarm bell from the men's cell was not working but did not investigate. At one point, they heard banging from a cell door on their landing. When an officer went to look, he found Chris Edwards had been beaten and kicked to death. One of his ears was missing. Linford had blood on his mouth and was talking about evil spirits. Chris Edwards had been in the prison for nine hours. An inquiry by police and prison services found neither man should have been in prison and that Edwards had been failed by "a systemic collapse of the protective mechanisms that ought to have operated". Linford was diagnosed as paranoid schizophrenic and moved to Rampton. Chris Edwards' parents took their case to the European Court of Human Rights. Two years ago, the court found a series of errors had denied Edwards his right to life. His parents continue to campaign for the government to make good its obligation to erase such errors from the system.