Your report asserts that the foreign secretary doubts the need for a law to support the prosecution of negligent companies or employers (Straw tries to block law on death at work, October 22). If this is the case, Straw appears to be in conflict with Labour's Warwick agreement in July, and with his prime minister, who committed himself in his party conference speech to introduce a new law on corporate manslaughter. He is also at odds with the grieving relatives of the 1,500 and more people who have been killed at work since Labour's 1997 pledge to change the law.In 1996 the Law Commission recommended that an offence of corporate killing should be enacted. In 1997, the government pledged to improve safety by ensuring that companies and directors can be held to account more easily for negligent or reckless conduct. Seven years on, the Health and Safety Executive estimates that up to 40% of workplace deaths have been as a result of serious management failures. The unions estimate that about 350 companies and organisations may have escaped prosecution by the failure to legislate. The Tories would certainly not act to bring in corporate killing laws, if they should ever make it back into government. The time has come for Labour to carry out its pledge and dispel the impression that the corporate world is somehow above justice.  Tony Woodley  General secretary, TGWU ·In 1997, when I was a Labour parliamentary candidate, the Labour Party manifesto gave a commitment to create a new crime of corporate manslaughter. This was repeated by the home secretary at the recent party conference. British workers are denied the rights accorded to workers across the European Union. They are now asked to pay the continuing blood price for competitiveness.  Prof Richard Ennals  Kingston Business School ·We yesterday launched a pilot project, Constructing Better Health, funded by the construction industry and government to improve the health of building workers. You can imagine our disappointment at doing so in the context of your story that the government may renege on its promise of a new law on corporate killing. Last year 71 people died in accidents on building sites, and over 700 died from asbestos-related diseases. Many employers work hard to create and maintain safe and healthy workplaces, but for those who don't the current law is inadequate. Let's see the draft corporate killing bill this autumn, as David Blunkett stated in his party conference speech just a couple of weeks ago.  Lawrence Waterman  President-elect, Institution of Occupational Safety and Health ·When Jack Straw was home secretary in 2000, he published a consultation document proposing a new offence of corporate killing. Indeed, the consultation document he published was concerned with the accountability not only of companies, but also of their directors, and suggested reforms the current home secretary has now abandoned. It is also important to note that whether or not crown immunity should be lifted does not effect individual civil servants, since under existing law individual civil servants have no criminal immunity and they can be prosecuted for manslaughter if sufficient evidence exists. The issue of crown immunity is about whether or not crown bodies - such as government departments or other organisations controlled by the government - should be prosecuted. And on this, it is difficult to see why, for example, a private prison should be able to be prosecuted over a death of a prisoner, but not the prison service.  David Bergman  Centre for Corporate Accountability  Deborah Coles Inquest