A father of four was critically ill yesterday after he was attacked by youths he confronted when they threw a stone at his car.Phil Carroll, 48, suffered serious head injuries after confronting the teenagers near his home in Salford. He has undergone two operations at Hope hospital in Salford, where he remains in a critical but stable condition. Mr Carroll was struck twice and knocked to the ground by two boys and a girl. His younger brother John, 34, who witnessed the incident, said youths terrorised the area but Phil had refused to let them get away with it. He said: "We need to know who these people are to get them off the streets. Phil said youths in the area were always causing unruly behaviour during the night. "What sort of community do people want to live in, where they are afraid?" The family's home has been broken into three times. Greater Manchester police said they had increased patrols in the area. Chief Superintendent David Baines blamed gangs of young people with alcohol for causing trouble and committing the sorts of crime to which Mr Carroll was subjected. He said: "They are feral, have no parental control or respect for anybody and are often fuelled by alcohol."They don't give a damn about the police or the criminal justice system." The brothers were testing a satellite navigation system in Mr Carroll's Range Rover when the teenagers began causing trouble shortly after 9pm on Friday. Mr Carroll asked them to move away from the alleyway near his home. The youths left but returned later and threw a stone which rebounded into Mr Carroll's car. His brother added: "Phil ran from the car to confront the individual and I followed, running behind him but he had gotten some distance on me by the time he reached them. "He was hit by the two males and knocked to the floor. I just keep remembering seeing Phil on the floor looking as though he was dying." Police urged the community to name the youths who were in the vicinity of the assault. Police have issued descriptions of the youths, all of whom were white. One was aged between 15 and 17, 6ft (183cm), with short dark hair. The second was about 17 years old, 5ft 9-10in (175-178cm). The third was a girl aged 15 to 16 with dark hair. She wore a short brown leather skirt.