A chemical defence against drug rape was launched yesterday with the introduction of a pocket-sized DIY testing kit which can show whether a drink has been spiked. The Drink Detective allows those who suspect their drinks may have been tampered with to do a 30-second on-the-spot check by dropping drink samples on to reactive paper. The £3.95 sachets, developed by Bloomsbury Innovations, reveal traces of benzodiazepines, GHB and ketamine, three drugs commonly associated with the spiking of alcoholic drinks. They went on sale online yesterday and will soon be available in shops and in vending machines in pubs, clubs and other venues. Yesterday, the Guardian found several sceptics who questioned whether pubgoers would bother to carry out a chemistry experiment with a teat pipette, perhaps on a first date and after a few drinks. But Jim Campbell, a former Home Office forensic scientist who helped to develop the kits, insisted that the devices could provide crucial evidence against attackers and that their easy availability would be a deterrent. "It won't stop drug rape but it will increase awareness and the chances of someone being caught red-handed." Mr Campbell said many drugs passed through the body within hours, and problems in catching offenders were compounded by delays in going to the police and by police failure to take or analyse urine samples early on. Sometimes the drugs prescribed for post-traumatic stress after an attack were the same drugs used in the rape. Some of the profits from Drink Detective will go to the Roofie Foundation, a voluntary helpline for drug rape victims. The organisation, named after the street term for Rohypnol, a benzodiazepine, has received 6,650 calls since it was set up in 1997. In 2003 there were 998 calls from people claiming they had been raped or sexually abused after having their drinks spiked. About 15% of the alleged victims were men. Graham Rhodes, Roofie's chief executive, said it was impossible to estimate the extent of the problem because so many people did not report it to police and might not even recall an assault because of the effect of the drug. Metropolitan police figures show a steady increase in drug-related rape allegations in the past three years. In 2001, in London, drug use was alleged in 164 of the 6,957 rape claims. In 2002 the figures were 195 out of a total of 7,293, and last year, 242 out of 6,809. Mr Rhodes said the complication that some alleged victims might have been raped or had sex when intoxicated rather than drugged should not detract from the trauma: victims were often tormented by flashbacks, and fear of not being believed added to the distress. Only a handful of convictions have been secured, the first in Belfast in October 2000, when a man was jailed for eight years. Police welcomed the kit but stressed it only detected a small proportion of types of drugs used to spike drinks. John Yates, of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said: "This particular DIY test kit apparently only tests for three out of what we currently know to be around 67 separate substances that can assist rapists. There is no guarantee this test will identify the presence of all such drugs."