Pat Regan, who has died aged 53 from an attack at her home resulting in multiple stab wounds, spent her last six years as an inspirational campaigner against knife and gun crime among young people. Galvanised by the murder of one of her own six children, she worked on a shoestring to persuade both teenagers and politicians that so-called gangland killings could threaten any apparently contented home.Rather than dismiss the violence as confined to a separate "other world" of drug-dealers and petty criminals, her mission was to warn how easily all young people could be tempted by easy money and flash cars. She spoke from the heart: her murdered son Danny had become involved in drugs and was almost certainly the victim of a dealing dispute.His death in St Helens in 2002 at the age of 27, killed on his doorstep by a man with a pump-action shotgun who has never been caught, left a fatherless three-year-old. Regan stepped in. She had seen television reports of a group called Mothers Against Violence, set up by a handful of women in Manchester whose sons had also died violently. She crossed the Pennines to see them.The result was MAV's first satellite branch, set up in Leeds and consisting mostly of Regan, who had little time or patience for committee work. She wanted to get straight out there with her message and hoped that like-minded others would simply copy. It was a novel way of campaigning, but in the age of the internet and closely linked community groups, it worked. Between family commitments, she organised a basic structure for her crusade, taking a teacher training course at Northern College, near Barnsley, and also learning the ropes of applying for small-scale funding for anti-violence projects. But her passion lay in giving talks at schools, where she made a lasting impression and produced, off her own bat, outstanding follow-up work in drawings, imaginative writing and letters from students.These were piled in boxes at the small flat near the centre of Leeds which served as her base. She also focused on prisons, talking to young men convicted of violent crime, and on supporting victims. Tributes after her death included many from families who had also lost children in gun or knife attacks and been sought out by Regan, who became their warm, un-demanding and down-to-earth friend.Her other skill was in winning brief but memorable interviews with senior police, politicians and other opinion-formers. She was invited to No 10 by Tony Blair for a seminar on youth violence and met the Princess Royal earlier this year. Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, took her opinions seriously and met her several times, while Leeds MPs including another cabinet member, Hilary Benn, found her an invaluable conduit to disaffected young constituents.Born and brought up in Leeds, Regan had had clerical jobs before starting her family and had also done voluntary work both with a local Methodist chapel and through neighbourhood community associations in the Beeston and Hyde Park areas of the city. Her straightforward friendliness, and unusual immunity to the perils of becoming a celebrity, endeared her to everyone she met and to the media. She was often in demand for interviews, and reactions to new, violent tragedies, but she would give these to small outlets such as the Sheffield young people's magazine Cube as much as to the national networks.Her themes and solutions were not original; it was a matter of getting them high on the agenda of decision-makers and into the minds of young people. She got on equally well with teenagers and was a familiar sight around Leeds, with her dreadlocks pulled back.Regan's 20-year-old grandson Rakeim Regan has been remanded in custody accused of her murder. She leaves five children and four other grandchildren.· Pat Regan, anti-crime campaigner, born 1955; died June 1 2008