The body of the missing Shropshire teenager Georgia Williams has not been found, despite the arrest of a man over her murder, police have said.A 22-year-old Telford man was arrested in Glasgow on Wednesday, originally for the alleged kidnap of 17-year-old Williams, who went missing on Sunday, but he is now being questioned on suspicion of killing her.Police have been searching woodland and have taped off an area in Brown Moss nature reserve, about 17 miles from Wellington, Press Association reported. Forensics teams have searched a semi-detached house in Wellington. Superintendent Nav Malik of West Mercia police said: "I make it very clear, folks, that we have not found Georgia Williams … I urge the public to support us in trying to find out where she may be."He said the arrest on suspicion of murder followed developments in the investigation – which has more than 50 detectives working on it – that could not be shared "for operational reasons and because we have someone in custody".Williams, the daughter of a West Mercia police officer, is a former head girl at Ercall Wood technology college in Telford and was due to meet her boyfriend to travel to a music festival on Monday morning.At a press conference on Wednesday, police made it clear that the man suspected of killing the teenager was not her boyfriend and they were just "friends on social media".On Sunday evening Williams, a member of the air cadet force, appeared to be concerned and told friends on Twitter she was struggling to sleep. The tweet, posted at 10.36am on Sunday – nine hours before she disappeared – said: "Worst night's sleep in ages. #needsleep #stuffonmind now can't get back to sleep." Police said the tweet was not believed to be relevant to the investigation.Police said the last text messages and calls from her mobile phone were made about 8pm on Sunday."I would remind people that Georgia, who is white, 1.6 metres (5ft 3in), slim and with long, dyed, red hair, was last seen wearing a waist-length black leather jacket over a white T-shirt, which has a London bus motif on it. She was also wearing black, skinny jeans and flat, black suede slip-on shoes," he said."We also want to hear from anyone who may have seen a silver Toyota Hiace 300 GS panel van, registration CX06 ASV, which took a route from Wellington to Oswestry in Shropshire before moving on to Rhyl, Chester, Kendal and then Glasgow."If you think you saw this vehicle either en route or parked somewhere between Sunday evening and when we recovered it in a car park in Glasgow city centre yesterday, then please let us know. The vehicle had ladders on the roof and we know it was driven by the suspect prior to his arrest. The smallest scrap of detail could be vital to our einquiries so even if you think it may not be important please tell us so that we can check it out."Williams, an A-level student at New College in Wellington, noted on her Facebook page that she had begun a relationship with fellow New College student Matthew Bird on 5 April.Bird posted an emotional appeal on Facebook: "I love you so much Georgia Williams you mean the world to me please just come back or get in contact with us. I need you and I miss you so much," he wrote.