I, like many, on hearing about the savage brutality inflicted on utterly defenceless Baby P, would like to see the two men and the mother found guilty of causing this agonising death put in the stocks and subjected to primitive punishment by the public.No matter how bad or deprived the lives of the perpetrators, there is no excuse for cruelty to children and that has to be the position society takes. But this means that, as a society, we should be willing to take a good deal more responsibility for being aware of and caring of the children whose lives are lived alongside us – or, frequently, with the great divide in Britain – parallel to ours. Instead we too easily disregard "them" and concentrate only on "us".Then when an unspeakable tragedy occurs, as with Baby P, we look for those on whom we may pour our fury. Very often social workers are the ones we choose because they can all too easily be blamed for not having seen what was going on, or who are so eager to leave a child with the family they are too easily beguiled by what parents say.I am sure there are cases when such blame is in order, but I also think we need to step back and be a bit more thoughtful. We invest in our social workers the enormous task of, day in, day out, balancing the benefit of keeping children with parents, supporting parents , in working at looking after their own child or alternatively removing the child into care.And it is an extraordinarily hard job. We know how damaging going into care is for so many children, and the current thinking is heavily weighted towards keeping children at home. On the other side if a child is on the at risk register as Baby P was, you do expect social services to be extra vigilant. But a parent explaining a child's distress or even injuries can be very beguiling.Mothers, and it is very often them, may well love their child while being driven to committing or accepting appalling treatment towards him or her. But it is the feelings of love and a desperate desire to keep their child that comes forth with the social worker. And those involved in caring for children professionally want, I believe, to trust in a kind of sanctity of mothers, as society as a whole does. But the mental health problems of many living in the kind of circumstances those of us more fortunate prefer not to engage with make that belief in ultimate sanctity of mothers misplaced.So before, yet again, we load opprobrium on to the failing social workers, let's stop and take a look at what we ask of those we ask to care for our children individually and collectively. Actually we are pretty cavalier about it. In our own lives, for example, many of us take on people because we have a need to fill, who in different circumstances we probably wouldn't trust to care for our house plants. Childcare workers have had their training trimmed down and their pay remains derisory for someone invested with such responsibility. It is in the eyes of most a lowish status job. Yet we expect them to invest their all in it.So before we put the perpetrators of Baby P's death in the stocks and the social workers in the case alongside them, let's think very hard about how we, as a society, might express willingness to pay more, and adjust our attitudes, so that social work can become a job recognised as the vital, professional work it is. This might go further towards protecting future tragedies than the oh-so-familiar flailing around of columnists and commentators to attribute blame anywhere but on ourselves.