It's all about accessibility and reassurance. Our team of nine police are based in a classroom right at the front entrance to New Silksworth infant school in Sunderland, and we've literally opened our door to the whole community. People who admit they would never ever go to a police station are ringing the bell to talk to us because we're a school. And they can chat to us without even coming in as we're on patrol outside the school at the start and end of every school day. It gives the parents access - they might go from talking about the weather to telling us there's a drug dealer coming to the house next door every Wednesday. When Northumbria police started the scheme - it's called Cops, Kids & Schools - with money from the Neighbourhood Renewal Fund, we were given the responsibility of reducing burglary levels and improving the quality of life. And it's happening. In the last two years, thefts from motor vehicles are down by 8%, burglary is down by 5% and incidences of youth disorder have gone down by 75% since last year. It gives you great satisfaction to be able to make such a difference. My stepfather was a policeman and I decided to follow in his footsteps. They weren't recruiting in Scotland at the time, and Newcastle was as far south as I was willing to travel. When I started the job I felt I just fitted the mould. Shifts are a bit of a pain, but I don't like working nine to five anyway, and it gives me the chance to play a lot of golf. It's great working with young kids. You can build up a relationship with them before they have a chance to develop anti-authority attitudes. At first, when we walked across the playground it would take about 20 minutes - they were all round you, asking questions, wanting to try the handcuffs and put your helmet on. Now they don't bat an eyelid. They accept us completely as part of the school. But they still get excited when they're out with their parents and see us in the street. An officer may have arrested a parent or sibling, but the little ones are always proud and happy to meet "their" policeman. Most of the public are completely supportive. A young chap was taken home after he'd been caught throwing stones by one of my colleagues, and the boy's mother couldn't thank the officer enough. We get letters of thanks pushed under our door. People can see what's happening round here and they are reassured. You can look at a group of individuals who are making people's lives a misery and you can stop it. We work in conjunction with Sunderland Housing Group and the youth service and we've had a real effect on antisocial behaviour. We've set up diversionary activities - football sessions twice a week, mountain bike clubs - which have involved more than 7,000 young people. It's broken down all sorts of barriers and has shown the police in a completely different light. But there has to be a balance. We definitely aren't rewarding the bad.  Our "sticker scheme" at the school has been a great success. I can't take credit for it - the idea came from America - but we've designed it specially for our area. Basically, there are 15 cards (a bit like Pokémon cards) with pictures of our police officers on them, plus ones of a police dog, helicopter, etc, with facts and figures on the back - which football team the officers support, how much fuel the helicopter uses, and so on - and the children are awarded a card by a teacher or a policeman for good conduct or achievement of some kind. When they have collected all 15 cards, they're given a family trip to the cinema. It means that our faces get known by everyone, the families get involved, and the children have an incentive to behave well. Teachers are saying that even the most unruly pupils have changed their behaviour as they're so keen to get the stickers. All the kids love it. In fact, we're extending the scheme so that, by next January, 50-odd schools in Sunderland will be involved, and the first child from each school to collect all 15 stickers will get a computer. I must stress that, while what we do with the kids is very important, we're still police officers at the end of the day - tracking drug dealers, dealing with all types of crime and antisocial behaviour. Primarily, we're here to police the area. We're not here to police the school, but the benefits of our presence at Silksworth are all too apparent. The real test will be when these children are 13, 14, 15. I'd be amazed if they weren't understanding and supportive of the police. I won't necessarily be here to reap the rewards, but, as other forces across the country - and they are already showing a great interest - adopt our model, I think there'll be a real change in society.