Detectives were last night preparing to question a 28-year-old man arrested as he tried to board a ferry at Dover after two young women were found murdered in a flat in Birmingham.The man was seized yesterday morning while apparently attempting to escape the country 12 hours after the bodies of the women, in their early 20s, were discovered.Detective Chief Superintendent Dave Mirfield, of West Midlands police, said more than one weapon, including a bladed instrument, may have been used during the weekend attack on the women, who have not yet been identified.The bodies were discovered on Monday evening when a concierge forced open the flat door after concerns had been expressed by relatives of the women who had not heard from them. The apartment, on the top floor of the Pallisto building, close to the lively city-centre bars and restaurants of Broad Street, was "challenging forensically".It is understood a party had taken place at the flat at the weekend, which could be central to the police investigation. Mirfield urged anyone who had seen anything to come forward."Police attended at 5.40pm yesterday [Monday] and found the bodies of two young girls. Clearly they were the victims of a sustained attack."The scene has been secured and one man is in custody after he was arrested as he attempted to board a ferry. We believe he has a connection to these two girls."There are signs of ransacking. However, there does not appear to have been a forced entry to the flat."He said the 28-year-old Birmingham man, who was arrested by Kent police at 6.30am yesterday, had been known to the women, although they were not related. Police had suspicions "quite early on" about him and issued an all-ports alert.The man was being brought back to the West Midlands for questioning. There was a substantial amount of blood inside many of the rooms in the flat, Mirfield said.The wood-clad glass and brick apartments are part of the two-year-old Jupiter Development, close to the socially deprived district of Ladywood. The women's bodies remained in the building yesterday as forensic science teams sealed off and searched the surrounding area for clues. An underground car park was also being searched. Family liaison officers were supporting the relatives of the two women.Superintendent Matthew Ward said: "Although this is a tragic and horrendous crime, at this stage we believe it to be an isolated incident. Members of the Ladywood community can go about their normal business."Extensive searches were taking place yesterday of foliage, the pavements and cars parked next to the flats.The Rev Simon Ramsay, who works at the city's Unitarian church, said there was a "great disparity" between the upmarket apartments and nearby deprived inner-city areas. "We've housing association houses, council houses and people who are living a completely different lifestyle to these people living over this side in luxury apartments."Mark Gordon, 29, who lives nearby, said: "A lot of these apartments are snapped up by landlords who then rent them out."