Scores of murder suspects have been freed on bail after being charged, according to new government figures which yesterday prompted Tory calls for the introduction of tougher bail laws.The demand came after the Ministry of Justice announced last week that in a "snapshot survey" of 455 murder suspects, 60 had been released on bail. The statement, released in response to a Freedom of Information request, said that of 41 people charged with manslaughter, 35 had been released on bail.Nick Herbert, the shadow justice secretary, said the figures showed the need for a change in the law following the case of Garry Weddell, a police inspector who apparently killed his mother-in-law while on bail for the alleged murder of his wife.Herbert said: "After Garry Weddell murdered his mother-in-law while out on bail, the government claimed that it was unusual for bail to be granted to murder suspects. Now we discover the disturbing truth that a large number of people charged with murder were in fact free on bail at that time."Tougher bail laws are needed to ensure that public safety comes first. What happened to the review announced by Gordon Brown, and do the government plan to tighten up the law or not?"The Ministry of Justice said yesterday that the granting of bail was an independent judicial decision. "Courts may withhold bail if they are satisfied that there are substantial grounds for believing that, if released on bail, the defendant would abscond, commit an offence, or interfere with witnesses or otherwise obstruct the course of justice," a spokesman said. "Analysis of court records suggests that in most cases where a murder or manslaughter defendant is granted bail there will have been a period of remand in custody before bail is granted."The new debate over bail came as Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, warned that jails were at "panic stations". She spoke out after the prison population last week rose above the crucial 82,000 mark for the first time."It's very bad," Owers told the Observer. "As you hit each new peak the prison system is bumping against a new crisis. For the last six months we've been looking at a system that moves from panic stations to just about containing crisis. My impression is that the level of incidents in prisons is increasing, an indication of a system operating too near to the knuckle."She warned that prison overcrowding was damaging inmates and prison officers. "Prisoners are getting very frustrated, staff are struggling to survive the day. That's not a good recipe for running prisons. It's a very risky situation."Her remarks prompted the Prison Officers' Association to warn of plunging morale among its members. Colin Moses, the association's chair, told Radio 4's The World This Weekend: "We currently have the lowest morale that we have ever known. We have a situation where Jack Straw [the justice secretary] is asking for £60m budget cuts each year for the next three years when we are facing the biggest crisis in prisons in recent memory."We have overcrowded prisons, we have more violent prisoners than we've ever had, we have more assaults on staff than we have ever had. And we have by the Ministry of Justice total mismanagement. They have known for some time that we are going to hit these numbers. The lack of investment is putting in danger everyone who works in prisons and is serving sentences."Straw told the same programme that he regarded prison officers highly. "I recognise the pressures on them," he said. "I think and believe and hope that we are managing this situation much better than the Conservative administration did in the 1980s and 1990s when there was a very much higher level of industrial disruption. "There were a series of really serious indisciplines by prisoners, and between July and August 1987 Douglas Hurd [then home secretary] had to release 3,500 prisoners just like that."