Tina, 27 Gym orderly, two years into a seven-year sentence for manslaughter, HMP Styal, CheshireI stabbed my abusive partner on the spur of the moment. Prison has saved my life. When I came in, I didn't care if I lived or died. But I've had a lot of help and am now as happy as I can be, given the circumstances. For almost a year and a half I've been working as an orderly in the prison gym for around 48 hours per week.I'm a recovering alcoholic and before coming to prison I didn't look after myself, but exercise has really helped me. When I'm on the treadmill I don't even feel as though I'm in jail. On Monday I worked at the gym all day and in the evening I revised for my exam - I'm training to be a gym instructor. Then I read a book in the bath (I live in a house with 19 women, so we have bathrooms) and was in bed asleep by 10.30. On weeknights I like to get an early night, because the governors and other people high up in the prison often come to work out in the gym in the morning and I like to give a good impression.Male prison officer, 30s High-security unit, HMP Belmarsh, LondonMy shift started at 7.30 this morning. You have a briefing first of all, and then I was a gym officer this morning. That just means the prisoners are allowed to go to the gym, and I monitor the session. Then they go for showers, and we have another session. There's not usually any hostility; I get on with the prisoners quite well, on average. Then there's lunch and a debrief, and after lunch I was on the spur [living quarters ] for the association and exercise period. It starts with exercise - they get an hour in the exercise yard from just after two until just after three - and then they have association time, which is time to clean up their cells, make phone calls to families, friends and solicitors, or play pool, table football, that sort of thing. That lasts until 4.30, which is the start of feeding.One of the things that makes this job different from a lower-security prison would be the sorts of checks we have to do. The frequency of searching, for example. This is a high-risk unit within a high-security prison. Most of them are on remand for Category A offences (importation of class A drugs, firearms offences, murder, terrorism) and have the ability or resources to escape. That's our main concern. People are quite intrigued by the work I do. I don't make a habit of telling people, but when I told my family they were quite shocked, I think.Tessa Lovington, 70 Independent monitor, HMP Onley, WarwickshireAbout 11am, a prisoner threatened to break the chaplain's neck. The chaplain pushed one of the alarms and everybody came running. He was surrounded very quickly. In that sort of case, our job is to observe, which I did - the prisoner was being very bolshie.I spent the rest of the morning dealing with the blue forms that the prisoners put in boxes on each wing. Many are about lost property, especially trainers which seem to cost £500. My job is to investigate these complaints. A lot of the property gets lost in the gym, or when prisoners are transferred. One of the other forms was from a chap who was complaining about having his privileges removed - he had been an enhanced prisoner, which means he is allowed a television in his cell, to associate with other prisoners and to go to work on the prison site, for which he gets paid. But he had these privileges withdrawn for threatening an officer with violence. I looked at his complaint and, I have to say, I thought revoking his privileges was fair and I told him so. There is a lot of violence towards prison officers.Being such an old buzzard, the prisoners don't give me any trouble. They call me madam or your worship - I used to be a magistrate, you see. But whenever we visit the segregated wing, where 15 people are held in solitary confinement, we are always accompanied by a prison officer.Phil Forder, 53 Arts interventions manager, HMP Parc (a private prison)My main role in this job is to deliver a course called The Art of Living, which I put together. It is for groups of prisoners, six at a time, and I've just finished one today with a group on the vulnerable-prisoner unit, who tend to be sex offenders. Today, which was the last day of the course, I brought in a huge piece of paper and had all six men paint one huge painting together in silence.I did have some men who came into the group challenging everything I said just for the sake of it, and one of them stood up at the end, after getting his certifi cate, and said, "I came into this course feeling very negative about it all, but that has changed." I thought, oh wow! That was really nice to hear.Prisoner X, 62 Child-sex offender, HMP Albany, Isle of WightI get up at 5.30am, when the prison is very quiet. It's a good time. I have my first mug of tea and settle down to my Open University assignment on Foucault and Wittgenstein. At seven, an eye appears at the "judas hole", at 7.30 the doors open electronically and the noise begins. Put the Jazz on DAB. Costcutting has replaced cooked breakfast with tea bags, powdered milk, sugar and cereal. Radio 4 news. Lots of banging accompanies the men going to workshops.At nine I start working on my case for the Criminal Cases Review Commission, but my only real chance of justice is if those who lied at my trial develop a conscience. I am not far into 15 years; mostly for things that never happened, more than 20 years ago. After lunch I read for my PhD proposal for the Open University (the use of language in false convictions). At 5.30 I try to go to the gym, but there aren't enough staff to open it so I play pool, badly, for an hour. At 6.30 we're locked up. I do a bit more work on my OU assignnment and my novel. I watch Question Time on TV, then go to bed.Raymond Lewis, 49 Prisoner, three weeks from release, HMP Blantyre House, KentIt's not been too bad today. I work as a cook in a care home, so I had to get up at 5.30am to get the house bus into Staplehurst, followed by the 7am bus to Maidstone. Then I start work at 7.40, and finish at four in the afternoon, before getting the buses back to the prison. It's all I've been doing for the past year: work and sleep, work and sleep.I was in the merchant navy for 30 years, though, and that was harder than this. I'm only cooking for 24, when I used to cook for 300 on the boat. And because I was in the navy all those years, I was also already institutionalised, so it has been quite easy for me being in prison. I just look at it like doing a long trip on a boat. I was sentenced to seven years for importation of ecstasy, and I'm going to be released on parole after three and a half on March 27. To be honest, I don't know where the time's gone . But that's because I've kept myself busy. On my first day out, I shall buy a couple of things for my flat. I've got a TV, but I want to get a little DVD player too, because there's about 300 movies I want to watch.Helen Rinaldi, 45 Governor, HMP Elmley, Isle of SheppeyI have a 50-minute drive in to work, and then I make a cup of tea and we have a quick operational briefing. Many mornings we'll have prisoner adjudications - if there's been a fight, or someone's failed a drugs test, or been found in possession of something they shouldn't have. It's like a miniature court hearing, except that makes it sound a bit grand. The prisoner can call witnesses, and the burden of proof is the same as in the criminal court. If you're involved in a fight, for example, you might find yourself having a period of cellular confinement - two or three days, maybe a week. You'd like these things to be a rarity, but when you're packing 985 guys into a relatively small space, there are going to be tensions. My main focus today is a high-profile visit we've got tomorrow, including two people from Lord Carter's prison service review. He's trying to see if there are any more efficiencies that can be squeezed out of us, so we're keen the visit goes well, and that we don't give them the impression we're lavishly funded! Because we're not.When I tell people I work in a prison they always say, "Oh, which female prison do you work in?" I don't want to sound sexist, but I think being a woman in a male prison is an advantage. The average prisoner will be fairly respectful of a female, and women staff as a whole bring a nice balance to what's historically been quite a macho culture.Deaths in custody are up there among the worst parts of the job. You feel so much for the family and the relatives but it has a massive impact on the staff as well.Fran Jane, 31 Serving 9½ years for drug importation, HMP Styal, CheshireI woke up at 7.30, had a shower, got dressed, made my breakfast. We have roll call around eight each morning but the officers don't tend to wake us up; I have my own alarm clock.I live in a prison house - in many ways it's like a large house, except that the front door is locked. There are 16 of us. You are free to move inside the house, and we all have keys to our own rooms. There are also cells elsewhere in the prison; the women doing detox or serving time for violent crime tend to go there. This month I'll have done two years.Every morning I do admin support for the distance-learning coordinator. We went round to see the inmates in their units, checked how they were getting on with their courses, that kind of thing. I came back for lunch about 11.45 and then in the afternoon went to the "calm centre", where I work as an orderly. The girls can come there for education, computers, arts and crafts, to have their hair washed. I earn £10 a week for my morning job and £10 for the afternoon - that's quite a high wage in here. I'm trying to put away £10 a week for when I get out.Our house is self catering, and there are three of us who take it in turns to cook; it was my turn so I did baked potatoes with fried chicken, onion and tomato. Most people have groups of a few people who they eat with each night, though at Christmas we all cooked a big meal together. It's a nice unit to be on; in general we all get on pretty well. I finished dinner about 5.15 and got ready for the gym. I go every day, mainly cardio stuff, because I'm trying to lose some weight.I got home about 7.20, had a shower and did my studies - I'm doing an NVQ in business administration. I used to run a nightclub before I came to prison, so I do have some management skills, which really come in useful. With a criminal record I know it's going to be hard when I get out, so it's important to keep learning. My family live in Devon now, so they don't get up to see me very often, maybe once every four or five months. I do miss them, miss my freedom. But in general this is a nice jail. I could be in a cell somewhere.Laura Kerr, 55 Probation officer, SheffieldI arrived at the office at 9am, and in theory my first appointment was at 9.30. That person didn't turn up, however. Once I'd discussed his situation with a manager, it was decided that we ought to go ahead and do the necessary paperwork, so I spent the morning doing that, writing reports and risk assessments.The man booked in for 10 did not come either. He is remanded on bail in a probation hostel to protect the victims of his offending. I would have been writing a report on him, but now I just issue a letter saying he's failed to come.Given the pressure of work we're under, when people don't come, sometimes you just think, thank goodness for that, now I can get on with all the other work. I also fielded a lot of telephone calls today, such as one from a social worker who has been working with someone with serious alcohol-abuse issues, compounded by brain damage from a car accident. She was very concerned about the risk he poses to other people and to himself. Then there was a parole clerk from a prison telling me that someone had just been granted parole, which is one of the good bits of news we get every so often.Two of the less serious offenders who have been on probation for about a year now have also done very well, so I'm taking their cases back to court to ask them to revoke the order a bit earlier in recognition of their good progress. I've been extremely busy, which is normal. I haven't mentioned half of the things that I did.Michael Parker, 53  Wing therapist, G-wing (sex offenders), HMP Grendon, BucksI got to work around 7.30am; our first meeting is a handover briefing from the weekend staff at 8.30, but I like to be here early. I am a trained group analyst and the most senior of the therapists on G-wing, working with 40 men, all of whom are sex offenders.At nine each morning we have a community meeting in which the inmates and as many staff as are available discuss the business of the wing, chaired by one of the inmates. One of the men was "winged", which means being held accountable for bad or antisocial behaviour in front of the whole community. It is based on a culture where you look at your behaviour and talk about it and take feedback from the other men and staff.At 11 I had an assessment meeting with one of the men to discuss the targets for his behaviour. The idea is that the man talks about his offence and offending so we can assess whether he genuinely feels any remorse or sadness. The magical phrase is victim empathy. It's a hard one to come by.I had lunch with colleagues, then a couple of business and administrative meetings. At three we had a sensitivity meeting, in which we meet as a staff team to deal with issues. In this role you are exposed to things that are often quite disturbing, which is tough. I left about 4.30 after handing over to the evening staff. I drove home, cooked and chatted to my family. I don't want to say too much about my home life; I never talk about where I live. I once had an ex-inmate appearing at the end of my road and I never like to give too much away. I was in bed about 10.30.The thing about working with sex offenders, even if our work doesn't massively reduce people's risk of reoffending, it does give us a real window of understanding into why it happens. A lot of these people have undergone the most horrific experiences themselves. They find, oddly, that to do the same to other people takes away the pain.Juliet Lyon, 58  Director, Prison Reform TrustAt 8.30am I finished two reports to charitable trusts outlining PRT achievements over the year. Our campaign with the Guardian managed to put a halt to transporting pregnant women prisoners in "sweat boxes". We also helped to save the post of chief inspector of prisons, which the government had proposed scrapping.At 9.30 our press and policy meeting concentrated on two big events this week: the publication in Best and the Mirror of our SmartJustice opinion poll showing strong public support for community sentences for women; and Wednesday's launch by Baroness Quin in the Lords of No One Knows. This is PRT's new programme of work with Mencap on learning disability and learning difficulty - a forgotten world in prison.At 11 I attended the Butler Trust award ceremony and learned about excellent work done against the odds. After a brief meeting with the chair of the Prison Officers' Association, I went to the International Centre for Prison Studies to discuss our joint project on young offenders.Back to the office at about 4.45 for a meeting with our advice and information service. Today's calls were from prisoners trying to transfer closer to home, and families concerned about mentally ill relatives in prison. At 5.30 our head of policy and I discussed plans to alert people to the massive use of new indeterminate public protection sentences and progress on corporate manslaughter. It's extraordinary that government is trying to omit deaths in custody from the bill.In the evening, I was a panellist on the Anita Anand show on Five Live.Eddie Gilfoyle, 45 Serving 15th year of a life sentence for murdering his wife (he has always maintained his innocence), HMP Buckley Hall, RochdaleI woke at seven to the same thought I have had each morning for almost 15 years - will today bring news that will overturn my wrongful conviction? Get up, make the bed, put the kettle on and shave while waiting for it to boil. Get unlocked at half seven, more coffee, then work at 8.30. I am now teaching industrial cleaning to other prisoners, having got all the qualifications. Return to cell at 11.30, get banged up till dinner at 12.20. Try phoning my solicitor but can't get through. Will ask a pal to pass message on.Work in the afternoon, more bang-up, then tea and association. Phone friends and family, have a shower before last bang-up at 8.45. Read a paper, watch TV.People who know I'm innocent ask me what the worst part of this is. I tell them: "My wife and unborn child died and I can't grieve for them until I'm free ... and it might be too late then." Apart from that, it's the waiting.Alan Meyer, 41 Catering manager, HMP CardiffBy the time I arrive at 8am, four or five of my staff and 23 prisoners are already prepping lunch. We have to feed 750 prisoners. The breakfast packs containing cereal and bread for toast are sent out to the seven wings the night before. Until six months ago, I was working in the forces and there isn't much difference. Here they get five choices for dinner; in the forces they get seven. For example, tonight they will get a choice of pork or vegetable chow mein, tuna pasta bake, tuna pasta and mayonnaise salad and a sandwich pack containing an egg roll, crisps and chocolate biscuit. For lunch, they get three hot choices - faggots and gravy, vegetable pizza and spicy sausage pizza. We also do some halal meals, as there are about 70 Muslim prisoners. They order the day before so we can cook the right amounts. The menu rotates weekly for a few months before changing. Tuna pasta bake is the most popular because most of them work out in the gym and want the protein.I spend most of the morning doing orders and checking stock levels. Lunch for the prisoners is from 11.30-12. We then have an hour for our lunch before it all starts again at 1.30. The officers usually go outside for lunch - they don't have a canteen here any more. I usually leave at five, half an hour before the prisoners have their dinner.I have a budget of pounds 1.79-pounds 1.84 per prisoner per day. It is very tight. We buy in things such as pizza bases, but we do make food fresh. We send out surveys every few months to see what prisoners want. Basically, they want chips every day and hate mashed potato. It takes three prisoners all morning to peel the nine sacks of potatoes we need. That's one of the best jobs in the kitchen, bar preparing the meat. But everyone starts with two weeks of "pan bashing" [washing up] so I can see if I want them working in the kitchen. Security is always an issue. All the knives are locked in a cabinet. They each have a tag and whoever is using them has to have the tag number by them at all times.