Police have called on two feuding crime families in east Manchester to end the dispute that allegedly led to two police officers being shot dead in Tameside earlier this week.Nicola Hughes, 23, and Fiona Bone, 32, died while responding to a report of a burglary at Abbey Gardens, on the Hattersley estate in Mottram, on Tuesday morning. A grenade was also used in the attack. A postmortem examination revealed both officers died of gunshot wounds.On Thursday, assistant chief constable Garry Shewan said it would be wrong to portray Manchester as being in the middle of a gang war. "This would overestimate what we have got here: clearly two feuding criminal families," he said.He went on to declare that "enough is enough", and that Tuesday was a watershed moment that had to be the end. Over the last decade, gun crime has fallen in Manchester year on year. The force has witnessed the largest reduction in gun crime anywhere in the UK.Shewan said a 22-year-old man in Netherley, Merseyside, had been arrested under the Communications Act 2003 after an offensive Facebook page was set up following the officers' deaths.The arrest was thought to be linked to a Facebook page that appeared to praise Dale Cregan, the 29-year-old man police arrested on suspicion of four murders, for his alleged involvement in the killings. It also suggested he should be awarded an OBE. The 22-year-old was in police custody for questioning.Meanwhile, the Greater Manchester chief constable, Sir Peter Fahy, visited the scene where the officers were killed. He stood in silence alongside colleagues, heads bowed, among the bouquets left in tribute. He described them as "two wonderful human beings, two very dedicated officers". He said earlier in the day he had spoken to both their families and recounted some of the kindness they had shown to victims of crime. And he said the families were grateful for the "massive show of public support".Fahy said: "The two families are just overwhelmed by the huge support they are getting right across the country." Officers were in discussion with the Crown Prosecution Service about charges, he added, and he expected that there would be developments in the next 24 hours.Speaking earlier, his colleague Shewan said: "In the last 48 hours, since the tragic death of our two officers, there has been a huge amount of support from the public through our website and on social media. However, there are also a small number of people who have posted malicious and upsetting comments online, causing outrage to many people and prompting them to ask us what we are doing to deal with these people."He said police took reports of this nature very seriously, as demonstrated by the arrest. Shewan said they had become "very aware of the derogatory and offensive comments", but the overwhelming public reaction on social media remained one of support.An online book of condolence has attracted many thousands of messages from wellwishers and a Facebook page set up by the force has been viewed by more than a million people.On Wednesday night a member of the public set up a Facebook page offering cover so Greater Manchester police officers could attend the funerals of Bone and Hughes. Shewan said he could not thank the public of Greater Manchester and the UK enough for their support and good wishes since Tuesday.It was, he added, the worst day in his policing career, and the force was still coming to terms with "the loss of two wonderful, first-class young officers". He said it would do everything it could to rid Greater Manchester of organised crime .An unnamed source claimed in the Manchester Evening News that if you knew the right people, you could pick up grenades for as little as £50.But the force dismissed claims that the gun used in the shootings had been supplied by Steven Greenoe, an American who was jailed in the US for importing gun components to the UK. Greenoe, of Raleigh, North Carolina, bought the guns in the US, broke them up and hid them in his luggage before travelling to the north-west of England on commercial flights.Earlier, the family and friends of Hughes and Bone paid tribute to their dedication and commitment to the job. A minute's silence was held in honour of the officers on Wednesday.Theresa May, the home secretary, described the murders as "savage acts of pure brutality", and said the victims were "brave and talented officers who were going about their everyday duties, doing what they do, day in, day out, protecting the public, fighting crime".Cregan, 29, handed himself in at a police station and was being questioned in connection with four murders: those of Hughes and Bone, and of Mark Short, 23, killed in May, and his father, David, 46, killed on 10 August.Police were granted more time to question Cregan, giving them until 8am this morning before he must be charged or released.On Wednesday, a 28-year-old man, Stephen Garvey, who lives on the estate was arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder. He was being questioned by police.The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, who visited the estate, said: "I think obviously they have been very shocked and frightened by what has happened, but I think the strong feeling everyone has now is that they want justice to be done for the officers who have been killed."The BBC shelved the final episode of its programme Good Cop, scheduled to be shown at 9pm on Thursday on BBC1, because of the deaths.