Police hunting the murderer of 11-year-old Rory Blackhall began distributing 10,000 leaflets yesterday to reassure the traumatised West Lothian community of Livingston that efforts are being made to keep them safe.They acknowledge fears prompted by the murder of Rory, who was found asphyxiated close to his school on Sunday, but tell of the high-visibility patrols since. They also urge youngsters not to speak to strangers, to tell someone where they are going at all times and to telephone an adult when they get there.Those riding on buses are advised to sit next to the driver, and youngsters are being asked to keep their mobile phones topped up in case of emergencies.Henry Watters, the deputy divisional commander of Lothian and Borders police, tells parents: "Your children should be encouraged to take some responsibility and think about their own personal and road safety."Officers also staged a reconstruction of Rory's last known moments, in the hope of finding new witnesses a week after he went missing. Officers parked a black Vauxhall car at the bus stop where he was dropped off by his mother to walk to the nearby Meldrum primary school.After the reconstruction, police revealed that a blond woman who was in the area at the time had now been traced. Chief Inspector Jim Thompson said: "A male cyclist who saw a boy matching Rory's description walking in a direction opposite from Meldrum primary school also saw a blond woman at a nearby bus stop. She has come forward."He said police had received 650 calls to a hotline. "We still need that vital clue. We've used the same type of car as used by Rory's mum and we are hoping that it will jog someone's memory of having seen a similar car stopping at the bus stop. There is a 76-hour gap from the time he was dropped off to the time his body was found."Mr Thompson said the letter to parents was precautionary. "Children are intuitive when it comes to strangers, but unfortunately they sometimes display a fearlessness often beyond their abilities. They need their parents to give them clear guidance on how to stay safe, and we are doing all we can to support them during this very difficult time."More than 300 children and staff at Meldrum primary attended two special assemblies yesterday, led by the acting headteacher, Barbara Gregor, and the Rev Graham Smith, the school chaplain.Ms Gregor said: "It was comforting to come together in a caring, sharing way at this very sad time. We have received cards and messages from all over the country and overseas, and they have been a great comfort. It gives a clear message to the children that it is all right to feel sad."