On Thursday Bernard Madoff, the architect of what prosecutors now say was a $65bn Ponzi scheme, agreed to plead guilty to 11 criminal charges. Lawyers say Madoff, who is now 70, will probably spend the rest of his life in jail.We should be grateful to Bernie Madoff. Seriously. I say that because he provides a target for our bloodthirst, our search for someone who can be held responsible for the overnight evaporation of what was supposed to be billions of dollars in wealth. There's something satisfying about the story of a villain and his victims when, in the end, the villain gets punished. Unfortunately, we may never get this same satisfaction out of the search to punish those who are responsible for the wreckage of the global financial system.There are some unanswered questions about Madoff, such as who else might have been involved, but at its heart, his story is one of straightforward fraud. Madoff stole innocent people's money. He knows he's a bad guy who did bad things. "I am actually grateful for this opportunity to publicly comment about my crimes, for which I am deeply sorry and ashamed," he told US district judge Denny Chin. "I cannot adequately express how sorry I am for my crimes." Those at the packed hearing even got to see Madoff in handcuffs!In contrast, a lot of what feels like white collar crime is actually "white collar how the hell isn't this a crime". That's because the rules and regulations of business and accounting leave large gaps between ethical wrongdoing and criminal actions. In the case of Enron, much of what shocked the public about the company was perfectly legal. Enron excelled at using the rules in order to camouflage reality.Nor is there always a clear separation between villains and victims. Enron wouldn't have been possible without the Wall Street bankers who devised and executed some of its most insanely creative financial manoeuvres. Nor would it have been possible if the analysts at Wall Street firms and credit-rating agencies had done their jobs and actually analysed the business - and it wouldn't have happened without the suspension of disbelief on the part of investors.There's also usually a hefty dose of self-delusion involved in white-collar crime. People try to cover up a minor problem, only to have the problem - and the cover-up - snowball. They convince themselves that the inevitable bad end won't come. Neither Jeffrey Skilling nor Kenneth Lay actually wanted to bankrupt Enron. There are echoes of this in the Madoff scandal. In Madoff's plea, he said: "When I began the Ponzi scheme, I believed it would end shortly and I would be able to extricate myself and clients from the scheme. This proved to be difficult and ultimately impossible." What distinguishes Madoff is that he actually said he's sorry. Often, the self-delusion continues even after the day of reckoning, resulting in people who did bad things but will never believe they did, and will never say they're sorry.Much like in the Enron affair, the main causes of the current crisis are jaw-dropping to lay people, but they aren't crimes. That mortgages were given to people who couldn't afford them isn't illegal. That sub-prime mortgages could be repackaged into top-rated securities is sheer insanity - but it, too, isn't illegal. That Wall Street chiefs and traders could make enormous sums based on profits that turned out to be largely illusory is sickening. But again, it isn't illegal.As for self-delusion, well, there was plenty of that at work, and there still is. People believed the good times wouldn't end. There have been a few instances of people who have come forward to say they aren't proud of their actions, but my guess is we won't see much accepting of accountability or many Madoff-like apologies.This isn't to say there won't be people who get public hangings. Ralph Cioffi, who ran the ill-fated Bear Stearns hedge funds, has been indicted for allegedly misrepresenting the health of the funds to investors. Merrill Lynch is being investigated by Andrew Cuomo, the New York attorney general, for allegedly misleading Congress about the timing of its bonuses. The FBI is after other cases. But Cioffi's fund didn't cause the collapse of the entire system, and holding Merrill Lynch accountable won't make the bonuses that other Wall Streeters earned go away. There will be no truly satisfying resolution, because too many of the actors in this terrible drama - from homeowners who took out mortgages they couldn't afford to mortgage companies who sold those products, to Wall Street firms who packaged them up, to the rating agencies who slapped "ultra-safe" on them, to investors who bought securities they couldn't analyse, to regulators who looked the other way - have dirty hands.As a culture, we don't know how to deal well with blame that should be broadly distributed, instead of narrowly targeted. So try to find some satisfaction in Bernie Madoff's prison sentence. It's a nice reminder that sometimes, there is one really bad guy, and sometimes, he does get punished.• Bethany McLean is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair and co-author of The Smartest Guys in the Room bethany.mclean@gmail.com