A 10-month-old boy was stabbed to death in his pushchair yesterday in a busy baker's shop in Carlisle.His 20-year-old mother had run into Greggs bakery after she was pursued by a man with a knife who began yelling at her as she pushed her son through the city centre shortly after 11am. The unnamed boy was stabbed in the neck. He died in Cumberland Infirmary a short while later. His mother sustained lacerations to her wrist as she attempted to prevent the attack. Cumbria police said it was not a random attack and a 39-year-old man, from the Carlisle area, has been arrested in connection with the incident. He was seen by eyewitnesses, covered in blood and running towards the Rickergate police station. The manageress of the Shelter charity shop, next door to Greggs, said: "I heard screaming outside and thought it was kids fooling about, but when I went outside a man came out of the shop covered in blood." "He then came back outside and ran off towards the police station. Police arrived and were talking to the mother who was hysterical. "There were a few customers in the shop at the time and all of them were covered in blood. One customer came out of the shop and he was in tears, he was covered from head to toe in blood." A pensioner who was walking past the shop, said: "I just saw two people outside Greggs. One was bending down over the other - he had a knife. It was pretty quiet at the time but when the screaming started lots of people ran into the shop." Scotch Street is the main pedestrianised shopping area in Carlisle. A volunteer at a nearby Save the Children charity shop said: "It was really horrific. I still can't really believe it happened. I heard the commotion outside, I didn't know what was happening. "But when I stepped out, the ambulance was there and the poor little boy was being carried into it wrapped in blankets. He looked very poorly and injured." A spokesman for Cumbria police said: "The child has sustained a wound to its neck. He was taken to hospital where he was certified dead. "At just after 11.15am, we received a report that a child had been stabbed. A woman aged 20 and from Carlisle was also taken to hospital with cuts to her wrist, but her condition is not believed to be life-threatening." He said a 39-year-old local man had been arrested. Police were unable to confirm his relationship to the woman and baby. Ahmet Arabi, 37, the proprietor of the nearby Eden Valley fish restaurant, said he looked out of a window after hearing a noise and saw the man holding a knife. "The next minute the woman's hands were bleeding and she was holding the baby boy - he was hurt. "I saw her lying on the pavement with blood pouring from her wrist. I couldn't see the little boy at first. "Then he was being carried past the window - he looked very bad. It's very shocking. This is a quiet area and we have no problems." He said he later saw someone put flowers down where it happened and it made him fear the worst. He had to send his staff home as they were so upset. Floral tributes were laid out side the baker's shop and several police officers stood outside while forensic teams examined the area. Peter Woodall, spokesman for Greggs, said staff at the shop were extremely shocked. "There were three members of staff in the shop and they are clearly upset," he said. "We will be supporting them in any way we can and they are receiving counselling." He said the shop would remain closed while forensic tests were being carried out. "At the time of the incident, the shop would have been very busy," he added. The shop will remain closed today as a mark of respect.