Two decisions by Jack Straw last week, two men kept in prison. Ronnie Biggs and Michael Shields were not linked, nor did the cases raise similar issues, but the timing made it only too easy to portray Straw as hard-hearted and cynical, his decisions based on political grounds and/or the desire to court the public.Inevitably, a more famous decision of Straw's was thrown in. When home secretary in 1999, he allowed General Pinochet to escape international justice by sending him back to Chile on the grounds that he was mentally unfit to stand trial; he made a miraculous recovery the moment he left these shores. So Straw is depicted as the man who freed a dictator responsible for thousands of deaths, but keeps incarcerated an old, dying man, and an innocent football supporter wrongly convicted by a Bulgarian court.But not so fast. It isn't that easy. I find Straw and the government he served culpable in the Pinochet case. Either they were really taken in by the unconvincing medical evidence about his health, or they were cynically willing to use any excuse to get him out of Britain, where he was troublesome and costly. But I don't see that the decision was taken to attract votes.Was the refusal to release Ronnie Biggs a ploy to persuade the public that the government was not soft on criminals, even if his crime was committed half a century ago? I would be prepared to accept that argument, but for the fact that the Biggs case had not provoked great anger and controversy, even among the usual bunch of passionate protesters.I don't believe Straw's decision was about the government's image. His explanation raised two age-old questions: what is sufficient punishment, and how far a prisoner's apparent lack of genuine repentance should be taken into account. (Biggs's half-hearted expression of regret did not convince.) Straw had strong personal views on both, and a shortage of compassion. I disagree totally with his decision, but I acquit him of cynicism.His ruling on Michael Shields raised different issues. Straw's reason for not granting him a pardon was that he was not completely satisfied of Shields's innocence – the test for pardoning.On a strictly legal analysis, there is not enough hard evidence to show that another man committed the assault in question. Probability is not enough.The fact that the Bulgarian criminal justice system did not conduct itself, in our view, satisfactorily, is irrelevant. But Straw had another concern. Had he pardoned Shields, it would have sent a message to other states with which we have arrangements to send prisoners convicted in their courts back to Britain to serve their prison sentences: "Don't". The British will find a way of releasing them prematurely. I'm exaggerating slightly, but it's not entirely fanciful to consider that pardoning Shields or someone in his position could lead to many Brits languishing in foreign jails instead of being brought home. Straw was fortunate in finding an evidential reason for his refusal of a pardon.