The picture is attractive – pale skin, a drift of blonde hair, a wide, imperfect smile that makes her approachable and young, fragile – but it is very ordinary, too; a picture to be flipped past, privately, in an album, perhaps with an answering smile – do you remember that day? Yet it has joined a small handful of photographs that tell a particular story of late 20th-century Britain because of the shadows it contains: a mental picture of that same woman stabbed at random, in daylight, 49 times, of her small son circling her body, crying, 'Mummy, mummy, wake up!'  Of him finding a scrap of paper, and placing it carefully on her forehead, like a sticking plaster.Those shadows are compounded by a police investigation that lasted for the next 15 years, and, we now know, by its terrible consequences: Colin Stagg spent only a year on remand, but for the next decade was assumed guilty, harassed, denied work, received death threats. It was felt to be important to keep watching the man who seemed so likely to have killed Nickell, to prevent him from doing it again – but in the end it had the opposite effect: the police were so intent on Stagg that Robert Napper, who was already responsible for two rapes and two attempted rapes, went on to stab and mutilate Samantha Bissett and rape her four-year-old daughter, eventually killing both. (It is now thought Napper sexually assaulted more than 80 women, the so-called Green Chain rapes). The police photographer who attended the Bissett crime scene had to be signed off work for two years.Nickell's partner André Hanscombe was among those who believed Stagg was probably guilty – he was quoted saying that he was 99% sure of it – and so it was news when, earlier this week, Stagg released a letter Hanscombe had written to him, apologising for the ordeal he had endured,  "and any part that I might have had personally to make it worse". Hanscombe happened to be in London, formally submitting a complaint to the Independent Police Complaints Commission and the Metropolitan Police Authority; so persuasive was the list of omissions and failings that it took only three days for the IPCC to announce they were undertaking an independent investigation.Why was he so sure Stagg had done it? "Human beings were looking me in the eyes behind closed doors and saying, 'This person did it,'" says Hanscombe. He is an intense presence, restless, very fast-talking, in long paragraphs that loop and tumble over themselves in their need to get their point across. Because this has been his world, his preoccupation, for so long, and because he is so keen not to simplify issues, or blame unnecessarily, it's tricky, initially, to tune in – at first it seems all trees and no wood. But he answers most, even quite private questions fully, thoughtfully; even when snagging on a phrase or a memory brings him close to tears, he insists on finishing, on doing it properly. It is striking that, for all the darkness and pain, he is also a happy presence, quick and funny and charming.  "Let's not throw everything out the window, and with hindsight say, 'Yeah, it was obvious,' because it's not obvious. I mean, we're talking about an incredible set of coincidences – two people wearing the same clothes, same description, identified by adult witnesses, in the same place at the same time. That is still valid – flawed, but valid."Although he was, and is, very aware of how much pressure the police were under to make a conviction, in the days and months after the murder (he says which he was told of on the phone, against all protocol; that no car turned up to collect him, so he made his own way to a station – where, because of his distress, and because, they said, such news was never delivered on the phone, the officers decided he was mad) he trusted the police to do their job. "My first commitment was to Rachel, and to what she would have wanted. And what she would have wanted was for her son to grow up" – for a moment, blindsided, he has to stop speaking – "excuse me, in the best way possible. And to do that he couldn't have a bitter and angry father who was distracted, with his mind on other things."And so he did what he was told, and co-operated as far as he was able, and especially after Stagg was charged, and then, after a judge threw out evidence obtained in a honey-trap operation, released, tried to forget that the man who he thought had killed Nickell was free – free to be recognised by his son Alex at any point, free to kill again. How did that feel? "My son was in danger. And I was in danger, because I didn't know how I might react if we ever came face to face." The latter possibility was exacerbated by the police. Stagg was not the first innocent man in the frame: a family friend was initially investigated, and arrested, on the basis that he had a supposedly unhealthy interest in Nickell, and because, when Hanscombe and Alex bumped into him accidentally, police observed that the boy seemed to squirm away from him in fear."I didn't see it," says Hanscombe, "because he was also in terror from the press mob that we had been protected from for the last 25-30 minutes." But detectives were sure they had their man ("I've had officers saying, 'You know, in my day, we wouldn't have had problems, we'd be hanging him out the window by his thumbs and this would all be over by now,'" says Hanscombe), and this incident was added to "days of being prompted and probed and drip-fed bits of information"  – and then, one day, with "'Well, if you had a gun in your hand, would you pull the trigger?' And luckily I had the clarity of mind – another person, or the same person, just with slightly more pressure put upon me, may have responded in a different way." What did you say? "I think I said, 'That's your job, to find that kind of conviction. It's not mine.'"How did he feel when Napper pleaded guilty, last December? "Numb. Numb." Then, circling back later, "almost as bad as the day that Rachel was killed. Because it was what I didn't really want to know, but now was the time to find out." But it wasn't just that. It was also discovering, from psychiatric reports, that police had been failing to investigate Napper ever since his mother told them he had confessed to raping a woman in Plumstead, south London, in 1989; that if they had followed things up properly, neither Nickell nor Bissett and her daughter need have died. Although Met assistant commissioner John Yates says he apologised in person on the eve of Napper's confession (Hanscombe says he was so overwhelmed  he can't remember), there has been no public apology to Nickell's family. Hanscombe says that isn't what matters to him. What matters is that a system that could allow such a chain of events is looked at closely, and proper checks and balances, a disinterested transparency, introduced; that a Met culture which finds it hard to admit it might be wrong (a situation familiar, now, from the De Menezes and Tomlinson affairs) is altered, and that the public is aware of how many lives were damaged by the many mistakes – not just Bissett and her daughter, or the many women involved in the Green Chain, but also everyone connected to them, and especially their families – which is why Hanscombe is so willing to say what it did to him.Hanscombe's parents, a Zimbabwean  teacher and English secretary, split up when he was five. For a while he lived with his mother, but when he was nine they swapped places – she moved out, and his father, who he describes as a distant disciplinarian and who he is no longer in touch with, moved in. "It certainly helped me understand a lot of things that Alex has been through that I quite possibly wouldn't have done. Alex lost his mother when he was three and in many ways I lost my mother when I was nine." One of the things he understood was that children like Alex "don't need more toys, they don't need more love and affection, they don't need more hugs, they need stability. They need something firm underneath them, and that is a routine – sleep, play, food, entertainment, love and affection, all in the right dose and all at the right time." In an impact statement Nickell's parents read to the court in December, they mentioned that they had lost contact with their grandson. Hanscombe says that this was unintentional – it was just that the Nickells could not seem to abide by his rules and after one visit to his grandparents Alex returned upset. Hanscombe said, in Alex's presence, that Nickell's mother could not be alone with him; the reply, he says, was that "they'd have nothing to do with Alex until he was 16. I'd send them pictures and videos, and after that he was their flesh and blood, and if he wanted he could have direct contact with him then." He says that Alex has never wanted to, even though it emerged, in one of Hanscombe's few interviews some years ago, that they sent frequent postcards. "For years Alex picked them up and threw them in the bin." He didn't open gifts, either. Do you regret how things turned out? The answer is a quick whisper. "Yeah."From both sets of grandparents he also learned that secrets kept and explanations withheld were corrosive, so he has tried to give Alex "the opportunity to say whatever he likes – and also to not say what is too difficult for him to say. I'm attempting to walk the fine line between giving him permission and not intruding." Alex hasn't said much, apparently, although when he was much younger, "I asked could he see her and everything that happened and he said: 'Yes.' He wasn't upset. I tried to hide my emotions. I didn't push."Hanscombe, a semi-professional tennis player, and Rachel, who did some part-time modelling, met at Richmond swimming baths: he was babysitting his two young half-brothers and horsing about with friends, she was a lifeguard. Initially he thought she was about 15 and offered her an ice cream; when he discovered she was 19 he asked her out for a drink. "It wasn't love at first sight. It was more like love at second sight. We just talked and talked for hours. And I'd never had this experience in my life, where you just clicked with someone on every single level." When she became pregnant, partway through a degree in English and history, they felt the news was a disaster, but she researched, read, and thought, and they decided to keep the baby. They had to work hard to make ends meet, but apart from a creeping depression on her part, about, Hanscombe says, things in her childhood, and an unexplained fear of being attacked from behind – "a phobia, the way some people are scared of heights, or spiders" – they were happy.Becoming a single father would have been hard enough; becoming one in such circumstances drove him to consider killing himself. "We had the press on our doorstep. We had fighting between members of the family, we had the detectives doing their job, well or badly or whatever,  we had social workers in the house, we had cameras in the house, microphones." And at the centre of it all a small boy who "cried himself awake, for months and months and months. And it was just hell. Agony. I was totally traumatised, just from hearing him cry. I couldn't stand it. It just put me on the edge of breakdown, every single time."His solution was to leave the country – to France, initially, and then, when the press tracked them down, to a Mediterranean country he refuses to name. Even there they had only three years before they were doorstepped again — just as Alex was beginning to walk to school on his own. On the face of it Hanscombe has a contradictory attitude to privacy:  he is understandably furious with the media's treatment of him, yet some years after Nickell's death he wrote a book full of private details, and has begun another one (which the Met, worried he would prejudice their investigations, persuaded him not to publish). He needed the money, and somewhere to put his anger; the second book sought to answer the question he was asked over and over again.His gamble, he says, paid off: surrounded by people who knew nothing of his history, and thus treated him normally, Alex became a joyous, if headstrong, child who differed from others only in his reaction to physical hurt and blood. (When Hanscombe cut his leg in a biking accident, he became hysterical, convinced his father was going to die.) Alex's teenage years were different. There was all the usual stuff – such as trouble at school – but also "he became, clearly, much more angry with me. Because one of the big pressures – again, life is all paradoxes – was the fact that I'd taken him somewhere where everyone was healthy and happy and living in a kind of fairy story with their grandparents and brothers and sisters and cousins – it became even more apparent to him that he didn't have those things." Now 20, he is much calmer.Hanscombe had his own frustrations, too. It was "years and years and years" before even he attempted to date, and although "I do believe you can fall in love again, it just didn't happen, in my case." Partly, he thinks, "it comes back to our closure issue. It's very difficult to be with someone when this is hanging over your head like a bombshell, and somebody else is still in your life and in your heart." It's one reason why he wants this investigation to happen, even if it prolongs his involvement with the case a while longer. "It's so very important to me to get to a stage where I can say, OK, everything I can do, has been done. I've done everything I wish to do towards respecting Rachel's wishes, and setting an example for Alex, and using the voice [I have] to try and make sure that all those other people who have been affected, that their suffering hasn't been in vain. And then I can say, it is now time."Which is not to say that there haven't been "many, many, many great moments.  The intensity of seeking a recovery from these events has meant that we've seen sunsets, we've swum in the sea, we've skied and ridden bikes and laughed and met wonderful people. The happiest moments for me were when I saw Alex in the company of other children, laughing, with absolutely no preoccupations, and I've been fortunate enough to see that many times. You know – in a way it's like a second chance. I've learnt to enjoy life through my son, in a way I thought I never would do."