Mark the Ripp-Off, otherwise known as Mark Palmer-Edgecumbe, is the man behind a new museum in Cable Street in the East End of London. Except he isn’t. He’s behind a lurid new tourist attraction in Cable Street in the East End of London, which is dedicated to exploiting an already much-cultivated fascination with the unknown killer of five women between 1888 and 1891.Jack the Ripper museum architect says he was 'duped' over change of plans The least one can expect of an institution calling itself a “museum”, I like to think, is for it to have some sort of fact somewhere in its name. This joint is called the Jack the Ripper Museum, from which one can deduce that it exists to commemorate a crude and ugly piece of invented nomenclature that surely has already proved itself to be quite enduring enough, thank you very much. Certainly, someone killed five women, with extreme savagery. But that person was not Jack the Ripper. Jack the Ripper is an invented villain, a figure of gothic melodrama who serves the purpose of making five murdered women also seem like inventions, mere accessories after the fiction.Mark the Ripp-Off says otherwise. He seems to be suggesting that that the name of the “museum” is a clever ploy, aimed at reeling in customers. They will turn up expecting gory details about a misogynistic serial eviscerator, only to discover – delightedly, I’m sure – that the “museum” instead offers a meditation on the condition of women in the East End of London during the Victorian era, using the situation of the women who were slaughtered as a “starting point”. They’ll all be stampeding past the promised crime-scene tableau to get to that stuff, I’m sure. Because people who think they’re fascinated by Jack the Ripper are all deluded, blissfully unaware that what they really crave is that light-bulb moment when they realise that the social, political and economic history of women is what truly floats their boat. Good luck with that, Mark the Ripp-Off.In fact, I don’t have to remind Palmer-Edgecumbe that women’s social history is indeed a hard sell. This chap’s initial ambition, it seems, had been to open such a museum, until he suddenly realised, late in the day, that something a little more piquant was going to be needed if he was to start attracting punters. He told Tower Hamlets council, when he was seeking planning permission to change the premises from residential to commercial use, that he intended to open “the only dedicated resource in the East End to women’s history”. The permission was granted in October 2014. He told the architect who designed the building’s conversion and extension, Andrew Waugh, the same thing. Indeed, Waugh, under the impression that he’d landed a prestigious job, offered Palmer-Edgecumbe the best possible deal for his services, unaware that his designs would eventually house a crass shrine to junk culture at its most tasteless and prurient. Waugh seems to have found out what the building was going to be used for in the same way as everyone else, with the unveiling of the building’s fascia.How the Jack the Ripper industry distorts London's East End The story is that Mark the Ripp-Off was as much in the dark about the future development of his vision as Waugh, Tower Hamlets council or the local residents had been. It seems that, somewhere between October 2014 and now, Palmer-Edgecumbe realised that while women’s history was old hat – barely interesting to women, let alone people – someone really ought to be educating the public about sadly neglected pseudo-historical criminal, Jack the Ripper. Cynics might suggest he had intended to open such a business all along. But there’s little to back up such scurrilous accusations.All Guardian reporters have managed to sniff out is that Mark the Ripp-Off first became interested in opening such an “attraction” in 2008, when he was involved in an exhibition about the serial killer at the Museum of London Docklands. He declared this on the museum’s website, although the page has now been taken down. Palmer-Edgecumbe was also listed as a co-director of a company called Jack the Ripper Museum (London) Limited in 2012. That company was wound up in March 2014. He’s listed as the co-director of another company, 5S Visual Supplies limited, which was incorporated in October 2013 and changed its name to Jack the Ripper Museum (London) Limited in May 2014. So, all pretty thin gruel, eh? How can I get away with calling this man Mark the Ripp-Off at all?Well, because he’s ripping people off by encouraging them to believe that Jack the Ripper is a subject worthy of a museum, even without all the other shenanigans that surround its creation. He’s ripping people off by encouraging them to believe that those murders were the product of one time and one place, a singular historical curiosity, somehow connected to the way that those women lived, rather than connected only to the mentality of their killer, of whom we know nothing, museum-worthy or otherwise. He’s ripping people off by cloaking his venture in the garb of social usefulness and historical significance, when he’s really just the latest person exploiting a series of vile crimes that has already been richly exploited.No ‘solving’ of the Jack the Ripper case will satisfy our obsession | Julia Laite Does this guy think it’s funny to say that he’s going to open a museum celebrating women’s history, then actually open one celebrating a notorious killer of women? Does he think it’s funny that people are up in arms against his new project, having believed that something more serious and useful was going to be sited in the area instead? Somehow, either of these is not as bad as imagining that he really believes that his exploitation of the murder of women isn’t part of the problem, but instead is part of the solution.How can anyone think that the way to understand the social existence of women is by speculating about why some unknown killer annihilated them, or detailing how their situations made them vulnerable to him? The women this man killed were real, as real as the murdered women we see in news headlines to this day. They deserve to be remembered with respect, not with self-interested manipulations and underhand deals.