Detectives have been given more time to question three men arrested on suspicion of kidnap after a missing 10-year-old boy, who disappeared during a trip to a local shops, was allegedly discovered in an empty flat with his hands bound.West Midlands police launched an investigation after the youngster, from Oldbury was reported missing by a family member at 9.15am on Sunday when he failed to return home after visiting a nearby newsagents.Police officers and members of the public carried out a search of the area for more than two hours before a neighbour spotted the boy inside a property – about 270 metres from his home – at around 11.30am.He was uninjured and returned to his family shortly after the ordeal. Police have until 11pm on Tuesday to either release or charge the three men.Local resident Jean Masih, 49, told reporters she saw the boy at the window of the property before raising the alarm. She described the moment she found the terrified youngster. "I looked up to this window and saw … there wrapped in a sheet. He said, 'Help me, I've been kidnapped'. I ran back to get the police and they came and picked him out of the ground floor window."I've been really shaken up by it all. His arms looked like they were bound and he has a white sheet wrapped around his body. I asked who was in the house and he said, 'No one, the man has gone and left me,"' she said.On Monday night the ground floor flat was being searched by forensic officers while detectives were granted additional time to question the suspects.Officers are expected to interview the boy in the coming days to establish how he came to be at the flat. Another neighbour said the flat was decorated like a Santa's grotto with tinsel, a tree and presents inside.A police spokesman said: "Three men, a 49-year-old, a 30-year-old and a 48-year-old, all from the local area, have been arrested on suspicion of kidnap and are currently being questioned by detectives. We are working closely with the family and local community."The spokesman refused to comment on suggestions that the boy had his hands bound or that he was tied to a radiator.Some parents say their children have been too scared to sleep in their beds since the incident. A woman, who did not want to be named, said: "People are very angry about what happened. We want the truth about that building. My little girl has not slept a wink since it happened. This news has scared the children stiff."Residents said they are planning to have a community meeting on Thursday to discuss the block of flats and demand to have it closed down. West Midlands police said flats where the boy was found are owned by a housing association. A police spokesman said the boy was now in the care of his family. "We are working closely with the family and the local community through our local neighbourhood teams," he added.Labour councillor Steven Frear, for the Bristnall ward, said: "As a local I know it as a place where low-risk ex-cons are usually housed. People living there would usually have a history of some sort – but the housing association's policy is that this does not include sex offenders."Sandwell council's chief executive, Jan Britton, said : "We will be working closely with the police as required and would not comment further on any ongoing investigation."