Men who knowingly have sex with trafficked prostitutes will be prosecuted for rape as part of a police crackdown, the Guardian has learned.A drive to cut the demand for trafficked prostitutes will target punters by urging them to report any contacts they have with trafficked women and making it clear that action will be taken against any who have sex in the knowledge that the woman has been trafficked.The crackdown will be publicised with advertisements in "lads' magazines" and on websites used by men who buy sex. There is growing concern that young men are beginning to frequent brothels as casually as they would a pub or bar. The initiative is part of Operation Pentameter, involving police, the immigration service, National Criminal Intelligence Service, Foreign Office and representatives from the travel industry.Men who visit a sauna, brothel or flat where foreign prostitutes are working will be being asked to ensure the women are there of their own free will before they pay. If they suspect a woman is working against her will, they will be urged to contact Crimestoppers and provide police with the establishment's location.South Yorkshire deputy chief constable Grahame Maxwell, Pentameter's programme director, said: "Trafficked women are being forced to work through fear and intimidation. Men who act as their clients risk being charged with rape."Investigations in Hampshire, Northumbria, south Wales, West Yorkshire, Strathclyde, Lancashire and Greater Manchester have led to human trafficking charges since Pentameter began at the end of February. On Monday a United Nations report warned that most countries are now affected by human trafficking, as either one of the 127 countries of origin, the 98 transit nations or the 137 destinations most favoured by traffickers.Activists say that women trafficked into the UK are likely to be "internally trafficked" between towns and cities. In its report, Trafficking In Persons, Global Patterns, the UN rates the UK as "high" on the list of destinations favoured by traffickers, with Australia, Canada, France, Spain and Switzerland. Countries rated "very high" include Belgium, Germany, Italy and the US. Among the countries most regularly targeted for victims are Albania, Belarus, China, Moldova, Russia and Thailand. However, the UN warns that the fight against trafficking is being hampered by a lack of accurate data and because many countries are in denial about it.British ministers have been criticised for failing to sign the Council of Europe convention on human trafficking. A Home Office spokesman said: "We too want to see widespread action to tackle this abhorrent trade at source. The UK has not yet signed the convention but that doesn't mean that we won't sign it."· Trafficking In Persons, Global Patterns: www.unodc.org