He has one or two things on his plate, has Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner.There is the immediate threat of terrorist attacks in the capital; the problem of gun crime and street violence; the controversy over jailing burglars - oh yes, and the most sensational, complicated, long running inquiry in British history into charges of collusion by the security forces in murders in Northern Ireland. There is probably nobody in public life, except the prime minister, with more pressing on his shoulders than Sir John. A large, confident, impassioned man, who knows that he is going to be in the centre of the news for much of the year, he has been threatened, abused and, he tells me, burgled too. "Only once," he says, "and once was enough, I can tell you that. It was just a feeling of your whole identity being affected. It was an obscene feeling. "Someone had trashed our house, looked through my wife's personal things, my personal things, my children's. There's no way on God's earth that we're not going to not take burglary as a high priority and arrest as many burglars as we can." The excited syntax reveals a frustration that his message of success on burglary is not getting through, perhaps because of the mixed messages coming from politicians and the judiciary. "We have the lowest amount of burglaries in London for 23 years - do not change the tack we've got on burglary - if that's locking people up for first, second or third offences, learn from our success." So what about the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, and the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, suggesting first-time burglars should not be imprisoned? Was he saying that locking them up for first offences did work? "In certain cases, absolutely. I'm not saying in all cases. But what we have found is that, when someone is arrested for burglary, it's never usually their first offence; and that's why we've concentrated on repeat burglary." He furiously denies claims that 55% of burglaries are not going to be investigated in future: "Every single burglary will be attended by a police officer who is trained to assess." But he insists that success in tackling burglary does require people to be locked up. "There comes a stage when society has had enough, and they need respite from people who are going around affecting their lives - in robbery, burglary, and street crime in particular. "We need respite from these people's activity. I'm sorry, they have to be put into prison. We know they can't commit further burglaries, street crimes, murders, gun crime, in prison; and I'm afraid if you look at the American experience, where they have millions of people locked away, they say prison works." This of course is the line used by Michael Howard when the Tories were in power, much mocked by Labour then. So does Sir John believe prison works? "In a lot of cases, I know prison works. You know, I've been in this job for 41 years, I've locked a lot of people away. Some of these people have come out - two in particular are friends, and they will tell you they never ever wanted to go back into prison." Although he professes great respect for Lord Woolf, it is a fairly blunt message for the lord chief justice. On gun crime, too, Sir John argues that the "pretty aggressive tactics" deployed by the Met in what they call Operation Trident are succeeding. Most of the weapons were used in black-on-black shootings in the warfare between rival drugs gangs. Eighteen months ago, the detection rate in London was 18%. Thanks to more aggressive tactics, and the vocal support of black leaders in the capital such as Lee Jasper and Trevor Phillips, "we now have - and this needs to be pushed out - a detection rate on black-on-black murders of 70%. It's an extraordinary success." He is though, clearly, tussling with the question of more armed police officers. At present, 85% of officers are not authorised to carry a gun. "But we're going to have to watch this very carefully" he says, because he is not prepared to have the public threatened with firearms and the police unable to protect them. "I'm equally not prepared to see officers go out and put themselves in very dangerous situations without being able to respond in the way that we know they need to." Sir John worries about changing "the culture of policing", but he clearly believes the situation is becoming untenable. Yet it is not all bad news. Sir John will not pre-empt the announcement of next week's crime figures for London, but assures me he is going to meet all his targets for crime reduction. The police have been helped by public support, and with the terrorist threats, gun crime and the rest of it, they need more: "I'm going to be making a plea in the next couple of weeks, 'come behind the police, support the police'." That terrorist threat is not to be underestimated, he warns sternly. "There is a very real threat - anyone who thinks there is not, needs to understand that there is." The Met, with the anti-terrorist branch, the special branch and MI5, "have been working flat out in terms of trying to identify where al-Qaida have their cells in London". Relations between the police and MI5 were "the best we've ever had in the history of these dealings". "Of course to have a totally 100% picture would be difficult, but I can assure you we have a far better view now of what is taking place in this country in relation to international terrorism than we have ever had, and we are piling on the pressure." They were still looking for "amounts of ricin which is out there somewhere", but Sir John says he is "absolutely confident" that they were on the trail of the main terrorists involved. Asked what more the government should be doing, he says "I think we've got to look at our borders, and I think we've got to perhaps look at the way we allow people to come in and out of the country", although he says this must be balanced with other rights. Interestingly, though, Sir John is very insistent that the terrorist threat is not simply from the Islamic groups, but from Northern Ireland too. "We should not ignore the threat from Northern Ireland, I'm afraid." The last Irish bombings, outside the BBC in Ealing, and the attack on the MI6 building with a grenade-launcher, happened only 18 months ago."It has not gone away. I can tell you, it has not gone away." It is hardly surprising that Northern Ireland is very high on Sir John's personal agenda. This spring, after a delay of many months, his latest report into allegations of widespread collusion between the security forces and loyalist killers, will be published, and it sounds as though it will be sensational. Sir John has been pursuing this for 13 years. He has had personal threats made against him. His inquiry headquarters in Belfast were burned down in 1990. He calls it "the longest and most complex criminal investigation that has ever been undertaken in this country". "I think this inquiry has been the most difficult thing I have ever done in my life, and I've been around for a while. I think I could say that some of the things that we found have surprised me. I've been in policing for too long to be shocked by very much, quite frankly, but I can assure you that we have got to the very heart of what's gone on, and it's taken a long time to do." It has been delayed not, as some republican groups believe, because of political interference, but because Sir John and his officers have recently discovered "a massive amount of documentation I had never seen before". "We are pursuing the Finucane [Pat Finucane, the lawyer gunned down by an assassin at point-blank range in front of his family] murder vigorously. We have interviewed several members of the army. We recently interviewed a brigadier for a lengthy period of time. There are other leads coming in now that we never knew about." Sir John is convinced that this is a criminal enquiry. Alongside the general recommendations to help Hugh Orde, the new chief constable of Northern Ireland, "we'll be going to the director of public prosecutions for Northern Ireland on the possible criminal charges to be made in relation to this case." It has taken so long because, says Sir John, "of the secrecy and the fact that we are investigating not just the army, and what was the RUC, but MI5 activity as well. It goes to the very heart of what takes place in terms of intelligence gathering in this country". He makes it clear he will not flinch from investigating even those at the very top: "We will go where the evidence takes us." These words may send a shiver of fear through the security services, with whom Sir John must also work closely on today's terrorist threat. He has faced, he says, "an immense amount of difficulty and obstruction" and has feared at times, both for his career "and, perhaps, one's safety". "But that's policing, and policing is all about that; it's not for the faint-hearted." As we wind up, I say that it sounds like something out of a James Bond movie. "Various eminent people have been to look at the inquiry," says Sir John, "and I'll just say one thing that they have said: if you read what has happened in this inquiry in a book, you would not believe it. And I can confirm that."The CVBorn October 21 1942, Kent. Married, three childrenEducation St Lawrence College, Ramsgate Leicester UniversitySouthampton UniversityCareer Joined Metropolitan police 1962DS police staff college 1983-84 Assistant chief constable, Hampshire 1986-89Deputy chief constable, Cambridgeshire 1989-91 Chief constable, Northumbria 1991-96 HM inspector of constabulary 1996-98 Deputy commissioner, Metropolitan police 1998-99 Commissioner, Metropolitan police 2000- Chairman, Stevens inquiry (NI inquiry into alleged collusion between paramilitary and security forces) 1989-92 Acpo crime prevention sub-committee 1994 Headed inquiry into alleged malpractice at national criminal intelligence service 1995-95 Stevens' 3, NI inquiry into collusion, 1999HighHas been commended on 27 occasions for outstanding ability or courageLow Saying it was not in public interest to prosecute commander Brian Paddick for allowing cannabis to be smoked in his home but ruling out a return to his job in LambethThe following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Thursday January 23 2003In our interview with the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, a panel headed The CV contained the following item: "Low: Saying it was not in the public interest to prosecute commander Brian Paddick for allowing cannabis to be smoked in his home but ruling out a return to his job in Lambeth."  This could be taken to mean that the commissioner made the decision not to prosecute and that while Commander Paddick was guilty of the offence, it was not in the public interest to prosecute. Commander Paddick has always denied, and continues to deny, that he allowed cannabis to be smoked in his home. It was the crown prosecution service that decided it was not in the public interest to prosecute, and such behaviour has never been proved in any court or tribunal.