The record level of prison overcrowding has led to a "real risk" of serious disturbances on the scale of the Strangeways riots, the most senior judge in England and Wales warned today.The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, who in 1991 carried out a ground-breaking report into the riots at the Manchester prison, urged ministers, judges and magistrates to take heed of the dangers and jail fewer offenders. "If the population of the prisons continues to rise in the way that it has been there is a real risk of a repetition of the sort of events which took place over 10 years ago and which my report was designed to make beyond possibility of repetition," he told a London conference on law and order.At the time of the Strangeways report the prison population stood at 44,000, but Lord Woolf said it now stood at 71,000 and was predicted to reach 83,000 by 2008. Warning that conditions in some jails were "no longer tolerable", he said: "I cannot believe we can contemplate with equanimity a prison population of that size. "It is my firm belief that we should send to prison fewer offenders than we do currently. "This does not mean that serious offenders should not be imprisoned. They should be imprisoned and in some cases the sentences need to be severe. "The prison service has the ability to provide excellent education and other training designed to confront re-offending. "But it has immense difficulty in making an appropriate contribution in its present overcrowded state." Lord Woolf said he hoped that his report on Strangeways would have prevented further disturbances on the scale of the riots. He said: "But we would be foolish if we did not recognise the danger of repetition now that some of the causes of those disturbances have reappeared."The home secretary, David Blunkett, has twice joined Lord Woolf in appealing to judges and magistrates to send people to jail only when it is absolutely necessary. A survey by the Prison Reform Trust last week showed that prison boards of visitors, who act as independent local watchdogs, were also concerned that overcrowding would lead to disorder. Lord Woolf also raised the controversial suggestion that prosecutors should play an "enhanced role" in the sentencing of convicted offenders. He discussed developing a formal new code on sentencing which prosecutors could then refer to in court before judges made a final decision on punishment. "An issue which I consider should be addressed is whether the crown prosecution service should play an enhanced role in relation to sentencing," said the lord chief justice. "I would not like to see the practice - as in some parts of the USA - of the prosecution demanding a particular sentence. "However, when we have a developed sentencing code the prosecution could appropriately draw the judge's attention to the relevant provisions of that code. "In addition, it is my view that prosecutors should be more proactive in ensuring that all relevant matters in relation to sentence are before the judge."