Several senior police officers will have chuckled today as they watched Jack Straw announce new initiatives to combat muggings and mobile phone robberies.Just before Christmas Sir John Stevens, the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, led the calls for phone manufacturers to "design out crime", pointing to surges in mobile robberies in certain areas of London.The evidence for the rise was patchy - and still is. Officers thought the increase might be down to school bullying being displaced from the playground, but no proper analysis had been done.When the British Crime Survey was published last year, the Home Office statistician Paul Wiles warned the 14% increase in robberies had to be taken with a pinch of salt.Because robberies are rare, the rise was down entirely to reports by 15 teenagers who were mugged for money and their phones. He argued 15 muggings nationwide was not an epidemic.But someone with influence at the Home Office was obviously listening to Sir John. In fact, the commissioner, whose political skills were questioned before he took over from Sir Paul Condon, has proved quite deft.He demands more officers. The Home Office gives him more officers. He says police morale low is low. He gets more money for recruits. Sir John wants mobile phone manufacturers brought to book. Of course, says Mr Straw.And with a General Election looming, and law and order likely to be the key battleground, expect more helpful suggestions from chief constables in the coming months.Then watch the unedifying spectacle of the government and the opposition competing over who will do more to satisfy them."No party ever won a General Election arguing for less officers on the beat," said one senior officer at Scotland Yard.There is, however, a graver issue over mobile phones which needs to be addressed far more urgently than street muggings.Nearly every major police investigation requires mobile phone analysis - to track calls between criminals, to pinpoint where villains have been. But manufacturers are under no obligation to help the police. They do help, but it is not considered a priority.Hundreds of inquiries end up grinding to a halt, waiting in turn. For most detectives, that is a far more pressing, and frustrating, issue. Special report Policing crimeRelated storiesJuly 4 2000: Theft of mobile phones by children fuelling rise in robbery, says StrawDecember 29 2000: Police appeal on mobile phone theftsUseful linksThe Home Office crime reduction siteThe government's crime reduction strategy, January 2000The federation of the electronics industryThe Big Issue