Tony Blair spent yesterday paying his second visit to British troops serving in Iraq but there is an urgent domestic problem he needs to address on his return: prisons. The home secretary is due to respond in the next few days to the Carter report, a joint Downing Street, Treasury and Home Office review of the current crisis in our prison system. It has delayed the necessary major investment needed in community programmes by at least 18 months, but the chancellor insisted on the review before extra resources were released.Shamefully, the review - which leaks suggest has come to the right conclusions - is not going to be published by the Home Office. This is not just a regressive step, but is counter productive. The more the limitations of prisons are documented, the higher the chance of enrolling public support for change. Mr Blair should insist on publication. The grim trends, set out by our home affairs editor last week following the release of the 2002 criminal statistics, show prison numbers continuing to rise inexorably. The love affair of the courts with custody remains unabated. The latest figures show the annual numbers being sent to prison doubled in the last decade - from 58,000 to 116,000, the highest number for 75 years. Remember, this increase coincides with the largest and most sustained drop in crime for 100 years. Both burglary and car crime - two of the biggest categories - dropped by more than a third in the same decade. The change in the average prison population is equally dramatic. It took four decades for the prison population to increase by 11,000 between 1951 and 1991. In the last decade it has climbed by 25,000 to stand at 74,000. The reasons for this rise are twofold: a disproportionate use of prison; and a disproportionate increase in length of sentences. The rate of imprisonment in crown court convictions has risen from 44% to 63% in a decade; in magistrates' courts it has tripled from 5% to 15%. Average sentence lengths for burglary in the same decade has increased by over 50%. The cost has been phenomenal. Some 18,500 extra places - including 13 new prisons - since 1996 cost £1.5bn to build. But ministers cannot build themselves out of a sentencing problem. Overcrowding still reached a record height, with 90 out of 138 prisons exceeding their limits. The cost of keeping the extra 25,000 inside is running at £35,000 per inmate per year. It is not in the chancellor's interests to dawdle over change. Carter, according to leaks, takes the same view. It suggested the huge increase in prison numbers was "unlikely to have an impact" on crime. It warned that last year's criminal justice bill, now an act, could lead to a further rise in imprisonment. It wanted prison to be reserved for serious and dangerous offenders, with less serious but persistent offenders diverted to better-designed community programmes, and low-risk offenders cautioned or fined. Since the premature abandonment of the unit fine system in the early 1990s, the use of fines has fallen from 45% to 28% of rulings. The new youth justice system has demonstrated how such a model could work. True, as we report on the front page today, not everything is running smoothly. Too little is being done about education for the small proportion in custody. But the youth justice board has shown that intensive supervision and surveillance can work in the community. Similarly, you should not need to go to prison to receive drug treatment. The board has rightly exposed the shamefully large variations in sentencing patterns between courts. It has also campaigned to stop sending young people to custody for a short, sharp shock: it disrupts lives and is less effective in changing behaviour. If all this works for goslings, why not apply it to the geese too.