Does Simon Jenkins read any of the languages of the European countries he holds up as models (Blame the police? It's all we know in feral, feudal Britain 30 September)? In Germany three weeks ago feral yobs kicked to death a man on the S-bahn in Munich. Just before, racist yobs were setting cars on fire in immigrant districts in north German cities. The French are currently looking for a woman kidnapped in broad daylight and street violence is more in evidence in France than Britain.His argument that local mayors prevent antisocial behaviour would be laughed at across the Channel. There are good arguments for breaking down centralised Britain, but when Labour offered the north-east regional government it was rejected by a vicious Tory and press campaign.The concepts of duty, responsibility, respect, thrift and local solidarity have disappeared. But the liberal-left despise these values, while the right buys itself out of these problems by moving to posher districts or sending their kids to private schools. I support Sir Simon's views that we need more, not less elected politicians but given the current hatred of any elected person, he and I are in a minority of two.Denis MacShane MPLab, Rotherham• Simon Jenkins's analysis of the way in which local responsibility for maintaining civil order and behaviour has been eroded is spot-on. The promotion of cultural fragmentation under the guise of "celebrating diversity", flexible work patterns, and the proliferation of quangos are among the many tectonic causes that lie behind the tragedy of the Pilkington deaths and many other instances of antisocial behaviour. The erosion of local government and community self-governance can be laid at the door of the Thatcher, Major and Blair/Brown governments.Police and teachers are increasingly having to fill a political and social vacuum left by politicians, parents and social agencies. However, the biggest space is left by the fact that citizens themselves no longer feel supported or free to intervene or condemn in instances of antisocial behaviour in their own street. The interests of the offender too often seem to have a higher priority than the civil liberties of the offended. We do not want vigilantism, but a key concern is less that the policeman at our door is having to assume wider responsibility for antisocial behaviour than that he may be about to arrest us for trying to do the same!Richard HooperOswaldtwistle, Lancashire• Simon Jenkins says local politicians are recognised in Germany by about 80% of their population. I would love to know the source of this. My own (non-scientific) poll, carried out today in Berlin, suggests a figure not very different from the 20% recognition rate recorded in Britain. There was recently a local councillor in Bavaria, nicknamed "Schütteln [handshake] George" who had a recognition rate of about 90%, but he was the exception that proved the rule.Paul HewitsonBerlin, Germany• If someone attacked my home and the police failed to respond quickly, the attackers would be introduced to my .455 Webley and the effects of unjacketed, pre-Geneva convention rounds as delivered by a still-good marksman. There was a time – with a much lower crime rate in the UK – when citizens could protect the castle of their homes with pistols or a 12-bore shotgun.James PawlakWest Allis, Wisconsin, US• The Pilkington case highlights how families with disabled children can face stigma and prejudice every day. Contact a Family research found that almost 70% of families with disabled children felt that understanding and acceptance of disability from their community was poor. People working in frontline services – police, social services and health – should be trained to understand and recognise the pressures that families with disabled children are under. This would help them to prioritise services to protect these often vulnerable families and avoid a repeat of such a tragic case.Srabani SenChief executive, Contact a Family