Simon Jenkins is absolutely right (Let's get tough on crime. First, stop locking people up, November 30) about the conspiracy to imprison. But the future looks even more bleak. The government is about to abolish probation and set up regional committees of business people to sell off offenders to the lowest bidder. The proposal is for private companies to bid to manage offenders, but they need have no professional qualifications or expertise. Even serious, violent and sex offenders will be managed for commercial gain.At the moment, probation boards include judges and magistrates, but in future they will not be able to participate as they would be complicit in making commercial decisions. So sentencers will know very little and have no responsibility for community sanctions. Ministers say that the voluntary organisations could also run sentences, but this sector currently engages with 2% of community sentences and would never be a big national player. This is simply an attempt to make it look more palatable.The result of the National Offender Management Service experiment will be a hugely bureaucratic new machine that costs the taxpayer a fortune through an increased use of prison and fails to deal with reoffending. This way leads to more crime and more misery. As Simon Jenkins says, any fool can throw thousands of young people into prison and release them, jail-hardened, brutalised and unemployable. That is exactly the what the government is proposing.Frances Crook Director, Howard League for Penal ReformSimon Jenkins is right to highlight "the British judicial disease" - obsessive imprisonment - because ultimately society as a whole suffers, not just offenders and their families. Common sense suggests that the creation of an ever larger criminal underclass in every community will inevitably lead to dire consequences. Current penal practice flies in the face of logic. Britain has shot to the top of the European imprisonment league since Labour took office, yet overall crime is down by 44% since 1995 - a historically unprecedented fall.Labour's worn rhetoric, "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime", has led to courts sending ever-increasing numbers of people to prison in the mistaken belief they are being "tough" on crime. Meanwhile, the failure to deal with the causes of crime is lamentable. Politicians and tabloid newspaper editors, who promulgate punitive views in wilful disregard of the evidence, should be held accountable for their actions.In his first keynote speech on penal policy in September, Charles Clarke refused to set targets for reducing inmate numbers. The home secretary must reconsider that decision. Simon Jenkins says that Britain imprisons more children than any country in Europe and more women than ever in the country's history, and that it is "close to barbaric". It isn't "close" to barbaric. It is barbaric. Pauline Campbell Malpas, Cheshire