An independent review of the investigation into the murder of Damilola Taylor was published today. There were a total of 23 recommendations in relation to the police criminal justice system and the prison service. These are some of the report's key points.· The way the police handled the key prosecution witness, a 14-year-old girl known as "Bromley", was criticised. After several days in court, the judge ruled that Bromley's evidence was indadmissable. The report recommended that the treatment and handling of vulnerable witnesses from investigation through to trial was considered for further refinement and reform.· The veracity of Bromley's evidence should have been better tested ahead of the trial, which would have left the prosecution less vulnerable to it being challenged. · Advice should be forwarded to the crown prosecution service with professional assessments of the reliability of the evidence to be given by a child or vulnerable witness. This is especially desirable in cases where no independent corroboration of the evidence exists. There should also be advice about the ability of a child witness to understand the court process.· Pre-trial hearings should consider all expert evidence of opinion and decide which witnesses can be properly presented to a jury in that capacity. Pre-trial collaboration of expert witnesses should be encouraged. · The attempt by police to gather information on the four defendants while they were on remand in young offenders' institutions was "innovative but poorly resourced". This difficult area needed better guidelines, skills and training. By its nature "cell confession" evidence had an "intrinsic vulnerability" to challenge, the report said. This being the case, the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) should "take the lead" in bringing together the judiciary, counsel, the CPS and the police to enhance its use. · There should have been greater investigation into the alibi that a mobile phone belonging to one of the defendants had been used miles from the scene of the murder. The report said: "More work should have been done to identify and evidence all the options available to the perpetrators of the crime travelling from the scene to a particular location where the defendants in the case were known to have been shortly after."· The report said evidence excluded from the jury in this case probably had a "significant effect on the outcome of the trial". The trial heard conflicting evidence from two experts about whether or not Damilola could have died in an accident with a bottle. The report said: "Evidence of a third professional opinion existed and might have materially helped but it was not put before the court because it was only available to the defence and was unused." The defence should be obliged to reveal to the prosecutor any expert evidence they have obtained, but which they do not propose to use. Greater trust should be given to juries to consider all the evidence that is potentially available.· Where the media or other organisations are considering offering a reward, police should work to ensure they are consulted and an assessment made of the opportunities and threats that it might create. Rewards can create "complex and ambiguous situations", the report said. · The level of police resources in the case was appropriate, but the Met's decision to enhance the resources available to the serious crime groups should be progressed as quickly as possible.· In cases of the greatest difficulty, the best senior investigating officers should be made available.· There is a problem proving exactly where prisoners are at any given time within the prison system. This had a bearing on the case because investigators were unable to show that a conversation could have occurred at the specific time and place stated by a witness, due to the absence of prison records detailing custody and cell location movements.· Trained family liaison officers should be available to a borough's police commanders and to the serious crime groups in numbers which are commensurate with the frequency of murders and other fatal incidents within the command responsibility.· The involvement of independent community advisors in difficult cases is highly desirable and should be part of the national guidelines for murder investigation.