Senior detectives from throughout Britain were today gathering to discuss the death of skydiver Stephen Hilder, including a re-examination of the theory that the army cadet took his own life.Mr Hilder plunged 13,000ft to his death over Hibaldstow airfield, in north Lincolnshire, on July 4 last year. The 20-year-old's main and reserve parachutes had been sabotaged before his jump. The conference, taking place in Scunthorpe, is intended to pool the expertise of officers who are experienced in dealing with complex murder cases. Detectives hope the talks will result in some progress in a case that has so far baffled officers.Detective Superintendent Colin Andrews, who is leading the inquiry into Mr Hilder's death, will brief delegates.A Humberside police spokeswoman stressed that the suicide theory was not new, and was one of many lines of inquiry that would be reassessed."It is a theory we have looked at and never been able to rule out. We have always kept the option open," the spokeswoman said. "Today, when the experts gather, we will look at it again. We have never had a motive for the murder, but the suicide theory is no more prominent or less prominent than it has ever been." Det Supt Andrews said that he had called the meeting because of the unique nature of the inquiry."This case is unprecedented and, because of that, we have not been able to get any input into the inquiry from officers with previous knowledge or experience of any similar job," he said."However, there are a lot of very experienced senior investigating officers across the country who have worked on very complex murder investigations. I want to tap into their skills, knowledge and expertise to see if they can see anything that we have missed." Serving officers and retired experts have been invited to the meeting, along with officers from the national crime faculty, forensic experts, crime profilers and a criminal psychologist. Det Supt Andrews said that Mr Hilder's parents, Paul and Mary, have been made aware of the conference, and continue to be regularly updated by Humberside police. Around 20 officers continue to work full-time on the inquiry.