The family of a man found dead in a swimming pool at the entertainer Michael Barrymore's Essex home in March 2001 claim they have received an apology from the police.A postmortem examination revealed that Stuart Lubbock, 31, had ecstasy, cocaine and alcohol in his bloodstream, and had suffered severe internal injuries suggesting a sexual assault.Essex police's handling of the case led to accusations of incompetence from Lubbock's father, Terry. The reported apology yesterday came on the eve of the publication offindings into the investigation, due to be released today .A report by the Independent Police Complaints Commission is believed to have identified failings in the initial inquiry into Lubbock's death. .Terry Lubbock, 64, said police had visited his Harlow home to personally apologise. "I'm happy in a way," he said. "But it's a hollow apology because the perpetrators of my son's murder are still out there."If the police had done their job properly in the first place I believe people would be in the dock charged with his murder. To that end, it's a hollow apology but I will accept it for what it's worth."Lubbock said the officers were not able to reveal the reasons for their apology ahead of the publication of IPCC report."They haven't told me why they are apologising," he said. "They are hiding behind a shield and that shield is the fact that the IPCC report hasn't come out yet."The IPCC began an inquiry in March 2007 after receiving complaints from Terry Lubbock. He claimed the probe had failed to find how his son died and also accused officers of incompetence.No one has ever been charged in connection with Stuart Lubbock's death. A coroner recorded an open verdict into his death, following an inquest in September 2002.In June 2007, Barrymore, 56, who was living in London at the time, and two other men were arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and murder but later released without charge. Afterwards, Barrymore's lawyer, Henri Brandman, said the star had "always protested his innocence".