The House of Lords did a good thing on Tuesday evening. By a large majority it rejected the government's plans to abolish the chief inspector of prisons, a job which has attracted almost universal praise for its essentialness and efficacy. The Home Office reacted with the depressingly predictable promise to reverse the vote in the Commons. Senior posts are usually killed off because they're no longer needed, or have been shown to be unsuccessful at what they're supposed to do. In this case, the opposite is true. At a time of such trauma and chaos in the prison system, it is more than ever necessary to have a fearless and independent figure of stature, who can visit prisons unannounced, conduct thorough inspections and report back uncompromisingly and publicly.The government now wants to amalgamate the prison inspectorate with four other inspectorates in the criminal justice system, all under a big-chief supremo. The head of prison inspections will be subject to the overall boss. Gone will be the independence of mind and action which characterises the current chief. The government pretends otherwise, but the job will be muted, emasculated, diminished in status. Prisoners will suffer; but so will any reputation we have for running halfway civilised prisons. And for what? A mad-cap idea - I have yet to meet anyone in the criminal justice world who believes in it - that a joined-up integrated system (uniting police, probation, prisons, Crown Prosecution Service and courts administration) will provide solutions to our various dilemmas. It won't. But all is not yet lost. There is a way out which the Commons could take without destroying the government's plans. Merge everything else, but leave the chief inspector of prisons out. It's easily done.· I fear for Lord Phillips, the lord chief justice. The knives of the excitable wing of the media are out. The Sun and Mail have spoken. They've branded him a liberal, soft on crime, out of touch with public feelings, a betrayer of victims of crime. From now on, no speech, no lecture, no judgment of his will remain unscrutinised for signs of laxity towards criminals. His own crime has been to point out that some non-violent criminals are better dealt with by community sentences than imprisonment. Unfortunately, he also offered the enemy ammunition with which to ridicule him, by doing a day's community service. I can understand that this could be seen as a publicity stunt. But even if he hadn't made it easy for them, the Mail-Sun tendency would have found a way of dealing with their new public enemy. So Lord Phillips will go on making sensible speeches; the papers will go on rubbishing him. The saddest thing is that home secretaries and other ministers will be on the side of hysteria, and against good sense.