A second defendant in the Damilola Taylor murder trial at the Old Bailey has been found not guilty on the directions of the judge, who ruled there was no case to answer.The 15-year-old was formally cleared of murder, manslaughter, and assault with intent to rob. Two brothers, both aged 16, remain charged with Damilola's death. They deny involvement.Outside court the boy's solicitor, Sean Longley, read a statement that said: "My client is relieved that justice has been done and he is exonerated of involvement in this terrible and tragic incident."The boy released today was 13 when he was arrested by police during dawn raids on his home in December 2000. Officers found the 4ft 11in youth hiding behind his bed after his mother opened the door of their home in south London. He denied being in Blakes Road, in Peckham, south London, where Damilola was killed on November 27 2000, but lied to police about spending the day at his aunt's home. Two days after Damilola's death, he and two other boys were seen near the stairwell where Damilola collapsed.The youth was charged in June last year, after a 14 year old girl who claimed to have witnessed the killing named him as being with three other boys who surrounded and attacked Damilola. Her evidence was later thrown out of court.The boy was sent to a local authority secure unit and remained in custody until yesterday. The judge had granted him bail until today, when the jury brought back formal not guilty verdicts. The youth, who had frequently rested his head on the court table in front of him during parts of the two-month trial, looked stunned when he first heard he would be freed. His lawyers explained what had happened, while his older sister wept. Today he swapped his usual dark grey suit in court for a dark blue track suit and new white trainers.The judge told the jury he had considered the case against the boy and had decided "as a matter of law" that the only proper verdict was not guilty. He said: "It is agreed by all counsel that I should not as this stage give you my reasons." The jury was sent away until next Wednesday, when the defence in the case of the two brothers is due to begin.On February 28, Mr Justice Hooper directed a 17-year-old youth to be cleared of similar charges after throwing out the 14-year-old girl's evidence.Damilola, 10, died in November 2000 after being stabbed with a broken bottle in the North Peckham Estate, south London.