Tony Blair's plan to cut benefits to the parents of school truants received another setback this morning, as the minister responsible for its implemention refused to endorse the idea.Interviewed on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the work and pensions secretary, Alistair Darling, repeatedly refused to call the concept a "good idea" or give it any backing beyond saying it was worth "consulting" on. He also refused point blank to give a personal view on the prime minister's controversial plan.As the secretary of state with responsibility for the benefits system, his equivocal comments make him the plan's most prominent opponent yet.Labour leftwingers and child poverty campaigners have already lined up to condemn the plan - warning it would penalise already disadvantaged families - after the idea was floated in a series of Sunday newspaper reports. The Conservative leader, Iain Duncan Smith, dismissed the proposal as a cynical "gimmick" by ministers ahead of the English local council elections on Thursday. Mr Blair, meanwhile, was reported to be facing a cabinet rebellion, with the chancellor, Gordon Brown, and the deputy prime minister, John Prescott, also said to be opposed to the idea. When questioned about the scheme yesterday, Mr Prescott was distinctly lukewarm, describing it as no more than a "possibility" and making it clear he had not been involved in the discussions. "I don't know whether it is right or not. We don't know that that is a proposal," he told BBC1's On the Record. "I assume that this must come from a range of areas of possible policies that you could take into account. "We need to tackle the truancy. If that is a possibility of how you might deal with it, I would be prepared to consider it as a possibility." Earlier, however, Downing Street confirmed that idea was being actively considered within government. "We are looking at ways of making sure parents face up to their responsibilities. It is one of a number of ideas knocking around," the spokeswoman said. According to reports, Mr Blair has been the main driving force behind the scheme, raising it twice at meetings of the new street crime action group which he chairs in the Cobra emergency briefing room in the Cabinet Office. The prime minister was said to have been "astonished" by recent figures showing that 80% of truants caught in police sweeps of shopping centres were with an adult, often a parent. If the scheme was implemented, it could cost a family with one child £15.75 a week in lost benefit, rising to £17.55 for a lone parent with one child, plus £10.55 for each additional child. The education secretary, Estelle Morris, who was put up by the government to defend the plan, said that the sanction would only be used against those parents who persistently refused to face up to their responsibilities. "It is that group of parents who persistently almost shrug their shoulders and say: 'I'm not going to send my child to school,"' she told Sky News. "It is very, very important that we target that group because it is those people's children who are some of those making life a misery for everybody else." The Labour MP for Glasgow Pollok, Ian Davidson, suggested that Mr Blair had been badly advised on the proposal, which he suggested would be irrelevant in many cases. "I very much welcome the fact that the government is paying greater attention to youth crime and is also raising the point that parents have responsibilities for their youngsters," he said. "But I do think that the single proposal that's been identified is a bit superficial, it's too soft for some, too hard for others and irrelevant for a large number of children. "For single parents who maybe have four children, four mouths to feed, unless the government's going to instruct them to stop feeding that child then the commitment and obligation will remain and nothing will be done to address the problem," he told BBC Radio Scotland. Mr Davidson said the plan was just one of many being considered by the government, suggesting the child benefit option was "more headline-grabbing" than more costly and longer-term solutions to youth crime. But he added: "The prime minister, I think, has been badly advised on this and whoever gave him this suggestion ought to have their pocket money stopped. "I suspect that some of the advisers haven't actually got the experience of dealing with children in the sort of areas like my own, where clearly a lot of them are out with parental control."