Judges and magistrates in Lancashire, Greater Manchester and Lincolnshire will gain the right to impose so-called weekend jail sentences today as part of a Home Office plan to keep prisoners in work and with their families.Intermittent custody, as the scheme is known formally, is being tried out by at Kirkham prison in Lancashire and Morton Hall jail in Lincolnshire, which houses women offenders. There will be about 40 places available in each of the two prisons in purpose-built units which will operate a seven-day week. The first intakes - all volunteers - are expected to arrive in a few days. From Friday to Sunday the scheme will be available to offenders who are employed and at risk of losing their jobs if a normal short sentence is imposed. The rest of the week the units will be occupied by un employed offenders, who will give up their weekdays but return home at weekends. Serious offenders will not benefit from the new system: only those sentenced to up to six months by the lower courts or one year by crown courts will qualify. A quarter of the sentence will be spent in intermittent custody and the remainder under the close supervision of the probation service, which is now part of the new correctional services. The prisons minister, Paul Goggins, said: "Many offenders serving short sentences lose their jobs and homes, and their families suffer from the separation. Intermittent custody is a punitive sentence, but one that increases the chances of avoiding a return to crime afterwards." Some reformers are concerned that the courts may not use their new powers appropriately, however. Enver Solomon, of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "I view it as a positive move, but what is critical is that intermittent custody must not be used on people who in the past would not have been sent to prison. There needs to be careful guidance and instruction given to the courts." Harry Fletcher, general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, expressed similar doubts. "Using the new option for those who previously would not have gone to prison will raise the prison population. The sentencing tariff in this country is cluttered up enough." But Paul Gallacher, the intermittent custody manager at Kirkham prison, said he was confident the courts would use the option appropriately. "Guidelines have been issued making it clear that the custody threshold must have been reached prior to the option being used," he said. The Kirkham unit will treat prisoners very differently from normal prisons. Although it is an open prison, the unit is a closed environment. Its inmates will have no contact with other prisoners in the jail, who live under what is regarded as a relatively relaxed regime. The whole of the working day and much of the evening will be geared to improving the prisoners' chances of getting employment on their release. Programmes will be designed for individuals. Those requiring basic literacy skills will get intensive tuition and 12 computers will be supplied. There will be little in the way of recreation. Prisoners will make their own way to and from the jail, and will get travel expenses, but no wages. They will be subject to normal prison rules and major breaches of discipline - or lack of cooperation - will result in the offender being taken back to court. The ultimate sanction there will be the immediate imposition of the full sentence served under normal conditions.