Buckfast tonic wine has a reputation in Scotland for being linked to violence – and it has emerged that it was implicated in almost 450 violent crimes over the past three years – but that reputation is rather muddled.Many Buckfast drinkers believe that the drink has unique effects, but the truth is rather more mundane. Buckie is slightly stronger than popular New World red wines, costs roughly the same, and contains caffeine. Its other ingredients are not known to be psychoactive. Drinking a bottle of Buckie is like drinking a bottle of wine and having 2-3 cups of strong coffee, or 3-4 cans of Red Bull. Contrary to popular belief, caffeine does not sober people up: rather you get a more alert drunk. The buzz is supposedly worth paying for, but people enjoy coffee at the end of a hospitable dinner party too. Caffeine and alcohol in moderation do not cause violence.The young Buckie drinker often drinks outside, where interpersonal conflict is more likely. While a glass Buckfast bottle is a potential weapon, many of the often senseless acts of violence associated with very heavy drinking and drug use involve other weapons or simply boots and fists. The most common weapon in Scotland is a blade, not a Buckfast bottle. For violence, the brand of alcohol is irrelevant.There is a tradition, which can be viewed on YouTube, of necking a bottle of Buckie very quickly. Drinking 11 units of alcohol in a few minutes is ill-advised, and doing this without caffeine (or another stimulant) is likely to make the drinker unsteady, legless or unconscious, making violence unlikely. Caffeine may help the drunk to keep going, despite being highly intoxicated and mentally impaired. The drunk will have difficulty reading the facial expressions and body language of others and may see threats where none exist; they may not realise that their own behaviour is loud, threatening and offensive, and may not think through the consequences of their violent actions. Vodka and Red Bull can reportedly have similar effects, and any alcohol plus caffeine in excess could too.Much more worryingly, Buckfast is among the alcoholic drinks that are commonly mixed with benzodiazepines. Mixing alcohol and valium (or any benzodiazepine) leads to extreme intoxication, but with the person ambulant. On this mixture, people can have no awareness of what they are doing – feeling "invisible" – no thought for the consequences and no memory the morning after, so they cannot learn from their mistakes. Sometimes the only knowledge the offender or the victim has of an extreme assault against a friend is the CCTV footage. These problems seem specific to benzodiazepines and alcohol, but are not unique to Buckfast.The "exposure" of Buckfast is likely to attract more young people who are relatively socially excluded, often ill-educated and under-occupied and prone to violence while intoxicated. Some are proud to accept labels such as "ned" (in Scotland) and "chav" (in England). Buckfast may be a symbol of "neddishness", but attacking the symbol will not resolve the complex underlying social problems that cause violence. The media and policymakers should address those problems rather than demonising a specific drink. Alcohol is too cheap relative to what young people can afford, and as a nation the "moderate" majority drink more than recommended safe limits. When the norm is excessive, then the extreme drinking that young people sometimes enjoy too often involves risk, misadventure and violence.