A woman who packed seven teenagers into her small car - including some in the boot - before crashing and killing four people was jailed for two years yesterday.Angela Dublin, 46, a nurse from Headington in Oxford, pleaded guilty to four counts of causing death by dangerous driving. The charges follow a birthday outing for her son Anton, 13, who was seriously injured in the accident.Three of his friends, Josh Bartlett, Liam Hastings and Marshall Haynes, all 13, were killed, along with Howard Hillsdon, 21, a trainee teacher caught in the four-car pile-up on May 28 last year. Dublin, who appeared in court on crutches, was also injured, as was Mr Hillsdon's passenger.Mr Justice Crane was told only one boy had been wearing a seatbelt when Dublin lost control of her Citroen Xsara, and at least one boy, possibly two, were in the boot of the car. The boys had spent the day paintballing as a birthday treat for Anton, supervised by Dublin's estranged husband, Egbert. After paintballing they went back to Dublin's house, before going out for dinner. The court heard Dublin did not wait for her husband to return to help take the boys to the restaurant, but crammed them into her own car instead.A witness recalled seeing the boys laughing, joking and making "childish gestures" through the windows when the car stopped at traffic lights on the Oxford bypass. As Dublin drove off, she was seen changing lanes "suddenly and without indicating" at speed.It was then that she lost control of her car, the court heard. It shot across the road, hitting Mr Hillsdon's car. Both vehicles were sent spinning and each hit another car, and a motorcyclist was knocked off his bike. All of the boys except Jake Proper, who was wearing a seatbelt in the front passenger seat, were thrown on the road.Both Dublin and 13-year-old Jake had to be cut from the vehicle. The other two boys, Aiden Wood, 13, and Connor Hunt, 12, were also injured.Dublin sat with her head bowed and her eyes closed during sentencing. Her barrister, Frank Burton, said that she "unequivocally accepts her responsibility for her fatal error" and wished to apologise to the bereaved families. "She knows that nothing she can say and nothing she can do will ease their pain but she expressed her sincere condolences to the various families and friends for their losses."Like the bereaved, her thoughts over the last year have always been with the victims and she knows as part of this tragedy she changed the lives of all close families and friends and she knows that she has shattered them," he said.Mr Burton appealed to the judge to consider a suspended sentence, because of the "exceptional circumstances" of Dublin's physical and psychological injuries, and her need to care for her son.But Mr Justice Crane rejected this, saying: "I accept that a custodial sentence will tend to make more difficult your further treatment and convalescence [but] ... in my judgment it would not be appropriate to suspend the sentence."After sentencing, the father of Marshall Haynes shouted: "It's an insult. Our boy's rotting in a coffin." Another women, related to one of the victims, said simply: "It's bollocks."Later the family of Jake Proper, who suffered serious injuries in the crash, paid tribute to his recovery. In a short statement his parents, Colette and Antony Proper, said: "Jake has shown incredible courage and strength and has amazed us with his ongoing recovery ... Our thoughts will always be with Liam, Josh, Marshall and Howard."In addition to the two years to run concurrently on each count, Dublin was disqualified from driving for six years and will have to take an extended driving test.