Campaigning journalism. Ah, what a noble calling. And what a thrilling effect those words conjure up, especially for journalists' self-image as valiants-for-truth untainted and undeflected by an otherwise corrupt society. But not for me. When I hear the words I count the spoons.The latest instalment of the Sunday Telegraph's current "Make Britain Safe" campaign yesterday consisted of a front page splash under the headline "Homicides soar by a quarter under Labour". Since 1997, the article insisted, the number of homicide victims has averaged 737 per year. In the period from 1990 to 1996, however, the average was 601."The figures deal a further blow to Tony Blair's reputation on law and order," the Telegraph thundered (and this in a news story, but let that pass), "after he came to office pledging to be 'tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime.'"Powerful stuff. Or it might be it was true. In fact, neither the figures themselves nor the inference that Labour is responsible for these rises stand up to scrutiny.Take the figures. The Sunday Telegraph figures are not actually new - so it's debatable whether they can really sustain a front-page splash that appears to be news. They are assembled from published Home Office data and, in particular, from a written parliamentary answer to Iain Wright MP, published on June 29.Nor do the homicide figures given to Mr Wright support the claim of 737 deaths each year since 1997. I've done the maths several times, totting up the annual deaths since 1997, subtracting the 172 cases attributed to Dr Harold Shipman that inflate the total for 2002-3 (as the Telegraph claims to have done) and I can still only get an average of 723. Does that 14-strong difference matter? In one sense no. It's still a lot of deaths. But it means that the average "under Labour" is actually only 20.3% higher than the 1990-96 average. And that's not a rise of "a quarter" as the Telegraph claims. It's a rise of a fifth. There are some important footnotes to consider to the figures given to Mr Wright too. Fifty-eight of the cases counted by the Telegraph for 2001 were Chinese nationals who collectively suffocated in a lorry en route to the UK. Homicides? Yes, but not quite of the kind that the Telegraph article and campaign imply.Similarly, the 2003-4 figures include the 20 Chinese cockle-pickers who drowned in Morecambe Bay that year. And the 2003-5 figures includes 194 cases where (because investigations are presumably ongoing) the cause of death is listed as "not known". Gradually, those totals "under Labour" are creeping downwards.And what about that insidious political claim itself? Yes, even if the Telegraph had been more fastidious about the figures, the number of homicides in England and Wales under Labour is higher than it was under the Conservatives. But this is a classic case of an abuse of the "post hoc ergo propter hoc" ("after - and therefore on account of") form of argument. Yes, Labour came to power in 1997; but it does not follow that Labour is responsible for the rise in homicide between 1997 and the present.You might reasonably say that homicides have increased since the world wide web became extensively used, or that they have risen since Rebekah Wade became a Murdoch editor, or that they have increased since hip-hop music crossed the Atlantic, or that they have soared in the Sven-Goran Erikkson era. All these statements would be true - and perhaps each of them (except the last) might even have a small bearing on the rise in homicide too.But it's simply untrue that the recent worrying rises in homicide in England and Wales can be blamed on Labour being in power. It's a lie. It's a trick. It's an abuse. The Telegraph's campaign is not about making Britain safe in any meaningful way. It's simply about making Britain safe for the Conservatives.