A teenage murderer who was one of a gang of youths who kicked and stamped a middle aged man to death yesterday had his minimum prison term cut from 12 years to nine years by the lord chief justice.Lord Woolf said that he had reduced the tariff, confirmed by Jack Straw as home secretary, because Darren Dermody's role in the attack - when he was 17 - had not directly led to the victim's death. Dermody also had no previous convictions and had behaved in "a most commendable and exceptional manner" during his time in prison. The decision in Dermody's case was one of three sentence reviews announced yesterday by the lord chief justice, sparked by the European court of human rights' ruling that led to the release of James Bulger's killers this year. A further 64 child killers convicted of committing a murder when below the age of 18, and sentenced to be detained during her majesty's pleasure, have asked for their tariffs - the minimum sentence they must serve - to be reviewed by the lord chief justice. Lord Woolf, however, refused yesterday to intervene in two other cases, involving Tahir Malik, now 24, and Bernard Coddington, now 23, and confirmed that the 12 year tariff set in each case by the trial judge and home secretary should stand. The lord chief justice revealed that Malik, who since his conviction had been diagnosed as autistic and suffering from Asperger's syndrome, had threatened to kill a female psychologist in Rampton special hospital. Lord Woolf confirmed Coddington's 12 year minimum tariff for stabbing a man to death in a row over an ex-girlfriend and said he would not interfere in the case despite the offender's good progress in jail. The decision to reduce Dermody's minimum tariff means he will be able to apply for release to the parole board after he has served nine years. In December 1997, Dermody was convicted at Nottingham crown court for his part in the murder of Ivan Milasanovich, 45, who intervened as a peacemaker to try to break up a late night fight in Mansfield town centre, Nottinghamshire. Mr Milasanovich was knocked over by the youths and they repeatedly kicked him and stamped on his face until he was dead. Lord Woolf said Dermody had expressed remorse and admitted that he kicked the murder victim three times after he fell. But the blows did not directly lead to the death, and Dermody's responsibility for the attack was less than the other, older, offenders, said Lord Woolf. But the lord chief justice also said that in arriving at his decision to set a lower tariff, he had taken into account Dermody's behaviour while in custody as "this is a case where this could and should be done". Prison reports had referred to Dermody's exemplary behaviour and said he had been "working positively and fruitfully towards release" and that he "throws himself into anything asked of him with vigour". In the case of Malik, Lord Woolf said that although his medical condition was not known when his tariff was set at 12 years, it did not provide a defence or excuse the offence for which he was convicted. Malik, who was dubbed "wolfboy" because of his squat, hairy appearance, was 16 when he stripped, battered and strangled Akhlaq Ahmed Razzaq, aged nine, in a motiveless murder in 1993. Lord Woolf said in Malik's case even after 12 years it would be difficult to decide whether it was safe to release him back into the community. While in Rampton special hospital he had thrown hot water over female staff and threatened to kill a psychologist.