A lorry driver charged with the murder of five women who worked as prostitutes in the red light area of Ipswich appeared before magistrates today.Police drove 48-year-old Steven Wright, of London Road, Ipswich, to the rear entrance of the Suffolk town's magistrates court at 9.30am.Half an hour later, he appeared in court three, where allegations that he killed Tania Nicol, 19, Gemma Adams, 25, Anneli Alderton, 24, Paula Clennell, 24 and Annette Nicholls, 29, were put to him.Mr Wright, wearing a dark blue suit, a white shirt and a blue striped tie, showed no reaction as the charges were read out during the five-minute hearing. Flanked by three police officers, he spoke only to confirm his name, address and date of birth.Robert Sadd, prosecuting, gave a brief outline of the case to magistrates Peter West, Renu Mandal and Mark Shackell.Paul Osler, Mr Wright's solicitor, told the court he was not making any application for bail. Mr Wright was remanded in custody until January 2, when he will appear at Ipswich crown court."He is bearing up well," Mr Osler said prior to the hearing. "Of course anybody accused of these sorts of offences is going to experience trauma, but he is bearing up well."Anything to do with the case, facts and evidence is for the courtroom. I would remind everybody about the presumption of innocence."Mr Wright, a former steward on the QE2, was charged last night after being arrested at his home, in the heart of the red light district, at 5am on Tuesday. He has been kept in custody at an unnamed police station for the past three days.Another man, 37-year-old Tom Stephens, arrested on Monday at his home near Felixstowe, Suffolk, was released on police bail last night."There have been significant ongoing inquiries and interviews during the period that these men have been in custody," Detective Chief Superintendent Stewart Gull told a press conference late yesterday.Michael Crimp, a senior prosecutor for the Suffolk Crown Prosecution Service, reminded journalists they should exercise care in reporting the case."Steven Wright stands accused of these offences and has a right to a fair trial before a jury," he said. "It is extremely important that there should be responsible media reporting which should not prejudice the due process of law."The naked body of Ms Adams, the first victim to be found, was discovered on December 2 in a brook at Hintlesham, Suffolk. She had last been seen in Ipswich's red light area on November 15.Ms Nicol was the next woman to be found, having disappeared on October 30. Her body was discovered in the same waterway at nearby Copdock Mill.On December 10, Ms Alderton, who was three months pregnant, was found dead in woodland at Nacton, outside Ipswich. She had been strangled.Two days later, Ms Clennell's body was found at Levington, a village five miles from Ipswich. She died as a result of "compression to the neck". The body of Ms Nicholls, the fifth victim, was found at the same location within an hour.