Jerry: You say you don't want to go back to your old lifestyle, but sometimes I question people's motives. Because I've been here 20 months, and I still struggle with the idea of not going back round the manor, not feeling protected in the criminal identity. And that's my fear. I don't know nothing else but my manor.Carl: On my last sentence, yeah, I had the best intentions of never coming back to jail again. That lasted about three weeks - three weeks, Rick - after going back to where I lived. I was back in three weeks, doing much worse things than before. The dangers of moving back - I'm telling you, yeah, that's the biggest risk.Phil: Listen, if I was in your position? If I'd come to Grendon when I was 24, and made a decision like you're making, I wish I'd got it right. Because from 24 to 32 I have hurt, mate. I have left victims all over the gaff. I've hurt hundreds of people, lad. I've left victims everywhere, kid. And my own kids, and my birds. Everywhere. And if I was in the position you're in now, I'd make the right decision, kid, before you get to the position I'm in.Rick: I am going back to Nottingham, and there's no one in this room can tell me any different, yeah. Yeah? Let's get that one thing straight. Therapy's never going to change that. What I need to do is get me functioning.Jerry: Mate, I understand where you're coming from, and at least you're being honest and I can work with that. But you've got to understand the consequences of going back.Rick: I've got people out there who'll look after me!Jerry: Calm down, mate.Rick: Well, you're doing my head in! Saying I'm going to go there and people are going to take me out. It's not going to happen!Jerry: Rick, Rick, listen to me. At the end of the day I can't get my nut round that you're going to leave here, yeah, you're going to go back to your manor...Rick: Not to the exact same place I was living!Matt: Rick, I totally understand how you feel. I've got masses of fear about where I'm going to live when I get out. I haven't got a clue where I'm going to live. I've lived there 42 years. I've got to take my kids out of school, my partner, they've got to make new friends. All my family are there. I'm not worried about people doing me - that's not why I'll be moving. My big fear is that my victim's kids will see me. And after what I done to him, and my guilt, I just don't want to see them. And so I have to get away.Carl: Are you scared of moving somewhere else, Rick? Is that it?Rick: Yeah, maybe. Maybe there's a bit of that. But listen, I was no fucking gangster out there. No one's going to come and start taking me out. All right, fair enough, I've hurt a lot of people. But when I get out, I can live a normal life. And I've got friends who've worked. Don't get me wrong, I have worked. And I enjoyed it. It was just when the habits - and the money I needed - all got a bit on top, that's when things went wrong.Jerry: Hold on a minute. So how many people from your manor, who are so brilliant, who you've got so many healthy attachments with, are knocking on the door asking for VOs [visiting orders]?Rick: Well, not one.Jerry: Well, there's the answer to the question, isn't it?Rick: But I never wanted them to visit! I didn't want them as friends when I was on the outside! They're associates - I want my family: they're what matters, and my family want me to do good. I want to change. That is why I'm here. I've got to get functional. It's as simple as that.Matt: Do you think we're digging you out? 'Cos I'll be honest to you. All we're doing is trying to offer you different routes or ways. Does it really matter to us? About your life, and what you do? We've got our own problems to deal with. We're just offering alternatives to look at, that's all. I'm a prime example, I am. Eighteen years I was out of trouble. But still living among all the people I done all my bad things with when I was younger. Eighteen years. Got family, kids, go to work, pay tax. And I thought I was doing really well. I stayed out of trouble. But still going back to the pubs where everyone else was still doing their things. And I thought I was all right. And I'm doing 12 years now. And the fellow I did [assaulted], he's fucked for the rest of his life. I didn't want to get into trouble. The last thing I wanted to do was come to prison. And yet it's happened. Why? 'Cos I stayed in the area. I didn't do what you can't do now, and just move out.Phil: Think about this, then. Say you're back in the area, Rick. Old enemy or whatever's in the pub, you've still got a bit of image around you - which you will have, Rick, no matter what. So, suddenly, you're in a pub, and it's on you, two people giving you a hiding, smashing the fuck out of you. You stand up and you smash one of them back with a bottle. Even though it's in self-defence, because you slashed an innocent stranger before, it's you who's going to get the life sentence.Rick: But it's about being aware and not putting myself in the situation.Phil: But you're already putting yourself in the situation.Rick: Right!! Fuck this!! Fucking hell! Turn that fucking tape recorder off! For fuck's sake, I'm going back to Nottingham, end of. Sack it. Every one of you. What, so if I go back to Nottingham I'm a failure then, yeah? [He is on his feet, shouting.] Sort your fucking head out. 'Cos that's bollocks, that's fucking bollocks. Fucking hell.Matt: OK, then, Rick, OK. Just go back to Nottingham, if that's what you want to do.Rick: They're saying I can't go back to Nottingham and live a normal life! And I think I can!Jerry: Rick, Rick. Sit down.Carl: Just listen.Rick: I am listening to you, Carl. But if I run away, I'm taking me with me, aren't I? [He's almost sobbing.] I'm taking meThere's a long, painful pause.Rick: Maybe I should move away. Yeah.[He says it as if this is a brand new idea, and entirely his own. Everyone relaxes into groans of laughter. Turning his head to stretch, Carl sees me and feigns a bow]Carl: And there you go - it took a while - but that's the magic of therapy.But Rick isn't finished with this.Rick: Listen to me, yeah? Me going away, yeah, is definitely something I should do. I know that. But I want to go back just so I can say look, I'm all right now. People were taking the piss out of me. So there's a part of me that wants to go back and fucking show 'em.Jerry: Yeah. 'Show 'em.' I know, mate - God, I know. But listen to me, step away and get your strength from healthy relationships.Rick: I don't know. Maybe I should try somewhere else. But part of me inside me says I'd be running away and I've never run away from anything. I don't know. I'm open to it. I am. If I said to myself I'm moving away, then, to be honest, all my anxieties would go. All the worries about what people think of me would be gone. So that would be good. But I've got a mum, I've caused her a lot of shit. I'm not leaving my fucking mum in the line of fire and jumping ship.An officer, Austin Hargreaves, has slipped in halfway through, and asks, 'Who's looking after her now? 'Rick: No one.Austin: So when you get back out there in Nottingham, is it going to be better for her or worse?Rick whispering To be honest, my mum wants me to move away. The truth is, my whole family wants me to move away. But I'll be completely honest now, right. I'll tell you why I don't want to. I want to go back there 'cos I'm known. I'm Rick and I'm known. That's it. That's why I want to go back there. I'd walk into a pub and people would empty it. And that's what I used to love. Right? That's what I used to love.Jerry: So why didn't you just say that in the beginning?Carl: I'm getting out of here soon. What do you think I'm most afraid of? Losing my image. I'm going from being who I was, where everybody knew me, to going to fucking Bath, where nobody knows me. No one's going to know anything about me. And that's my biggest fear. Of not being the person that I was. I used to love the fact that everyone who saw me knew me.Austin: Was it a respect thing?Carl: No, they didn't respect me, they were just scared of me. Scared I might fucking kill them or something. Or rob them or just take the piss. And that's my biggest fear. Of losing that image, and just being a normal every day person that people don't see.The room falls silent.Rick: Listen, this group has turned out to be something I didn't expect it to be. I've got to be honest. Me moving away is something my family have been telling me to do, my friends have been telling me to do. They just say move away. But I'd feel like I was running away. If I moved away, thinking I'd done it 'cos I was running away, my conscience would tell me I was a fucking shithouse [coward]. I just need to get it out of my head that I'd be running away.Carl: Very quietly You know how many times I look back now, Rick, and think, 'I wish I'd just run away'? Do you know how many times?Another long pause.Rick: Do you know what, right? Half my battle's won if I move away.It was lunchtime. Drained by the unexpected intensity of the session, the group broke, but Austin Hargreaves stayed behind, smiling. A fan of the old short, sharp shock, he considers most prisons today disgracefully cushy and would by no measure qualify as a liberal. But on the purpose of prison, Hargreaves was absolutely clear: "Rehabilitation - it can't be anything else. You have to stop people creating more victims. And here, we make them face what they've done. People reoffend because prison's a place of comfort - and this is hard for them, seriously hard. Personally, I'd like to see the death penalty brought back. But if we can't have that, well, Grendon is the next best option we have. The thing about Grendon is, it works."There can be few more poignant places than the induction wing in Grendon. New arrivals imagine it will be the gateway to the promised land - "a magic wand" - the head of the wing smiled sadly. He tries to lower expectations, but the men seldom listen. "This is my last chance," they say, fists clenched and breathing shallow. "If this doesn't work, I'm fucked."Whenever anyone hears about Grendon, the first question they ask is, does it work? For much of its life, the prison has lived in constant fear of closure, due to a widely held belief that the answer was no. When it opened its doors in 1962, the rehabilitative ideal was enjoying a rare flush of fashionable enthusiasm, but in 1974 an American criminologist called Robert Martinson analysed the outcomes of 231 penal rehabilitative initiatives, and concluded that the evidence was overwhelming: "Nothing works." Martinson's report convinced successive governments to abandon virtually all rehabilitation, and a crude bang-'em-up approach prevailed into the 90s.Grendon's own early research had been worrying, finding no discernible impact on recidivism rates. In the 80s it suffered a series of ominous incursions on its quasi-autonomous status within the prison service, and its chief post of medical superintendent was replaced by a conventional governor. When three prisoners escaped through the fence in a single afternoon seven years ago, many seriously feared it would spell the end of Grendon.But following the Strangeways riots of 1992, and the subsequent damning Woolf report, interest in rehabilitative possibilities had begun to be renewed. Researchers revisiting Martinson's work found his methodology flawed, and fresh studies declared that while some initiatives were indeed useless, others could be extremely effective. The Nothing Works era gave way to What Works?, which appealed to New Labour's pragmatic paradigm. Since 1997, our prisons have been bombarded with rehabilitative programmes.So Grendon today finds itself feted as our flagship of penal rehabilitation - the "jewel in the crown" once more. The latest research shows an impressive impact on recidivism; when prisoners stay there for longer than 18 months, their reconviction rate within two years of release falls to 20%, compared with nearly 50% for those in other prisons. The annual average in the prison service for drugs and violence offences is 120 per 100 inmates; at Grendon, the figure is just 20. And it achieves all this at relatively little expense - £35,000-£40,000 per inmate a year, compared with around £30,000 for a normal category B prisoner, and £120,000 plus for a high-security mental hospital patient.You would have thought, then, that spirits could never have been higher. But instead many fear that what may look like victory and vindication is, in fact, Grendon's death knell.Paul Johnson joined the uniformed staff seven years ago. Hugely charismatic, he has been nominated for awards by several of the men, but says, "This is the worst I've ever known it. Now that we're accredited, we're constantly being audited. So, instead of spending my day talking to the men, really knowing them, helping them, I spend it filling out forms to say what I did for the last 10 minutes. Now it's all just KPTs [key performance targets] and KPIs [key performance indicators.]"Assimilation has also had a dramatic impact on the admissions policy. "Now we're in the mainstream, which has population pressures," said head of therapy Patrick Mandikate, "the fact that Grendon is a TC gets cast aside. If you have empty cells in your prison, that's all that's seen as far as HQ is concerned." Statistically, men who spent a full 12 weeks in induction stood the highest chance of succeeding, "but that's a luxury we can no longer afford". These days, newcomers can be on a wing in less than a month.But the greatest fear is that praise for Grendon does not extend to its practices. Psychodynamic group therapy does not feature on the approved list of techniques endorsed by What Works research. Cheaper to deliver, easier to audit, it is not group analysis flooding our prisons, but cognitive behavioural therapy - regarded by many at Grendon as a cheap and nasty travesty of the therapeutic ideal."I've done loads of courses, and they were bollocks," Alex scoffed. "Just ticking boxes. If you ask any of the lads here, they'll tell you that you can give us a piece of paper with scenarios on about how we should react in situations and we'll tick the right answers all day long. Because we know right from wrong. But probably, in the situation, our reaction would be totally different because we've got no control over our emotions. That's the big difference about coming here. You're put in a situation where you're dealing with real-life emotions and actually working through situations without turning aggressive and violent. And it's really enlightening."Since Bennett took charge in 2002, he has tried to introduce some CBT. A civil war among the staff led to most of the psychodynamic purists quitting, replaced by a clinical team that was more receptive to outside influences. Bennett has radically upgraded the physical security, at the expense of the dynamic, and the managerial style today is altogether more recognisable to the rest of the prison service. I found Bennett a mischievously cheerful, often quite subversive character, but over and again I was told he was a system stooge - "a Home Office apparatchik" - drafted in to destroy Grendon."After the escapes," he says carefully, "Grendon was very vulnerable, and we needed to prove we were a safe prison the public could trust. And I had to show people here that lots of good things were happening out there in the system. There was suddenly money out there available, and we needed to be talking to politicians and journalists and prison reformers. We had to make it real for the world we're in today, with all its KPTs and the new managerialism - and we have. We manage to run a humane prison that works."For many, though, Grendon won't "work". But even its failure must still be preferable to most other prisons' success, for it is above all an extraordinary act of faith of redemption. It was never even originally conceived as an apparatus of crime control; reduced recidivism might be its consequence, but its primary ambition has always been more subtle.It is not an ambition that today's management - mindful of budgets and audits and tabloid headlines - care to make much of. But Grendon was founded to resurrect the humanity of violent, broken men - not as a means to an end, but as an end in itself.Read part one here