Whatever may have been the origin of the rumour that led to the disturbances in Lozells last weekend, one thing cannot be denied. "Gang rape" is a barbaric form of sexual predation on women, irrespective of the ethnicity of perpetrators and victims. It causes alarm and revulsion in African-Caribbean communities when rapists and victims are from that same background, as is increasingly the case, but it doesn't trigger riots. The key issue in Lozells, therefore, is the conditions that have led to the racialisation of rape.The answer lies in the strained relationship between the African and Asian communities in Handsworth-Lozells over the past three decades and the way Birmingham city council and government funding regimes have fuelled this hostility. When I worked in Birmingham for the Runnymede Trust in the early 70s and wrote a report titled Race in the Inner City, Handsworth was a very different place. The majority ethnic group was white English and the second-largest African-Caribbean. When the Birmingham Evening Mail wrote about "the angry suburbs", it was describing the reaction of young African-Caribbeans and their parents to the treatment they were receiving from state institutions, particularly the police, and from a hostile population that blamed them for pre-existing social ills. Business in the community was conducted mainly by white English and African-Caribbeans, and there was a large measure of social cohesion.By 1985, when police operations in Lozells triggered a large-scale rebellion that left two Asians dead in their burnt-out post office, and scores of people injured, the situation was very different. Most of the traders in Handsworth-Lozells were Asian, African-Caribbean businesses were in decline, and unemployment was highest among black youths. Julius Silverman's report on the 1985 disturbances, commissioned by Birmingham city council, noted that the Asian communities were then expressing resentment at "attacks by hooligans upon defenceless Asian people, especially women", while "there is some jealousy of Indian shopkeepers by black youths, although most of the Asians are themselves very poor".The past 20 years have seen the expansion of Asian businesses, on whose goods and services the African-Caribbean community depends. One of the main causes of African-Caribbean resentment is that they are seldom employed in these Asian retail outlets or warehouses, even when what is on sale are goods that only African people purchase, for example hair products. And their young people continue to join the swollen ranks of the long-term unemployed when they leave school.What is more, the perception is that access to funding is anything but equitable. In the past two years there have been inter-ethnic conflicts over the allocation of £49m from the single regeneration budget (SRB) and the balance of representation of African and Asian people on the SRB board. African-Caribbean groups complained of losing out because they were required to find £3,000 to match each £1,000 they were given, something the Asian community found easier to do because of the way their communities and businesses were run. And Asians complained that there were too many Africans on the board.African-Caribbeans have had a hard task getting custodians of the public purse to support their proposals. Financial establishments tend to the view that there is a culture of entrepreneurship among Asians that African-Caribbeans do not share.Asian elders exert a great deal of influence in all of these matters and can mobilise people to lobby decision-makers. But the more that local councils do business with "community leaders" who project themselves as local managers of their communities, the more young people are prevented from having a say in matters important to them. It results in Asian youths being pushed to the margins and African-Caribbeans feeling that Asians exert undue influence over decisions on local affairs and undue control over community resources.The main difference between the Asian and African communities of 1985 and today is that both have spawned vicious and seemingly uncontrollable gangs. These gangs distance themselves from mundane squabbles about funding and projects because they have bigger fish to fry. The communities try to rein them in, but they are ready to insert themselves in community conflicts as a "third army" when it suits them.These are not matters for the police alone. They are even less matters for so-called community leaders. The government will have to invest in initiatives to help prevent conflict and lay the foundations for a culture of peace and mutual respect. Such efforts should focus upon systems of democratic governance that give young people from all communities the skills and capacity to make decisions and manage local affairs and resources, with full regard to the diverse needs and the history of the relationship between those communities.· Gus John is an educational consultant and visiting professor of education at the University of Strathclyde info@gusjohnpartnership.com