Armed police officers who shoot dead members of the public in controversial circumstances could be charged with the lesser offence of manslaughter rather than murder under Home Office plans.A defence for armed officers will be based on the case of Lee Clegg, the British army paratrooper jailed for life in 1993 for the murder of a teenage joyrider in Northern Ireland. Court of Appeal and House of Lords judges who reviewed the case of Private Clegg said that the law should be reformed where 'agents of the state' could prove they genuinely thought they were acting in self-defence and believed they had to use 'excessive force' to prevent harm to the public. David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said this weekend that the 'murder or nothing' option for juries in cases involving police marksmen was in urgent need of reform. He said killings by police officers faced by spilt-second judgments about public safety could not be considered as murder. He has asked officials to include the issue of shootings by armed police in a review of the law on homicide. As a result, officers who kill in the line of duty would be unlikely to face a life sentence. Home Office officials confirmed that the manslaughter verdict was being seriously considered in a review of the homicide law. Campaigners reacted with fury to the news last night. Deborah Coles of Inquest, which works with the families of people who die at the hands of the police, said: 'This is a very worrying development. Families of the victims have always felt that the rule of law does not apply to the police and this is now being endorsed by the Home Secretary himself.' Blunkett intervened after an inquest jury found that Harry Stanley, a 46-year-old father of two, had been 'unlawfully killed' by two armed officers in London five years ago. The verdict led to an unofficial strike by more than 100 members of SO19, the Metropolitan Police's specialist firearms unit, in protest at the suspension of the two officers. Chief Inspector Neil Sharman and PC Kevin Fagan would face a mandatory life sentence for murder if the case proceeds to court. 'The problem with the law is that it's murder or nothing,' Blunkett told the BBC. The incoming Metropolitan Police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, has called for a reform of the law and Blunkett confirmed that he had been lobbied by Blair and the present commissioner, Sir John Stevens, to introduce the possibility of a manslaughter verdict in such cases.Ian Blair said: 'These incidents are terrible tragedies for everyone involved. But is it right that the only choice that we are faced with is to make the officer a hero or a murderer? At present the law is as clear as that.' Representatives of beat officers this weekend confirmed that the Clegg defence would be central to their case for reform. The chairwoman of the Police Federation, Jan Berry, said: 'It will be a good starting point to look at [the Clegg] judgment. I don't think any police officer would want to act beyond the law. But when they are acting in exactly the way they are supposed to, a verdict of "unlawful killing" is simply not just.' In 1991 Clegg shot 18-year-old Karen Reilly five times as the car she was travelling in raced away from an army checkpoint in west Belfast. Clegg was released on licence in 1995 following a campaign led by a group of senior retired officers and the newspaper editor, Max Hastings. His conviction was later quashed. Lawyers acting for the family of Stanley said that armed police officers should not be given special status in law and the inquest verdict showed that the officers' account of events had not been believed. Sharman and Fagan claimed they had good reason to feel threatened by their victim, who was unarmed and carrying a coffee-table leg in a bag that they mistook for a gun. They said he faced them in a 'boxing stance' and reached down for what they thought was a weapon before they shot him. But forensic evidence contradicted this as it showed Stanley had been hit in the side of his head. The Stanley family's solicitor Daniel Machover said the 'Clegg defence' should not be applied in the case of Sharman and Fagan: 'In the killing of Harry Stanley there is no legitimate self-defence case. The officers presented the events as if they were clearly, absolutely under threat and they were not believed.' The row with the capital's armed officers was defused last week after Scotland Yard agreed to review the suspension of the officers. But it is likely to re-ignite tomorrow as an inquest begins into the shooting of Derek Bennett, a 29-year old man shot four times in the back by police marksmen in Brixton, south London in July 2001. The 'weapon' he was thought to be wielding later turned out to be a cigarette lighter. In March 2003, The Crown Prosecution Service decided not to press criminal charges against the two officers because there was not sufficient evidence to proceed. They may have to rethink if the inquest jury returns a verdict of 'unlawful killing'.