Two men were killed and a third injured in a machete attack in a house in Bedford last night, police said today.A man was arrested in connection with the assault on the trio in their shared home. The two dead men were found with severe head injuries after the third managed to flee to a nearby pub and raise the alarm.The man later collapsed at the pub and was today being treated at Addenbrooke's hospital, in Cambridge. He was said to be in a critical condition.Police officers involved in the Operation Bangle murder hunt were today interviewing the arrested man at Greyfriars police station. Detective Superintendent Nicky Dahl, leading the inquiry, said: "Although one man is in custody, it is very early days and we cannot say how significant that arrest is." Eyewitnesses today told how the knifeman had chased the third victim down the street with a 7in butcher's cleaver and attacked him again in the porch of the Grafton pub before calmly walking away. Barman Sean Malone, who was working in the pub last night, saw the last moments of the street attack on the building's CCTV system. This morning, he said the attacker - a black man in his 20s or 30s, had repeatedly slashed at his victim as he chased him down the road."He got into the porchway and he was clobbered again and then the guy walked away and he is still lying there," Mr Malone said. He added that he and a number of regulars at the pub had given the injured man first aid as he lay bleeding on the floor. "I watched him on the CCTV. He hit him a couple of times on the back of the head, and he's then slumped in our porch where he has been clobbered a few times more," he said. "His left cheekbone was sticking an inch out of his face, his eye almost seemed to be popping out, his arm was broken and hanging off him. He was slipping in and out of consciousness and couldn't say anything." Mr Malone and several of the pub regulars then followed the knifeman out on to the street where he walked back up the road towards the house in which the other two men were found dead. "He went down the road really calm," Mr Malone said. "He had his knife in his hand down by his side and he just looked straight ahead, never looking at the six of us." Police officers were today guarding the hotel entrance and the house, which stand at either end of a row of Victorian terraced houses. Neighbours said they had heard shouting in the street yesterday evening, but "thought it was just kids". A Bedfordshire police spokeswoman later said it had not been possible to identify the two dead men, who were aged between 20 and 50. Post-mortem examinations would be carried out later today.