A student who repeatedly denied stabbing a young woman to death with a pen in a hall of residence changed his plea yesterday and admitted murder.The distraught parents of 26-year-old Rebecca Love, found dead in her bedroom in May, had to leave the courtroom during yesterday's hearing at Hull crown court.Jason Webster, 21, a first-year history student at Hull University who had met Ms Love in a nightclub, stabbed her repeatedly and then asphyxiated her.Webster was due to go on trial next week but changed his plea at yesterday's preliminary hearing. Few details of the killing were given in court and the judge, Mr Justice Irwin, said Webster would be sentenced next month.Gary Burrell QC, prosecuting, told the court that Webster had inflicted a prolonged attack on his victim in her room at the Lawns halls of residence in Cottingham, near Hull.Detectives said they were still trying to understand why Webster had launched his attack. They believe that, after drinking in a club, he may have gone to see Miss Love with the intention of sleeping with her. He then attacked her after an argument.Detective Chief Inspector Tony Garton said: "Rebecca didn't want anything to affect her studies. They were more important to her than having a relationship with him. She didn't want to get involved with anybody. Her studies came first."He added that yesterday's change of plea was the first time Webster had admitted any involvement in her death. Throughout his detention and interviews, he had admitted visiting her on May 3 but insisted he left her safe and well.Mr Garton said both the defendant and the victim were from respectable families. "He is clearly a dangerous young man who has not only taken a promising young life but he has thrown his own life away too."Ms Love's body was found on May 4 by university staff. She was taking a marine biology foundation course at Hull College and had hoped to move on to Hull University to complete a three-year degree course in the same subject.She was slightly older than the other students on the course and, although considered a bit of a loner, made friends and enjoyed student life. She had been on several dates with Webster but the relationship was not thought serious.Webster had been to a Hull club on the night of the murder and it is understood there was nothing in his past to suggest he was capable of such violence.