The anti-crime bill published yesterday provides the most sweeping range of police powers since the then Tory home secretary Michael Howard's 1994 Criminal Justice and Public Order Act that sought to outlaw rave music and ban convoys of new age travellers.While no single measure alone sounds particularly draconian, taken together the accretion of more than 20 extra police powers adds up to a package that looks as much to do with the politics of the coming election as it does with "yob culture". Mr Howard tried to pull this trick ahead of the 1997 general election. He published a crime (sentences) bill in 1996 in which he proposed to lock up all third-time burglars for a minimum of three years, and challenged Labour to vote against it to expose them as "soft on crime". Jack Straw is trying similar tactics. The extra twist is that with a May election so close, if the shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, chooses to oppose it, she could prevent it reaching the statute book in the time available. Labour could then go into the election claiming that it was the Tories that had voted down the very measures the police had asked for. The problem for Mr Straw and Tony Blair is that they have forgotten the iron law of such initiatives: promised "crackdowns" soon turn into "climbdowns". The process was visible yesterday. Labour complained that the Tories' 1996 legislation was different to what had been originally promised and "significantly flawed". The same could be said of yesterday's bill. Its main measure, fixed penalty fines to tackle teenage "yob culture", had been promised by the prime minister on September 26. "There will be zero tolerance of yob culture," he announced to the Labour party conference, as a consultation document published that day made clear that 16- and 17-year-olds - the Euan Blairs of this world - would be fined £100 if found drunk in the street. The small print of the legislation confirmed that this will not happen. Fixed penalty tickets are only going to apply to over 18s, and rather than £100 the fine is more likely to be nearer the current average fine for drunkeness, £37. Last year the Home Office published another of its consultation documents - proposing to sweep away Victorian laws that criminalise gay sex and instead strengthening the law against child sex abuse. But there is no sign of those kind of measures in Mr Straw's bill.