I've been trying to keep a count of the 'eye-catching' initiatives on crime from this shallow Government. The tally isn't precise because of the risk of double-counting. Old policies have been repackaged and presented afresh so that the Prime Minister can receive the greatest prize politics can offer him: an approving second leader in the early editions of the Daily Express.Nevertheless, imagine being one of the judges who has been struggling to make sense of this year's authentically original initiatives. You returned to work after Christmas with instructions from Lord Harry Woolf to lock-up mobile-phone thieves. You were told that their age or previous convictions or, 'except in exceptional circumstances', the facts of the case, no longer mattered. The Lord Chief Justice didn't care if the victim had been battered or merely inconvenienced. A man who snatched a phone and hurt no one must receive a mandatory sentence, while a man who snatched a wallet and hurt no one could be put on probation. You comply until 5 March when you hear Woolf declare that you and your feckless colleagues have pushed the prison service to the end of its tether. You must make amends by imprisoning 'only when necessary and for no longer than necessary'. One day he was Maximum Harry, the next he was more lamb than Woolf. Which of the two Lord Chief Justices should you obey?David Blunkett was emphatic that you should look to the caring side of His Lordship's giddy character. He echoed the Lord Chief's appeal for leniency by the telling you: 'Crime is falling but the prison population is rocketing. Programmes of training, adult literacy and preparation for work on release are being completely disrupted.' In other words, the criminal justice system can no longer manage its basic task of educating those illiterate and innumerate offenders who are unfit for all occupations save menial labour and thieving. No one who wants to be tough on crime, rather than tough on criminals, could have disagreed with the Home Secretary. Overcrowded jails that make bad people worse are intolerable. The humbugs of Downing Street and Fleet Street prefer to be tough on crimi nals. They have no time for Ministers who are honest with the public. What they want are stunts which 'send a message' to judges that they must be harsh. That's what Blunkett gave them. He U-turned with a speed which might have impressed even Lord Woolf. In April he said that dangerous children should be held in secure 'foster homes'. The idea is barking mad and will probably never come to anything. It's hard enough to find foster parents for children in care who aren't tiny terrorisers. Who apart from a paedophile is going to take criminal children and hold them under house arrest behind barred windows and locked doors? The policy is unworkable, but that isn't as important as you might imagine. Most judges can't prevent their sentences being influenced by pressures from politicians and the media. If all they hear are shrieks to punish, they punish, the independence of the judiciary notwithstanding. Blunkett went on to say that he wanted to incarcerate 12- to 16-year-old defendants while they waited for trial. The public was 'sick and tired' of young offenders who believed their age made them untouchable. He wanted them swept off the streets and was absolutely confident that he could find the places to hold the young thugs. His confidence held until last week when he reversed around the course of his previous U-turn. The Home Office announced that at least 1,000 young offenders would would be fitted with electronic tags and released onto the streets after serving less than half of their sentences. There weren't the beds for them. There's not much point in having a go at Blunkett when all he's done is obey Blair's orders. It was Prime Minister who came out with the most pernicious proposals - to abolish universal child benefit, and to make the courts treat muggers with a greater urgency than murderers. (The latter because the press happened to be obsessed with street crime for a week or so.) As his memo leaked in July 2000 showed, he loses his hold on reason when 'we are perceived as weak ... [or] we are seen as insufficiently assertive ... [and] lacking a tough public message.' I suspect those lines, with their craven underscoring of perception rather than substantive achievement, will be the epitaph for the wasted Blair years. The 'eye-catching initiatives' he ordered have become laughable. It's easy to mock their failure and Blunkett's flip-flopping, but far harder to show how the jails have got to the point where the Government is powerless to fine tune the system. Liberal newspapers are tolerant institutions. But the face of the most indulgent editor will still darken if you you cry: 'Hey I've got a fantastic story about Nick Sanderson, head of the Prisoner Administration Group in Room 710 at the Prison Service HQ!' For all that, he's a more interesting bureaucrat than he sounds. Blunkett doesn't make his intermittent appeals to the courts to lighten up because he wants to, but because he has to. The prison population is hovering around its 'bust limit' of 70,800. About 13,000 inmates are being held two-to-a-cell. The Prison Service lost the ability to give criminals the skills they need to find lawful employment long ago. It won't be able to house them soon if the population continues to rise at 400 a week. Blunkett will probably allow prisoners to be locked-up in police cells. There are about 1,000 spaces available. They could be bagged in less than a month. New prisons take years to build. The blocks which are due to be opened this year cannot begin to cope with the consequences of the courts' 'love affair with custody', as Martin Narey, the director-general of the Prison Service, told Blair at a Downing Street seminar. As we saw, Blunkett's solution is to tag minor juvenile - and adult - offenders and release them on probation. Sanderson reported that the emergency measure isn't working. The scarcity of places means prisoners are being shuttled round the country to wherever spare beds can be found. Narey says he can attribute four suicides to bussing. Sanderson adds that the chaos is such that his fellow bureaucrats don't know which inmate is in which jail. In a report to Beverley Hughes, the Prisons Minister, he writes that 'there is insufficient time for the receiving prison to conduct a proper risk assessment by the time all the paperwork has caught up with the prisoner.' A convict who might be released a month early is kept in because governors don't know if he's eligible for emergency parole. When the files finally get to them, the month is up and the prisoner free to leave anyway. Harry Fletcher, the spokesman for the probation officers union, said the Government's determination to be 'perceived' as tough is sabotaging its crisis management. Criminals on probation have to abide by a strict 'two-strikes-and-you're out' standard. If they are late for two appointments with a supervising officer, for instance, they must be sent back to courts which often send them to jail. 'All we're doing is getting them out and then sending them back again,' he said. 'Criminals are being churned.' The Home Office can't carry on like this. Sooner or later Blunkett will have to be brave. Narey wants him to let out everyone serving six months or less. Fletcher believes he must tell the courts that custody is a last resort and insist that 'the punishment should fit the crime not the criminal'. This was the principle Douglas Hurd supported in 1990. The judges were told to ignore previous convictions and concentrate on the crimes on the charge sheet. If New Labour were to do the same, the media beast it has appeased for so long would eat it alive. But the Government may have to be truly tough-minded for once. The shambles the bright technocrats of New Labour have created isn't funny, of course. Prisoners who take their lives aren't funny either, nor are victims who suffer because the Government has failed in its duty to rehabilitate. The spectacle of gesture politics hitting the buffers will, however, be hilarious. n.cohen@observer.co.uk