At the time the prime minister gave the pledge, it looked remarkably risky. Yet he could not have done it more publicly. He told the Commons in April that street robberies would be "under control" by September. This was a phenomenally short time for a particularly difficult crime for the police to tackle. It is one thing to cut burglary or car crime, but quite another to reverse the rise in mugging. Old but improved mechanisms (locks) and new technology (car immobilisers and burglar alarms) played the key role in the 30% reduction in house break-ins and car theft in the five years up to 2001; police officers only a minor supporting role. But reducing muggings requires much more active policing.There was an equally daunting challenge: the size of the rise in street crime. In the year up to March - the latest statistics - muggings rose by 30%. True, much of it involved young people taking away the mobile phones of even younger people. But young people have as much right to protection as adults. About one-quarter of the victims are under 16 and another quarter aged 16 to 20. Mugging is not a trivial crime and can lead to serious consequences. About 14% require treatment by a doctor and 6% in-patient hospital treatment. Just over half of the known offenders are between 16 and 20. If the Metropolitan police are any guide - and 44% of all muggings take place in its area - street crime is falling. Figures released last week show daily robbery figures in London dropping from a high of 232 last November down to 154 in July. Cynics will say this was inevitable with the two British mobile networks that resisted automatic disconnection of stolen phones - Vodafone and BT Cellnet - belatedly agreeing to block calls. But this was not due to come into effect until July, and street crime was already falling by then. Both ministers and police deserve praise for their rigorous search for solutions. Tony Blair has held six meetings of the civil contingencies committee, previously known as Cobra, Whitehall's national emergencies committee, to thrash out a coherent strategy. The Met, under the home secretary's threat of more intervention if the rise was not curbed, pulled out every stop, including a major switch of traffic police to robbery patrols. Crime diversion programmes involving sports and other activities should also have helped. It is too early to celebrate yet, but the progress is promising.