A man in his 20s arrested in connection with the murder of a 16-year-old girl whose body was found in a Reading park was tonight released on bail.A Thames Valley police spokeswoman said: "The man, who will not be named, was arrested by officers following the execution of three search warrants in south London at around 4am this morning."He has been interviewed and released on police bail pending further inquiries and is due to return on June 2."A £10,000 reward has been offered for information on the death of Mary-Ann Leneghan from Reading, Berkshire.Mary-Ann's body was discovered with a single stab wound to the neck early on Saturday morning in Prospect Park. Her friend, aged 18, who was shot and stabbed, remains in a serious but stable condition in hospital. She is helping specialist police teams with information.Police were this morning reported to be looking for six men believed to have assaulted the pair. Police said a car with six men inside had been seen driving around playing loud music. While with the men, Mary-Ann and her friend had suffered several serious assaults.Detectives said Mary-Ann and her friend were in the car park of the Wallingford Arms, a disused pub in Reading, between 10pm and 11pm on Friday. A third person was seen in a white car with them, and they were also seen getting into a burgundy or maroon car with six men inside, all believed to be in their 20s. There was loud music coming from the vehicle. By 1am, the two victims had been taken to the nearby Abbey Guest House to a room believed to have been used by one of the gang. Between 3am and 5am, Mary-Ann, her friend and the men left the guest house. The car they rode in is believed to have been playing music loudly again, and, being crowded, would have sat low on the road. Just after 5am, the 18-year old raised the alarm.Chief Superintendent Mark Warwick of Thames Valley police said there had been "serious assaults throughout the evening, culminating in the death of the 16-year-old". "We're not sure whether they knew the males and we're certainly not happy that they actually went with consent. These girls may have been in some distress from the moment they left the white car," he said. Police yesterday released three men they had arrested on bail. The men were believed to be connected to the guesthouse.Mary-Ann's father Bertie, 50, described her as "clever" and "artistic" but said she had fallen in with a bad group of people. Mr Leneghan, who lives in Reading, said: "She was very clever. She was very artistic, decorating glasses and all that. But I think she just got in with the wrong crowd." At Mary-Ann's school, Prospect college in Reading, students also spoke of her falling in with the wrong people. "I saw her the day before she was killed. I saw her, her mate and some boys. She looked like she was with some dodgy people. She looked miserable and sad. What happened the next day kind of fits what I saw," said 16-year-old Scott Yule, who was in most of Mary Ann's classes. Prospect college said in a statement: "We are deeply saddened by the tragic news of the death of Mary-Ann Leneghan. Mary-Ann was a year 11 student at the college. She was a popular and friendly student and was due to sit her GCSEs in a few days' time. "Our thoughts and sympathies are with the family at this very difficult time. The college is in a state of shock and mourning. Counselling will be made available for students and staff of the college."