There are moments in our working lives when the power to lock someone up and throw away the key seems an appealing perk. But on some days even the chippiest of prison governors must feel they're the ones serving the sentence.New Prison Reform Trust figures show a system creaking under huge pressure and warn of an overcrowding crisis this summer. More than half of prisons are classed as overcrowded.A governor's primary mission is to rehabilitate serious and violent offenders. Instead, "rapidly rising numbers have reduced many prisons to locked warehouses," says the Trust, condemning governors and their staff to "processing people in transit from overcrowded jail to overcrowded jail".Then there's the usual in-tray stuff: assaults, suicides, jail breaks and the occasional riot or hunger strike. How governors must long for more innocent times when prisons were home to "lovable rogues" like Norman Fletcher whose biggest wheeze was to nick the prison governor's soft toilet paper and replace it with the hard stuff reserved for the cons.And when you're not battling with inmates, you're dodging flak from tabloids who howl with rage each time a governor dares to install TVs in cells or create bistro-style dining rooms. It's just like a hotel, they scream.Little wonder then that the average tenure for governors is just one year and four months. It's reckoned that a third of prisons have had three or more bosses in the past five years, even though the Prison Governors' Association recommends that its members stay at one jail for between three and five years."It's a highly stressful job," admits John Podmore, governor at Brixton for the past three years. "And it never leaves you."Yet, according to Podmore, the ability to "make a difference" is luring a new breed of governor.Tony Hassall was a hypermarket manager for Sainsbury's and is now governor of Holloway. At Belmarsh, the new governor is Claudia Sturt, an Oxford modern history graduate described by the Sunday Times as "tall, blonde, glamorous and aged only 38". In fact, she is one of 31 women governors out of 138 in the service.The service has launched an "intensive development scheme" for graduates and on Monday evening Radio 4 begins a three-part documentary on The Young Governors."This is a people business," says Podmore, "and when I meet a former prisoner who is now running a volunteer project or working for a drugs charity, I know I've achieved something."