A groundbreaking anti-crime poster campaign to name and shame burglars, drug dealers and car thieves suffered a setback in the high court yesterday which lawyers said could prove fatal to the scheme.The plan to display convicted criminals' mugshots in public places in Brentwood, Essex, was challenged by a burglar, Gary Ellis, chosen by Essex police to be the first poster boy for the initiative. Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, refused to declare the scheme unlawful but said police would have to produce much more information about the circumstances of any future offenders chosen and the risks that their families could be targeted, their rehabilitation set back and the public therefore put at greater risk from reoffending. A court would then have to decide whether it was lawful for that offender's photograph to be displayed. The case was being closely watched by other police forces considering such schemes. Essex police accepted that posting mugshots with their names and convictions in public around Brentwood would interfere with offenders' right to respect for their private life, guaranteed by the European convention on human rights. But they said such interference would be justified under the exceptions allowed, for measures necessary to prevent crime. Allowing the high-profile campaign a trial was justified to deter crime when there was "a general feeling" among the public that criminals were "getting away with it". Lord Woolf, sitting with Mr Justice Goldring, said there was a need for further appraisal and monitoring. He said there was "a real question as to whether it would ever be appropriate" to feature a father of young children, such as Ellis - currently serving 3 years for theft - who is divorced with a five-year-old daughter. The scheme also involved "a degree of unfairness" because it discriminated against those whose photographs were shown while others were not. Superintendent Peter Coltman, of Essex police, said outside the court: "We are pleased that the high court has not closed the door on the future of this scheme as we continue to believe that the scheme is fundamentally right."