The work and pensions secretary, Iain Duncan Smith, has said Britain is in the "last chance saloon", with the riots a warning that social problems could get worse.In an interview with the Spectator, Duncan Smith said: "This is our warning. That wasn't the crisis, but the crisis is coming. We can't let this go on any more, and I think the prime minister sees that."The former Conservative party leader also said dealing with the causes of the riots would define Cameron's premiership in the way that responding to 9/11 defined Tony Blair.He has been asked by Cameron to lead a ministerial group alongside the home secretary, Theresa May, looking at measures that could be introduced to deal with the problem of gangs.In the interview, Duncan Smith said the riots would force the government to focus on the social problems facing Britain."The prime minister made it clear that this, now, is his big focus," he said. "It is not possible to have watched or experienced any of these riots without realising that we're in the last chance saloon. This is our warning."Asked whether the riots would have the same impact on Cameron as 9/11 did on Blair, Duncan Smith said: "Well, I think [Cameron] sees it like that."He's now determined this is what he wants to do. It's like a reinvention of Thatcher's great drive. I always argued that the last Conservative government freed up the markets, but what was missing was the next bit – getting society in Britain ready to meet that change."We never did. We ended up with a sort of mid-20th century society, many locked away in welfarism, and a 21st-century economy. We see now that one cannot meet the results of the other."Cameron has said the government will use intensive intervention to turn around the lives of 120,000 problem families. Duncan Smith said he believed that intervention during the early years could make a huge difference."I'm passionate about it because, if we get this right – as they have shown in Colorado over 25 years – whole communities are turned around by early intervention," he added.Duncan Smith said early years intervention was cost-effective because, if nothing was done to stop young people becoming adult offenders, they cost the state much more in the long term. In Washington state in the US, there is even a Which?-style buyers' guide saying how much could be saved within five years for every dollar invested, he said.The government could use this principle to persuade investors to pay for early intervention by getting them to buy a "social bond", he said."We could suggest to the private sector we create a social bond," he added. "We'd say: you can put your money into this for five years, and we'll give you a guaranteed return because we think it saves us money. We'll give some of it back to you."Duncan Smith also suggested that he was opposed to May's decision to stop the former US police chief Bill Bratton from applying for the post of commissioner of the Metropolitan police. May has decided only British citizens can apply for the job.Duncan Smith said: My answer to everybody who says we don't want him is why wouldn't you want to learn from someone who knows what they're doing?"