A girl aged four has been found murdered at her home in Greater Manchester, doors away from her grandparents, and her mother is critically ill in hospital with severe injuries.Police were called to a house in a suburb of Bury shortly before 7pm on Thursday, after a call from a member of the public. Officers found the body of Chloe Burke with multiple stab wounds, it is understood, though Greater Manchester police refused to confirm details. Floral tributes have been laid in the garden by neighbours and friends.The mother, Dawn Makin, who is in her 30s, was taken to Fairfield hospital, where she is semi-conscious. She is thought to be a nurse in the hospital's A&E department. Police said they were not looking for anyone else over the incident.Makin's parents, Sheila and Derek, live three houses away in the quiet suburban close. Friends said they were a "nice, hard-working family".Chloe's father, Michael Burke, 38, had arrived at the scene after having been phoned at 12.30 on Thursday night. He said: "I just want to know what's going on. The police won't tell me anything. She was a loving little girl. I had a good relationship with her mother, but we just grew apart."Chief Superintendent Jon Rush said: "We are still trying to establish exactly what has gone on, but what is clear is a young girl has lost her life and this is clearly very tragic. This is an absolutely devastating time for the family of Chloe and her mother and, while we are not looking for anyone else in connection with this, it is important that we find out for them exactly what happened. A team of detectives is working to find out what led up to this tragedy and trained officers are working closely with the family."A post-mortem examination is due later to establish cause of death.Neighbours described their shock.Makin had been "a loving mother". One, who did not wish to be named, said: "She works at Fairfield hospital as a nurse. She treated me once in A&E. I often see them [the grandparents] walking up the road with the little girl. I was hoping it wasn't her, and then it was confirmed. It's a severe shock." Another neighbour, who also did not want to be identified, said it was an absolute tragedy. "I know the child's grandparents and they are lovely people. I know that their granddaughter enjoyed playing with their dog."A friend of Makin, Melissa Todd, described her as being "the life and soul of a party", who "always picks everybody else up".