The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 27 September 2009We said that Judge Khan's cleaner had tried to blackmail him. In fact, she was never convicted of blackmailing Judge Khan. She appealed against her conviction for blackmail (involving a Judge J) and theft (involving Judge Khan). All charges were dropped and therefore she was cleared on both counts. Apologies. Two senior immigration judges face a disciplinary investigation and could lose their jobs after a Brazilian cleaner made allegations at the Old Bailey about their drug and sex-fuelled private lives.The cleaner, Roselane Driza, 37, faces jail and deportation after being convicted yesterday of blackmailing one of the judges, a woman known as Judge J, and stealing two sex videos from the second, Mohammed Ilyas Khan.The recorder of London, Judge Peter Beaumont, yesterday lifted an order banning the identification of Mr Khan, after Driza was acquitted of a blackmail charge against him. The recorder said the anonymity normally given to alleged victims of blackmail could be lifted because the allegations about him went beyond his private life and touched on his public role.Mr Khan is a barrister who sits as a part-time judge in the criminal courts as well as being a senior immigration official.After the verdicts the Department for Constitutional Affairs said it was considering a disciplinary inquiry. "The lord chancellor and the lord chief justice believe that the public must have confidence in judges and take any allegations against them very seriously," a spokesman said.During one of the first blackmail trials for years at the Old Bailey, Driza revealed intimate details of Judge J's relationship with Mr Khan and with another immigration judge known as Mr N. She claimed Judge J and Mr Khan knew she was in Britain illegally when they employed her as a cleaner. The judges deny this.Driza was found guilty of making a £20,000 blackmail demand to Judge J after being sacked as her cleaner in 2004. She threatened in letters to Judge J to tell the prime minister, the Department for Constitutional Affairs and the lord chancellor that she had been employed illegally.Driza overstayed in Britain in 1998 after arriving on a visitor's visa. The jury was not told that her former husband was an Albanian serial killer who is wanted by the Metropolitan police for murder.She was remanded in custody yesterday until October 20 for reports. The judge warned that she faced a substantial prison sentence.