The mother of millionaire businessman Christopher Foster today spoke of her grief and shock at the loss of her son, daughter-in-law and granddaughter. In a short statement issued by West Mercia Police, Enid Foster said she could not condone the actions of her son, who killed his wife and daughter before taking his own life at their mansion in Maesbrook, Shropshire. Foster, who lives in south Shropshire, said her son had not talked to anyone about his financial troubles, and may not have been able to face telling his family that they were to lose their home. In the statement Foster, who is thought to aged 78, also paid tribute to her "beautiful" granddaughter Kirstie, 15, and said she was finding it hard to understand how her son could have done what he did. Foster said: "I can't condone what he's done, but I've lost a dearly-loved son, daughter-in-law and beautiful granddaughter. "He talked to nobody, we knew nothing about his financial situation and it's come as a tremendous shock. So many of his friends have told me that, had they known, they would have helped him however they could. "They were a very close, loving family unit and I don't think he could face telling them they were going to lose everything, but I am in no way condoning what he's done. It's very hard." Mrs Foster also recalled how Kirstie had "absolutely loved" her horses and was an excellent rider. "Kirstie was just a lovely girl," she said. "Kirstie took part in the Berriew Show the weekend before. Her last ever show and she got first place in the championship." Foster, who has another son, Andrew, concluded her statement by saying: "Life will never be the same without them. We're finding it very difficult to come to terms with." Police confirmed earlier this week that they believed Christopher Foster, 50, killed himself after killing Kirstie and his wife, Jill, and setting fire to their £1.2m home and its outbuildings. Jill Foster, 49, was shot in the head, and the cause of Kirstie's death has yet to be established.