Two more suspicious deaths at Stepping Hill hospital are being investigated by police as they continue to interview a 27-year-old nurse..Detectives said an initial postmortem examination on an 84-year-old woman who died at the hospital last Thursday had failed to establish a cause of death. The case was referred to the South Manchester coroner, John Pollard, on Wednesday as a result of her low blood sugar level.A Home Office post mortem is due to be carried out on Thursday on the woman, who has not been identified.Meanwhile, an 83-year-old man died on Thursday after having suffered a hypoglycaemic episode – low blood sugar – on 11 July, police said. The cause of his death is not known and a Home Office postmortem examination will be carried out.A 27-year-old nurse, Rebecca Leighton, who was arrested at her home in Heaviley, Stockport, on Wednesday continues to be questioned by police on suspicion of murder. She has not been charged with any offence.Police, the coroner and staff at the hospital are working closely together and future deaths are likely to be referred to the police major incident team for review.A man in his 40s remains in a critical condition after an unexpected drop in his blood sugar levels. Another patient, a woman, is recovering after becoming ill.Tests are continuing to determine if saline that had been injected with insulin was directly responsible for the deaths of Tracey Arden, 44, 84-year-old George Keep, and Arnold Lancaster, 71.Assistant Chief Constable Ian Hopkins said: "As with the deaths of George Keep, Arnold Lancaster and Tracey Arden the cause of this man and woman's death is not known and it is important we do not lose sight of this fact."In relation to the death of the woman, this was referred to us by the coroner and after a review of the circumstances surrounding this death – notably the low blood sugar level – we have decided to investigate further."In relation to the man's death, due to the fact he suffered a hypoglycaemic episode during a timeframe we are looking at it is only right we conduct further inquiries. We have family liaison officers with both families and my thoughts are with them as they are with the relatives of all affected by this incident."I want to make it abundantly clear that we are working closely with the coroner and, as is to be expected, it is likely we will be asked to investigate further deaths. In the main these are likely to be deaths of people who are elderly and/or ill, and we fully support the coroner's belt-and-braces approach to ensuring future deaths that require further investigation are appropriately investigated and scrutinised."I cannot emphasisr enough how complex an investigation this is, requiring detailed forensic and medical analysis, and want to take the opportunity to thank the hospital and staff for their ongoing help and support."Leighton, who works as a nurse at the hospital, was arrested at her flat in the Heaviley district of Stockport at 6am on Wednesday. Sixty detectives from Greater Manchester police are working on the case.The treatment of 14 patients since 7 July on two acute medical wards – A1 and A3 – is being examined by police.Thirty-six bags of saline in a storeroom were found to have been sabotaged with insulin. On Tuesday police said the person responsible could still be at the hospital.Detectives can apply for an extension to continue questioning Rebecca Leighton if they need more time.Officers were first called nine days ago after an experienced nurse noticed unexpected drops in blood sugar levels in a large number of patients on the ward. Staff have now been told to work in pairs when checking and administering drugs. A single keyholder has to be asked for access to locked drugs cabinets.Police have said a product containing saline found damaged in the maternity ward at Stepping Hill was not contaminated, according to preliminary tests.Inquests into the deaths of three patients have been opened and adjourned at the request of the police.Tracey Arden had been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis 12 years ago. She had been admitted to the hospital on 7 July suffering from associated illnesses. Her parents, who live nearby, said she had been in good spirits when they left but within two hours began to deteriorate. Hospital staff called and told them to return urgently but she died before they arrived.Retired businessman George Keep was admitted to the hospital with a fractured hip after a fall on 27 June and had seemed to be recovering initially. He ran his own house maintenance firm and was described by relatives as a keen gardener and very strong for his age.His health suddenly deteriorated at the hospital and for six days doctors struggled to keep him alive. He was given blood and put on a saline drip for hydration but died last Thursday.Retired photographer Arnold Lancaster, of Romiley, had worked for the Stockport Express. He died on 11 July. The hospital has said it is not concerned about the health of nine other patients who were affected by the saline.Dr Chris Burke, chief executive of Stockport NHS Foundation Trust, said the trust was unable to comment further or provide any more details because of the police investigation.The Nursing and Midwifery Council confirmed that Rebecca Leighton had been arrested. Friends expressed their shock. It is understood her mother, Lynda, is a senior manager at the hospital responsible for training nurses.Other hospitals across the north-west had been warned to be vigilant.