Tory leader David Cameron today drew attention to what he called Tony Blair's "soft" sentencing policies as he went on the campaign trail for the Blaenau Gwent byelection.Mr Cameron made his comments during a visit to south Wales, where paedophile Craig Sweeney was told he could be considered for parole after five years and 108 days after being sentenced to life for an assault on a three-year-old girl last week.The case highlighted the sentencing guidelines applied to criminals who make an early guilty plea. "That is the fault of the 2003 Criminal Justice Act and Mr Blair who put it through parliament against our opposition," Mr Cameron said today. "Mr Blair has had nine years and every chance in the world to do something about crime and soft sentences." Even the lord chancellor had acknowledged the system was at fault, he added. "That's the system that New Labour put in place. It's the government and the 2003 Criminal Justice Act that's particularly to blame." But in a parliamentary spat at prime minister's question time this week, Mr Blair pointed out that the situation for early release had been even worse under the Tories. He said the Conservatives "talk tough, but vote soft" on law and order issues.The prime minister has already signalled plans to overhaul the criminal justice system, in an attempt to restore public confidence in the courts' ability to meter out tougher sentences to serious offenders. Mr Blair's plans to "rebalance" the criminal justice system by safeguarding the civil liberties of victims at the expense of offenders will not be roundly welcome outside the political fray, however. Concerns have already been expressed by some senior legal figures over the dangers of abolishing the sentence discount for those who swiftly lodge a guilty plea. Mr Cameron was on the campaign trail alongside the Liberal Democrats ahead of the byelection for the Blaenau Gwent seat left vacant following the death of independent MP Peter Law. His party has a remote chance of success when the contest is held in two weeks' time. Blaenau Gwent was a traditional Labour seat once held by Aneurin Bevan until the late Mr Law broke ranks with the party and won the seat as an independent in a protest over an all-woman shortlist. Labour candidate Owen Smith is on course to wrest the parliamentary seat back for his party, while Mr Law's former Welsh assembly seat is expected to be won by his widow, Trish Law, who is also standing as an independent. Meanwhile, Tory candidates Margrit Williams and Jon Burns will do well to retain their deposits - the Conservatives won just 2.3% of votes for the seat in the 2005 general election.Nobody could quite remember when a Conservative leader was last seen in this valley. A party spokesman said it was believed to be in the 1970s, when Margaret Thatcher came to a Welsh Conservatives conference in Ebbw Vale. "We can't think of any time more recent than that," he said.But nevertheless, Mr Cameron was determined to make a good impression with shoppers in Ebbw Vale market, insisting there are no no-go areas for the Conservatives in Britain.Blaenau Gwent was ravaged by the death of heavy industry with which Mr Thatcher is associated locally. Yet there was no shortage of people eager to shake Mr Cameron's hand, even if they were not willing to vote for him.One shopper asked: "If we vote for you would we get another dose of Thatcherism?" "I'm not Mrs Thatcher, I'm David Cameron," he replied. "She did good in her time but the challenges are different now." Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell also dropped into the South Wales constituency even though his local parliamentary and assembly candidates, Amy Kitcher and Steve Bard, pose no threat to Labour or the independents. But during a visit to Bryngwyn Primary School, Abertillery, Sir Menzies showed he shared Mr Cameron's believe that there was no such thing as a "no go area" for his party.There was "no limit" to his party's ambitions, he said: "It's vital that we make footholds all over the country. I don't believe there is any such thing as a no-go area for us. Conservatives have given up on many parts of the country, though Mr Cameron was here this morning. "What we are demonstrating is we are available all over the country."