A 17-year-old youth killed on a troubled north London estate may have been the victim of a pre-arranged clash between rival gangs.The youth, named locally as Marvin Henry, was found suffering a fatal wound to his torso after police were called to the former Inglis Barracks site in Mill Hill, following reports of youths fighting at 12.20am today.Initial reports claimed he had been stabbed, but residents on Bray Road, where he was found, reported hearing two or three gunshots.Police were questioning 11 male youths arrested at the scene. One theory is that he may have been killed during a pre-planned fight between gangs.He is the second teenager in four days to be murdered in the capital, and the 17th this year.As grieving family members and friends laid flowers at the scene, one resident described hearing a group of youths in the night then hearing gunshots.The 55-year-old man, who did not want to be named, said he looked out of his window and saw two people who were probably friends of the victim. They were screaming as they dragged the victim's body by the arms across a patch of grass on the estate."There was a group of 15 or 16 youths who were all running down the alleyway. Then there was definitely two or three gunshots," said the man. "A body was lying down on the ground. There were two people on top of him shouting and screaming, crying 'Oh my God'."Amid shouts of "call an ambulance", he said two youths dragged the body across the road about 50 metres to a clump of trees and then back across the grass again.This morning a procession of stunned friends, many of them teenagers, walked to the spot to lay flowers.One broke down as he said: "Marvin was one of the good guys. One of the quiet ones. He was no gang member. I can't believe it. Is this really happening?"Another friend, a teenage girl, said: "He loved rap. He never stopped spitting lyrics, he always talked in lyrics, he never talked properly. It's just a shock that it's happened here".Asked if he had any problems, she said: "He was a teenage boy. It's just what happens here."About 30 friends and relatives stood in silence at the spot. Three women stood arm-in-arm, comforting each other.Marvin was said to have lots of friends on the estate and spend much of his time there, although he lived half a mile away.A group of teenagers and friends also gathered outside his family home in a neat terraced cul-de-sac, as his family grieved inside. Meanwhile, friends paid tribute on a Facebook memorial page.Neighbour Sharon Dolling, said: "He was always a quiet boy, never loud. My boys have played with him. He was always playing football. It's just so very sad'.According to friends he had recently finished at a pupil referral unit, the Pavilion Study Centre, which educates pupils excluded from mainstream schools.Among the messages left with the flowers, one read: "Love you Marvin. Wheelie those clouds!!! B."Another read: "Liccle Marvin It's Peak G. I don't even know what to say. Words can't describe how I'm feeling right now. RIP Bro".The estate where he died is now used for social housing and is earmarked for redevelopment. In recent weeks, residents have reported problems with drug dealers, and some said "gang warfare" had broken out.A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "A murder investigation has been launched following the death of a 17-year-old male in Mill Hill. Police were called by London Ambulance Service following reports of a disturbance at Bray Road, close to the junction with Bittacy Hill".They added: "Officers attended the scene and discovered a 17-year-old male suffering from an injury to the torso. He was taken to Barnet General hospital but was pronounced dead shortly after arrival".He is the second teenager in less than a week to be killed in the capital. Samuel Adelagun, 16, of Newham, was shot in the chest by two gunmen wearing balaclavas in Plaistow, east London, in the early hours of Saturday.