Fish and chip shops are routinely selling cheaper species of fish without the knowledge of customers, according to a survey of food fraud.Investigators from Which? discovered that one in six pieces of fish were being sold as the wrong species. In several meals, cod turned out to be cheaper haddock, while haddock was whiting.The consumer watchdog, which tested the DNA of 45 samples of fish from takeaways across Birmingham, Glasgow and Manchester, found that seven of the samples had been mislabelled – five of these were bought from shops in Glasgow and two were from Manchester.The results follow a larger survey in the spring that found 40% of lamb takeaways were either contaminated or adulterated with the wrong species. Seven samples contained no lamb, and the meat in five samples could not be identified in DNA tests because it had been so highly processed.Prof Chris Elliott, who led the government inquiry into the horsemeat scandal last year, said the latest findings were no surprise. Though intelligence gathering had been limited, he pointed out that reports of food fraud to the Food Standards Agency database had surged in recent years. In 2007 it received 49 reports of food fraud; in 2013 it received 1,538. "It has been known for quite some time that fish fraud is very common and species substitution is always high on the list," he said.When Oceana, the marine conservation group, conducted a large investigation into seafood fraud in the US two years ago, it discovered that a third of fish in supermarkets, shops and restaurants had been wrongly labelled.Mislabelling can occur on fishing boats, during processing, at retail outlets, or at various points in between, but there has not so far been any investigation of where the crime tends to take place.Which? called for more government testing of food for authenticity and for increased industry checks. "It is unacceptable that people are being misled and that the food they have ordered is not what they're told it is," said the watchdog's executive director, Richard Lloyd.Last week the government accepted all the recommendations of the Elliott inquiry, including his call to establish a food crime unit, which would grant police greater powers to tackle such fraud.The environment secretary, Elizabeth Truss, said: "We're taking action to make sure families can have absolute confidence in the food that they buy. When a shopper picks something up from a supermarket shelf it should be exactly what it says on the label, and we'll crack down on food fraudsters trying to con British consumers."The Elliott report into food fraud highlighted the impact of cuts on local authority budgets. It found trading standards departments in England and Wales were likely to experience a 40% cut in resources during the tenure of this parliament. It said the public laboratory service, which checks whether foods are safe and correctly labelled, was also under threat.The Food Standards Agency said: "Food fraud is unacceptable and we are working with local authorities to take action against business owners who defraud the public. We already check that fish sold from takeaway shops is what it is meant to be. Last year local authorities tested more than 350 samples of fish from catering establishments, with 3% found to be unsatisfactory. This year we have provided specific funding to local authorities for another 500 samples of fish to be tested. Any evidence of mislabelling will be followed up with the businesses concerned. We have asked Which? for further details of their survey." In a Commons debate on the report this week, the Tory chair of the environment select committee, Anne McIntosh, said it was important the new food crime unit and laboratories had adequate resources and "ringfenced local authority money".David Heath, the food and farming minister during the horsemeat crisis, also warned during the debate that a new adulteration scandal was likely unless robust action to prevent fraud was taken.