It is almost a year since Cari last had sex with a man for money. She had been selling sex in Ipswich for six years, standing on dark street corners, sometimes with as many as 15 other women in scuffed trainers and puffa jackets and tiny pairs of jeans. On a good night, when there weren't too many girls out, she could make up to £300. All of it went on heroin.Then, on December 12 last year, the body of her friend Annette Nicholls was discovered, the last of five sex workers murdered in the Suffolk town to be found. Cari had dropped her off at work on the night she vanished. She hasn't worked since. "I said meet me in an hour, and she wasn't there. I thought, oh she's got a punter, and I just didn't think, the idiot that I am. And I haven't been out there since. I just can't bring myself to do it. I feel so guilty that I'm here and she's not."A year on, Cari, who is 31, can barely bring herself to say her friend's name, referring to her "the one who is dead".But as well as coming off the streets she also quit heroin in April - and she is far from Ipswich's only success story.Before Nicholls, Paula Clennell, Gemma Adams, Anneli Alderton and Tania Nicol were murdered more than 30 women worked as street prostitutes in Ipswich. Today, according to police figures, only one or two are working regularly, with just three identified as turning out once a week or so.London Road and Handford Road, once at the heart of the red light district, are quiet at night, no longer used as a slow cruising circle for men looking for sex. Ipswich's street prostitute scene, to almost everyone's surprise, has effectively been eliminated.Behind the striking results is an ambitious plan put in place in March in response to the murders by Suffolk police, the district and borough councils and independent agencies. It had two principal strategies: to help the women out of prostitution by giving them much more focused attention, and to stop their customers. Nine months on, thanks to CCTV and number plate recognition technology, more than 120 men have been arrested for kerb crawling and only two women are thought to remain, by their own choice."Ten, 11 months ago, I believed that to achieve anything like the success that we have had would be impossible," said Brian Tobin, director of the drugs charity Iceni. His organisation is supporting 28 women who are reducing or stopping their heroin use, most of whom no longer sell sex.One woman who worked almost every night for 23 years has gone out just twice in the last three weeks, he says. "It's been incredibly hard work. But it ain't rocket science. These women's needs are very basic. The emotional stuff, the psychological stuff - yes, that's huge. But if you want to attract women into treatment let's use what they know best, which is financial. They won't survive without money."Iceni's strategy has been to provide small amounts of money to help meet the women's mundane, everyday expenses: giving vouchers for cigarettes, paying for their methadone prescriptions, helping them to meet their rent."A lot of people probably have a problem with that, [saying] you're giving prostitutes money," Tobin said. There is still change left from a local donation of £10,000. "I think it's a small amount to pay for some wonderful outcomes."The real test will come in the next six months, he said. "Relapse is an important word, because in drug addiction you expect that. But I believe the vast majority of the women will not work on the streets again. We just have to ensure that the support systems are there."Critical to Cari's progress was persuading doctors to prescribe her methadone, although she had to pretend to be homeless to get a prescription. With help, she found a flat in a nearby town, and is trying to come off methadone. She'd like to get a job one day, and may do some counselling for women trying to come off the game.The hardest thing about coming off heroin, she said, is that "when you're on drugs you don't get emotions, and I'm just starting to get my emotions back". She has found herself thinking a lot about her three daughters who were adopted, her ex-boyfriend who died of an overdose, her dead best friend. Does she feel her life is better now she's clean? "Yeah. I hope so."I know people think that I should be proud of myself because I'm not on heroin, but I don't, because I'm still here, they're not. There are five girls who are dead. And there are girls out there who don't give a fuck, who are still taking drugs."The trial of Steven Wright, 49, charged with all five murders, begins in Ipswich next month.