Not for nothing was Paul Bint known as "King Con". Armed with a charming manner, a boundless reserve of deceit, a wig, a gown and a wing collar, the 47-year-old swindler wooed and defrauded a series of women by masquerading as a prominent criminal barrister, and when it suited him, as the director of public prosecutions himself.Today,Bint's 30-year crime spree came to an abrupt halt – not for the first time – when he was found guilty of five counts including fraud, theft and driving while disqualified.A jury at Southwark crown court heard that over the years Bint adopted a roll call of false professions and identities – hotelier, aristocrat, ballet dancer, banker, doctor, playboy, police officer and property magnate – to "worm his way into the hearts and homes" of many victims. He was, one barrister said, a man whose inability to exist in the real world fuelled fantasies that made "Walter Mitty look like a nine o'clock news reader".Previously, Bint has been convicted of 155 offences and asked for nearly 350 others to be considered. Among them were 44 frauds and "kindred" crimes, 81 thefts or similar misdemeanours, offences against the person and property, brushes with the law relating to police, courts and prisons, and various miscellaneous matters.For his latest campaign, Bint used the lonely hearts section of a newspaper and the internet to meet women whom he wined, dined and swindled by posing as the DPP, Keir Starmer QC, or a junior criminal barrister, Jonathan Rees. He told his victims he was friends with Robbie Williams, had socialised with Pierce Brosnan and had been married to actor Sarah Alexander.He promised one woman a Caribbean holiday until he became convinced that her affections lay elsewhere. To avenge the perceived slight, he scrawled "bitch" on the side of her home, blamed his potential rival, claimed the man had repeatedly assaulted an ex-girlfriend, and convinced her to dump him.Riel Karmy-Jones, prosecuting, said that by the time they realised who Bint was, he had misused a credit card belonging to one woman and stolen a bracelet from another. But the fraudster, who owned up in court to a 30-year criminal career, insisted he had done nothing wrong.The jury disagreed, convicting him of five counts committed between 27 April and 5 May this year.Two were for fraud by false representation – cheating a taxi driver of a £60 fare and using a credit card belonging to one of his victims. The others were for stealing a bracelet, burgling the robing room at St Alban's crown court and stealing a barrister's laptop, and test-driving a £59,000 Audi R8 while disqualified.He was cleared of seven credit card frauds, and four of driving while disqualified, including one on the judge's direction.The court heard that on one occasion, Bint used ones of his legal alter egos to dodge the taxi fare, telling the driver he was Starmer, that his wallet had been stolen and he would pay him back. The irate cabbie later went to the offices of the DPP to confront the real Starmer, and had to be placated by his secretary.Karmy-Jones told the court the fraud and deception was "motivated first and foremost by gain for himself in financial terms and also creature comforts … But perhaps a rather close second to this was a need to increase his own sense of self-esteem."He was a conman, a confidence trickster, a man who, it seems, had no legitimate source of income other than state benefits and what he could scavenge off his victims, principally women, by abusing their confidence and trust."He needed the "right name" and chose the DPP's most of the time. "You can imagine the effect that, together with the role of successful criminal barrister, might have," said Karmy-Jones.Bint told the court one reason for his "continual performances" was that he cared deeply about what people thought of him. "It is a very big issue in my life. I want people to think, 'He is obviously a good person'."Bint, who was born in Northampton, said he had been abused as a child, but did not blame this for his behaviour. "I know there are people who go through these experiences and don't lead the kind of life I've led," he said. "But it was a period in which I suffered … at the hands of people who I believed loved me."Bint, whose first crime was stealing fishing equipment when he was 15, told jurors: "I lived in an absolute dream world and it started back then … I started to pretend to be other people. I used to daydream about living in a big house and having people around that loved me."At 16, he "started to act out my dreams", by burgling Northampton general hospital, stealing a stethoscope and imagining he was a doctor. By the age of 21, his medical fantasies had led him to don a white coat and tour hospitals in north-west England. During one incident, he groped a woman and said: "Trust me, I'm a doctor."He arranged X-rays, attended a man with a collapsed lung, put 12 stitches in another patient's head, tried to bluff his way into a heart bypass operation, authorised blood transfusions and dispensed drugs. In Leeds he attended to a 17-year-old car crash victim and told her parents she would be fine. She died six hours later.Bint, of no fixed address, who has been diagnosed with an untreatable psychopathic condition, will be sentenced on 3 November.