In court he was referred to as "Mr X", but to his family the man liked to be known as "the Gaffer", an arrogant, remorseless man who for almost 30 years would rape his daughters several times a week, taking "great pleasure", the court heard, in fathering their children.The 56-year-old cannot be named for legal reasons, but a picture has emerged of life in his household that is almost as harrowing as the case of Josef Fritzl, the Austrian man to whom his case has been compared. The physical abuse began when the women were barely toddlers, the sexual abuse when they were eight. Each girl was threatened with violence if she told anyone, and neither knew for some years that the other was being abused. In the beginning they were raped every day, then two or three times a week. He would even rape them while they were pregnant, forcing each woman to babysit the children while he assaulted her sister. He told them their children would be taken away if they told anyone about the abuse, and threatened to kill them and their children. He drank heavily; the sisters told investigators they would give him as much whisky as he wanted in the hope he would drink himself to death.Their mother knew about the rapes, they told the court, but she was apparently too terrified to intervene. On one occasion, when a doctor asked the younger sister if her father was the father of her baby, her mother lay on the ground screaming; she had flushed her daughter's earlier miscarried foetus down the toilet, but pointedly failed to ask about the father. Some years ago she fled the family. A brother, too, left home when he was 15, describing his father to police as a "Jekyll and Hyde personality" who could "turn just with the click of his fingers". Because the man was self-employed, running his own business related to the building trade, it was comparatively easy for him to uproot the family at short notice. His daughters were not permitted to meet other men, and beaten badly if they did. In a particularly pitiable detail, it emerged that on one occasion one of the sisters offered her father money not to rape her, collecting £100 out of her child benefit payments. The man is not mentally ill, Sheffield crown court was told; his abuse was "just satisfying his urges". He has remained unrepentant, refusing to come to court to hear his sentence. While on remand the man wrote a letter to a relative: "We were all getting on well before this came out," he wrote. "What went wrong? My daughters have got something out of this - kids - what have I got?"