The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Friday April 23 2004In the story below, we stated that Mr Little "suffered a heart attack after the brick hit him in the chest" when, in fact, the force of the brick caused fatal damage to the heart. Mr Little had no history of heart trouble. A 20-year-old shop assistant was jailed for six years at the Old Bailey yesterday for the manslaughter of a lorry driver who was killed when a brick crashed through his windscreen on a motorway.Craig Harman, of Frimley, Surrey, became the first man to be convicted using evidence based on the link between DNA retrieved at the scene of the crime and the DNA profile of a relative of the accused. Harman dropped a brick through the windscreen of Michael Little's moving lorry from a footbridge above the M3 near Camberley, Surrey, on March 21 last year. After his arrest last October, he told police: "It's just one of those drunken, stupid moments." Mr Little, 53, who lived in Essex and had worked for Ford for 26 years, suffered a heart attack after the brick hit him in the chest. In an act of bravery that was later commemorated by the Ford company in Detroit, he managed to steer his 44-tonne lorry to the hard shoulder, put the hazard lights on and turn off the engine before he died. He was discovered three hours later by a police patrol. Forensic scientists helped to secure Harman's conviction using a technique called "familial searching" to track the culprit after extracting DNA samples from the brick. The pioneering method is based on the understanding that relatives are likely to have similar DNA profiles. As he did not have a criminal record, a search for a match of the retrieved DNA drew blanks from the national police database. However, similar DNA profiles were traced, including that of a relative. Detective Chief Inspector Graham Hill of Surrey police said that without the new science there would have been no conviction. "There is no doubt in my mind that without this groundbreaking technique and the Forensic Science Service that this crime would have remained undetected. We had worked for six months on this investigation with no success whatsoever," he added. The success of the method could now open the door to solving other major crimes which have baffled investigators for years. UK police have at their fingertips the world's first and largest DNA database, containing more than 2.3m samples, and it is about to get larger. On April 5, police forces were given the authority to take and keep fingerprint and DNA samples from suspects once they have been arrested. Previously, samples were only allowed to be taken and kept once charges had been brought. It is hoped the new powers will enable more crimes to be solved through DNA tracing techniques such as "familial searching". Mr Little's partner, Susan Norman, expressed disappointment at Harman's sentence. "Six years is nothing compared to taking Micky's life," she said. "It's not going to change things or bring him back, but I had hoped for longer. My attitude is, a life for a life."