A 14-year-old boy has admitted killing 11-year-old Joe Geeling, whose body was found in a park last month. The teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, appeared yesterday at Manchester crown court. He did not formally enter a plea to the murder charge, but the prosecution and defence teams said he accepted killing the child.Alistair Webster QC, for the prosecution, said: "The likely issues in the case are not around who did it, but the mental state and capacity of the defendant at the time of the killing."The judge, Mr Justice David Clarke, said there was some "public interest" in knowing that the defendant admitted to killing the deceased. "It may be reported that there is no dispute as to who it was that inflicted those fatal injuries ... there is not going to be any trial involving a suggestion that anybody else is responsible."A postmortem examination revealed that Joe died from multiple stab wounds.The defendant, wearing a light blue shirt and a dark blue zip-up top, sat not in the dock, but next to his mother at the back of the room. He spoke to confirm his name and to indicate to Mr Justice Clarke that he understood what was being discussed. At one stage, he cried and had to be comforted by his mother.Both the defendant and Joe attended St Gabriel's Roman Catholic high school in Ainsworth, Bury. Joe, who suffered from cystic fibrosis for which he required regular hospital treatment and a range of medication, failed to return from school on March 1 after last being seen that afternoon making the 15-minute walk home on his own.Police, firefighters, members of the Bolton mountain rescue team and members of Joe's family mounted a huge search for the Manchester City fan as overnight temperatures fell to below freezing.His body was eventually discovered at 11am the following day in a wooded gully at the side of Whitehead Park in Ainsworth, Bury. A Greater Manchester police spokesman said there had been an attempt to conceal the body.An hour after the discovery police arrested the 14-year-old in the classroom on suspicion of murder.He was formally charged with Joe's death on March 7. Since then he has been remanded in secure local authority accommodation.The boy told the court yesterday that he understood he had to go for psychiatric and psychological tests before the trial on October 16.