Detectives are investigating the deaths of two teenagers – thought to be a suspected accidental shooting and then a suicide – who were found dead at a farmhouse in the Cairngorms.The bodies of the dead couple, named by police as Sophie Taylor, 16, and by local people as Calum Murray, 18, were found at Blairnamarrow cottage just outside the town of Tomintoul on Tuesday evening.Grampian police are refusing to discuss the background to the shootings, but said they were not looking for other suspects.Detective Inspector Stewart Mackie said the scene at the cottage was "particularly distressing" but added: "We would like to reassure the local community that this is an isolated incident."Investigations into the circumstances surrounding the two deaths are at an early stage. However, it is important to stress that we are not looking for any third party at this point.Police have refused to say whether they are treating either shooting as a murder or a suicide. A local businessman who knows the teenagers and Taylor's parents said the shootings appeared to be a "horrendous, quite unbelievable" accident, which had horrified the town.Dru McPherson, who runs the Clockhouse restaurant in the town and employs Taylor's mother, Katie, said the shootings happened after Murray, a trainee gamekeeper on a grouse moor, returned to the cottage after a day's work.Several sources, including police, said another gamekeeper and his wife were in the cottage. They heard a firearm go off and saw Murray run out of the house carrying the gun, shouting that he had shot Taylor, McPherson said. The second man, who is the a head gamekeeper at a nearby estate, tried but failed to stop Murray shooting himself on the path outside, McPherson added. "Police sources are reporting quite succinctly that it was accidental, to the best of our belief," he said."Basically a firearm went off inside the house. Sophie was killed immediately – it was instantaneous – and the boyfriend, Calum Murray, he's obviously just had a kneejerk reaction, has just gone out and said 'I have shot my girlfriend' and shoots himself. The other person that was there did try and stop him but failed. It has been just tragic, just a classic tragedy."Taylor, who was about to sit exams at Speyside high school in Aberlour, worked part-time as a waitress at the Glen Avon hotel in Tomintoul. The couple were well known to locals. Paramedics and police were immediately called to the house, but the teenagers were pronounced dead at the scene.Grampian police closed off the nearby A939 between Tomintoul and Corgarff. Around 30 officers were searching the building and its surroundings. The police were unable to verify McPherson's account but Mackie said a firearm had been found. "We're trying to put a timeline together to establish what happened. I can't divulge any details of the people involved in the house. Clearly this involves young people. It's very much a sensitive situation for the families and the community," he said.McPherson said: "It's just a complete tragedy. Sophie was a bright, pretty girl. She had everything going for her. A genuinely nice family. Just snuffed out."Fiona Murdoch, a local independent councillor, said: "It seems like a terrible tragedy. For two young people to have died is absolutely horrendous, whatever the circumstances may be."The cottage is close to the hideout used by Percy Toplis, the convicted army deserter, serial criminal and suspected murderer, who fled from the police in Hampshire and hid out in Tomintoul in 1920, before again running off after shooting a local constable and farmer. Toplis claimed – wrongly, say historians – to be the "monocled mutineer" who was later made famous in the Alan Bleasdale drama about the first world war.In a statement , Taylor's parents David and Katie said: "We are devastated at the loss of our beautiful daughter Sophie, who will be greatly missed by us, her brother and her grandparents as well as her many friends."Their daughter had been hoping to become a social worker, they said. "Sophie was bright and bubbly and loved spending time with her family and friends. We are immensely proud of her. We are a close family who will miss her very much and are completely shocked to have lost her so prematurely," they said.