The Metropolitan police yesterday flatly denied having a "gung-ho" attitude to using firearms after the publication of a report which suggested its officers behave too aggressively and shoot more frequently than other forces.Ian Blair, the Met's deputy commissioner, said the study by the police complaints authority was "odd, inappropriate, ill-advised, statistically dubious" and did not stand up to scrutiny. The Met reacted when the PCA published a review of police shootings in England and Wales between 1998 and 2001, focusing on 24 cases, including the death of Harry Stanley, who died in Hackney, east London. Officers thought he was carrying a shotgun but later discovered it was a wooden table leg. The PCA said the Met had deployed firearms units on 10,044 occasions during the three-year period. Shots were fired in 11 incidents and four people had died. In other forces across England and Wales, there is a rate of one shooting in 2,679 firearms operations. In the Met, the rate is one in 913. The report said the difference could not be explained by "the demands or circumstances of urban policing" and that the Met's "proactive tactics" were not used elsewhere. The PCA recommended that the Met launch its own comprehensive review of tactics, a proposal that was rejected by Mr Blair. "This report does not have any statistical merit," he said. "I reject the suggestion that there is a policy or a predilection towards rapid intervention. The number of shooting incidents is tiny and each one is investigated rigorously. The Met reported a 42% increase in all armed crime last year. London has had rising street crime and the threat of terrorism. When you compare the number of police shootings in London to somewhere like New York, it is infinitesimal." The PCA report made 47 other more general recommendations about the use of firearms, and included a warning that officers could be goaded into shooting by vulnerable people who wanted to die - a phenomenon known as "suicide by cop". Many incidents involve people who are mentally ill or on drugs. They are often unarmed or carrying replica or unloaded weapons. "This would not necessarily have been apparent to the officers at the time... one of the main challenges for armed policing is developing methods to identify and disarm such individuals without injury or loss of life," said Sir Alastair Graham, PCA chairman. The watchdog suggested the Home Office commission and fund research into the issue. The report also warned firearms officers about their conduct. The PCA said some firearms units used "nick names that do not convey a professional image and are grossly offensive". One officer "consumed several alcholic drinks" the evening before a planned operation - breaking the codes for firearms units. The PCA said the incident might be indicative of deeper problems with safety and suggested breathalysing officers before operations. The report noted concern over the amount of direct supervision of firearms teams, with one officer commenting "we are left very much to decide what to do between ourselves". The PCA called for urgent work to develop strategies for "less lethal" weapons such as stun guns or water cannon. Sir Alistair added: "The Met should not be defensive about our report. Where there is an unarmed police service there has to be close public scrutiny of those exceptional occasions when the police have been obliged to use lethal force." He said procedures were sound in England and Wales.