A man accused of killing his 13-year-old foster daughter tried to avoid doing anything to help her as she lay on the patio of the family home covered in blood, the Old Bailey heard today.The prosecution claimed former deputy headteacher Sion Jenkins bludgeoned his foster daughter Billie-Jo to death and later attempted to cover it up when he returned to the house with two of his natural daughters.Continuing the opening of the prosecution's case on the second day of the retrial of 47-year-old Mr Jenkins, of Aberystwyth, Wales, prosecutor Nicholas Hilliard told the court he had delayed dialling 999. Later, he did not follow advice from a 999 operator to check Billie-Jo's pulse or place her in the recovery position, Mr Hilliard said. Mr Jenkins denies murdering Billie-Jo on February 15 1997. The teenager was attacked with an iron bar as she painted doors at the family home in Hastings, East Sussex, the court heard. She was struck at least five times, sustaining severe head injuries. Mr Hilliard said the prosecution did not accept that the account Mr Jenkins had given to the police about how he had discovered Billie-Jo and what he had done afterwards as being truthful. The court heard he told police how he had arrived back home with his daughters and could see Billie-Jo's legs from the dining room. He said he crouched down to look at her and "saw lots of blood round her head". He told officers he had taken his daughters into the house's playroom, the court heard. Mr Hilliard said Mr Jenkins told police: "I said: 'Stay there, Billie has had an accident. She will be okay.' Lottie [one of his daughters] was shaking, and both were crying. I was distressed, although I tried to remain calm for the girls." Mr Jenkins said to officers that he had gone back outside and put a hand on Billie-Jo's shoulder. He allegedly told the police: "Her head was limp. She was totally covered in blood. I was horrified. I released my grip and ran back into the dining room. I knew what had happened was not an accident ... [I] went into the hall to call an ambulance." Mr Hilliard told the jury: "We do not accept he was giving a truthful account. He was trying to avoid doing anything to help her." The prosecution told the court there were two telephone lines in the house, and that Mr Jenkins had allegedly told police the phone in the dining room was ringing and that he had tried to stop it."What was he doing trying to adjust the ringing tone while his daughter was lying seriously injured on the patio?" Mr Hilliard said. "He did not call an ambulance then, but went back outside. He told a friend he tried to revive her. He had not done so at all. It was a lie." The jury was played two 999 calls to the ambulance service, in which Mr Jenkins was told to feel for a pulse and to put Billie-Jo in the recovery position. However, when an ambulance crew arrived, she was still lying on her front on the patio, the court heard. When he was asked whether she was still breathing, Mr Jenkins allegedly replied: "I don't know - I have not looked." Before the ambulance arrived, Mr Jenkins called a neighbour, Denise Franklin, for help, and she told him paramedics were needed. He made a second 999 call and, asked again whether Billie-Jo was breathing, replied: "I can't say." Mr Jenkins told police he went back to Billie-Jo after making the second 999 call. He allegedly told them: "I think I crouched down next to Billie and felt her neck. I became aware that her forehead was misshapen. Her eye was swollen as if someone had punched her. I noticed a bubble from her nose. I realised she was still alive." He then tried to shake her blood off his hands, washing it off before returning to her again. "She still felt warm. I pulled my hand away and stood up. I was getting frantic because the ambulance still had not arrived," he told police The neighbour said she placed a towel round Billie-Jo's head. "She then became aware of part of a bin liner inside Billie's left nostril. She pulled the bin liner and blood poured out," Mr Hilliard said. The jury of six men and six women were warned by Mrs Justice Rafferty yesterday to dismiss what they had heard about the case. "This is a completely fresh start. The law demands that," the judge said. The trial continues.