It was a summer day in June 2010, and Jean Slack had been waiting at home for her daughter Rachael and grandson Auden to call, as they did every week, to take her shopping.Mother and daughter had a close relationship. They lived five miles apart in the Derbyshire countryside, saw each other every day and regularly chatted on the phone. On this Wednesday, Mrs Slack had niggling concerns that Rachael had been keeping things from her.Her 38-year-old daughter, who lived with her little boy in a stone cottage up a country lane in the village of Holbrook, was struggling to cope with the behaviour of her ex-partner, whose harassment and intimidation had increased in the last week.Andrew Cairns, the father of her child, at one time a confident, successful businessman and former professional golfer, had been exhibiting signs of deteriorating mental health for years – to the extent he had become an obsessive, manipulative presence stalking Rachael. She had kept much of this from her mother for fear of upsetting her: the telephone calls day and night, the constant demands, the sudden presence on the doorstep of her cottage at all hours.But Rachael had been happier in recent months than for a long time. She had bought her cottage 10 months earlier, was in a new relationship with an old schoolfriend and was pregnant.Jean Slack told the Guardian she had spoken the day before to her daughter: "She seemed all right but it made me wonder whether she was keeping things from me. Andrew had been ringing her a lot that day."  Auden Slack. Photograph: Refuge/PAIt was mid-afternoon when Mrs Slack, hearing the knock on her door, rose to greet Rachael and her grandson, a blond-haired, 23-month-old toddler. But she found police officers standing on the threshold."I remember saying, 'What's this then? Has Andrew been playing up again?' They came in and I remember sitting down. Then they said, 'I'm afraid there's been an incident over at Holbrook. Rachael has died and so has Auden.'"Nothing in the measured, professional understatement could have prepared the family for the brutality of Rachael and Auden's deaths. The police found mother and child a short distance apart inside the heavily bloodstained living room in her cottage. Both had suffered multiple stab wounds.Rachael's body was pinned down by that of Cairns, who had stabbed himself after taking the lives of his son and ex-partner – fulfilling a threat made days before. "It was the most violent, violent death," said Mrs Slack. "I've never been the same person since it happened. He took all the keys to the house, he locked them in, and when they found them all the keys and her mobile phone were in his pockets."Three years on, Mrs Slack sat through an inquest into her daughter and grandson's deaths to hear evidence of all too familiar failures by authorities in cases where a woman dies at the hands of a partner or ex-partner. The family heard of the approaches Rachael made to Derbyshire police to ask for help in the days leading up to her death. Seven days before she was killed, she drove to the police station with Cairns in the back of her car. Taking Auden with her, she went inside and told staff that Cairns had turned up at her home, got into the car with her son and refused to get out.Cairns was detained under section 136 of the Mental Health Act, but was released when a psychiatrist assessed him as being of no risk to others and low risk to himself.A day later Cairns phoned Rachael 21 times, and turned up again at her home, demanding to see his son. The inquest heard that he forced her to spend the day with him, and as Auden played in a park, he warned her: "You are a fucking bitch for abandoning me and getting together with someone else and getting pregnant. I gave up everything to be with you. You have no idea what I am capable of – I will kill you and take him."Distressed, Rachael drove back to the police station, telling officers she felt "stalked" by him, and was fearful he would take his own life and that of her son.Cairns was arrested for making threats to kill and held overnight, but released on police bail the following day with the condition that he should not approach Rachael's address. But it emerged during the inquest that he had been seen near her home and had broken his bail conditions. The police, however, were not aware and took no action.On his release, a neighbour made an independent report to police that Cairns was in a highly distressed state and was threatening to "grab" his son. Later that night, when police officers checked on Cairns following the neighbour's call, they found the walls of his home plastered with pictures of Auden.Two assessments carried out the same day by the police under national domestic violence protocols – known as Dash – found that Rachael and her child were at high risk of homicide at the hands of Cairns. But ,having correctly carried out the assessment, police failed to inform Rachael that she and her son were at such great risk, in breach of guidelines from the Association of Chief Police Officers. They also failed to take any measures to better protect her.They did not install a panic button in her home; she was not given advice on protecting herself; and officers failed to inform her about their own domestic violence policy, Cocoon, which is designed for vulnerable women living in rural areas, and uses friends and neighbours as an alert system.When asked why they had not provided Rachael with means of protecting herself, Detective Chief Inspector Gary Goucher, deputy head of public protection for Derbyshire police, said: "We had heard how secure the house was, we had heard that she felt safe in the house, we had heard it was like Fort Knox."Yes, we could have put an alarm in there, but I don't know whether that would have given us any more than we already had. She had a telephone, she would have had plenty of time to call. We were satisfied she not only felt safe but was safe."But the inquest heard she had tried to reach her mobile phone, but was not able to – Cairns was found with it in his pocket, along with all the keys to the house, which was locked front and back."It is the not telling her that she was at such risk that upsets and angers us the most," said Melony Slack, Rachael's sister-in-law. "She was an outgoing, lively, confident woman. If she had known – in particular, if she had known the risk in regard to Auden – she would have done something. She worshipped that baby."Hours before the deaths on 2 June 2010, Cairns visited his GP and said: "Today is going to be the most important day of your career." He then boarded a bus to Rachael's cottage in Holbrook. A short time later one of her neighbours heard screams and rang 999 before running to help. She saw Rachael's face at the window pleading for help, with the silhouette of a man visible behind her. When police arrived they broke down the door to find Rachael dead, Cairns lying on top of her, and the child's body a short distance away from them.As the eight-week inquest reached an end, Rachael's family added their voice to the calls for a public inquiry into domestic violence in England and Wales. In 2010 Rachael and Auden Slack were two of the 95 victims, mostly women, to die at the hands of a partner or ex-partner; on average two women die a week. The Slacks and others believe only a public inquiry that will also examine the role of the Crown Prosecution Service, social services and the NHS will help to better protect women.There is a memory of Rachael Slack that her family cherish. It was on a day out at Ascot races, with Rachael, glamorous and exuberant, parading an enormous, red, floppy hat, so large she barely fitted through the turnstile. In a spontaneous gesture, she handed a police officer her hat, donned his helmet and smiled for the camera."That's typical Rachael," said Melony. "She was one of those outgoing, lively, confident young women. She was full of life and larger than life."