“#ItAintRape if she was asking for it … #ItAintRape if she don’t wake up … #ItAintRape if you knock her out first …”Happy New Year.We made it a few days into 2015 before #ItAintRape started trending on Twitter and the debate about Ched Evans returning to football reignited. New Year, new “arguments” about whether some women are asking for it, some kinds of rape are more “serious” than others and some victims deserve to be blamed.That we are having these conversations at least proves that such views are no longer going unchallenged. The sustained level of protest about Evans’s potential return to the status of a revered, highly paid role model reveals a powerful current of feminist activism and feeling. And the #ItAintRape tag started trending largely because of the sheer volume of people using it to protest against the rape myths and victim-blaming sentiment it was originally used to express. But, as some took to the hashtag to point out, each of these incidents has a potentially unbearable impact on survivors, as their experiences are challenged and their testimony questioned. And, like some reactions to Evans’s case, and the appalling treatment of his victim, many of the earlier #ItAintRape tweets still reveal the extent to which we continue to battle ignorant and misogynistic ideas about sexual violence.So, in the spirit of a new slate for the New Year, here are the myth-busting answers to some of the common misconceptions expressed using the hashtag …‘#ItAintRape If the woman lies’The idea that false rape accusations are common is incredibly popular and utterly unfounded. A report published by the Crown Prosecution Service in 2013 made it clear that it is “extremely rare that a suspect deliberately makes a false allegation of rape or domestic violence purely out of malice”. During the 17-month period covered by the report, there were 5,651 prosecutions for rape, compared to just 35 for making false allegations of rape, and 111,891 prosecutions for domestic violence, compared to just six for making false allegations of domestic violence. Add to this the fact that the vast majority of rapes go unreported, unrecorded and unprosecuted (in part, precisely because of a culture of victim-blaming sustained by things such as the #ItAintRape hashtag) and it is clear that, while extremely serious on the very rare occasions they do occur, false allegations are vastly outnumbered by the number of rapes that never result in justice.‘#ItAintRape if you like it’This excuse is surprisingly common – I’ve heard the phrase “It’s not rape if she enjoys it” repeated on multiple occasions when discussing consent on school visits. But this line of thought misunderstands the nature of rape, which is a predatory and violent act of power and control. It is worth noting that nobody would dream of accusing victims of any other violent crime, such as murder, assault or robbery, of “enjoying” the experience.‘#ItAintRape if she’s ugly’The myth that only attractive or young women are raped feeds back into the idea that rape is more about sexual attraction than violence and control. In reality, as Rape Crisis notes, “People, and especially women and girls, of all ages, classes, culture, ability, sexuality, race and faith are raped.” This is a particularly insidious misconception, as it combines with narrow and prescriptive societal policing of women’s bodies, and so is often paired, as in several examples on the hashtag, with the nasty suggestion that some women should be “grateful” for rape.‘#ItAintRape if she’s revealing any skin’To suggest that rape is the result of a sudden, uncontrollable sexual attraction triggered by a woman’s dress is as farcical as it is unfounded. In reality, given that around 90% of perpetrators of the most serious sexual offences are known to their victim, and that women are raped at all times of day, wearing all different types of clothing, there is no action a woman can take to “protect” herself from rape by changing her attire. This is classic victim-blaming, feeding into the idea that a rapist is a stranger in a dark alleyway, “provoked” by a woman’s choice of top or skirt, when in reality, rape is far more likely to occur within relationships or marriages, perpetrated by a partner, friend or colleague. Where, in this narrative of provocative women “bringing it upon themselves” with their sexy clothing, do you fit the recent case of the 91-year-old woman raped in her home in North Lanarkshire, or the attempted rape of a baby by singer Ian Watkins? By 2015, it must be a baseline starting point that any person, anywhere, should have the right to wear whatever they like without fear of sexual violence.‘#ItAintRape if the girl was a slut’The idea that a victim’s sexual history or behaviour is in any way related to, or makes her partially to blame for, a sexual assault is particularly common, but also completely irrelevant. As in the oft-cited example, who would claim that somebody who regularly chose to give money away to charity was essentially “asking” to be robbed? Consent is all that matters, regardless of whether the victim has slept with the perpetrator in the past, and anybody has the right to withdraw consent or change their mind at any time during sexual contact.‘#ItAintRape if she don’t know it happened’If a woman is unable to consent, whether asleep, unconscious or incapacitated through alcohol or drugs, it is indeed rape, and only the perpetrator is to blame, however confusing this might be to certain politicians, presenters or members of the public.