A servant allegedly beaten and strangled by a Saudi prince died without putting up a fight, the Old Bailey in London heard today.Bandar Abdulaziz was so worn down by the sadistic abuse he had suffered that he let the defendant kill him, jurors were told.Saud Abdulaziz bin Nasser al Saud, 34, denies murdering the 32-year-old in February at the central London hotel room they shared.Jonathan Laidlaw QC, prosecuting, said they had a master-servant relationship in which the prince abused his aide for his own personal gratification.Laidlaw said the victim's injuries showed the assault leading to his murder "was a really terrible, a really brutal attack".He added: "So worn down by the violence, so subservient and submissive had Bandar become that he was incapable of any effective resistance. He was killed without apparently ever having fought back because the defendant was completely unharmed, without any mark at all, when he was examined at the police station. Bandar appears to have let the defendant kill him."Saud, 34, also denies grievous bodily harm with intent concerning an earlier alleged attack in a hotel lift.In his closing speech, Laidlaw said: "The case serves as an example of how misleading some outward appearances can be. Witnesses have described how polite and well-mannered the defendant was. They spoke of his charm, his generosity with money."Others had spoken of how the prince and his aide were good friends, and jurors were shown apparently "perfectly ordinary holiday snaps" of the two men. But Laidlaw said: "Beneath the surface this was a deeply abusive relationship which the defendant exploited – as the assaults in the lift so graphically demonstrate – for sadistic reasons, for his own personal gratification. The abuse extended beyond physical abuse. There was plainly an emotional element and psychological element to it."Those who had seen the victim described "how frightened he looked, how fragile he appeared, how timid he seemed", said Laidlaw.Photographs of Abdulaziz stored on a mobile phone plainly proved there was also a sexual element to the abuse, he added.Laidlaw said that after the victim's death, the prince appeared shocked and upset. "He cried out in apparent anguish when told Bandar was dead and he may have shed tears," he said. "He was provided with tea and with support. How appearances can deceive. It was a complete performance by him. He had killed Bandar."The prince had said he wanted to help the police, Laidlaw said. "He wanted nothing of the sort. He wanted to save his own skin."The trial continues.