A litany of mistakes which raise serious questions about the way violent offenders are assessed when they are released from prison is to be revealed by a damning report into the murder of the millionaire financier John Monckton, the contents of which have been revealed to The Observer.The inquiry into the murder of Monckton by Damien Hanson will say that probation staff supervising the criminal who was once described as 'the devil's child' failed to prepare vital risk assessments that would have highlighted the serious threat he posed to the public. The failures are likely to raise questions over the way dangerous offenders are managed and prompt calls for an overhaul of public protection measures.Within five days of being released from prison, Hanson should have been subjected to a sophisticated psychological audit that would have graded him a 'high risk' offender needing close supervision. But an Offender Assessment System report - which is supposed to be conducted on all violent offenders after they leave prison - was either 'lost' or not carried out, according to the report for Home Secretary Charles Clarke.In addition, a dossier drawn up by prison and probation staff for the parole board examining Hanson's case failed to provide detailed information about his violent background. The failures to provide individual risk assessments on Hanson, both in prison and when he was released in August 2004, meant probation staff gave him only a 'category one' level of supervision - the lowest available.The report, written by Berkshire's former chief probation officer, Malcolm Bryant, on behalf of Andrew Bridges, the chief inspector of probation, says supervision of Hanson 'should have been seen as critical' but was only 'notional'.It is expected to be highly critical of probation staff involved in supervising Hanson, 24, who was jailed for life for the murder, and Elliott White, also 24, jailed for 18 years after being convicted of Monckton's manslaughter.Bryant identifies communication problems including a failure by probation staff to inform local public protection teams when Hanson, now serving a minimum 36-year sentence, was placed in a hostel in Streatham, south London. Failure meant the key strategy for monitoring dangerous offenders - the Multi Agency Publication Protection Arrangements - was not observed until weeks after Hanson's release. During his final months in prison, Hanson was moved several times, hampering the ability to assess him adequately.'The real problem was the last phase of Hanson's incarceration,' said one source familiar with the report's contents. 'Proper risk assessments were just not done. The assessment in prison was inadequate. The assessment when he was released was either not carried out or went missing.'Bryant also criticises the parole board for not interviewing Hanson in person, opting instead to conduct a 'paper exercise'. It notes that Monckton's murder was carried out at a time when the London Probation Service was experiencing 'serious organisational and financial problems' which led to poor performance and low staff morale, a problem which has now been addressed according to a subsequent Home Office report.Under his release conditions, Hanson was barred from living in hostels in London. But the hostel he was allocated in Essex was full so Hanson was moved to Streatham. And, despite conditions barring him from entering Kensington and Chelsea, Hanson was ordered to report to a probation officer in the borough.At his trial last year, the court heard Hanson was 'wealth-obsessed' and targeted Monckton's wife, Homeyra, after seeing her wearing expensive jewellery. White and Hanson tricked their way into the Moncktons' home by pretending to be delivering post. The Moncktons' daughter, Isobel, witnessed the attack on her parents which also left her mother fighting for her life.Although White was obliged to attend a drug treatment and training course during the period before the murder, the report finds he failed to turn up on at least 10 occasions. This should have resulted in a court deciding whether White should be returned to prison for breaching his conditions, but went unaddressed.The series of failures is likely to make worrying reading for Clarke. Amid public concern about monitoring of dangerous offenders, the Home Secretary has pledged every offender will now be overseen by a named 'offender manager'. But the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo) last night warned the plan was 'unworkable' with current staffing. It estimates that in a typical London borough 25 per cent of probation officer jobs are unfilled.'We believe there are between 10,000 and 15,000 prisoners in Britain not receiving adequate supervision,' said Harry Fletcher, Napo's assistant general secretary. 'In addition we need hundreds more experienced police and probation officers working in public protection.'Fletcher said public protection strategies generally worked well. The most dangerous ex-prisoners were extremely unlikely to commit another serious crime. But internal Home Office figures show former prisoners subject to the lowest level of supervision are responsible for 80 per cent of serious crimes committed by released prisoners.