Significant news from the pro-active policing front line: in Exeter, officers have started burgling homes. Cynics among you will assume this is merely a guaranteed method of drastically improving clear-up rates, but I am happy to be able to report that our target-dominated society has not yet achieved such levels of officially sanctioned madness.Nor is this interesting initiative a cunning ruse to pre-empt the professionals, or to throw them into a paralysing state of confusion by reversing the usual order of things. Not at all: it is designed to show residents how easily property can be removed from their premises if they do not take adequate precautions. Mindful of some other cases – one featured in a TV advert, another featuring the bachelor flat of Gordon Brown – the Exeter constabulary has come up with an arresting method of ensuring their effected entrance through unlocked doors and windows gets noticed before too many months pass: they have been gathering up valuables and leaving them in special "swag bags". At the time of writing, I have not been able to confirm if they have also donned special berets and striped chemises.Some people have already begun complaining about trespass and a gross infringement of privacy, but, really, where on earth have they been these last few years? Guantánamo Bay? The police say they have had no complaints, but apparently, the area selected is mostly inhabited by students. Besides, if I might borrow a catchphrase often used in association with another popular innovation, CCTV: "If you've got nothing to hide, you've got nothing to worry about." It would certainly encourage me not to leave the washing-up.Think of where we could go with this: I can see rich potential in the motor area, where nicking cars from outside pubs would also have a significant impact on drink-driving offences. How sobering, also, whatever your state, to look in the rearview mirror and find an officer wagging a finger from the back seat. Shopping expeditions would be greatly enlivened as well: imagine feeling for your wallet or purse and having it put into your hand to the sound of a gruff voice murmuring, "There you go, chummy: can't be too careful." And imagine the larks available between shop security and bogus lifters. Banks and post offices, too, are most promising.But I'm getting ridiculously carried away. It's important, today, faced as we are by any number of threats – including, clearly, the focus by Exeter's ruthless criminal masterminds on student belongings – to concentrate on practicalities and protection rather than far-fetched postulations, or principles. And here I think some of the critics might have a point: what happens if a police officer gets attacked by a resident angrily intent on practically protecting property?Indeed. And don't tell me that wearing uniform would reduce the possibility. Who else remembers that excellent Peter Sellers movie featuring a gang impersonating police officers? Precisely. You could end up with at least three different lots of people in hand-to-hand combat in a bedsit, with saucepans.There is a solution to this, of course, far less messy, a far more efficient use of limited resources, and, if I might say, staring us right in the face: the said CCTV in every home, especially if there are smokers. Simples.I note, meanwhile, that Exeter police last year dealt with two incidents involving rats, one of men shooting at them, two involving cows, one cow "with horns on the loose", two involving lambs, and one incident each involving a rabbit, a seagull, a ferret, a badger and a pigeon. Mind how you go.