A former Broadmoor hospital worker has been jailed for eight months for selling stories to the Sun about notorious patients, including the Yorkshire Ripper.Robert Neave had worked at the top-security psychiatric hospital in Berkshire since 1980 and had a duty of patient confidentiality.But in September 2007, the healthcare nursing assistant contacted the tabloid and offered information about Peter Sutcliffe as well as Rachel Nickell’s killer Robert Napper. Over the next two and a quarter years, Neave, from Liverpool, passed on 14 tips to the newspaper and was paid a total of £7,125. In November 2013, he pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit misconduct in public office, and he appeared before the Old Bailey on Thursday to be sentenced. His case was delayed because of legal action against two Sun journalists implicated in the deals he made for tip-offs. Chris Pharo and Jamie Pyatt were both cleared of any offence in a retrial in October. Jailing Neave, Judge Richard Marks QC said: “On any view of the matter, not least given you at the time had not one but two paymasters, this represented a gross breach of trust. “For reasons which were explained in the trial of a number of your co-accused journalists, I am satisfied that articles of the sort generated as a consequence of the information you provided are significantly detrimental to the patients’ well-being.“They caused mistrust and suspicion as well as potentially impacting on security. Your duty of confidentiality was something you were well aware of. Accordingly, it is difficult to see there can be any excuse at all for what you did. It does appear you must have been motivated by money.” Marks took into account Neave’s guilty plea and the long delay in sentencing, as well as the fact that Neave is the sole carer for his elderly father. But he added: “I regret to say that in my judgment the scope and scale of your offending was such that an immediate custodial sentence is inevitable. However, I have reduced it significantly.”