The first thing to strike the Sunday morning reader yesterday - for those lucky enough to have received the early edition of the Sunday Telegraph before Jack Straw obtained his short-lived court injunction against the newspaper - was the challenge the Stephen Lawrence inquiry throws down to Sir Paul Condon, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner.The second thing, for someone like me who has read over 10,000 pages of the evidence heard by the inquiry, is that the leaked damning conclusions and sweeping recommendations are scarcely surprising. The third point is the question of the leaker's motive.Sir William Macpherson and his team urged, pleaded with, Condon to accept that the Met was "institutionally racist" when the Commissioner gave evidence to the inquiry last summer. He would have none of it; indeed, he denied that racism played a part in the police failure to arrest the suspects when, they admitted later, they had ample evidence to do so. Some police officers involved in the case even denied that the murder was racially-motivated.The Sunday Telegraph's angle on its front-page exclusive could not have been clearer. Condon, it said, "will face the sack this week unless he makes a humiliating public recantation" by accepting that his force is "institutionally racist". The newspaper echoed what Home Office officials have recently been putting about. The newspaper said that it had been told that Condon's position would be "untenable" if he did not accept the stinging personal criticism levelled at him and that "ministers would have no option but to demand his resignation".There is a view in Whitehall that Condon's scalp is an essential prerequisite for a credible programme of reform and attacks on racism, including the Met's own plan, code-named Operation Athena - also apparently leaked to the Sunday Telegraph - whereby plainclothes black and Asian police officers would be sent undercover into shops, hotels, and pubs, and to football matches to investigate reports of racist conductOthers believe that calls for Condon's head are designed to distract attention from the incompetence, prejudices, and attempted cover-ups, that the Lawrence inquiry revealed.If the reaction in the public gallery was audible during the inquiry, it was equally so among the audience - mainly white - at performances in the Tricycle Theatre in Kilburn, north London, of Nicolas Kent's production of The Colour of Justice, for which I extracted some of the most telling exchanges from the inquiry. They gasped with incredulity as police officers defended themselves and explained their actions. Police associations have criticised the production as "anti-police". Yet a senior Scotland Yard officer acknowledged that I could have been much harder on them.The media are using their full panoply of epithets to describe the seriousness and extent of the criticisms, conclusions, and recommendations, of the inquiry's report, partly published yesterday and to be published in full on Wednesday. Yet the evidence speaks for itself. Instead of keeping Doreen and Neville Lawrence, Stephen's parents, fully informed of their investigations, police officers assigned to "family liaison" distrusted them, and resented their decision to seek help from a lawyer, Imran Khan. The report says victims' families in future should be given advance disclosure of evidence at inquests, and that "paucity of information" offered to the Lawrence family reflected a lack of "open and meaningful communication".Police officers described to the inquiry how they failed to take contemporaneous notes of their vital initial investigation, how some notes went missing, some destroyed - "I still have the clipboard. I don't have any notes", says one inspector blissfully unaware of the impact of his admission - and how no watch was kept on the suspects' homes. This will be described in detail in the full text of Macpherson's report.According to the leaks, the report proposes a new crime of using racist language and possessing an offensive weapon in private. This is prompted by a police video of the suspects. Cross-examining William Mellish, a former detective superintendent charged with the second investigation, Michael Mansfield, counsel for the Lawrence family at the inquiry, brought out the suspects' racially obscene comments.Neil Acourt is heard saying: "I reckon that every nigger should be chopped up, mate, and they should be left with nothing but fucking stumps." Mansfield explained why a prosecution could not be brought by quoting from the 1986 Public Order Act: "An offence under this section may be committed in a public or private place, except that no offence is committed where the words. . . are used. . . by a person inside a dwelling and are not heard or seen except by other persons in that or another dwelling." The report, unsurprisingly, criticises the internal investigation into the police handling of the case carried out by Detective Chief Superintendent Roderick Barker in October 1993, six months after Stephen's death. Barker concluded that the investigation "had progressed satisfactorily and all lines of inquiry had been correctly pursued". Ian Johnston, Met assistant commissioner, told the inquiry how "I sat down, I had Mr and Mrs Lawrence on either side and I read through to them the details. . . which in essence gave the investigation, quite wrongly, a clean bill of health".After Barker admitted to the inquiry that he had intentionally covered up criticism of the original investigation to protect senior officers, Macpherson called him an unreliable witness and his report "indefensible".Incompetence, and conscious or unconscious racism, are the main themes that ran throughout the 69-day public inquiry. But there was also a hint of corruption. "There are subtleties around corruption," Johnston told the inquiry, "as they are around racism." We still await Macpherson's findings on that. 