A student found dead on a Thai island with head injuries was heard screaming by her mother during a telephone call before she disappeared, it emerged tonight.It is understood 21-year-old Katherine Horton's mother, Elizabeth, heard her scream during a phone conversation before the line went dead on the evening of New Year's Day. Ms Horton was found dead with head injuries in the sea by a jetskier Monday morning. A murder inquiry was then launched on the island of Koh Samui after a post-mortem examination showed she had been hit with a blunt object and dragged before being thrown in the water. The radio news show Good Evening Wales tonight reported that a mobile phone "almost certainly" belonging to Ms Horton was found by a couple on the beach near to where her body was found. They added that a section of the beach had been cordoned off by Thai detectives. The third-year Reading University psychology student from Thornhill, Cardiff, had flown to Thailand on December 27 to see in the New Year with a friend, Ruth Adams. The pair were due to fly home next Tuesday.She was last seen alive on New Year's Day by Ms Adams who saw her take a call on her mobile phone while sitting on the beach near the New Hut Bungalow resort where they were staying. Police forensic scientist Pattana Kitkailart, who performed the post-mortem in the Thai capital, Bangkok, said she had been hit on the head and body and dragged before drowning. He said further lab tests were being conducted. "There were wounds on her head from being hit with a blunt object and on her body and arms there were signs that she was dragged," Dr Kitkailart added.Contrary to local media reports, he said "it was not clear" from the post-mortem examination if she had been raped. Police spokesman Tanongsak Aksornsom told the Associated Press Ms Horton "had been dead for less than 12 hours" when her body was found yesterday. In a statement issued through South Wales police today, Ms Horton's family today paid tribute to her. "Katherine was much loved by all her family and friends," the statement said. "We will miss her warmth, her vivacity and her passion for life. This holiday had meant so much to her and she was so excited about travelling to Thailand. She brought us so much happiness and words cannot express the emptiness we feel at our loss."She leaves parents, Elizabeth and Ian, and two older brothers, Richard and Christopher. A spokesman for South Wales police said Ms Horton's father flew out to Thailand today to meet British embassy officials. Mr Horton will be joined by his son, Richard, who is travelling from his home in Australia.