Beth Ellis is an unusually determined person. Last year she nerved herself to tell police she had been repeatedly raped as a child by her stepfather.But local prosecutors refused to do a thing about it.After that decision Ellis, now 28, might have turned into another unhappy statistic - 94% of British women who report rape of all kinds fail to see a conviction result. She was not prepared to give up.Ellis took an undercover Guardian reporter with her and travelled back to her home town to demand an explanation from the prosecutor. She also kept a journal of her experiences at the hands of the authorities, which the Guardian is publishing today.What she discovered demonstrates why so many rape victims are wasting their time. After more than a year's delay, the prosecutor:· rejected her credibility without speaking to her;· gathered no expert evidence about her trauma symptoms;· rejected her mother's supporting testimony because of her sexual history.He also lost her file and later wrongly claimed she had no right of appeal.More than 14,000 women a year come forward to report rape. But hardly any of their cases are resolved. The biggest single cause, recent Home Office research has found, is because prosecutors claim there is insufficient evidence to bring charges.In recent months Britain's notorious rape "justice gap" has come to the fore politically - the Conservative leader David Cameron has seized on it, and ministers are struggling to make changes.But the Ellis case reveals that many of the government's trumpeted initiatives are so far making little difference on the ground. The Guardian hired a QC to question Beth Ellis. He reported that she was a candid and articulate witness. But CPS lawyers had been forbidden to speak to her before deciding to drop her case.The then attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, called for the scrapping of this archaic rule against speaking to victims four years ago. But only now has an agreement been made to train prosecutors to do so.The director of public prosecutions, Sir Ken Macdonald, and the then solicitor general, Mike O'Brien, also attempted to abolish another legal ban, on the use of expert evidence in rape. This would have helped Ellis in particular, as an alleged "historic" child abuse victim for whom other medical evidence would be absent.The Guardian commissioned an expert criminologist and Home Office adviser, Dr Nicole Westmarland, to examine Ellis's case. She reported that Ellis's panic attacks and flashbacks were entirely consistent with childhood sexual abuse.But ministers have lost their nerve about introducing such expert evidence, after judges objected.Ellis's mother agreed to testify in court that she too had been raped within marriage by the same man, and the Guardian unearthed evidence which supported her story. But she too, was dismissed by the prosecutor. Irrelevant cross-examination about women's sexual history is now supposed to be outlawed, but the prosecutor said her evidence would be rejected by a jury because she had an extramarital affair. It is CPS policy that police and specialist prosecutors should work together from the outset to build rape cases, and support victims.But none of this actually happened in the Ellis case. A detective constable spent nine months intermittently collecting statements. A written file was then sent to the local CPS. It was at first lost, and then put aside for months because the prosecutor said he was too busy.When Ellis and her mother protested at his decision, and said the suspect could be dangerous to children, they were told: "The days of letting the complainant have her day in court were put to bed many years ago."Last year the chief constable of Surrey, Bob Quick, accused prosecutors of blocking uncertain cases in order to meet central targets. He said: "Victims want to see perpetrators in court." He claimed there was "a risk-averse culture where only dead certainties are prosecuted".Ellis says: "A man spent 10 years raping me; another man spent a few days investigating it; and another man a few hours reading about it and a few minutes telling me 'No. You cannot have what you want'." Her stepfather simply denied the allegations and his son claimed to police they had a happy family.The prosecutor said Beth Ellis's word was not enough. Like so many other women, she was left voiceless.Although she is fully willing to waive her anonymity, the Guardian is unable to identify her or her alleged assailant for legal reasons. Her name has been changed.The local chief prosecutor said: "I can only apologise on behalf of the criminal justice system. I do not dispute that the complainants have been caused great distress by the decision not to proceed. I recognise the whole process has been a painful ordeal for them."