The family of a missing mother-of-three who is believed to have been murdered are making a fresh appeal for information.Rania Alayed, 25, has not been seen in public since the evening of 7 June and was reported missing from her home in Cheetham Hill, Manchester, nearly a month later.It is thought she was taken in a white camper van in the early hours of 8 June from Manchester to the Thirsk area of North Yorkshire, where her body was buried or concealed.Detectives think the Leyland DAF 200 vehicle stopped at a layby on the northbound carriageway of the A19 but the exact location is not known.Police have conducted an intensive search of a 19-mile stretch of the road but did not find a body.On Thursday, Rania's uncle, Ali Aydi, will visit a layby on the A19, near Thirsk, to check on the progress of the searches for his niece. Aydi will update the rest of his family after he is taken through the latest developments by Greater Manchester police officers.Aydi said: "Rania was taken from us six months ago when she was brutally murdered, in the most beautiful years of her life. She leaves behind three children who face life without her."Her body is still to be found, so we cannot give her a dignified burial."It has been very difficult for her parents, who live in Lebanon and face an unknown future for their grandchildren. We are grateful to the community and the police for all they have done and continue to do."We appeal to the public who have any information to come forward."Detective Chief Inspector Pete Marsh said: "Since Rania disappeared, her family have understandably been desperate for answers. We have kept them up to date on every major development and we felt it was important to invite them to one of the search locations so they can see first-hand what we're doing."I understand it isn't an easy journey to make but I admire their determination to help the police in any way they can. I hope that Ali Aydi will now be able to reassure the rest of Rania's family that we are doing everything in our power to find their daughter's body."I would also like to thank the public for their tremendous response to this so far. The search for Rania will not stop until we find her and I can assure the public that every time they provide us with information we look into it."I know it's been more than six months since Rania was taken from her family, but our determination to find her has never diminished."Alayed had previously lived in Norton, Stockton-on-Tees, and moved to Manchester in January.Three men have appeared in court in connection with Alayed's disappearance. Her husband, Ahmed Khatib, 33, of Gorton, Manchester, has been charged with murder. His brother, Muhanned Mahmood Al Khatib, 38, of Salford, has been charged with murder and perverting the course of justice. Hussain Al Khateeb, 34, of Gorton, has been charged with perverting the course of justice.