A young Heathrow worker who wrote poems about beheading non-believers yesterday became the first woman to be convicted under new anti-terror laws.Samina Malik, a 23-year-old Muslim from Southall, west London, who worked airside at a branch of WH Smith, burst into tears in the dock at the Old Bailey when the jury returned their verdict.By a majority of 10 to one they found Malik, who called herself the "lyrical terrorist", guilty under the Terrorism Act 2000 of possessing records likely to be useful in terrorism.Poems discovered at her home included two entitled How to Behead and The Living Martyrs. Malik, the jury was told, had written on the back of a receipt from the shop: "The desire within me increases every day to go for martyrdom."Jonathan Sharp, prosecuting, said: "She is a committed Islamic extremist who supports terrorism and terrorists. She had a library of material that she had collected for terrorist purposes. That collection would be extremely useful for someone planning terrorist activity."But, he said, she was "an unlikely person to be an active supporter of terrorism".During her trial, Malik told the jury: "I am not a terrorist." She used the nickname "lyrical terrorist", she explained, because she thought it was "cool".Judge Peter Beaumont bailed Malik under what he described as "house arrest" to be sentenced on December 6, and ordered reports into her family background. "You have been a complete enigma to me," he told her, adding that "all sentencing options remain open".When Malik's bedroom was searched last year, police found a ringbinder full of documents, include a handwritten one which read: "I always sit alone to think and ponder how it would be to unite with the Muslim ummah and to go shoot rocket-launchers, help them load their ammunition, nurse the wounded, and what the atmosphere would be like ..."I wonder what it will be like to be with the Muslims when a mischief kaffir is shot dead ... how it will be when we see our Muslim brothers and sisters go forth with swords in their hands, running towards blessed death with the look of 'I love death more than life' on their shining faces." One of her poems was called How to Behead: "It's not as messy or as hard as some may think/ It's all about the flow of the wrist," it read. "No doubt that the punk will twitch and scream/ But ignore the donkey's ass/ And continue to slice back and forth/ You'll feel the knife hit the wind and food pipe/ But don't stop/ Continue with all your might."Discovered on her computer were The Mujaheddin Poisoner's Handbook, Encyclopaedia Jihad, How to Win in Hand-to-Hand Combat, and How to Make Bombs.Peter Clarke, head of the Metropolitan police counter-terrorism command, said: "Malik held violent extremist views which she shared with other like-minded people over the internet. Merely possessing this material is a serious criminal offence."