The bar council, which represents 14,000 barristers in England and Wales, today launched a campaign to stop the government's "objectionable" criminal justice reforms.The organisation said it had begun its largest-ever lobbying effort to overturn parts of the criminal justice bill, which enters a crucial stage in the Commons today. The three aspects of the bill opposed by the bar council are:  路 removing the right to jury trial in serious fraud or other complex cases, or where jurors have been or may be intimidated. 路 allowing juries to hear of defendants' previous convictions and misconduct. 路 abolishing the double jeopardy rule - which prevents a defendant being tried twice for the same crime - in 30 serious offences, allowing hearsay evidence in court and forcing defence lawyers to reveal the witnesses it intends to call in court.The chairman of the bar council, Matthias Kelly QC, said: "Backbench Labour MPs I have spoken to have got real worries about this bill, and we expect them to speak up as it comes back to the floor of the house this week. "The bar council is pushing hard to remove the objectionable elements of this bill, which does include a large number of positive and commendable initiatives, nonetheless." The organisation has sent a briefing pack to 400 MPs, urging them to back changes. Mr Kelly added: "Juries must remain a cornerstone of our justice system, and plans to reveal previous convictions on a blanket basis will lead to a 'round up the usual suspects' police culture. "The abolition of the double jeopardy rule will result in sloppy investigations, and the police being given a second bite of the cherry. "The justice system has seen too many trials fall apart of late because of such inadequacies, and this bill will only make things worse. "Forcing the defence to reveal which witnesses it will call may tempt the police into intimidating witnesses out of appearing. "We need to remember that the fundamental burden must remain on the state to prove its case." 路 A coalition of nine children's charities was today backing an amendment to the criminal justice bill to ensure young people's welfare is considered throughout the criminal justice system. The amendment by Hilton Dawson, Labour MP for Lancaster and Wyre, says custody should always be used as a last resort, decisions should be in the child's best interests and their welfare should always be paramount. The charities called for a "fundamental review of the whole youth justice system". Home office minister Lord Falconer said: "The bill is about the protection of the public and the protection of the standing and credibility of our justice system. "We are committed to putting the needs of victims and witnesses first, to making trials about the search for the truth rather than a game and to ensuring the criminal justice system works more effectively to deliver justice for all." He continued: "We are putting greater trust in juries. We believe that the widest range of evidence should be available to juries that will enable them to reach a just verdict. "Such evidence is already admissible but the current rules are confusing and difficult to apply. "By reforming the law on double jeopardy, we are striking the right balance between safeguarding the rights of acquitted defendants and the public interest in ensuring that those who have committed the most serious offences can be brought to justice. "It would be unjust to victims and their families, and damaging to public confidence in the criminal justice system as a whole, to refuse to act in such cases where strong new evidence, such as DNA, comes to light." Parts of the bill came under attack from the Conservatives too, as MPs debated its measures this afternoon.Proposals to increase police powers of detention from 24 to 36 hours were labelled "unjustified" by Dominic Grieve, who warned it was a far longer period in detention without charge than was allowed in most other countries. Fellow Tory John Bercow went further, calling the measure "draconian and clumsy", as the Commons debated the report stage of the criminal justice bill. Mr Grieve said a police superintendent could already hold someone for up to 36 hours if they were suspected of a serious offence such as murder, rape or causing an explosion. He resisted a blanket extension of the power to all arrestable offences. The UK would have one of the longest periods of detention apart from South Africa, Spain and Austria, he said. He also warned that the police could use the measure to launch a general search on the arrested person to find out if they were guilty of other crimes. Mr Grieve concluded: "This clause is unjustified and we will be seeking the support, I would hope, of all sides of these to try and get it deleted." For the Liberal Democrats, David Heath said extending powers of detention would limit individual liberty. But junior Home Office minister Hilary Benn denied that the measure had been produced on a whim and insisted that it had been called for by the police in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act review. Mr Benn said: "In the end I think that all of us have to rely on the good sense and the good judgment of the police to use this power within the framework of the law, where there are good grounds for doing so. The opposition move to limit the powers of detention was rejected by 285 votes to 163, a majority of 122.