The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday March 24 2005In the report below, it was wrongly stated that the shooting of a local youth worker, Derrick Senior, by the main suspect in the Bates murder, happened three weeks earlier. In fact, a racist attack on Mr Senior took place then, and the shooting - believed to be in revenge for his giving evidence in court - was in May 2004. The chief constable of Nottinghamshire, Steve Green, was branded a "menace to law and order" yesterday by the husband of the murdered jeweller Marian Bates, after the conviction of four underworld gang members for her killing.Victor Bates, who was beaten with a crowbar after trying to defend his wife with a fencing foil, said that Nottingham had never been so lawless and that "criminal families who control the city just laugh at the police".His comments followed a trial which almost foundered on police inefficiency, with a senior officer breaking down in the witness stand because he had taken crucial statements without following legal procedure.An admission by one of the gang, Peter Williams, 19, and his incrimination of three others, were ruled inadmissible evidence as a result, with the detective blaming overwork and the fact that he had to run the inquiry because his superior "was trapped in a lot of other things".The disclosure in February could not be reported until yesterday's verdicts, which saw Williams convicted of murder, grievous bodily harm and armed robbery, and Dean Betton, Craig Moran and Lisa Unwin, all 23, found guilty of conspiracy. But the failures were known to the chief constable when he launched an attack on government police budgets ten days ago.Mr Green, who was also aware that the leader of the gang has never been found, attacked the Home Office for starving his force of resources, but yesterday Mr Bates accused the chief constable of creating his own mess. He said: "The way criminals in Nottingham have been allowed to flourish under his regime is ridiculous. It is frightening."There are fewer police officers on the streets. There are community wardens who have no power instead. It must have cost the lives in Nottingham of over 15 people over the last two years, including my wife."The criminals have been encouraged by the system that prevails. Crime now is a lively occupation because the chances of being caught are so small."Mr Bates' wife, 64, a grandmother who had run the Time Centre jewellers in the quiet Nottingham suburb of Arnold for more than 30 years, was shot as she tried to shield her daughter Xanthe from a ruthless raider armed with a gun. Her killer sneered "Silly cow" as she slumped to the floor, while Williams set about Mr Bates with the crowbar.The brutality of the daylight robbery shocked the country and triggered calls for more police and armed officers. But it emerged soon afterwards that the gunman may have been killed in one of the gangland feuds which have bedevilled Nottingham.He was named during the trial at Stafford crown court as James Brodie, 21, who had carried out a string of armed robberies and assaults. Only three weeks before the jewellery raid, he is believed to have organised the revenge shooting of a youth worker, 50-year-old Derrick Senior, who had given evidence about a racist gang attack in which Brodie ripped out a dreadlock as a "trophy".Detective Superintendent George Frame, who led the Bates murder inquiry, said after yesterday's verdicts: "We have information and intelligence that would suggest that he [Brodie] has been murdered. But until we have conclusive evidence, he is still a missing person and inquiries are ongoing to trace him."The trial heard that a routine day at the Time Centre erupted into violence when the heavily armed gang burst in wearing crash helmets. Gregory Dickinson QC, prosecuting, said Mrs Bates stepped in front of Xanthe "in an instinctive act of bravery" and was shot at point blank range.Xanthe was on the phone when the gunman - thought to be Brodie - pointed his pistol straight at her and said: "This is an armed robbery."Mr Dickinson said: "For a moment she did nothing, she was so paralysed with fear. She kept the handset in her hand and perhaps because she did not react quickly enough the gunman started moving towards her. It was at this stage that Marian Bates moved forward quickly, her arms outstretched, shouting out 'No'."She was clearly determined to put herself between the gunman and her daughter - an instinctive act of bravery by a mother trying to protect her daughter - and it cost her her life."Mr Bates said he had given up the business after catching a suspected shoplifter this January. Two years before Mrs Bates' murder, he revealed, he and his wife had been threatened by a knifeman and had written to the Crown Prosecution Service complaining that "it would take a death" before they were properly protected."I have finished," he said. "It is too dangerous to have a high-value shop in Nottingham any more. I feel we have no protection whatsoever on the streets."But he praised individual detectives involved in tracking down Williams, who was remanded in custody for reports, and the other three gang members, who will be sentenced today.He said: "It is not an end but it is the beginning of the end. It is some justice for Marian at last."I am critical of the management of the police in Nottingham but I have never been critical of individual officers."Mrs Bates was the daughter of a first world war veteran of the Royal Navy and a Romanian mother, and devoted her time outside the shop to her two grandsons and charity work for the Rotary Inner Wheel and causes in India and the Gambia.The detective who admitted the evidence bungles, Detective Inspector Anthony Webster, left the witness box in a pretrial hearing while Williams and the other defendants smirked. He did not return after a break and was later disgnosed as suffering from severe depression.