Never mind the Intercity Firm, the big threat at next year's World Cup could be the high-flying, hard-drinking intercontinental hooligan, according to the head of the police football intelligence unit.Gangs of drunk and disorderly fans on flights to Japan and South Korea pose safety and security problems unseen at previous football events, said Bryan Drew, detective superintendent of the national criminal intelligence service. "Potentially there are threats to the safety of aeroplanes if passengers are drinking for eight, nine and 10 hours at a stretch," Mr Drew warned the organisers at a symposium in Tokyo. "This is an issue that requires serious consideration." As a possible countermeasure, the British detective suggested that airline operators should consider restrictions on free in-flight alcohol services during the May 31 to June 30 tournament. In Japan, which has never had a hooligan problem, organisers are uncertain how to deal with an influx of European supporters. Many were shocked at the sight of drunken and violent fans on the rampage during the 1998 World Cup in France and the 2000 European championships in Belgium and the Netherlands. The experts at the symposium yesterday said alcohol was often a factor in violence. "Scottish, Swedish, Danish and Irish fans are all heavy drinkers, but they have fun when drunk. Other nationalities, including the British, are more inclined to become aggressive," said David Beaumont, an inspector at the football licensing authority. The Japanese organisers believe that the long distance and high cost of visiting Japan and South Korea will deter many potential hooligans. They also hope to reduce the possibility of trouble through a named ticketing system that will allow police and stewards to check the identity of ticketholders. "We mustn't be complacent, but preparations are proceeding smoothly," said Takahisa Nishida, director of security in the Japan World Cup organising committee. "We aim to present the smiling face of Japan to the world, but, if there is trouble, we are ready to lock up and prosecute hooligans." Even if England or Wales qualify, many hooligans will be prevented from travelling to the Far East. Under new laws, proven troublemakers will have to surrender their passports before the tournament. Three hundred fans are already subject to the international ban. Mr Drew said the number will be closer to 1,000 by next year.