The family of a teacher who was murdered by a man obsessed with websites showing graphic images of extreme violence against women yesterday called for the internet to be more closely regulated. Relatives of Jane Longhurst demanded new laws to control pornographic websites after part-time musician Graham Coutts, 35, was jailed for life for her murder. During a harrowing trial at Lewes crown court, the jury had heard that Coutts, who kept Ms Longhurst's body for almost a month and visited it frequently while it was in a storage unit, was an avid user of sites devoted to snuff movies and necrophilia. The court heard he had been examining such sites the day before he strangled the special needs teacher with a pair of nylon tights. He was back at his computer screen minutes after one visit to Ms Longhurst's body. The prosecution said he had killed Ms Longhurst and kept her body as a "trophy" to play out a "bizarre and macabre" sexual fantasy. Speaking after the verdict Ms Longhurst's mother, Liz Longhurst, 72, said: "I feel political pressure should be brought to bear on internet service providers to close down or filter out these pornographic sites so that people like Jane's killer may no longer feed their sick imaginations and do harm to others." Ms Longhurst's former partner, Malcolm Sentance, 34, said: "I think Jane would have been here now if it were not for the internet." Detectives have investigated the websites which Coutts logged on to. But because they were not hosted by British internet service providers, they have no power to take action. The disappearance of Ms Longhurst, 31, a music teacher at Uplands special needs school in Brighton and a talented viola player, sparked a massive police search in March last year. More than a month later, on April 19, her body was found ablaze in woods near Arundel. Police were puzzled that the remains were so well preserved and deduced that the body had been stored carefully. The revelation chimed with staff from the Big Yellow Storage Company in Brighton, who became suspicious about a man who had hired a unit after Ms Longhurst vanished. He had deposited a large white box sealed with tape in the unit and been given a pin number which allowed him access to his unit after hours. He had visited the unit 10 times. Police identified the man as Coutts, whose girlfriend Lisa Stephens was Ms Longhurst's best friend. When police opened the unit they found Ms Longhurst's mobile phone and purse as well as a blood-stained rope and a condom containing traces of Coutts' semen, and samples which matched the teacher's DNA. This suggested Coutts might have had sex with his victim after her death. Police investigated Coutts' background. He was a part-time salesman and guitarist with mod bands and a Who tribute group called Substitute, who lived in Hove. At the time of Ms Longhurst's disappearance, his girlfriend was pregnant with twins. Police also found that Coutts was a frequent visitor to web sites depicting extreme violence on women. They traced former girlfriends, who described how he liked to tie them up and apply pressure to their necks during sex until they almost passed out. One, Sandra Gates, told officers Coutts had once admitted: "I get the most awful feelings that I am going to strangle, kill and rape a woman." Ms Gates also revealed she had discovered a stash of pornographic pictures of women. Around their necks Coutts had drawn nooses. In the witness box, Coutts conceded that surfing the net for pornography had become an "addiction", and said that since he was 15 or 16 he had a "fetish" for women's necks. But, to the fury of Ms Longhurst's family, he claimed the teacher's death had been a tragic accident which happened while they were having consensual sex. Coutts denied there was any "sexual activity" in the storage unit, insisting he returned repeatedly because he wanted to check if the body had been discovered. Ordering that Coutts must serve a minimum of 30 years, Judge Richard Brown said: "In seeking perverted sexual gratification by way of your sordid and evil fantasies, you have taken [Ms Longhurst's] life and devastated the lives of those she loved and of those who loved her. "By persisting in your denials, you have put those loved ones through through the ordeal of this courtroom and have forced them to relive the last moments of her life and the unbelievable degradation of her body. You have shown not one jot of remorse."