An Eminem impersonator faces life in prison after admitting the murder of a law student he battered over the head and stuffed into a suitcase. Christopher Duncan, 21, who idolised the American rapper and had copycat tattoos of two naked women on his chest, pleaded guilty yesterday to killing Jagdip Najran, 26, at his flat in Bethnal Green, east London, in May last year.The Old Bailey heard that Ms Najran, who had a crush on Duncan, made a "terrible misjudgment" by going home with him after watching his performance at a karaoke evening at a City pub. Later that night he fractured her skull with a metal baseball bat and shut her in a suitcase, where, medical experts believe, she lay unconscious for at least an hour and a half before dying. The scenario resembles the video of Eminem's song Stan, which features the singer dumping his girlfriend's body in the boot of a car after killing her.Officers discovered Ms Najran's half-naked body in a suitcase in his bedroom after Duncan confessed to his mother. He fled to Blackpool before giving himself up to police three days later. He told detectives and psychiatrists he was high on ecstasy and LSD when he attacked the 5ft 3ins (160cm) student. Jonathan Laidlaw, prosecuting, said: "There is no sensible explanation for what he did."Ms Najran, a law student at London Metropolitan University and an aspiring singer, first met Duncan at another karaoke evening two weeks before her death and was excited at the prospect of seeing him again. She told a friend on May 13 last year that she had met a Scotsman called Chris who looked like Eminem, and was going to a pub later that evening to watch him perform. "My heart is in my throat," she said. Duncan sang and danced to several Eminem songs in an aggressive manner while downing drink after drink. He left the pub hand-in-hand with Ms Najran, and the pair headed to his flat.Duncan told psychiatrists he had had an abusive childhood involving drugs and alcohol. But Wendy Joseph QC, defending, said: "If there is anything monstrous in this defendant, may I suggest it may be something created rather than something that was born. Things in his life were falling apart. He was a murderer waiting to happen." Judge David Paget said Duncan would face a mandatory life sentence but he remanded him in custody until Monday to consider the minimum term he should serve.A statement from Ms Najran's sisters praised her as "beautiful, ambitious, determined, strong and happy, fun and full of energy. We will never see her pretty smiling face or give her a hug again".