The prison population in England and Wales rose to a new all-time high of 80,316 today, including 397 locked up overnight in police cells under Operation Safeguard.Ministers are increasingly alarmed by the new surge in prison numbers - which rose by 100 on Thursday alone - and led Lord Falconer, who is to take charge of prisons as the new justice secretary in six weeks' time, to refuse to rule out any options, including an expanded early release programme.In theory, there are now only four spare places left in police cells around the country; the prison service has been forced to turn to the courts to find spare capacity. So far an agreement only exists to use a very limited number of cells at inner-city crown courts in Manchester, Birmingham and London.Prison Service officials were forced to turn to use a magistrates court for the first time earlier this week. Securicor staff were asked to volunteer to look after four prisoners held overnight at Highbury magistrates court. One of the prisoners made a serious suicide attempt which was only prevented at the last minute. A Home Office inquiry has been launched into the incident and no further magistrates court cells have been used.The sharpest overcrowding pressures are in male adult local jails. Ministers are in the process of building 10,000 extra prison places with "temporary custodial modules" being rushed into existing prison perimeters but the bulk of the extra places are several years away. So far plans have been announced to build two new prisons in Merseyside and London.Lord Falconer said today that the role and limits of prisons needed to be clarified and acknowledged the need to manage better the "burgeoning prison population". While making clear that John Reid remains responsible for prison policy until May 9 when the Home Office split comes into effect, Lord Falconer refused to rule out a new early-release programme, but said that he would consider legislation that would require judges to take into account prison overcrowding when sentencing."I am not saying anything in detail about what policy will be in relation to prisons until I become secretary of state for justice on May 9. "The current position is it is not for the judges to take into account what resources there are. "If that were to become the case then I think that it would have to be dealt with by legislation. "In relation to policy like that we need to look at it after May 9," said Lord Falconer.Lord Falconer also confirmed that his successor as justice secretary is likely to be an MP, answerable to the Commons, rather than a peer.He said that the historic post of lord chancellor was not being abolished and would be combined with the job of justice secretary.Constitutional legislation passed in 2005 ensured the Lord Chancellor could sit in the Commons and clarified that his post need not be occupied by a lawyer.