Police representatives have condemned as “a slap in the face” the imminent release of Harry Roberts, an armed robber jailed 45 years ago for murdering three unarmed police officers in a crime that shocked 1960s Britain.The Metropolitan Police Federation said the decision to approve Roberts’s imminent release, announced by the parole board, was “scandalous, hurtful and abhorrent”. The chair of the organisation, John Tully, wrote in a tweet that it was “a total betrayal of policing by the criminal justice system”.Steve White, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said: “I am appalled to learn that police killer Harry Roberts is being released from prison. Let’s not forget, this menace murdered three unarmed police officers in cold blood and it is abhorrent news.“This decision by the parole board is a slap in the face for the families of the three police officers he brutally murdered who, once again, are forced to relive their pain and loss. It will spark fury among everyone in the police family who will feel badly let down.”Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, said people in the city would be “absolutely sickened by this news”. He said: “They will find it hard to understand how a man who shot dead three police officers in this city in the most horrific fashion can now enjoy the freedom he denied his victims. To my mind, in the case of the murder of a police officer, life should mean life.”It is not clear when Roberts will be freed, something that would take place under strict conditions. The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) said it could not comment on individual cases.Roberts, a career criminal with a history of violence, was convicted of murdering DC David Wombwell, 25, Sgt Christopher Head, 30, and PC Geoffrey Fox, 41, in August 1966. Roberts had been sitting in a van with two other gang members near Wormwood Scrubs jail in west London when the three officers, all in plainclothes, stopped to ask them questions, having been warned of a possible prison escape.Apparently fearful the police would find weapons in the van the men planned to use in a robbery, Roberts shot and killed Wombwell and Head in front of children playing. A fellow gang member, John Duddy, shot Fox.The murders shocked Britain and prompted concern about increased lawlessness and violence. Roberts went on the run for three months amid one of the biggest manhunts ever seen in Britain, using skills learned during national service in Malaysia where, he said, he had learned to kill, camp out and avoid capture.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 1966 Guardian report of Harry Roberts’ sentencing at the Old Bailey. Photograph: Guardian News MediaRoberts received three life sentences, with a 30-year minimum tariff. Sentencing Roberts the trial judge, Mr Justice Glyn-Jones, said: “I think it likely that no home secretary regarding the enormity of your crime will ever think fit to show mercy by releasing you on licence. This is one of those cases in which the sentence of imprisonment for life may well be treated as meaning exactly what it says.”It was only two years since the last executions of murderers in Britain, with capital punishment abolished.While Duddy died in jail and the third gang member, the only one to not fire a shot, Jack Witney, was murdered after coming out of jail in 1999, Roberts has spent years battling for his release, applying repeatedly for parole.In 2002 he brought a high court action against the then home secretary David Blunkett for refusing his release.According to reports Roberts, who has been in an open prison for several years, will be released within days.The parole board said: “We can confirm that a three-member panel of the board has directed the release of Harry Roberts. The decision to release is a matter for the board, which is independent – arrangements and the date of the release are a matter for the secretary of state for justice. We are unable to comment further on the details of this case.”White said the judge’s belief Roberts should never be released had “just been forgotten and thrown in the bin.”He added: “What kind of message is that sending? It is appalling. Custodial sentences are about the protection of the public, but also about punishment.“In terms of the threat Roberts poses, I can accept that changes. What doesn’t change is the history of what Roberts did. And what doesn’t change is the fact we have three police officers’ families who are without their loved one. This is a betrayal of the police officers who died.”David Cameron’s spokesman said that while the prime minister “very much understands the strength of feeling” over the case, it was a decision for the parole board.Asked about the matter on his weekly LBC radio phone-in show the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, said he supported such choices being made by an independent process: “A decision has been taken to release this character after 48 years in prison, it’s not about my feelings, it’s about how the justice system works. If you want to run the system according to the latest emotion you feel, fine, but that would be a disaster.”An MoJ spokesman said the ministry could not comment on the case: “The release of life sentence prisoners is directed by the independent parole board once they are satisfied they can be safely managed in the community. Once released they are subject to strict controls for as long as their risk requires them. If they fail to comply with these conditions they can be immediately returned to prison.Police representatives have pointed out that the decision appears anomalous given that the home secretary, Theresa May, announced plans last year to change the law so that anyone convicted of murdering a police officer would never be freed from jail.Responding to the news Roberts was being released, May said: “Policemen and women go out to work every day knowing that they might face great danger and they carry out their duties with great courage.“I strongly believe that anyone who murders a police officer belongs behind bars – and behind bars for life. That is why I have made sure the government will change the law so life will mean life for anyone who murders a police officer.”The current minimum term is 30 years before parole can be considered. Under a planned amendment to the criminal justice and courts bill, a whole life sentence would be mandatory.White said the case underlined the need for the law change: “We pride ourselves on having a largely unarmed police service in England and Wales. However, in turn, we expect the judicial system to provide the deterrent needed to help protect police officers from injury or serious harm while doing their duty.”