Scotland Yard has admitted that it has been breaking Home Office guidelines by allowing officers caught drink-driving to keep their jobs.In a confidential document seen by the Guardian, the force calls on senior officers who sit on misconduct boards to take a much tougher line amid concern that they are "reducing the risks to officers who commit these offences and consequently condoning their behaviour." They are also weakening the disciplinary process because officers facing dismissal are citing examples of cases handled leniently to seek lighter punishments. One officer had his dismissal overturned, and instead lost five days pay. The government and London's police authority expect that, save for exceptional circumstances, officers convicted of drink driving will be sacked. Of a snapshot of 17 cases reviewed by the Met, only six officers appeared likely to face dismissal once the appeals process had been exhausted. One officer who was three times over the limit was merely docked 13 days' pay. Anxiety in the force is such that all cases handled contrary to the Home Office guidelines are being referred to the deputy commissioner Sir Ian Blair. In a letter calling for tougher action, a deputy assistant commissioner, Stephen Roberts, says the Met and Home Office guidelines are meant to be "a reflection of the serious view that is taken both by the service and society about offences of this nature". Mr Roberts says revised misconduct guidelines for a range of offences should not have affected the approach to such cases. "Sanction decisions in drink-drive cases are the most straightforward and yet even here standards are not being applied consistently. I seek your assistance in arresting this drift towards 'acceptability' of drink driving within this service." Jenny Jones, leader of the Green Party on the London assembly and a member of the Metropolitan police authority, said she is appalled that guidelines have been ignored. "This seems to expose a macho culture where drink-driving is not taken as seriously inside the force as it is in wider society. We should never forget that drunk drivers kill and devastate people's lives. Police officers have a responsibility to uphold the law." She voiced particular concern that senior officers sat on misconduct boards. "It is amazing that people who have been on the senior command courses can have so little grasp of how the public feels." Brigitte Chaudhry, of the pressure group RoadPeace, said: "It just shows that road offences are not taken as seriously as other criminal acts, even by the police. They should set a better example." Drink-drive deaths have fallen dramatically over the last 20 years, but have been edging up recently. There were an estimated 560 deaths in the UK in 2002. The legal drink-drive limit is 80mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood. The issue is highly emotive in Scotland Yard. Last month, the Guardian revealed how a high profile officer, Sgt Gurpal Virdi, was targeted with hate mail after writing to The Job, a police newspaper, criticising the reinstatement of officers sacked for drink driving. While convicted officers will receive a less sympathetic hearing, misconduct boards are expected to retain the flexibility over justifiable pleas for leniency. An off-duty officer was arrested for drink driving after he heard a gunshot while at home and drove after the suspect. He escaped punishment in court and a misconduct board judged that "no further action" was necessary.