Not since the poll tax riots nearly 20 years ago can there have been so many police officers at a demonstration in central London. The difference this time was that the demonstrators who brought traffic to a halt were all police officers.They had come from Rhondda and Cumbria, Sussex and Burnley to protest against home secretary Jacqui Smith's decision not to backdate their latest pay award. Since the police are not allowed to strike, the aim of the protest was to lobby their MPs and deliver a letter to Downing Street, expressing the dismay of the organisers, the Police Federation, which represents the rank and file officers of England and Wales.In some respects, it was like most demos in Britain: the weather was depressing and the march set off late. But in other ways, it was very different. There was little in the way of chanting, few banners and no brass band.At the start of the march on Park Lane, some West Midlands officers hopefully distributed lyrics for a version of Maggie May: "Wake up, Jacqui, I think we've got something to say to you/ It was early September and I think you'll find our pay rise due ... You made a first class fool out of yourself/ Don't try to push us on a shelf/ We're not giving up, now you've really picked a fight." The song did not seem to catch on. There was, however, a desultory "Jacqui! Jacqui! Jacqui! Out! Out! Out!" as the marchers passed the Home Office.In a normal demo, this would be the moment when a few hotheads break through the police lines, but the protesters, many in white baseball caps bearing the legend 'Fair P(l)ay for the Police', were a model of restraint. One of the few banners on display read: "Jacqui, as we are passing, do you want an escort to the kebab shop?"Brian Paddick, the dashing Lib Dem candidate for mayor of London and a former senior Scotland Yard officer, was in the front line of the march. So was Richard Barnbrook, the British National party candidate for mayor, who said he had been made "very welcome" by the police. What did Police Federation chief Jan Berry think about the BNP presence? "No comment," was her reply. She was pleased with the day: "The turnout is brilliant. I wanted the home secretary to see that people felt let down and this demonstrates that in bucketloads."The marchers were in broad agreement about their grievances and their hopes of resolving them. DC John Woods, from Burnley, said he did not believe that the march would necessarily make Smith change her mind. "I think Gordon Brown and Alistair Darling are telling her what to do. We are here to show our disgust. We were up at 4am to come here and we will be back at work tomorrow."The big issue at the end of every march is always how many were actually there. The organisers estimated 25,000 and the Met police estimated 22,500. So the Guardian approached the Stop the War Coalition. "Having been on the receiving end of so many police under-estimates I thought I'd have a look at this one," said the coalition's Stewart Halforty. "I tried all the old methods - but then I tried something new, I asked the organisers. And they told me - between 15,000 and 20,000."A small group of anarchists assembled outside the Hilton. "They're all over-paid lazy bastards," said Ian Bone of Class War, one of whose number was arrested after she refused to leave the front of the march.As the march ended on Millbank, dozens of officers made a beeline for the Tate gallery. But the attraction was not so much the Hockney and Turner watercolours as the WCs. Then it was back on the coaches. For a day at least, no one in central London could complain that they don't see enough police officers on the street.