The robotic dispensation of justice has its place, as last week's figures showing the impact of cameras on speeding motorists suggest. The proportion of drivers breaking the 30 mph limit in towns has fallen and so have pedestrian deaths, by a third over a decade. Opposition to speed cameras, and the automatic justice they deliver, is mostly resentment at the increased risk of getting caught.But judging speed is something a machine can do well. Judging the truth is harder, which is why the government's decision to experiment with lie-detector tests, to reduce benefit fraud, is disturbing. It is not hard to see the attraction. A system of welfare benefits that has become more convoluted under this government, and relies heavily on individuals correctly describing their circumstances, must be open to abuse. Pressure on ministers to reduce this is immense - and the government has done well, if estimates that fraud has been halved in the last five years are to be trusted. But that should not give John Hutton, the secretary of state for work and pensions and a man who likes to sit on the ultra wing of Blarite radicalism, an unchallenged right to introduce the unreliable electronic examination of members of the public, however much it is dressed up in facile language about "helping the honest majority".A society that has accepted an extraordinary level of surveillance by CCTV cameras can probably be relied upon not to make a fuss about a system aimed at testing people on benefits. But why should the poor and the unlucky in society be subject to these tests, and not everyone else? There is something nasty about a proposal to scan the voices of those in need to see if they really are - especially as the systems are far from certain to work.The technology being proposed would not lead to benefit claimants being strapped to digital devices - a practice which is horribly widespread in the US, even in the legal system. But it would assess, after a warning, the voices of benefit applicants calling by phone, in order to identify those where unusual stresses suggest they are worthy of closer inspection. It is true that no decision will be taken on the basis of tests alone. Or not yet. But experience already teaches that tests designed to trap the dishonest can discourage bona fide applications too. Sometimes it is the honest who take fright.Debate continues about the reliability of so-called voice-stress analysis. But the system - already used by some British insurance companies to test claims - will be piloted by Harrow council next month. It is more likely to create confusion than to catch cheats. It is a step away from a society that respects individual rights and mutual trust.