One of Britain's most prolific sex attackers was starting an indeterminate jail sentence yesterday for drugging and sexually assaulting women over six years.John Worboys, 51, a black-cab driver and former porn actor, was told at Croydon crown court he would serve a minimum of eight years before being entitled to apply for parole. Reports presented to the court said Worboys was a sexual deviant who had not accepted his crimes and continued to pose a serious risk to women.Police failings in the case meant Worboys continued attacking women because a number of officers did not believe his victims' claims that they had been sexually assaulted by a London cabbie.The case has led to an overhaul in the way rape inquiries are carried out by the Metropolitan police and new targets for every force for rape investigations.Worboys was found guilty last month of assaulting 12 women over 18-months But he has been linked to 85 other attacks and police say he could have sexually assaulted or raped more than 200 women.Senior officers said they will interview Worboys in prison in an attempt to clear up dozens of unsolved sex crimes. Many of his victims were young and had been drinking at bars and clubs in the capital when they hailed a black cab to get home in the early hours of the morning.Police in Plumstead, south-east London, missed an opportunity to end his offending when they arrested him in July 2007 over an attack on a 19-year-old student. It emerged during the trial that detectives did not act on the incriminating results of toxicology tests that found suspicious drugs in the victim's blood. They also failed to search his home in Rotherhithe, south-east London, or examine his vehicle to double-check his story. Several officers face disciplinary action after an inquiry was launched by the Independent Police Complaints Commission. Worboys spiked champagne with powerful prescription sedatives and over-the-counter sleeping pills. He tricked young professional women into drinking with him by claiming to have won the jackpot at a casino or on the lottery and showed them bundles of cash to prove it.At the end of a seven-week trial last month, a jury convicted him of 19 separate offences, including one rape. Jailing Worboys, Mr Justice Penry-Davey, QC, said: "You developed and perfected a web of deceit that was sufficient to ensnare young, intelligent and sensible young women who had enjoyed a night out and whose only mistake, as it turned out, was to get in to your cab late at night. The judge said a report on Worboys found the cabbie was a "repetitive predatory sexual offender" who had not accepted his crimes and had shown a "significant degree of sexual deviance". A further report suggested he posed a "significant risk of re-offending". Worboys was a full-time stripper known as Terry the Minder between 1987 and 1999 and adored the attention lavished on him by women at hen nights and parties. When he gave up performing, Worboys, a licensed cab driver since 1996, turned to a different method to get attention. His first known attack was in October 2006 when he drugged a 26-year-old office worker. Worboys attacked a further six women until July 2007 when he was arrested for an alleged sexual assault. The 19-year-old student revealed to police Worboys's modus operandi. The cabbie was questioned and bailed, but officers believed his story that the student was drunk and had kissed him. The case was eventually dropped.The IPCC is investigating how Worboys was allowed to walk free and go on to rape a passenger and molest three others.