Criminal gangs have taken medical equipment worth £1m in what appears to be a series of stolen-to-order thefts on NHS hospitals. Police and health officials think gangs are stealing diagnostic equipment to be taken to eastern Europe or Africa.Hospital trusts are reviewing security systems and considering introducing "electronic tagging" for valuable equipment after at least seven recent thefts.In December, the endoscopy unit of York hospital was raided and thieves made off with £300,000 worth of endoscopes, used for internal examinations. Other hospitals targeted include Leicester, where £250,000 of endoscopy equipment was stolen in October; Newcastle's Freeman hospital, where £100,000-worth went in two raids; West Middlesex, where ultrasound scanners worth £170,000 were taken last February; Addenbrooke's hospital in Cambridge, where £80,000 of cardiovascular equipment was stolen; and University hospital of North Durham, where a £35,000 heart scanner was taken.The highly specialised nature of the items - and the fact nothing else was stolen - has led to suspicion that gangs are working to order.Mike Proctor, the chief operating officer at York hospital, said: "This was very specialist medical equipment, of no use to anyone not in the medical profession. They knew what they were looking for and they targeted the equipment. They also knew to collect the pieces that had been dismantled and cleaned at the end of the day ... They were obviously stealing for a market."Detective Sergeant Judith Smith of North Yorkshire police, who is liaising with forces across the country about the incidents, told BBC News online she knew of 10 cases where medical equipment had been stolen. The suspicion was that it had been shipped abroad to be sold in eastern Europe and Africa. "It is specialist equipment that has been taken and you would expect the thieves would have a market to sell them on to," she said.Richard Elliott, the communications manager for West Middlesex NHS trust, said Interpol was dealing with the thefts from his hospital as police believed the ultrasound scanners were in eastern Europe. In York and Newcastle, thieves gained access after stealing a staff swipe card. In Newcastle, they made an initial raid in December 2003 before returning for extra parts a year later.The NHS's security management service, set up in 2003 to improve hospital security, would not comment on whether the raids were linked. In a statement, it said it was exploring radio frequency technology to track NHS equipment. "This electronic tagging may be used in the future as both a preventive measure and to monitor the whereabouts of key pieces of medical equipment," it said.