The key to the mystery of Madeleine McCann's disappearance, it was always assumed, must surely lie somewhere amid the gently sloping pathways, almond groves and scrubland of Praia da Luz, the Portuguese resort from where the little blonde girl, just a few days short of her fourth birthday, went missing on a warm night in early May.But the breakthrough of the past 48 hours - if that is what it proves to be - has its origins not in Praia da Luz but Leicestershire, just a few miles from the village of Rothley from where Madeleine, her parents Kate and Gerry and their two-year-old twins set off for their fateful holiday four months ago.It was Leicestershire police who, with Portuguese colleagues, helped assemble new forensic evidence in a top-to-bottom review of the investigation a few weeks ago. And it was DNA analysis of key samples from the Algarve - using a technique pioneered at Leicester University by genetics expert Sir Alec Jeffreys two decades ago - that has suddenly reignited the investigation.As the McCanns yesterday struggled to cope with being declared arguidos, or official suspects, in the disappearance and possible death of their own daughter, Gerry spoke for the first time to underline their claim of innocence. 'We have never had to say it until now ... but we did not kill our daughter. I never believed it would come to this,' he told reporters. He went on to try to dispel suspicion by pointing out the short time frame for the crime that night. 'I was away from the table for 10 minutes and six of those were spent talking to another guest I met as I came out from checking on Madeleine. All of this can come out. And it doesn't stack up.' He added that the couple are braced for more twists in the investigation and know they may even be charged because of local laws. His wife spoke too of her fears of being framed. 'Police don't want a murder in Portugal and all the publicity about them not having paedophile laws here, so they're blaming us.'Kate McCann's uncle, Brian Kennedy, said he and other relatives remained committed to helping Madeleine's family disprove the 'repulsive' suggestion they were somehow involved in her death. 'We still say ... that this suggestion that in some way they were responsible for the death of Madeleine, a little girl they are absolutely devoted to, is just nonsense, pure and simple.'Gerry's brother John said in a radio interview yesterday that while the parents' arguido status meant they had not been able to divulge details of the questioning, he had been led to believe that 'no hard evidence has been shown to them'. And he added: 'Until we get some information about the forensics - and we have not got that yet - we don't know what the police's motivation is.'But The Observer can reveal that it is the DNA analysis, painstakingly conducted over a period of weeks by the Forensic Science Service in Birmingham, that prompted Portuguese police to summon first Kate, then Gerry, for extended questioning and finally to class them both as suspects. The main focus of the inquiry is a small and degraded sample of blood found on the floor of the Praia da Luz holiday flat that matches perfectly, but incompletely, Madeleine's DNA profile.But sources close to the team handling Madeleine's disappearance say that a further reason for the Portuguese police's sudden shift of focus is that they have concerns about alleged contradictions in the accounts of her disappearance given by her parents and their friends in the first days of the investigation.The problem for the police - and the consolation for the McCanns and their circle - is that, even with major recent advances, DNA profiling is not an exact science. Particularly with samples degraded by time, as in this case, there can be no absolute certainty of a match. More importantly, science can say nothing conclusive about how a bit of Madeleine's blood, if it is indeed hers, might have got there in the first place. But by last night, the likelihood was that, whatever the direction of the investigation in the coming weeks, the McCanns' agony will get worse before it get better. The police have made it clear privately that they will want further and more detailed answers to clear up the mystery of the DNA samples. And all that against the background of feverish, often lurid, speculation by newspapers and broadcasters worldwide, which, until just days ago, were painting a portrait of Kate and Gerry McCann not as suspects, but as grieving parents.Some reports have already spoken of blood found not only in the flat, but in a car that they rented more than two weeks after Madeleine went missing. Others, elaborating on the theme, have suggested the police suspect Kate of having some connection with the death of her daughter and of then possible transporting her body. 'All completely false,' a senior source close to the investigation told The Observer yesterday, saying that no blood at all had been found in the car and that a DNA sample taken from its interior, though still a likely match for Madeleine, could have come from just about any item with which the McCanns' daughter had come into contact in the days before she vanished.In the 129 days since Madeleine disappeared, the last 72 hours have witnessed an extraordinary series of twists. In addition to the furore over the traces of DNA in the car, there has been a suggestion - strenuously denied by the McCanns - that they gave Madeleine sedatives, and that a deal had been offered to Kate McCann if she confessed to being involved in the disappearance of her own daughter. Now the McCanns - parents, medical professionals, devout Catholics - are formal suspects in the death of a girl whose features are recognisable to millions. They insist their daughter may still be alive. The police say they believe she is dead.Yesterday morning, the crowd outside the Portimao police station quickly drifted away down the narrow, crowded street once Gerry McCann had left after being questioned and formally classified as a suspect. It was Madeleine's mother they really wanted: some of the 500 gathered had booed her earlier outside the police station that day.Last Thursday and Friday both parents were grilled intensively for a combined 24 hours on how their daughter disappeared on the evening of 3 May while her parents dined with friends at a tapas bar 70 yards away.This week it may get even worse. The McCanns will appear before a Portuguese judge as fears mount among the family's friends that the procedure that would lead to charges being laid is now well advanced.Today was intended to mark a sort of closure: the McCanns had planned to return home to Rothley. Now, police could apply for the them to be subject to a termo de identidade e residencia ('declaration of identity and residence'), meaning that they could not move to a new address without notifying the Portuguese authorities. Yesterday afternoon, the McCanns volunteered to remain indefinitely in the Algarve, aware that any attempt to move back to Britain might be interpreted unfavourably.Alleged contradictions in the original statements of the friends who were with the couple on 3 May remain outstanding, according to police sources - in particular the period relating to the three hours before 10pm, when she was reported missing.British officers have now conducted standard background checks on McCanns and their friends. 'Kate and Gerry want to help the police. Friends are happy to co-operate with the police and some have already returned to do that,' said a friend.Allegations also emerged yesterday of a deliberate strategy on the part of the police to make the couple crack. Anonymous sources were quoted as claiming that police had decided Gerry might falter under intense questioning, having watched the 39-year-old's outburst during an interview with Spanish television over the issue of why Madeleine's blood had been found in their apartment.As far as the McCanns themselves are concerned, Madeleine is not dead. But they are afraid the search for her has been wound down as police concentrate their energy on her parents. Yesterday a friend said: 'Madeleine has not been found. The fear is that with all this going on, who's looking for Madeleine?'