The jury in the highly controversial trial of Tony Martin was yesterday found not to have been intimidated into finding the farmer guilty, despite the massive public outcry against the verdict.An inquiry into claims that the jury's six men and six women were "nobbled" found no evidence to substantiate the allegations, and concluded that there would be no further investigation. A spokesman for the Lord Chancellor's Office said: "There has been no formal complaint from jurors of any intimidation. There is nothing to investigate at present." The case of the farmer who shot two burglars in his own home, killing a 16-year-old youth, touched a raw nerve across rural Britain. The jury nobbling allegations stirred yet further the debate about the rights of householders to defend their property. Last night questions were being raised about the level of hype surrounding the case. Dr George Turner, the Labour MP for Norfolk North West, condemned the hysteria and the involvement of the publicist Max Clifford, who took up the case of the farmer for free. He said: "It hasn't helped that the whole thing has been handled by a professional publicist rather than professional lawyers. There's a feeling there's more than one agenda and I am very worried by what's been going on." Dr Turner said that people were "seeking to exploit the tragic events at Bleak House" and were in danger of encouraging people to take the law into their own hands. "To an extent there may be an attempt to manipulate public opinion for different ends than looking after the public's best interests," he said. Mr Clifford admitted yesterday that he had been stirring up the public outcry against Martin's conviction by supplying newspaper editors and journalists with stories and information about his client to ensure that the story "had got a bloody good airing". But he denied that he was behind the call to a local Norfolk radio station last week by a woman who claimed to have been a jury member. The caller - who did not go on air - spoke of how the trial had "changed her life", and how she felt "frightened to leave her house". The radio station, Broadland 102.4fm, insisted that the woman - it is still unclear whether she was genuine or a hoax caller - did not say she was intimidated or nobbled.  Front pages  But immediately Martin's lawyers and Mr Clifford himself started using those phrases and by the next morning they were splashed over the front pages of the tabloids. Mr Clifford said: "In terms of the hype and media coverage I am very happy to put my hands up. I have done everything I can to encourage the vast media coverage and I wish I could say it was all down to Max Clifford, but it is down to the vast support shown by the British public. I have tried to do everything I know, including getting [Martin's] mother to do interviews. Max Clifford fortunately has helped to get the message out there that this is going on across the country." Martin's team have been carefully noting down any signs of interference with the jury or any hint that there could have been a threat. First there was the juror who phoned 999 over a weekend, having been warned by the judge to do so if anyone approached them about the case. It is believed that the woman thought she was being stalked, but the worry was unfounded when investigated by police. Then there was the presence in court of the man the tabloids have dubbed "the king of the gypsies". Eli Frankham, a 21-stone, 6ft8in former bare-knuckle prize fighter was given a police escort out of the courtroom after just 20 minutes. Court officials said that Mr Frankham and a friend had cadged tickets for the courtroom from a Gypsy woman who had queued for hours for entrance. But despite claims that he glowered at the jury, there has been no proof that he intimidated them. He has denied the allegation, saying that he turned up out of interest. Pointing to these incidents, Mr Clifford added: "I have other reports of intimidation. Somebody saw someone running their finger across their throat. I didn't make that up. This guy of 6ft8in, I didn't make him up - he was escorted out of court by police. It's not Max Clifford hype. It could be that the message that Max Clifford is trying to get across is true." Nick Makin, a solicitor for Martin, said he had gathered evidence that should be investigated. He had taken a very helpful call after putting out an appeal for infor mation. He said: "I am absolutely certain that I spoke to a woman who was a member of the jury. She was the same woman who spoke to the radio station. There is no doubt about it, it was not a hoax." Last night, Norfolk acting deputy chief constable John Bligh said: "The crown prosecution service and Norfolk constabulary are keen to have this matter resolved as quickly as possible in order to confirm or negate what has been said in some areas of the press." Privately, some police sources have been angered by press stories and have been "concerned about the nebulous nature of these allegations and the lack of firm information or evidence".  Isolated house  The sentencing to life imprisonment of Martin after the shooting at his isolated Norfolk farmhouse has become the talking point in pubs and at dinner tables across the country. Martin, 55, was found guilty by a majority verdict of murdering 16-year-old Fred Barras and of attempting to murder Brendon Fearon, another burglar, with intent to cause bodily harm. The farmer had been the subject of threats and it emerged in court that a £60,000 bounty was alleged to have been put on his head. For reasons of safety, jury members were identified by number and not name in court. Martin's lawyers will now lodge an appeal against his conviction on Friday and will ask for a number of documents from the trial relating to jury intimidation. Mr Makin said: "We hope it will be dealt with as quickly as possible."