Victor Bates saw his wife Marian shot dead at her Nottingham jewellers in September 2003. Serial criminal Peter Williams was convicted of her murder. Williams had been released from a young offenders' institute 20 days before he murdered the 64-year-old. The 18-year-old drug addict was subject to an intensive supervision and surveillance programme order and had torn off his electronic tag, ignored a 10pm curfew at least six times and missed seven probation appointments.I'm not surprised this has happened again. It is an absolute tragedy but I have to warn that it will not be the last murder perpetrated by thugs who have been allowed to slip through multiple nets set up by the police, probation and surveillance services. If the system had been working properly, my wife would be alive today but she was murdered in our shop because Britain's criminals were being treated in an off-hand manner then, and nothing has changed since.I find it difficult to say this, but the terrible deaths like those suffered by my wife and Mr Monckton will continue happening until the government and the police are finally forced to do more than spout weasel words about the chaos the system is actually facing.The report on this latest tragedy ordered by Charles Clarke is likely to be as completely useless as the one they ordered into my wife's death. That report blasted the way the youth offending teams and probation service operated, but nothing has been done to implement any changes or introduce any improvements since that was published.From my experience, calling for a report, as has been done in this case, is just a massive waste of time and public money. No one acts on these reports because that's not what they're for. They are designed to forestall complaints and concerns, and the government hopes that by the time any findings are produced, people will have forgotten what it was all about and the pressure will be off.How can we allow the locking up of our dangerous thugs to be treated in this off-hand manner? It scares me to see nothing has improved since my wife's tragedy. I want to see police on the streets, not based in so-called 'rapid response' teams on the other side of the city. After my wife was shot, it took them far too long to get to our shop; then 12 months later when we had another incident, it took them 20 minutes to reach us.All I have to show for my wife's murder are anodyne statements from politicians and apologies through the media but when I wrote to Charles Clarke personally to get answers as to why his report into my wife's death had not been acted on, I was ignored. They're not interested in what's really happening in this country, and that's why these tragedies will continue.