DNA is a crucial investigative tool. Having read Sir Alec Jeffrey's view on the DNA database in this morning's Guardian there are many areas where I agree with him. It is an enormous privilege to be able to use DNA testing to prove or disprove that people have committed offences. In my unit, which deals with homicides and other serious crimes, we are always very conscious that when it comes to DNA we are dealing with two competing issues. Firstly, public concern about the use of the DNA database and secondly, the public's expectation that we will catch and arrest criminals. Within an investigation we have to balance these issues to ensure the steps we take are proportionate, necessary and legal.Jeffrey clearly has concerns about the abuse of the database, and I share his concerns, which is why we ensure we use the facility in an appropriate and proper way. There are many safeguards in place to prevent abuse. Quite rightly we have to disclose any evidence we have and it is then scrutinised by a court to ensure that our case is proved beyond all reasonable doubt. The strict rules about how we collect and use evidence keep us on our mettle and there are many checks and balances to ensure the investigative community is consistent in its approach. The evidence has to be match fit; it is rigorously scrutinised by the crown prosecution service, the prosecution and the defence.However, what critics of the database can't and shouldn't ignore is that a DNA database is an essential investigative tool. It enables us to catch criminals more quickly. DNA is corroborative rather than decisive. It gives us a starting point but it still takes a huge amount of work to establish the corroborative evidence that will actually make the case.The decision about whether to remove the DNA of those who are yet to be convicted of an offence will rightly be made by politicians. In the past the police have made the case to government for retaining these samples and they have agreed, but the EU case may change that. Obviously Jeffrey's knowledge and grasp of the scientific details surpasses mine, I'm just an investigator but the reality for me is the more people on the database, the more effective our investigation will be.With regards to Jeffrey's concerns about the "discrimination and stigmatisation of branches of society that are over-represented on the database". Disportionality within the database will not be prevented by removing those who don't have a conviction from it. We regularly scrutinise our interaction with the public and criminals to try to understand where and why disportionality occurs and whether the actions we take at the front line of policing are justifiable and fair. The database will continue to reflect those who are convicted for crimes, which for complex reasons remains disportionate.My experience of dealing with the families of the murdered, the secondary victims, is that they rightly have huge expectations that we will find and convict those responsible for their loved one's death using any tools at our disposal.Our use of DNA evidence is one of the reasons murder conviction rates in the UK are significantly higher than those in the rest of the world. It helps ensure good detection, high conviction rates and a relatively low incidence of murder.The principle of policing by consent is what makes the British police different to other police forces around the world. We are always accountable to the community for whom we provide a service. If the law compels us to remove the DNA of the unconvicted from the database then of course our job will become more difficult. The scale of the difference will take some time to see.