It was around 12.30am, and one pub in Toxteth, Liverpool, was still full as people enjoyed a late drink following the weekly quiz night.Then the air filled with screams as bricks were hurled through the windows, showering drinkers with glass."I feel terrified. It's soul-destroying – we are only trying to earn a living. And this isn't just my livelihood. It's my home," the licensee said as she cleared up the glass. "You've just got to try and pick yourself up. All you can hope for is that it doesn't start again."On Monday night, hundreds of youths, some as young as 10, some masked, moved down High Park Street, burning and smashing cars and windows.The Tesco Express store in Myrtle Street was looted of alcohol and tobacco. Windows were smashed in the Admiral Street police station, a police van was set on fire and several bus shelters were smashed."The police were down there looking after their own ... they weren't looking after us," one resident said.Earlier, the crowd had torched cars along Princess Road, scattering bin barricades across the broad, tree-lined street.Grove Street, at the edge of the city's genteel Georgian Quarter, was littered with more than a dozen smashed and burnt cars, while residents' windows were smashed as they sheltered inside their homes.Steve McAnelly watched helplessly as his Fiat Punto had a brick thrown through the window in Falkner Square. "I felt really, really frightened because of the multitude of people there," he said."It was absolutely disgusting. There were no police at all. The fire brigade saved lots of lives – the mob were just laughing. It was like they saw it as a big joke. It was like a war zone."Student Ben Woodthorpe was in his flat in the square as bricks were thrown through the window."Everything was just orange – there was a taxi burning on the corner," he said. There is a guy inside the house that was next to the burning cars who has a disabled son. He could have been trapped inside. The first brick bounced off the window and then I decided to shelter downstairs. Some of them [the rioters] were as young as 10 or 12."Some residents were angry. Yeadon Marco, of Huskisson Street, said: "They are just scumbags. This is nothing to do with cutbacks. It's to do with a lack of discipline."On High Park Street, shopkeeper Adam Saleh served customers shellshocked by the events. He said he did not recognise any of the youths and believed they had come from outside areas, including Garston and Speke, and were directing the action via their mobile phones."You could understand if they were demanding something. But what is the point of this? To do this to local people and local shops is out of order," he said."There is no reason for this. We try to make life better for ourselves, but Toxteth is getting ruined again. We always pay the price."