Each morning this week, after pulling on boots, boiler suits and face masks, a handful of police officers descended into a small cellar with an eight-foot high ceiling and thick, foetid air. Sweating in the heat of their arc lights and trying to avoid kicking up clouds of dust, the officers picked their way through debris, examined the concrete floor and delicately removed bricks from an interior wall. Although they worked in teams, the officers' toil left them utterly drained.Above ground, press correspondents and camera crews from as far as Washington and Berlin told their readers and viewers that the officers were attempting to discover whether more human remains had been concealed within Haut de la Garenne, the former children's home on Jersey where a sniffer dog had helped police locate the skull of a child.As police burrowed deeper, there was a growing realisation on Jersey that they could unearth not only the remains of more children, but the truth about a genuinely horrific secret that has lain only half-hidden for decades.Around the island there have long been whispered claims that children taken into care have suffered serious physical and sexual abuse at the hands of social services staff, and that other people, including government officials and police officers, have turned a blind eye. In the cellar at Haut de la Garenne this week, the searching officers were clearly determined that a blind eye would be turned no longer.Jersey has one of the highest per-capita incomes on earth, yet few commodities appear to have greater value on the island than discretion. The most cursory conversation with islanders will reveal how much they cherish their privacy. When the Dean of Jersey, the Very Rev Robert Key, held a service after the skull was found, it included the words: "From over-inquisitiveness, false sensationalism and prurient curiosity, good Lord, deliver us."The desire for discretion may be deeply embedded, but there are some who believe it contributed to the failure to halt the abuses at Haut de la Garenne.Stuart Syvret, a Jersey senator, had been the health minister until last August when, shortly after voicing his concerns about the harsh punishment regime at another children's home, Greenfields, he lost a vote of confidence in the island's parliament.He was not alone in losing his position: Simon Bellwood, a social worker at Greenfields, says he was sacked after expressing his concerns and is claiming unfair dismissal. The following December, as the longest-serving senator, Syvret was entitled to give the traditional Christmas address to parliament. He attempted to offer a public apology to abused children. His microphone was switched off and his opponents walked out. Unknown to Syvret and Bellwood, however, Jersey police were already investigating the island's whispers about abuse.Senior officers accept that in the past too many complaints from abused children fell on deaf ears. But by 2006 the force's chief officer was a Yorkshireman, Graham Power, his deputy was an Ulsterman, Lenny Harper, and the head of child protection was a Glaswegian detective, Alison Fossey. All are outsiders, resolved to bring child abusers to justice. Last night, it emerged that another 12 detectives from the mainland had been requested.Jersey is a tiny state, 12 miles long and six miles wide, with a population of about 90,000 and a police force of little more than 240. Power says some of the suspects are influential figures within Jersey society. "It's certain a small number of people who are being named did have some official connection with the Jersey establishment," he said this week. He quickly added: "It would be astonishing if there were not - this is a small island where many people are in the establishment."Power, Harper and Fossey selected a small team of officers and support staff, including some from England and Scotland. Few people were informed, and the investigation was kept secret for more than a year.Police had become concerned at the number of sex crimes committed by volunteers at the sea cadet unit in the island's capital, St Helier. While re-examining those crimes, detectives realised that a number of victims had also been assaulted elsewhere. Soon they were investigating events at Haut de la Garenne, Greenfields and another home, La Preference. They are also thought to have looked at the island's leading independent school, Victoria College, whose head of mathematics was jailed for four years in April 1999 after admitting a series of indecent assaults.Before police revealed the existence of the investigation last November, they set up telephone helplines for victims, staffed - in England - by police and the NSPCC. The investigation took police to Australia and Thailand. Before long there was a list of 40 suspects.Not every victim is coming forward, however. This week the Guardian met a man who spent several years in Haut de la Garenne during the 1980s after being taken from his abusive parents. Gerry - not his real name - said that after the home closed in 1986 he went to the education authority's offices to confront a man who he believes raped his sister while she was at a different institution. "When I saw him and warned him not to touch her again the police were called. They moved me on but they did nothing about the rape."Harper concedes that abused children were not treated well by police and social services on Jersey, but says this was a problem of the times.Gerry has no intention of contacting police. "I don't want anything to do with them, with social workers, with anyone in authority. Growing up, people in authority were the people who abused you."Other victims have not only contacted police, they are telling fellow islanders about their ordeals. Peter Hannaford, 59, one of Jersey's leading trade union officials, who was sent to Haut de la Garenne as an orphaned infant, waived his right to anonymity to tell the Jersey Evening Post how his earliest memories were of abuse. "Boys and girls were raped when I was there," he said. "The abuse was anything from rape and torture. It happened every night. And it happened to everyone. I was scared to go to bed."Events of the past week brought back memories on Jersey of the predatory paedophile Edward Paisnel, who raped and assaulted two dozen boys, girls and young women. Over 13 years from 1957, Paisnel broke into the children's family homes wearing a mask and wristbands studded with nails, and dragged them outside to be assaulted. One victim bore his child; police believe he was responsible for at least one unsolved murder.After he was captured, police realised he had had access to several children's homes on the island. His second wife's parents ran the home at La Preference, and the Guardian has found photographs of him in a Santa suit, dandling children on his knee at Haut de la Garenne.Paisnel was jailed for 30 years. But as harrowing as his crimes were, those at Haut de la Garenne may have been worse. The child's skull was discovered after three people told detectives that children's bodies had been buried at the home.More bones were discovered in a field behind the home yesterday, although it was unclear whether they were human. Pathologists are now re-examining bones found during renovation five years ago, which had been thought to have been from a dog. Identifying which children may have died is difficult, however, as the home's records are incomplete. Shackles were found in the cellar, and yesterday police found a trap door. Power says victims have spoken of "being kept locked in a deep, dark place and being brought out from time to time for the purpose of abuse". Asked whether the children spoke of torture, he replied: "It seems to me, if the allegations are true, that's torture enough."Police were also digging in the grounds of the home yesterday, but their efforts remained concentrated upon the cellar, which victims say was divided into three rooms. Harper is convinced those rooms contain the evidence he needs to ensure the guilty are brought to justice, and is determined his officers will miss nothing, even if the search takes many days."After all," he says, "nothing in there is going to go away."