The inquests of the 7 July suicide bombers will investigate the role of MI5 and police prior to the 2005 terrorist attacks, a coroner said today.Lady Justice Hallett told the royal courts of justice in central London that the hearings into the deaths of the four bombers would not be heard at the same time as those of their 52 victims.However some survivors of the blasts were disappointed when the coroner refused their request to be able to cross-examine witnesses.Hallett had been asked to decide what form the inquests would take ahead of the hearings later this year.Last month counsel for the Security Service and the home secretary said disclosing MI5 files about the four suicide bombers to the families of those killed in the London attacks would be "impossible". MI5 argued that investigating claims that it could have prevented the atrocities would involve "handing over the keys" to MI5's Thames House headquarters.At this morning's hearing, Hallett admitted there was "some force" in the security service's argument that the sensitivity of evidence about its intelligence should restrict the inquest's investigations. However, the coroner said she wanted to "conduct such investigations as are possible", adding that MI5 had offered its full co-operation."The scope of the inquest into the 52 deaths will include the alleged intelligence failings and the immediate aftermath of the bombings," Hallett said. "To my mind it is not too remote to investigate what was known in the year or two before the alleged bombings. Plots of this kind are not developed overnight."The coroner added that she would sit without a jury, meaning sensitive intelligence material could be "more effectively examined".Hallett's reference to the "immediate aftermath" may also mean questions are answered over whether the emergency services could have saved more lives.In April the family of a hospital biomedical officer, Behnaz Mozakka, 47, who was killed when Germaine Lindsay blew himself up on a tube train between King's Cross and Russell Square, questioned whether emergency services could have saved her life after learning she survived for 45 minutes after the attack.Hallett's decision to hold the inquests separately was welcomed by the former home secretary John Reid. "It is both sensible and sensitive to the families' concerns that the inquests into victims of this awful and tragic event should be dealt with separately from those guilty of carrying it out," he said.Relatives of the deceased expressed dismay last year upon discovering the inquests of the bombers and their victims were to be held together.Nineteen survivors who had applied for interested person status ‑ allowing them to cross-examine witnesses ‑ were disappointed when Hallett ruled they did not meet the legal criteria."I am sure however that the survivors, despite not being granted interested persons status, will play an important part in the process," she said. "I will do all I can to make sure their interests are properly taken into account."One of the 19 said the survivors had been "shunted aside". Their solicitor said he would not rule out an appeal against Hallett's decision."Our role now will be one of answering questions, which we will do, but our questions are not going to be answered," said Jacqui Putnam, who survived the Edgware Road blast. "Once again we have been shunted aside by officialdom and those questions may or may not be answered. It is very important that we remember that the inquests are for families and loved ones of those who died. But this is our only voice. We have been led to believe this would be our opportunity for us to have a voice and now we don't."