The Bill's storylines rarely win plaudits for authenticity, but the ITV cop show appears to be so realistic that a man whose wrongful arrest left him too traumatised to watch it won £7,750 damages yesterday. Paul Stevenson, who was arrested during a post-match fight at a pub frequented by football hooligans, was yesterday awarded £5,000 for false imprisonment and £2,750 aggravated damages. He claimed that the ordeal was so bad that anything involving the police brought back terrifying memories. "Even when I switch on The Bill on telly it brings it all back," he told a judge at Nottingham county court. Mr Stevenson, 31, was cleared of all charges. He claimed that he was hit with a baton and twice bitten by a police dog during the incident, after an England match during the Euro 96 tournament. He admitted watching the match at the Ruby Tuesday's bar in Nottingham, which police described in court as a well-known meeting place for hooligans. But he insisted that he was only among the crowd during the violence because he had become separated from his girlfriend and was trying to find her. Although his attempt to win damages for malicious prosecution was thrown out, a jury upheld his claims for injuries and false imprisonment. Judge Oliver James said: "Mr Stevenson brought this case as a citizen who had never been in trouble with the police before. He came here to clear his name, and he has succeeded. Citizens being wrongly arrested is quite wrong, and damages should be awarded for it." Mr Stevenson, a father of two, said outside the court: "This is a vindication of what I said had happened. I am obviously delighted. I was totally innocent, but it could happen to anyone. I just hope the police will step back and think what they are doing before they jump in feet-first." A police spokesman said last night: "The jury found that the officers had not fabricated their accounts of the incident. The judge said it was apparent from the jury's findings that the officers had been mistaken, but that they had not been dishonest." An ITV source said: "This case shows how realistic and dramatic The Bill's storylines are. Millions of viewers watch it, and we hope Mr Stevenson recovers enough to be able to come back to Britain's favourite police show."