John Stevens, the commissioner designate of the Metropolitan police, has issued a warning that the London force faces a recruitment crisis because of low morale after the Lawrence inquiry.In an interview with Police magazine, Mr Stevens, who is deputy commissioner but will replace Sir Paul Condon next month, said the force had also been demoralised by low pay and an ongoing corruption investigation which had led to the suspension of dozens of officers. "We have got to increase pay. If we don't, we will have a very serious problem in policing London. If things go on as they are, we will reach crisis point." Sir William Macpherson of Cluny, who headed the Lawrence inquiry, yesterday said the report had cast a shadow over the Metropolitan police but it was inevitable it would have a serious impact.The inquiry report, which was published in February, condemned the Met for institutional racism and serious failings in its investigation of the death of Stephen Lawrence, the black teenager who was murdered in a racist attack at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London, in 1993.Sir William told the BBC's Radio 4 Today programme that the problems described by Mr Stevens were "very sad", but expressed confidence that institutional racism was now being properly addressed. "I accept that the waters are still troubled ... It was a hard-hitting report dealing with serious failures of leadership and professional errors which took place in 1993." In August, shortly after his appointment as commissioner by Jack Straw, the home secretary, Mr Stevens said his first task would be to boost morale to reverse "a lack of confidence on the streets". In his interview with Police magazine, Mr Stevens, who will take charge of the Met's 26,500 police officers, admitted that a big recruiting campaign was not going well and said that a survey of staff atti tudes would be carried out next month. Last month a survey of 6,000 officers in England and Wales showed that many felt they were at their "darkest hour" and 68% would take another professional job with the same rate of pay if it was offered to them. Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan police federation, said better salaries were needed to solve the force's recruitment problems. "Unless it is addressed, the situation will get much worse in five years time when a large number of police officers reach retirement." Mr Stevens' appointment was welcomed by the Police Federation of England and Wales which represents rank and file officers. Mr Stevens, who has been responsible for discipline in the Met, spent five years as chief constable of Northumbria, where he was credited with drastically reducing crime. Many of the initiatives he introduced in the north-east were regarded as ground-breaking such as the extensive use of closed circuit TV cameras in Newcastle and "community safety networks" with police authorities. In 1989 he was appointed to conduct an investigation into allegations of collusion between paramilitaries and security forces in Northern Ireland. Both Sir Paul and Mr Stevens accepted the critical Lawrence report, including the claim that there was institutional racism in the force. The force is working to try to recruit more officers from ethnic minorities. Some 3.3% of the Metropolitan police is represented by ethnic minorities, while 20% of the wider community are from minority backgrounds. Sir William said yesterday that he believed the force was taking steps to address institutional racism. "I believe the challenge has been taken up by the Metropolitan police and by institutions all over the country. I don't believe that people are ducking the issue. I have hope and optimism in this field as well as the more direct field of policing activity."