I grew up in a very well-off home. My father, Arthur Dickson Wright, was a senior surgeon and my mother, Molly, an Australian heiress. We lived in St John's Wood, London, in a beautiful house with a beautiful garden and I really had everything you could want. When I was born, my eldest sister was 20, my other was 18 and my brother 13. As my mother used to say, she had run out of people to hand round the olives at cocktail parties, so she had me.My father was immensely successful. He was a surgeon to the royal household, to Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, as Queen and then as Queen Mother. People would always say, "You're so lucky to have a father like yours. It must be lovely for you." And I wanted to say, "Well no, actually, it isn't." Here was a man who was dedicated to healing, completely devoted. Yet at home there was none of that. He was not a good father; he should never have been a father; he should never have really been a husband. He was angry, violent and brutal and this got worse as the years went on and he drank more and more. That again was ironic - I never heard any complaints about his operating yet he was a chronic alcoholic. I used to think that, somehow, the violence in my family was different from the stuff you read about in the papers. The poker that my father hit me with had an ormolu handle, the mantelpiece he bashed my brother's head against was made of marble - somehow I thought this made us special and different. But it didn't. My mother did try to move out or get an injunction on several occasions. Each time the medical profession closed ranks. They said, if you try to do this, Molly, we'll certify you. This is not the profile we want for the senior surgeon of a major London teaching hospital. We'll speak to him, it'll be all right. Of course it wasn't. When I was a child, I used to yearn to tell people. I thought if I told them, they would make it better. Of course, I never did and I don't suppose they could have stopped it anyway. But the more people know about domestic violence, the more they are not going to tolerate it. The first time I saw my father hit my mother, I was five. I was about to go riding and was wearing my jodhpur boots. My father was looking at some papers on the hall table when my mother leaned over his shoulder to see what he was reading. He went wham, backwards, really hard, and she staggered back. I waded in and kicked him on the shins and told him to pick on someone his own size, like me. He went out and kicked the dog. I think that when they were younger, there probably was a certain amount of goading. There was mutual irritation and my father was often very stressed because he worked so hard. I know that on a bad day, when you get very stressed, even talcum powder is abrasive. By the time I came along, the violence was almost entirely drink-related. If my father wasn't drunk, he would sit, not talking, and read a paper. I never had a conversation with my father, but we exchanged information if he was in a good mood. We would talk about history or science or something like that. If he was drunk, we kept out of his way because if we didn't, we got hit. He would come and confront us about some imaginary thing, like wearing jeans down the high street, and then it would escalate into violence. I never saw him distressed by what he had done. As far as I could see, he was a cold, relentless man, but I may be wrong, maybe he did feel something inside. I think by then he probably didn't, as, like so many members of the medical profession, he was taking quite a lot of drugs to keep him going. The dynamics of my parents' relationship was fascinating. My father, I suspect, had married my mother because of her money and her connections. They had a very strange love/hate relationship. Although we lived in a house with 11 bedrooms, they still shared a small double bed until about 10 months before he moved out. They behaved as though they hated each other, but quite clearly they didn't. To be fair to my father - and I find it difficult to be fair, even now - he had an appalling childhood. His parents were very cold, and were very demanding of him. Then at 18 he went off to the first world war and survived it, with all the horrors that that entailed. My mother had a very firm belief, not in a religious god, but in a god of her own understanding. That is what kept her going and what my father could never break down. I think she had accepted that she was trapped in this relationship. She was Catholic and, although she wasn't particularly religious, this brought a lot of mental pressure. A lot of women in violent situations try and hide the evidence, and pretend it's not happening. My mother wouldn't do that. If she had a black eye, she would put make-up on, and she always tried to be positive. Once, after my father had beaten her really quite badly - he had broken a bone in her cheek and the bruising was horrible - she said, "Oh well, one has to look on the bright side, darling. I haven't lost my vision and I can still use my hands." I didn't love my father and I loved my mother too much. I felt it was my job to stay and protect her. All the others had left home - had I been older, I would have run for the trees too - so there was just the three of us locked in this dynamic. I loved staying with friends, the whole atmosphere in their houses was so different. I couldn't understand why people didn't have world war three over not passing the salt. I remember going to a great friend's house when her elder brother locked her in the coal hole - just larking about. He told me not to let her out, so I kicked him so badly he fell. When I let her out she asked what I had done to Johnny. And I said, "Well, he locked you in the coal cellar." She was amazed at my over-reaction. I would probably have ended up in Broadmoor if I hadn't gone to boarding school. I loved school because in our home, as in any alcoholic household, the rules shift all the time. You do something one day, you get praised for it; you do the same thing the next day, you get beaten for it. But at school, the rules were always the same. At home it was like walking on eggs. You never knew what the situation was going to be. We would be anxious whenever my father came back, wondering whether he was drunk, or not, or what sort of mood he was in. One night he came back very drunk and angry and said that he was going to sleep in the nursery. He stormed off up the stairs and my mother told me to go and take him a pillow and some blankets. So I knocked on the door and went in and he said, 'What do you want?" I said, "I don't want anything, but mummy told me to come and make up the bed." He grabbed the blankets and told me to get out. I said, "Why should I? You can't behave like this." Stupid, I know. It is mad to argue with a drunk. He lost his temper, grabbed hold of me and tried to bash my head over the mantelpiece, which was one of his favourite tricks. My mother came running up and pushed a chair into the back of his legs. He stumbled and let go, and we both rushed off and locked ourselves in the spare room. Neither of us had any doubt that if my mother hadn't come and intervened, he would very possibly have killed me. I was just so angry. If I had had a gun I would have used it. But my mother was saying, "No, darling, just leave him. He's not well." Strangely, there were times when I would almost long for the eruption, because once the eruption had happened, there would be a lull and I knew it wouldn't happen again for a few more days. You got used to dealing with the physical violence, you know, how many more broken ribs can one have? But the tension was more stressful. You just wished it would happen to get it over with. I always thought the best way I could hurt my father was by hating him. He was determined that I should follow him into medicine. I was determined not to. Thank God I didn't - think how many people I might have killed. I remember the sheer joy of saying: "I'm going to be a barrister." He nearly crashed the car we were in, he was so angry. The memory still gives me pleasure to this day. I only hit my father once. It was the night he finally left home. I was 21. He was packing up his stuff when my mother woke me up to say he was taking a particular set of prints which she had got from her father. I went out and started taking them out of the car. He saw me doing this and came up and hit me with an umbrella and broke my nose. I just went berserk and, I should think, did him a certain amount of damage because although I was a lot thinner than I am now, I was very athletic. My mother then came out and there was a great row. My father started hitting her; it was terribly unseemly. I watched him drive off, with blood streaming from my ears. That was the last I saw of him. After he left, he fell apart. He spent the last three years of his life as a vegetable, after having 11 strokes in nine minutes. Then my mother died and it was almost as if I didn't have to protect anyone any more and my father could no longer do me any harm. With nothing to fight against, I took to the bottle. I became very violent - it was the obvious solution, the easiest solution - though never in my relationships. Once you have lived with violence, once you have been involved, it takes on a different aspect. It becomes a possibility and if it enters your life as a possibility then, sooner or later, you will act on it. There is something terribly attractive about violence as a simple solution. You don't have to argue, you don't have to reason, you just lash out. I decided very early on not to have children. People always ask me, if I regret that decision. The answer is no. I have a lot of godchildren and I am very fond of them. But I would not have trusted myself to have my own children. If you grow up in that sort of dynamic, you have a responsibility to the next generation to consider whether you are fit to have them or not. I have had a lot of relationships - some of them important - but I have never had a relationship with a violent man and I wouldn't. I remember on only one occasion I goaded and goaded this poor bloke until he slapped me across the face. I just said, there you are, and walked out. My one piece of advice for anybody who finds themselves as a victim of violence, is to get out immediately. Do not pass go, do not collect £200. Just go, because it is not going to get any better. If there is a chance for the relationship it is only going to happen if you are apart and you are both prepared to look at why you are in the situation. If you are a child and you find yourself in a violent home, it is going to be very hard. Go and find somebody you can trust and tell them. But make sure it is somebody you trust because I tried it once and all they did was write to my father. · Clarissa Dickson Wright was talking to BBC producer Elizabeth McIntyre. She will appear in Dangerous Love on February 19 on BBC1, part of its Hitting Home series.