Sarah Campbell was a talented child from a conservative household in an unremarkable town in Cheshire. Her mother, Pauline, was a civil servant and lecturer who carefully raised her only child to have a happy, fulfilling life.The evidence of Sarah's promising future is on display around her mother's living room: her tennis trophies, her art works, the purple belt she won in karate and the family photo albums that chart a childhood of skiing trips, birthday parties and school plays. But Sarah is dead: somewhere along the line, in spite of her mother's ceaseless support, the bright, lively child became a heroin abuser. As a result of her addiction, Sarah was sentenced on 17 January, 2003, to three years' in jail and sent to Styal women's prison in Cheshire. Within hours of the start of her sentence, she had taken an overdose. She died three days before her 19th birthday. 'Sarah had a future once and so did I, as her mother and as an average, normal member of society,' said Campbell. 'But my life is dedicated now to finding out how an 18-year-old girl with a known history of depression and drug dependency came to injure herself fatally within hours of being received into Her Majesty's care.' But Campbell's battle is no longer just about her daughter: the once timid, law-abiding lecturer has organised six protests outside women's prisons, been arrested three times and is now prepared to go to jail herself. 'If someone had told me five years ago that I would become this angry, vociferous risk-taker, I would have told them they had the wrong woman,' she said. 'But Sarah's death has transformed me. Sarah's death has opened my eyes to the fact that women are treated with medieval barbarity by our prison system,' she said. 'More and more women are being sent to prison when clearly they should be being treated for mental illness - and conditions once they reach jail are horrific. 'I have seen women who have used scouring pads and hairgrips to maim themselves. I have spoken to women who tried to choke themselves to death on toilet tissue and of others who garrotted themselves with ripped sheets.' Campbell paused, then added: 'I have seen my daughter do these things to herself when she was on remand. That is not something a mother can ever forget.' Britain locks up more women than any other EU country except Spain and Portugal, and the numbers are growing, with the female prison population in England and Wales rising by 173 per cent in the last 10 years to more than 4,400. Between 1990 and 1995, seven women inmates killed themselves, an average of 1.2 a year. In 2002 that figure rose to nine, and last year it was 14. Women prisoners are three times more likely to commit suicide than their male counterparts. Despite being only 6 per cent of the prison population, women account for half of all incidents of self-harm. Last Thursday Campbell was arrested outside Holloway prison during a protest following the death of 28-year-old Heather Wait, the second woman to die in Holloway in recent weeks. 'I am going to continue protesting outside every women's prison, every time a female inmate dies, until the government is forced to take action,' said Campbell. 'Women in prison are an invisible issue. Many suffer terribly; the regimes are more restrictive than in men's prisons and staff are not trained to cope with such damaged people.' After her arrest on Thursday night, Pauline spent more than four hours in a police cell. She has been summoned to appear before a magistrate this week and has already decided that, if she is fined, she will refuse to pay. If that means she is put in prison, so be it: she will continue the fight from inside the lion's den, although the idea fills her with horror. 'I thought of Sarah every second of the time I was sitting in that filthy, rank cell,' she said, her eyes filling with tears. 'I am a strong woman with a powerful sense of my own rights, but if even I felt completely desperate, what must it be like for scared, vulnerable girls who have no idea of what is happening to them? 'Prison is hell for male inmates too, but, unlike males, most female prisoners have not committed violent crimes,' she added. 'Their offences are mostly linked to theft, drugs or unpaid bills and they are less equipped to deal with being separated from their children. Nearly all will try to harm themselves and many will succeed.' Sarah's own story is a miserable one. As a teenager, she had suffered from low self-esteem and at 15 her doctor prescribed anti-depressants. At 16, she started an art course, began to smoke cannabis and was later introduced to heroin. 'I noticed that she was becoming more moody and more withdrawn than usual, but I put it down to adolescence at first,' said Campbell. By the end of the first term, Sarah had dropped out of college and moved to London. One day, desperate for a fix, Sarah and a friend hassled an elderly man in Chester town centre for money. Petrified, the 72-year-old man suffered a heart attack and died. In court, Sarah and her friend were found guilty of manslaughter, the first time a manslaughter conviction had been based on a harassment charge rather than something more serious, such as robbery. After the begging incident, Sarah was sent to prison on remand for six months, a period during which she was drug-free - to her delight. When she returned to court and was sentenced to three years' imprisonment, she was told that she would be sent to a secure psychiatric hospital. When she discovered she was going back to Styal, she was distraught. At court, a liaison probation officer and a duty psychiatric nurse warned that she may harm herself. The last thing she said to her mother was: 'Mum, why aren't they taking me to a hospital?' Until Sarah's inquest next year, Pauline can only guess at what happened after that. The only thing she knows for sure is that Sarah somehow managed to obtain or smuggle over 100 pills into Styal, and that at 7.56 that evening she was pronounced dead.