Thousands of criminals are walking free from court as a result of the intimidation of witnesses and victims. The scale of the crisis is exposed by figures showing that Crown Court judges - who rule on the more serious and violent cases - had to order 4,515 acquittals last year after a witness failed to give evidence or the complaint was withdrawn by a victim.One in 20 Crown Court cases was thrown out as a direct result of problems with witnesses testifying, according to written parliamentary answers from Solicitor-General Harriet Harman. Across the criminal justice system, 30,000 cases were dropped last year, including those in magistates' courts, which account for more than 90 per cent of cases. Details seen by The Observer of the Government's forthcoming White Paper on the criminal justice system show the Government is preparing to allow judges to try cases alone when the jury is being intimidated. The Government has already said juries will no longer sit on cases of complex fraud; this further restriction will be opposed by campaigners, who fear it will infringe suspects' right to a fair trial. John Wadham of the civil rights group Liberty said: 'The right to be tried by a jury of your fellow citizens is fundamental. If there are problems with intimidation, they should be dealt with by protecting the jurors.' Bar Council spokesman Jon McLeod added: 'It smacks of giving up on the jury system if you decide a trial is too scary for a jury to be involved.' Although there have been few studies of 'jury nobbling', the Home Office is concerned about its impact, particularly in trials of violent gangsters. Tony Blair also wrote a private memo calling for a crack down in the wake of the case of Norfolk farmer Tony Martin, when some jurors complained of feeling intimidated by relatives of the teenage burglar shot by Martin. A study of trials in nine magistrates' courts showed that from April to June 2001 only 43 per cent led to a verdict. According to the Home Office, nearly 40 per cent of witnesses said they would not give evidence again because of intimidation or the stress of cross-examination. Dennis O'Connor, Chief Constable of Surrey and vice-president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said: 'We have to stop the criminal justice system being disabled by the intimidation of witnesses and victims.' On Wednesday, Cherie Booth QC will join the debate over the treatment of crime victims in the first annual Longford Lecture - in memory of the peer and prison reformer Lord Longford. The Prime Minister's wife, who as a barrister has taken on several cases fighting for higher criminal compensation offers for victims, is expected to call for the interests of those of the vulnerable to be tied more closely into the legal process. Tony Blair yesterday pledged to press ahead with reform. 'We will have all the protection in place for the innocent, but we do have to deal with some of the fundamental questions in the criminal justice system that mean there are people who should not go free but do,' he told a conference of Labour activists organised by the think-tank Progress. The White Paper will promise a Commissioner for Victims, with right of appeal to the Parliamentary Ombudsman. Ministers will also publish a code of practice governing how victims are handled, including their right to be treated with dignity and respect. 