Nearly five years ago, in January 2012, I noticed that there seemed to have been a lot of women killed during the first few days of the year; I made a note of their names to help me work out just how many – and then I just didn’t stop. It turned into the Counting Dead Women project in partnership with Women’s Aid and has led to the first Femicide Census report, released today.We sent FOI requests for details of women killed by men to all police constabularies in England and Wales and developed a database, supported by Freshfields, Bruckhaus, Deringer and Deloitte. As a result we now have information about 936 women killed by men between 2009 and 2015, the men who killed them and the contexts of the killings.Most of the women, 598 or 64%, were killed by current or former partners, confirming what is already known about which men are the main threat to the lives of women in England and Wales – the ones they love or loved. We were able to find information showing that about one-third of these, 200 women, were killed after leaving a partner. Of these, 76% were killed in the first year after separation, 34% in the first month. It’s often asked of women with violent partners, “why doesn’t she just leave?” For many women it’s because they know they’re safer with him than if they leave him. He may have told her that he will kill her if she goes – and she knows it’s true. For some women staying with a violent man is a survival strategy. Having this detailed information highlights how important it is to have support, including refuge accommodation for women to escape to. It also reveals the lasting legacy of state-enshrined inequality in relationships: in very recent history women were viewed legally as the possessions of men and rape within marriage was only criminalised in England and Wales in 1991. There are too many men who haven’t moved on from that.One of the most important things about the Femicide Census is that we look beyond intimate partner violence, to fatal violence from other male family members, from sons, from strangers, and including men who pay for sex. Doing this helps us see the bigger picture; identifying the commonalties across the different contexts of men’s violence against women can help us see its root causes. This is essential if we’re really serious about reducing men’s violence against women and girls. Continuing to improve policing and justice responses is vital, but these alone won’t bring about the reduction in men’s violence against women that we want, if we don’t change the attitudes and inequality that foster it.We know that at least 21 of the women killed had links to prostitution or pornography, and we think this will be an undercount. In my opinion, prostitution is financially compensated rape and prostitution and pornography are eroticised inequality. You can’t have one sex overwhelmingly sold as a commodity and the other the purchaser, without sex inequality and without reinforcing that inequality.The objectification of women feeds the entitlement of men and simultaneously reduces the status of women. For this reason, so called “prostitution managed zones” such as the one in Leeds in which 23-year-old Daria Pionko was murdered last December are not a solution. Prostitution and women’s safety are contradictory. Recognising the influence of male entitlement on men’s violence against women shows us that not only is it essential to have well-resourced exiting services for women in prostitution, but also that we need to tackle men’s attitudes and we can do this by targeting their demand and access.No woman killed by a man is just a statistic. There should be no hierarchy of victims and every woman counts, no matter what the circumstances of her life and death. But looking at statistics presents opportunities for learning. The Femicide Census both captures new information and provides evidence to support what we already know, but it can only make a difference if this knowledge results in action.We need to make sure we have independent specialist services provided and led by women; we need to make sure our sexual and domestic violence services are securely funded so that they can focus on supporting women not chasing funding; we need policing and a criminal justice system that delivers justice for women; and we’d very much like funding for the Femicide Census.We also need a huge shift in attitudes to understand how socially constructed gender and the objectification of women is both a cause and consequence of inequality between the sexes. To do this we could start by recognising that we’re not looking at 936 isolated incidents across seven years but the manifestation of a deeper problem. The Femicide Census is a call for action.