Tom Lloyd, the Cambridgeshire chief constable, resigned last night amid claims that he got drunk and sexually harassed a woman at a police conference.Mr Lloyd, 53, who faced severe criticism over his force's investigation of the Soham murders, resigned the day after issuing a public apology for his behaviour at the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) event in Birmingham last month. Police sources said the married father of four was "extremely inebriated" after a five-hour drinking session at the Crowne Plaza hotel near the NEC conference venue on May 17, and pestered the female official with suggestive comments, asking her to accompany him to a hotel bedroom. They claimed he said sorry to the woman, who is in her 30s but has not been named, the next morning and she decided against making a formal complaint. He issued a public apology when the story appeared in the Daily Mail on Tuesday, saying he was very sorry for any offence caused. A police source said the normally reserved senior officer was "genuinely very contrite and accepts his behaviour was out of order". Mr Lloyd had apologised to the woman, who agreed things had been blown out of proportion and was not going to pursue the matter. However, the subsequent publicity prompted him to quit his £120,000-a-year post yesterday. In a statement, Mr Lloyd said he "deeply regretted" a "moment of foolishness" and was standing down to protect his force's reputation. "This decision follows reports of my behaviour at a social event at the recent conference of the Association of Chief Police Officers," said the statement. "However ill-founded or exaggerated the reporting, I recognise that I gave cause for concern to those present. The subsequent media attention has damaged my reputation, and I feel honour-bound to step down before endangering the reputation of the constabulary that I have been proud to lead for the last three years. "As chief constable my integrity, professionalism and commitment must be beyond reproach in order to command the respect of the force, the members of the police authority to whom I answer, and, most importantly, the community that I serve. "I deeply regret that a moment of foolishness may have caused some to question my integrity." On Tuesday, Chris Fox, the president of Acpo, said he was aware of an incident involving a member who had had too much to drink and had spoken to the individuals involved but considered the matter closed. Yesterday, he said: "I respect the decision taken by Tom to resign. The circumstances of his decision should not detract from the significant contribution he has made to policing and Acpo." Michael Williamson, the Cambridgeshire police authority chair, said Mr Lloyd had led the force through difficult times and he accepted his resignation with regret. He stressed no formal complaint had been made. But Mike McFadyzean, chair of the Cambridgeshire Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers, called for an inquiry to establish if Mr Lloyd should face internal misconduct procedures. Mr Lloyd had already come under fire in the past two years, following a damning report on his force's inquiry into the murders of the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, and an Inspectorate of Constabulary review which put his force in the worst five in England and Wales. Mr Lloyd, an Oxford graduate, began his career in the Metropolitan police in 1974. He rose to the rank of commander in 1996 and was awarded the Queen's Police Medal in 1999 before moving to Cambridgeshire as deputy chief constable in January 2000. He was promoted to chief constable shortly before Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman disappeared in August 2002, but faced personal criticism for going on a family holiday to France after they went missing. Deep flaws in his force's vetting procedures were exposed when it emerged at the Bichard inquiry into the Soham murders that officers had not even asked Humberside police for intelligence on the murderer, Ian Huntley, who got a job as a school caretaker in Soham despite a string of sex allegations in other areas. In June last year, a constabulary inspectorate report labelled the Cambridgeshire force as "poor" at tackling robbery, burglary and public reassurance. Nevertheless, Mr Lloyd's fortunes appeared to have taken a turn for the better last month, when the Police Standards Unit deemed efficiency in the force had improved enough for it to stop close monitoring. Cambridgeshire's deputy chief constable, Julie Spence, will temporarily take over the top post.