 The mother of Arsema Dawit, the 15-year-old who was stabbed to death in a tower block in south London, yesterday accused police of having failed to protect her daughter.Tsehainesh Medhani, whose daughter was killed on Monday, said police did not take seriously enough complaints from the family that Arsema was being harassed by a man who was threatening to kill her.An inquest heard yesterday that Arsema had bled to death after being repeatedly stabbed in the neck. She was found in a lift a few metres from her front door in the block of flats near Waterloo station in London. Speaking through her solicitor yesterday, the girl's mother said: "I am absolutely devastated and cannot believe what has happened to my daughter. I came to this country from Eritrea to live in safety. When my daughter was threatened I went to the police seeking protection. Sadly this did not happen."Metropolitan police say that Arsema's mother contacted them on April 30 because her daughter had been assaulted by an obsessive man who had threatened to kill her at a McDonald's restaurant near where she lived on April 16.Police say they followed up the allegation with Arsema on May 12, when a Safer Schools officer went to her school, Harris Academy, in Bermondsey, but the teenager denied knowledge of the incident. Farah Carver, 43, a family friend, said Arsema did not mention the visit to her mother. "They cannot believe the police contacted Arsema at school for an interview and yet they were never informed by detectives or the girl."Yesterday Justin McLaren, a spokesman for the Harris Academy, said the school had no record of the Safer Schools officer discussing the harassment with Arsema, but said this was not necessarily unusual as the officer, though based in the school, worked independently.Pupils at the academy have been grieving for Arsema. Kerryanne Penney, 15, who was a friend for four years, said everyone had been crying for her. "She was a lovely person. I have known her since we started here. She was good at maths and science, she was brainy. She had loads of friends and would always say hello to everyone. When she first joined the school, she couldn't speak English and it was really hard for her, but she learnt really quickly, she was well behaved and very kind. She was the kind of person who, if she saw that you were upset would check if you were OK. She was just a really nice person."Teachers at the academy said Arsema attended the homework club, concentrating particularly on her English, and was due to take 10 GCSEs next year. A school spokesman said: "She was dedicated, determined and invariably friendly. She had a lovely quiet sense of humour and was someone who wanted to do well." She had been on the school's float in the Lord Mayor's show last year, dressed in Eritrean national costume.Friends of the teenager said she had been stalked by a man who met her through an Eritrean church where she was a member of the choir. Two internal reviews are being held to look at how the Metropolitan police handled the case. It has been referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission.A spokesman for the Met said: "The investigation and relevant procedures will be reviewed separately by the violent crime directorate and the directorate of professional standards. We have also voluntarily referred this matter to the IPCC for their oversight, should they consider it appropriate."Thomas Nugusse, 21, a student from Essex, yesterday appeared before Camberwell Green magistrates, in south London, charged with Arsema's murder. He was remanded in custody and will next appear before the Old Bailey in August.