David Blunkett today said that the "jury's out" on whether Charles Clarke deserved to lose his job as home secretary, as the war of words between the last three occupants of the post reached a new low.Mr Blunkett - who held the job himself until he resigned over the affair of fast-tracking a passport for his lover's nanny - ridiculed the idea that Mr Clarke could have thought he'd be safe in the job for three or four years, as Mr Clarke declared on Monday.Giving evidence to the Commons public administration committee, he said that Mr Clarke - who lost his job over the foreign prisoners fiasco - had been fired at a time of intense political pressure. "I think he was being judged on a particular incident at a particular moment of time in the middle of a controversial local election campaign. I don't think we should judge a department or an individual on one incident," he said. "I think the jury's out ... in terms of Charles Clarke's departure as home secretary," he told MPs.Earlier this week, Mr Blunkett hit out at Mr Clarke for using a series of media interviews to attack Tony Blair's leadership. Mr Clarke complained that he had been sacked despite being given a promise by Mr Blair that he would have three to four years to carry through his reform of the Home Office. Mr Blunkett said: "If any prime minister said to me 'You are going to be there for three to four years' I would have taken it with a pinch of salt." Mr Blunkett also warned that fundamental reform of the civil service was now essential if it was to be able to deliver the government's programme effectively. It caps a remarkable week of infighting between former home secretaries, with Mr Clarke rejecting outright his successor John Reid's, view that the Home Office was "not fit for purpose".Mr Blunkett went further, saying that despite the efforts of prime ministers such as Mr Blair and Margaret Thatcher, there had been a consistent failure to bring in the radical changes that were needed. "If, in the next five years fundamental change is not made, I regret to say that I think that confidence in the public service and the ability of that service to underpin the working of our democracy, will be in doubt," he said in a lengthy memorandum to the committee. His five-page memo was scathing of the civil service. He said: "A first step would be to recognise the skills that were required 50 years ago are as irrelevant inside the civil service today as they are in a manufacturing sector of industry after the advent of numerical control, robotics or computer-aided design." He told the committee that ministers should have a greater say in the appointment of their permanent secretaries - the senior civil servants who run Whitehall departments. "Nothing could be worse than a three or four-year battle between the person who is accountable to the public (the minister) and the person who is accountable to them for running the service (the permanent secretary)," he said. However, the former Tory leader and home secretary Michael Howard batted back the criticism in evidence to the same committee, saying that officials simply needed "strong political leadership" from ministers. "It is not rocket science. If you do that the civil servants will respond and will give you what you want," he said.