Thursday 1 July: Raoul Moat , 37, from Newcastle, is released from Durham prison after serving 18 weeks for assault.Friday 2 July: Durham prison warn Northumbria police that Moat may intend to cause serious harm to his former partner Samantha Stobbart, 22.Saturday 3 July: Chris Brown, 29, Stobbart's new boyfriend, is shot dead outside her home in Birtley, Gateshead, apparently by Moat. He also allegedly shoots Stobbart twice through a front window of the house, leaving her critically injured. Northumbria police launch a manhunt for Moat. Detective Superintendent Steve Howes says: "We believe the offender targeted his victims because of a grudge he held against them."Sunday 4 July: PC David Rathband, 42, is shot in his patrol car and critically injured. A 49-page letter written by Moat details his grudge against police. Northumbria police appeal directly to Moat to give himself up. They reveal he rang officers early that morning to say he believed Stobbart was having an affair with a police officer and was concerned for the well-being of his three children.Monday 5 July: Moat is suspected of an armed robbery at the Delaval fish bar in Seaton Delaval, near Blyth. Extra firearms officers from several other northern police forces are brought in to join the hunt for him. Northumbria police say Stobbart is no longer in a critical condition and has appealed directly to Moat, saying: "Please give yourself up. If you still loved me and our baby you would not be doing this."Tuesday 6 July: The town of Rothbury, Northumberland, is put on lockdown after Moat's Lexus car is discovered. Police set up a two-mile exclusion zone in the area and advise residents to stay indoors. A letter apparently written by Moat emerges in which he declares war on the police and promises not to stop "until I'm dead". Police reveal they had been dealing with a hostage situation involving two men said to have been taken at the time of the shooting in Birtley. But the the pair, Karl Ness, 26, from Dudley, North Tyneside, and Qhuram Awan, 23, from Blyth, Northumberland, were later arrested.Wednesday 7 July: Police recover a tent in which Moat had been sleeping in a secluded area of Rothbury. Another eight-page letter is found and a £10,000 reward offered for information leading to his arrest. The father of Stobbart pleads with the gunman to give himself up. Paul Stobbart says: "Raoul, son, please this has to stop, we don't want anyone else hurt, nee more son."Thursday 8 July: Ness and Awan appear at Newcastle magistrates court. Both are remanded in custody accused of helping Moat. Prosecutors say Ness was with Moat when Brown was murdered and both men joined him to look for a police officer to shoot. Police say information has emerged that Moat had made threats to the wider public.Friday 9 July: Police release photographs of camping equipment used by Moat. A man and a woman are arrested in Blyth, on suspicion of assisting an offender. Three mobile phones used by Moat are also recovered. The Ministry of Defence says an RAF Tornado with imaging equipment has joined the police operation to track him down.At 7pm Moat breaks from his hiding place near Rothbury. Within moments he is lying on the ground with a sawn-off shotgun pointed to his neck. He is surrounded by police marksmen and snipers. Trained negotiators try to talk with Moat.Saturday 10 July: At 1.10am a single shot is heard. Moat is rushed to hospital but is pronounced dead on arrival. Police release a statement saying Moat appears to have shot himself and no shots were fired by officers.