With its miles of golden sands and art deco vacation homes, the seaside village of Jaywick near Clacton-on-Sea was once a popular holiday destination for working class Londoners. But in a sign of worsening living conditions, a community east of the village has once again topped a government list of the most deprived neighbourhoods in England.Jaywick, a ward of Tendring district council in north-east Essex, has been placed first in the Department for Communities and Local Government’s Indices of Multiple Deprivation 2015 list. Using statistics for income, employment, health, disability, crime and living standards, the government report ranks 32,844 areas by local authority according to where they stand in the national poverty league table. It updates a previous report released in 2010, which was also topped by Jaywick. In fact, the majority (83%) of neighbourhoods that were most deprived in today’s list were also the most deprived according to the 2010 index.All of the local authorities with the highest proportion of deprived neighbourhoods are in the north – Middlesbrough, Knowsley, Hull, Liverpool and Manchester.The London boroughs of Hackney, Tower Hamlets, Newham and Haringey have all dropped out of the list of the 20 most deprived areas but seven of the 10 local authority districts with the highest levels of income deprivation among older people are in the capital.The area of Jaywick was originally made up of fields and salt marshes but was rebuilt in 1928 by surveyor Frank Stedman, who marketed cheap holiday homes to workers from London’s East End. The plotlands became a problem during the second world war when bombed-out Londoners moved to their holiday homes permanently. As the homes were temporary structures that dodged planning regulations, councils provided no roads, electricity or drainage – but the residents nonetheless refused to move.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Many of the homes on the seafront are now in a state of disrepair, the roads are full of potholes and the area is riddled with unemployment. In 2014, it also became part of the first constituency to elect a Ukip MP, Douglas Carswell. Responding to today’s report, Carswell said the Jaywick neighbourhood would continue to spiral without action from local and central government. He said: “People in Jaywick have been let down by big government and official planning restrictions that have prevented any significant new housing investment for 40 years. Until planning rules are liberalised and capital can be invested in Jaywick, the downward spiral will continue.” Carswell added that he had lobbied government and the council to introduce minimum housing standards for people on benefits. “Thanks to government policy, we are subsidising squalor,” he said.The government said the report was a snapshot based on information gathered over the 2012/13 financial year and insisted differences between areas may be very small. A DCLG spokesman said: “We will ensure that every part of Britain benefits from a growing economy and that everyone who works hard gets the opportunities they need to succeed. “The most recent statistics show that the proportion of individuals with relative low income is now at the lowest level since the mid-1980s and we have near record levels of employment. “Furthermore, councils facing the highest demand for services continue to receive more funding and have higher spending power than less deprived authorities.”