Whenever agents of the state are accused of wrongdoing, they first issue a blanket denial. If pressurised, they hold an internal investigation and find nothing wrong. If still under pressure, they assure us that there might have been mistakes but everything's now under review. And if the years don't let them off the hook, they finally say that, yes, it was all a bad business, but it was a long time ago and things are very different now. The Lawrence family have fought a long, long struggle to get as far as they have. But at the last moment, the Macpherson report seems to be about to offer only qualified support for them. If predictions are correct, there will be very stern words for some police officers, but also a suggestion that the Lawrences messed everything up by pursuing a private prosecution. The British establishment could never be so humble as to admit that two little people know more about justice than does the Crown. It will be impossible for Macpherson to condemn them. They are now rightly held in such esteem among people of all races that their critics are far more circumspect than they used to be. Gone are the days when the Police Federation could depict them as a couple of traumatised and bitter blacks, too irrational to see that they were being hi-jacked by a lot of uppity police-haters with chips on their shoulders. And I dare say Deputy Assistant Commissioner David Osland might rue the day he advised officers to sue the Lawrence family for accusations of racism. Sir Paul Condon may reflect upon the wisdom of assuring the Lawrences in earlier days that the murder investigation was being properly handled, and of condemning the inquiry at its outset for damaging race relations. The inquiry report will be very cautious if it does criticise Neville and Doreen. I suspect the phrase 'ill-advised' will appear, as though these bright and determined people had no minds of their own. It will be their lawyers who take the stick. The Crown Prosecution Service has already started to cover its rear. Three weeks ago there was a foray onto the front page of the Independent, when 'legal sources' suggested that the inquiry report would go for Michael Mansfield QC and the family solicitor, Imran Khan. Murmurs that the attempted prosecution had been unwise began some time ago. At the inquiry, Mansfield and Khan were bitterly attacked by Howard Underwood, the CPS lawyer who discontinued the original Crown prosecution. Underwood says that he was horrified when the Lawrences decided to try a private prosecution, because it was bound to fail. He says he warned Imran Khan not to proceed and 'collapsed in the street' when he heard the news that his advice was to be ignored. Underwood maintains that the Lawrences should have waited. If they had been patient, he argues, new evidence might have turned up, and he could have dusted off the prosecution and started again. Wouldn't you know it? The criminal justice system bends over backwards to be fair to the ethnic minorities but they will insist on going their own sweet way and spoiling everything. A key fact that this CPS arse-covering exercise ignores is that the private prosecution did not fail. True, Mr Justice Curtis ordered the jury to acquit, and no one is behind bars for this murder. But the Lawrences have won an inspiring and splendid victory in exposing police malpractice, and the private prosecution was the beginning, not the end. It cannot have come as a shock to anybody. It took many months of campaigning and fund-raising before the family was ready to proceed. During that time, all sorts of people started to become aware of the name of someone who would otherwise by now have been just another forgotten dead black person. Many more British people are now suspicious of the words, 'Police do not suspect a racial motive' than was the case six years ago. Many more people listen to the families of Ricky Reel and Michael Menson when they tell how they were dismissed and ignored by police, than would be the case if the Lawrences had sat on their hands and waited. One might be suspicious of some of the converts, especially tabloids who feel able to make accusations of racism while simultaneously trying to make us hate Romanies. And some of the press are keener to target the five suspects in the murder case than to explore racism among the police. The Telegraph recently ran a piece condemning the Met for racism in the run-up to the riots in 1981 but arguing that the problem has been sorted out. I don't remember the Telegraph panning Swamp '81 at the time. In another 18 years, the paper will be savaging the Met of today and saying that everything's much improved. I hope with all my heart that we shall not by that time be looking at a botched police investigation into the murder of a teenage Romany but, if we are, his family will have the Lawrences and their lawyers as inspiration. 