Two striking miners were last night charged with the murder of a taxi driver who was taking a miner to work at Merthyr Vale colliery in Mid-Glamorgan.The two men were Mr Reginald Dean Hancock, aged 21, of Rhymney Bridge, Rhymney, Mid-Glamorgan, and Mr Russell Shankland, 20, of Manest Street, Rhymney. Both men are single. Merthyr police said last night they would appear this morning before a specially convened magistrates’ court. A third person was last night still helping police with their inquiries.Mr David Wilkie, aged 35, was killed when a concrete block and a four foot long concrete post were dropped on his car from a bridge 20 feet above the A465 Heads of the Valleys road near Merthyr Tydfil. The taxi went out of control and crashed into an embankment.Both missiles hit the car, which was in a police convoy, and the concrete block, measuring 18 inches by 9 inches, smashed the windscreen and pinned Mr Wilkie to his seat. He sustained multiple injuries and was dead on arrival at hospital.The working miner in the back of the taxi, Mr David Williams, aged 35, was unhurt.The Chief Constable of South Wales, Mr David East, later told a press conference at Merthyr police station: ‘This is not industrial action. This is not picketing. This is murder. Whoever threw those things down must have known the likely consequences.’He recalled that in September the assistant chief constable, Mr Viv Brook, had warned that someone would be killed if pickets continued throwing pieces of concrete from motorway bridges.Striking miners had then been attempting to stop convoys of lorries taking coal to Llanwern steelworks. ‘The style of attack today is similar,’ Mr East said, ‘but with any inquiry you must keep an open mind.’Twenty-eight policemen have been injured in clashes involving hundreds of police and pickets at the colliery, where two men have been reporting for work for a fortnight.This is an edited extract. Click here to read full articleDean Hancock and Russell Shankland were convicted of Wilkie’s murder at Cardiff crown court. On appeal, the convictions were reduced to manslaughter and they were released in November 1989, five years after the killing.