The government dealt with 114 cases of forced marriage last year that involved mentally disabled people – a number government experts admit is only the tip of the iceberg of a horrendous hidden problem.The Foreign Office, which runs the government's forced marriage unit with the Ministry of Justice, released the figure after a high court judge was criticised by campaigners for refusing to annul the marriage of a mentally incapacitated Sikh man from the West Midlands whose parents had imported a wife from India for him.Mr Justice Holman ruled that the 38-year-old Briton, named only as RG, was unable to consent to marriage because of his learning difficulties. He requires full-time residential care provided by Sandwell borough council. But the judge decided not to recommend a petition of nullity be issued on RG's behalf after deciding that RG "gained pleasure" from his Indian-born wife, SK, who told the court she did not know about her husband's significant disabilities until their wedding day.The judgment drew strong criticism from campaigners against forced marriage, who claim parents in certain communities in Britain often marry off their disabled children in the hope that their (often unwitting) spouses will act as carers."The ruling has sent the wrong message," said Jasvinder Sanghera from the charity Karma Nirvana, which runs a helpline for victims. "One of the definitions of forced marriage is a marriage in which one or both spouses do not or cannot consent and in this case the judge clearly ruled that RG was not capable of consenting to his marriage."Commending Sandwell council for raising the alarm, Tom Watson, the Labour MP for West Bromwich East, described forced marriage as "wrong, wrong, wrong".In his ruling Holman said: "Although he has such little understanding of marriage that he lacked capacity to marry, he, nevertheless, frequently uses the words 'wife', and 'marriage', or 'marry', in relation to Mrs SK. She visits him regularly, several times a week. Although the visits are quite short, he reacts to them with pleasure and appears to gain pleasure from the visits and from the relationship."He added: "Unquestionably, RG cannot gain the support, pleasures and benefits of a marriage, as normally understood. He cannot gain many other of the pleasures of life that are available to persons of normal capacity. But still he gains some pleasure and some benefits from this marriage and relationship."The judge also took into account submissions from RG's wife, who begged for the marriage to stand lest she be ostracised from the Sikh community.Sanghera said Karma Nirvana had dealt with 32 cases between January and 1 July this year involving disabled people at risk of forced marriage. But she said no one had any idea of the real scale of the problem. "What we hear about is just the tip of the iceberg. By its nature, forced marriage is a very hidden problem."The victims are always very vulnerable and isolated – add to that the vulnerability of those with disabilities who are dependent on multiple family members who are usually the perpetrators in these cases and you can see how difficult it can be to identify these victims. Plus very often the community views [disabled people] as being 'not normal' and they are stigmatised and hidden away. It's horrendous."She said many care professionals were "too worried about being culturally insensitive and accused of racism" to raise the alarm about forced marriage.A spokesman for the government's forced marriage unit acknowledged the 1,500 calls his unit received last year – 114 involving mentally disabled victims – did not reflect the true size of the problem. "We know that this 114 cases does not reflect the full scale of the abuse, and many more cases are not reported."Forced marriage does not discriminate between certain ethnic groups or nationalities – we received reports of cases from over 60 countries last year."He said the main way in which the government was made aware of disabled people being forced into marriage came via tipoffs from British embassies abroad. They alert the unit when they receive an application for a spousal visa from a British citizen with disabilities. They then ask the relevant local authority to carry out a capacity assessment to assess the potential victim's ability to consent to marriage and then advise the visa be turned down if necessary.He said that while 82% of forced marriage victims dealt with by his unit overall were women, the gender split was more like 50-50 for victims with learning difficulties.Sabbiyah Pervez, operations manager of Inspire, a counter-extremism and human rights organisation that seeks to address inequalities facing British Muslim women, said: "There are cases in my community where disabled men and women are married off to more able suitors. I believe and know that this is arranged to lift or ease the burden of responsibility felt by the mother. It is both tragic and unjust. In the cases I know of the women who enter these marriages come from very poor families in Pakistan where a marriage of this sort is seen as a ticket out."But Jagtar Singh, spokesman for the Sikh Federation (UK), said he had lived in the UK for all of his 50 years and had never heard of a case involving a mentally incapacitated Sikh being forced to marry. "The Sikh Federation (UK) totally condemns all form of forced marriages, which represent a form of human rights abuse and is illegal in the UK under the Forced Marriage (Civil Protection) Act 2007."He added: "If one of the parties is very mentally disabled the parents should refrain from arranging a marriage and should seek other ways to help their child (that will become a grown adult, but may mentally be of a much younger age) when they are no longer able to assist or are worried what will happen if they pass away."Where physical disability is the only issue we believe parents of all backgrounds should help young adults meet a suitable match – the other person may or may not be physically disabled and the couple can decide if they wish to get married."Sandwell council, which provides residential care for RG, had asked the judge in the high court case to recommend the official solicitor issue a petition of nullity on RG's behalf.Councillor Yvonne Davies, Sandwell's cabinet member for adult social care, said: "We take our safeguarding responsibilities very seriously and we are committed to protecting vulnerable people."In this case, we were concerned a forced marriage may have taken place because we felt the gentleman was not legally able to consent to be married. Therefore, we considered it was our duty to take the matter before the court."Watson, whose constituency covers Sandwell, said: "Forced marriages are wrong, full stop. Though I don't know of many cases of this kind, if it involves people without the mental capacity to make up their own mind, the abuse is compounded. It's wrong, wrong, wrong. I applaud Sandwell council for their action."