Life seems to be back to normal in the streets of Hackney following the riots last month. The streets seem to be quieter and businesses are running as normal. However, there is still tension in the air. Young people in Hackney continue to be angry with the police and government – they feel their views are not being seriously considered."This has all started because of the resentment towards the government and I believe that it is anybody's right to [protest]," said a 16-year- old. He was angry because he believed his right to education was being taken away following cuts to the Education Maintenance Allowance (EMA). As I continued speaking to young people in Hackney, the issue of EMA came up again but often this was mixed with frustration over not being able to work: "we cannot afford studying and we do not have work," the same young man continued.Another 15-year-old also lamented the loss of the EMA and the expressed frustration at not being able to find work: "we cannot work and some of our parents are not able to support us. Finding a job is much harder than before. […] Many people do not have the financial strength to look after themselves". Both these young men, unable to support themselves financially and without the prospect of further education, were concerned about their futures. "Nobody seems to listen to us," said a 17-year-old. He went on to imply that the events in Hackney were in direct response to oppressive policing, government cuts and social exclusion. Politicians have condemned the riots as solely criminal acts but according to the young people I interviewed the Hackney riots were in fact political protests.When asked who was involved, one young man, 20, was careful to point out the multi-ethnic character of the disturbances and the range of age groups involved. This was not a race riot, nor did it only involve young people. "You had everyone involved," he explained, "blacks, Turks, English, old people; it was not only young people. You have got people from different ethnicity [ies], race[s] and age[s]. The news was always saying [it was] young people but there were old people as well. Everyone was doing things to [the] police," he said.Days after the riots had ended the frustrations continued. A young man, 16, explained: "police see us as potential criminals because [of the way we dress]. After riots I have got stopped and searched for no reason. I was in Mare Street and they asked me where I have got my clothes from then I told them I have a receipt at home, come and search. Then they said fine. I walked away." He not been involved in the looting but felt he was still being criminalised for being young.Listening to these young people speak, it is not possible to put the Hackney riots down to simple criminality. They justified the riots as protests against social exclusion, cuts in education and poverty.• Dogus Simsek is a PhD student at City University's department of sociology in London. She conducted her fieldwork in Hackney.