Tonight, worshippers leaving dozens of synagogues in north-east London's Stamford Hill will hurry home in groups, keeping an eye out for strange cars and taking care not to leave anyone on their own.For the large Jewish population in this part of the city has been subjected to a series of vicious attacks in the past six weeks. Eight orthodox Jewish men, mostly youths in their teens and early 20s, easily recognisable because of their strict dress code of black suit, white shirt, black hats and ringleted hair, have been assaulted by a gang of black and Asian men. Two victims needed hospital treatment - one had his nose broken by an iron bar, another needed stitches. But all eight were left terrified at being targeted apparently just because they were Jewish. Their attackers shouted anti-semitic insults. Some gave Nazi salutes or knocked off a victim's traditional hat or kappel skull cap. Fear has spread through the neighbourhood, with many parents scared to let their children travel on buses or go out alone after dark. Local people have instigated a text message SOS system, whereby anyone in trouble can summon help from nearby residents. Mike Whine, spokesman for the Community Security Trust, an agency which provides defence information and advice to British Jews, said the sustained nature of the attacks on a close-knit community was intimidating. But he was even more worried that they were symptomatic of a general upsurge in anti-semitism throughout the UK in the last year. In another recent incident, Jewish graves were desecrated in a cemetery in Aldershot, Hampshire, for the second time in three months. Ten Jewish graves in Redan Road cemetery, two belonging to second world war veterans, were daubed with Nazi symbols, including swastikas, SS signs and CO18, the far right group, Combat 18. A Hampshire Constabulary spokesman said 12 graves were similarly defaced in October and it was despicable that vandals had struck again so close to Holocaust Memorial Day on January 27. "There have also been incidents in north Manchester, where there is a large Jewish population, and in other parts of the country," said Mr Whine, who is also a director of the British Board of Jewish Deputies. "While we are still compiling final figures, we know there has been a substantial increase in violence against Jews in the past year." The Community Security Trust has compiled reports on anti-semitic behaviour since 1984 and has recorded an average of 500 instances a year since 2000, ranging from verbal insults and offensive literature to desecration of property and physical attacks on people. Islamic extremists have targeted Jews on several occasions. But there is no evidence to date that the Stamford Hill attacks are linked to any such group. Mr Whine could think of no particular reason for the recent increase in anti-semitism, but said there was always a backlash when Jews, Israel or Nazism were in the news. Last week, 20-year-old Prince Harry caused outrage when he wore the uniform of Rommel's Afrika Korps with a swastika on his sleeve to a fancy dress party. "It's going too far to blame things on any particular news story, but over the years we've found that anything relating to Jews, whether good or bad publicity, tension in the Middle East or a documentary about the Holocaust, seems to put it into the heads of idiots and invariably leads to trouble on the streets," said Mr Whine. He accused the police of being slow to realise the attacks were linked, and urged a more "imaginative approach" to snare the perpetrators, by having plain clothes officers lie in wait, especially on Friday and Saturday nights when Jews were going to the synagogues. The attackers have been spotted driving a green VW Golf. Police said the description was vague because the attacks took place after dark, and some of the victims did not get a good look at their assailants. The first incident happened on December 6, outside the Yeten Lev boys school in Casenove Road, when the suspects kicked and punched a 23-year-old man. This year, there have been four attacks, three on the January 5 and one on January 7. Chief Superintendent Simon Pountain, the Hackney borough commander, insisted he was doing all he could to catch the criminals and reassure the Jewish community. "We are taking this very seriously, particularly as it is a group of linked attacks by one gang against one community," he said. "We have not had anything like this in the recent past. We've spoken to Jewish community leaders, and are using a mix of overt and covert policing tactics." 