Detectives were last night investigating the murder of a 15-year-old boy stabbed to death in what they believe was a robbery that went wrong.Kieran Rodney-Davis was stabbed in the chest while returning from a trip to the shops for his mother in Fulham, west London, yesterday afternoon. He died in hospital shortly afterwards. Detective Chief Inspector Dave Little, heading the investigation, said: "At this early stage we believe this may have been a robbery which turned into the tragic murder of a teenager. We have received the full assistance of the community but need further help from the public to track down those responsible." Three black youths were seen running away from the scene of the attack. They were all believed to be around 15 years old and were all wearing balaclavas or bandana-style scarves over their faces. Kieran's mother, Antoinette Rodney, 37, said she had kept him home from school yesterday because he had been feeling unwell and his new braces on his teeth were hurting. "He was in bed all day. He was off school because he had a stomach upset and the new braces were rubbing him. He said he was fed up and got dressed," she said. "He wanted some computer discs so I sent him out to get some Bonjela for his mouth and the discs. I'm waiting for him to walk through the door. I'm still in shock. He was A1, the perfect son." Mrs Rodney and Kieran lived in a council flat yards from where he was stabbed. Mrs Rodney was alerted to the attack by one of Kieran's friends. She went to the scene but her son had already been taken to hospital. Police took her to the Chelsea and Westminster hospital, where she found out her son had died. She added: "It's all wrong. He was only 15 years old. He's never been in trouble before. He was never in a group and always helping people and helping his gran go shopping and then this happens." She added: "Whatever the police do it's not going to bring my son back." Anyone with information should ring Barnes police on 020 8247 7821 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.