Derrick Bird spoke repeatedly to a close friend of his financial despair because of tax demands in the last days before his rampage.Neil Jacques, who had known Bird for 35 years and lived on the same road in Rowrah, said the taxi driver had grown agitated and had convinced himself in the week before his killing spree that he would go to prison."He was that bothered because of the tax demands, he could not cope. He couldn't see how he was going to get out of it. I tried to talk him down but he wouldn't have it. I told him that he had to think straight. But for some reason, he thought he was going to jail," he said.Jacques's words add weight to reports that Bird was at the centre of an investigation into unpaid tax and was finding it impossible to cope. Cumbria police have confirmed they are investigating his finances as one line of inquiry.Jacques, a worker at the Sellafield nuclear plant, said Bird would regularly come over to his terraced house 14 doors away in Rowrah, Cumbria. Most Wednesday nights, they would go to a pub.But last week, Bird spoke to him about his financial worries on a number of occasions. "He wanted to talk about his money problems. He thought he was in proper trouble," said Jacques. Bird had come to see him the night before the killings and left at about 12.30am.Bird confided to him that he had approached his twin brother David, his first victim in the shootings, to explain his situation. Bird was told by David to speak to a solicitor, thought to be Kevin Commons, his second victim, Jacques said."I couldn't see what they [David and Commons] had done wrong. I thought they were trying to help him," he said.Jacques said Bird offered no hint that he wanted to shoot anyone. "He didn't say anything at all about using his guns. If he had said anything, I would have tried to stop him. I keep going over those conversations, trying to make sense of it."Asked to sum up how he felt about Bird, Jacques said: "Devastated". He knew Derrick was a gun enthusiast, but thought he went clay pigeon shooting or shot rabbits. "I would never have guessed that he was capable of doing that" he said.New details of the will of Bird's father were released today and showed that he left less than £10,000 but that David Bird received £25,000 from the estate shortly before Joseph Bird's death.Neither Derrick nor his older brother Brian received anything as the estate passed to their mother, Mary.The will required David Bird to subtract the money from any inheritance he subsequently received.It is not known whether David ever repaid the money to the estate. As Mrs Bird became increasingly frail, the question of whether the deduction would be transferred to her will in the event of her death may have become an issue.The disclosure may add weight to the theory that the taxi driver launched the massacre after a row over inheritance with his family.But David's family said in a statement on Thursday that there had been "no family feud" and that David's downfall had been that he had tried to help his brother.In a separate development, Mark Cooper, a fellow cab driver claimed that Bird had accumulated £60,000 in a secret bank account and was worried that HM Revenue & and Customs had discovered his undeclared income. Cooper, who had known him for 15 years, said "Birdie" told him a fortnight ago he feared he would be sent to prison for hiding the cash."He had £60,000 in a bank account. He didn't say how he had got the money," Cooper said. "He said the Inland Revenue had heard about it and were investigating him. Before then he never seemed to have any money worries."He owned his own house and car. He paid his round in the pub. It's a terrible tragedy. He was just like us. I had never seen him lose his temper with anyone or get angry."Stuart Hyde, deputy chief constable of Cumbria police, said he was talking to "a number of agencies" about the killer's financial situation. "There are a number of lines of investigation and they clearly include financial. If there is anyone who has got information about financial transactions, that may help our investigations."