Detectives investigating the fatal stabbing of an Asian man during a mass brawl said yesterday that they were treating the investigation as a racist murder.Shezan Umarji, 20, died after a fight broke out on a Preston estate in the early hours of Saturday morning. More than 50 people were involved, and witnesses have said that some were armed with baseball bats and knives.Eight men were last night in custody. Two of them were arrested on suspicion of murder, and the others on suspicion of violent disorder.It was not the only killing of the weekend with apparent racial undertones. In a separate incident, a taxi driver died on Saturday night after being attacked by a group in Huddersfield. Five teenagers were being questioned last night in connection with the attack on Mohammed Pervaiz, who was turning up for a fare when he was killed. Police said it was believed that "racist language" was used towards the victim at the time.Detectives in Preston said the same thing about the Umarji killing."The extent of the abuse, who said it, and to whom, is by no means clear," said Detective Superintendent Graham Gardner, leading the investigation into Umarji's murder. "Nor is it clear at what point it was said. But witnesses have told us about the abuse, and it is incumbent on me to declare this a racial investigation. I'm not saying, however, he was killed because of the colour of his skin."Det Supt Gardner added: "There were more than 50 people in that fight, but I've not had 50 people come forward. That might be because they don't trust the police or they're scared; but there will be people who have seen things or heard things, and I urge them to help us."On Fishwick Parade, the litter-strewn crime scene, the Umarji family had tied a bunch of purple chrysanthemums to a tree, marking the spot where the former grammar school pupil died.Although few could agree on the sequence or cause of events, it was accepted that Mr Umarji was well-liked, well-respected, and was in the wrong place at the wrong time.At a press briefing Shohel Umarji, his 26-year-old cousin, said: "Shezan was a good lad."He was respected himself and he respected other people, young and old. The family are not coping well at all. It's a sudden death, and they are going through a very hard time."Mr Umarji worked for a Halifax call centre, attended the local mosque five times a day, and enjoyed playing football.One neighbour said: "Last week Shezan's sister got married, it was a happy occasion for the whole family. This week, the family will have to go to a funeral."The woman, who did not wish to be named, added: "I've lived here all my life. I have many friends here; but after Friday night, it's time to go. I'm taking my daughters, it's not safe."There were mixed feelings, too, about the increased police presence on the estate. Some said they were reassured by the marked vans and mounted officers, while others were angry.One young man in his 20s, who gave his name as Khalid, said: "It wasn't a racist area - but it will be now. You wait."The police being here will make things worse. They'll increase tension between the two communities until it kicks off, and then they'll come down on us real hard."I'm a brother to all the Pakistanis on this estate. They [the police] don't care about us, that's why they took so long to get here. Shezan could have been saved if the police and the ambulance had come quicker." Asked about the delay, Det Supt Gardner said: "I can't refute the allegations that there was a delay in the police response, because I don't know."We're at the very early stages of the investigation; it is something we will be looking into."He said that the additional police presence on the estate was necessary and precautionary.He said: "We have to be realistic. This was the murder of a young Asian man in a mixed race area, and the potential for reprisals is something we have got to be alive to - irrespective of the original motivation behind Shezan's death."We have to be alive to factions who know nothing about this incident trying to stir up trouble. It would be remiss of us not to cater for that. Certainly the Umarji family are reassured that we are there."BackstoryIn 2005 there were 333 racist incidents in Preston, 204 of which were racially aggravated crimes. Lancashire police attributed these figures to a backlash following the 7/7 terror attacks. However the rise in the number of racist incidents across Lancashire was higher than the national average. Home Office figures showed that in 2004-2005 there were 2,013 complaints compared with 1,923 the previous year, an increase of 9%. Nationally, for the same period, racist incidents recorded by the police went up from 54,286 to 57,902, a rise of 7%.