It all began over dinner a year ago, says police officer Tony Neate. With colleagues at the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU), he was debating how to tackle the explosion in spam, scams and worse - virtual criminal activity - disfiguring the internet.With regulators and the law limping behind, he knew there needed to be a high-profile prevention campaign to educate surfers in the home as much as small businesses.This was codenamed Project Endurance, a signal of how tough the challenge was and how low was public understanding of the dangers. Renamed Get Safe Online, this month sees the launch of a website that promises to be a helpful "one-stop shop", spelling out solutions to problems such as finding out whether spyware has been installed on your PC.Neate is editing the site to ensure it has plenty of contacts and links. The aim is to make it the UK's "recognised source for online security and protection". He hopes it will be permanent, and it is to be backed up by a big publicity campaign.Roger Darlington, chairman of the Internet Watch Foundation, believes the scope of the campaign needs to be widened further, and reinforced with a national call line, as with NHS Direct. "There needs to be a place anyone can go and get user-friendly and free advice."Get Safe Online has drawn together 10 sponsors in a public/private partnership: the Home Office, Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), NHTCU, Dell, eBay, HBSC, Lloyds TSB, Message Labs, Microsoft, Securetrading and Yell.com.Misuse of the internet is alarming people in all walks of British life, from the individual trading on eBay to banks, the Confederation of British Industry and the Inland Revenue. It undermines confidence, deterring the 40% who are not online from joining up. The aim of the campaign, however, is to educate, rather than scaremonger.Much government business is migrating online. With online banking transactions costing seven pence compared with £3 if you go into a branch, the benefits of safe trading online are obvious.Jean-Jacques Sahel, the head of international communications at the department, says 67% of emails are spam - unsolicited information that ranges from the tiresome to the fraudulent, with some carrying viruses and others "phishing" for an individual's bank account details.Companies estimate that deleting junk mail costs them the equivalent of £460 per employee a year. Also, 90% of viruses are carried by email. One in 10 UK companies say online fraud is a major issue: a survey by the CBI of 300 members saw information security as a problem.At a Westminster eForum seminar last month, suggested solutions to dealing with fraud included a stronger personal identity certificate, which always remains encrypted.Richard Cox, chief information officer for Spamhaus, which pursues spammers, said internet service providers needed to be more vigilant: they were hosting fake domains with names such as "bank" that were set up to carry out phishing. Other redresses include updating the 1990 Computer Misuse Act and raising fines.One problem is knowing who you should contact for help. ISPs often prove hard to contact and are singled out for providing poor customer service.For the police, it is a crisis, with criminals rapidly changing countries and using "zombie" computers to steal personal IDs. The NHTCU has an officer permanently in Russia. Neate says: "This is different from the old organised crime of East End gangs, we now see virtual crime groups that are transnational, they may never meet."Yet as Neate himself says, sometimes it can be difficult to tell whether some emails are authentic. His unit recently had to rule on an email requesting reconfirmation of personal bank details. He thought it was fraudulent, as did a colleague. However, it was genuine: it was from an online-only bank that did not communicate by letter.Microsoft UK's chief security advisor, Ed Gibson, spoke of his basic fear. "In five years' time, if we do not make a concerted effort to make it more secure, then what we call the world wide web or the internet will not be as it is today. This is an area the law enforcement side can't tackle alone."We're at a stage where, as individuals and as consumers, we must be aware we can no longer treat computers as toasters. We have to do a much better job to get the message out, that as soon as you log on the internet, whether you are a four-year-old, or a 94-year-old, you have opened up every window in the universe to your home."