Most people don't believe me when I tell them what my job is. They say: "But you're too short." I'm only 5ft 1in, but there's one officer smaller than me. When they realise I'm telling the truth, they say: "What, in a women's establishment?" They're shocked when I reply: "No, Cardiff prison."The next question is usually: "Do you get scared?" The answer is: "Very rarely." I work on the therapeutic wing with people that have behavioural and psychological problems. We're next to the segregation unit, where there can be a lot of shouting and bawling. Some of ours join in, but we tell them they'll go back upstairs to a normal wing if they don't behave. That quietens them down as they can't cope up there. We accept anyone on our wing who is what we term "inadequate"; we don't call them vulnerable. We're working with 23 prisoners and we take referrals from other wings. Then we interview them to see if they are trying it on. You can normally tell straightaway if they can cope or not by their physical appearance - if they've let themselves go and not changed their clothes or bedding.I've had 11 weeks of prison officer training, but there is no specific training to work on this wing. I was hand picked because they thought I had the right temperament. It takes a lot of patience, as the inmates are constantly asking questions, like children, and they dwell on things. They can be very withdrawn, especially after a visit from their family and if they've had bad news or they're upset from seeing their own children.We have "listeners", who are inmates that have been trained to listen and give advice. There are also bereavement and marriage guidance counsellors working in the prison every day. We don't leave prisoners to stew. It's not true they are locked up in a cell 24 hours a day.You do get some cutting themselves with a razor blade, or burning themselves with cigarettes. If they are pacing up and down and quiet, you keep an eye on them. It's the ones you're not aware of that tend to do it.The first time I found someone hanging it was a shock. I start work at 7.45am and go into the cells to wake them up. I saw this inmate who had hung himself by stripping his bedding - if they want to do it, they'll find a way. I held the prisoner up while my colleague got him down. I was with the same officer when we found him hanging a second time. He has mental problems. It was a definite cry for help, and he'll probably do it again.We do feel guilty. You think: "Could I have done more?" But you can also get annoyed. You shouldn't, but you do sometimes think: "Which one of them has done it this time?"You also feel a bit guilty when you see the same faces come back into prison. You've done your best to put them on the right course when they get out, and steering someone in the right direction for rehabilitation is the best thing about the job.A lot of the prisoners can't read and write, and there's an inmate who teaches them the basics. There are also half-hour computer classes on the landing, teaching inmates how to switch on a computer and write a letter. I was surprised by the amount of courses available when I came on to the wing a year ago. But there is a stigma that stops many ex-offenders getting a job. It's really unfair to judge a person who has been in jail. Who's to say they will reoffend? But you do see it - if they can't get a job, they go back to crime.About 80% on our wing have a drug problem - heroin, cocaine, ecstasy. We can refer them to the Carat (counselling, assessment, referral, advice and throughcare) team.The biggest barrier to success is overcrowding. It's a problem across the country. I'd wanted to work in this prison since I was at school, but I worked in a leisure centre for 11 years. My father worked here as a senior prison officer for 30 years, and he didn't want me to see what he'd seen. I only told him I'd joined on my wedding day, when he was bit drunk.If I had a daughter, I'd understand. You do get sexual innuendos, but they don't swear so much in front of us, and they seem to think we can talk to them. You do have a laugh and a joke every day with the inmates, but you do have to be stricter than the male officers because you can't let them think of you as a "fluffy".