Unconvicted teenage robbers are to be electronically tagged while they are out on bail awaiting trial under plans unveiled yesterday by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to tackle street crime.Up to 1,800 youths, aged 12 to 16, who face serious criminal charges are to be tagged as a way of enforcing court ordered curfews and to track their movements while they await trial in the first year of the scheme. Six pilot schemes operating in courts in inner London, Greater Manchester, Northumbria, Thames Valley, Avon and Somerset, and the West Midlands will start in April and will be followed by the launch of the scheme across England and Wales in June. The announcement was made as new Metropolitan police figures show that the explosion in street crime in the capital has not been confined to inner city boroughs. The 39% overall increase in robbery since April 2001 masks the fact that increases in Waltham Forest (68%) and Ealing (49%) have actually outstripped the rise in traditional crime hotspots such as Lambeth (33%) and Hackney (30%). But even more alarmingly the robbery rate has nearly doubled in Newham (95% rise) and Southwark (124%). These kind of figures have sent crime soaring up the political agenda. The announcement follows concerted lobbying by police officers, particularly in London, who complained that a hardcore of 20 to 30 "untouchable" prolific young muggers was operating in each borough.The deputy assistant commissioner, Tim Godwin, who is in charge of the fight against street robbery, said that young suspects released on bail were free to commit more crimes or intimidate witnesses, undermining police efforts to cut spiralling crime. In one case a young mugger was arrested for street robbery 11 times only to be released each time pending a further court appearance. The home secretary, David Blunkett, caused uproar among police officers when he gave the Met police six months to halt the rise in street robberies or face a management takeover in failing boroughs. He said yesterday he was determined to give the police the tools they needed to do the job. "We are talking about thugs who are creating havoc in the local community, repeatedly offending over and over again. They are cocking a snook at the whole system and people are sick and tried of them being put back on the streets, unsupervised, untagged, insecure and carrying on what they were doing before." Mr Blunkett said the eventual plan was to introduce proper secure accommodation but it was an expensive long term option. The latest figures show that the 3,430 secure places for juveniles are 92% full, offering little capacity for those who are awaiting trial. Some 400 extra places are being built but only 64 will be ready by the end of the year. The decision to bail unconvicted teenagers as young as 12 met with criticism amongst penal reformers. Paul Cavadino of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders said some teenagers would wear the tag as a badge of honour and it would not prevent them committing crimes outside the curfew hours. "For most young defendants bail support and supervision programmes are more likely to keep them out of trouble while awaiting trial." · Thousands of police officers will stage a rally at Westminster on March 13 in protest over planned changes to their pay and conditions, the Police Federation announced last night. A meeting of the police negotiating board on Monday decided to refer the dispute over police reforms to conciliation.