For the last week Tahira Tabassum has been innocent in secret after being accused and tried in public. A gagging order meant the media could not report her acquittal on charges of failing to tell the authorities her husband was planning a suicide bombing.Speaking exclusively to the Guardian, she said the decision to put her on trial had been political. "It became clear it's not about the truth, somebody has to pay for what's happened," she says. "They tried to make me pay." She learned of the attack from a television report and was soon arrested; she heard of her husband's death from television too - and far from being treated as a grieving widow, she was treated as an enemy of the state while being held in Belmarsh jail in south-east London. "I can't tell you how low I was feeling," she says. "I was in a cell for 22 hours, I needed support, I needed my family around me, I was constantly crying." Two months earlier she had given birth to her third child, whom she had been breastfeeding. "At that time I needed help and support but I was in prison. I was feeling very low, I was taken away from my children, I'd lost my husband, it was totally unfair." Ms Tabassum has had to decide what to tell their children, aged seven, six and one. "They know their dad drowned," she says. She has not told them about the suicide bombing. The children are still emotional and confused. "They would ask me, 'are you going to prison?' When I came back home my son would say 'oh you didn't go to prison today'." She says she can look her children in the eye with a clear conscience. "If in later life they ask questions, I can tell them I never knew what was going to happen, and I never wanted [their] father taken away." As evidence that she did not know what her husband was planning, Ms Tabassum told the jury she was going to join him in Syria. She had filled out visa applications for their children on April 8, two days before Omar Sharif flew to Damascus, and on April 15 gone to a gynaecologist to have a contraceptive fitted. Ms Tabassum, 28, who met Sharif while at King's College, London, in 1996, told the court she believed Islam forbade suicide. From the beginning, she says, police and then the prosecution stereotyped her. "The police's starting point was just looking at the way I dressed and that I was a devout Muslim; they looked at me and thought I probably fitted the mould of the suicide bomber." She does not know how Sharif turned from a middle-class public school boy into a would-be mass murderer. "My husband, I loved him a lot, I believe he loved me and he was a very good father.. His decision to become a suicide bomber, how it came about, I don't know." The key evidence against Ms Tabassum was Sharif's email eight days before the attack. He wrote: "We did not spend a long time together in this world but I hope through Allah's mercy and your patience we can spend eternity together." The prosecution said that it was obvious she knew what he was going to do. She says she thought he was going to leave her. "Terrorist activity was the last thing on my mind." The prosecution also depicted her as believing in extreme Islam, citing a leaflet from al-Muhajiroun, which advocates violence against Israel, as evidence, as well as her notes of phone numbers of the group's leaders. But Ms Tabassum said she had a wide range of Islamic material: "I had a general interest in Islam." Ms Tabassum said her pleas were ignored by the police who had made up their minds: she was now the bomber's wife.