Last week's high court review of the levels of compensation received by victims of miscarriages of justice shed some rare light into one of the more shameful aspects of our criminal justice system.Cousins Michael and Vincent Hickey of the Bridgewater Four spent 17 years wrongfully imprisoned and Michael O' Brien of the Cardiff Newsagent Three for his 11 years of wrongful incarceration. Yet the sticking point in court last week centred on the proposed reductions in compensation suggested by the home office appointed assessor to account for their "saved living expenses" whilst the three were wrongfully imprisoned. In effect, this charges them for prison board and lodgings. If he has his way, Lord Brennan QC would reduce Michael and Vincent Hickey's awards by about £60,000 to leave them with £930,000 and £446,000 respectively. Michael O'Brien's award would be reduced by £37,000 to leave him with £613,000.These proposals will strike most people as a gratuitously ungenerous response by the state to those who have been locked up unjustly. Yet there are also broader problems of the way this issues is debated. Compensation awards to victims of miscarriages of justice are generally considered only in the context of specific high profile cases. The last time that there was much media discussion of the issue, for example, followed reports that £1 million was said to have been offered to Paddy Hill of the Birmingham Six for his 17 years of wrongful imprisonment.This tends to give the impression that miscarriage of justice compensation is uncommon and that the payment of compensation to victims of 'justice in error' applies only to a handful of notorious, high profile victims. Indeed, Paddy Hill's offer came 11 years after his conviction was quashed by the Court of Appeal (Criminal Division) (CACD) in 1991, and over a quarter of a century after his wrongful conviction. The much-discussed cases of the Bridgewater Four and the Cardiff Newsagent Three are also somewhat dated.Yet compensation to victims of wrongful criminal convictions, or wrongful criminal charges, is far from a rare occurence but rather a routine feature of the criminal justice system if the wrongful conviction is derived from 'judicial error'. Over the last decade, for example, there have been over 150 successful applications for compensation that fulfilled the required criteria under the statutory or ex-gratia schemes. This led the the Home Office to pay out a record £8.05 million in compensation in 2000-01, compared with £1.54 million in 1994-95. And, over the five year period, the total cost to the public purse for compensation to miscarriage of justice victims who qualified was almost £40 million, or around £8 million per year.As we also saw last week, the current debate about miscarriage of justice compensation also places victims of wrongful imprisonment have been put on the back foot in attempts to defend the assessed awards against what are seen as inappropriate reductions by the official assessor. As a result, no one has thought to question the general level of the awards compared against the relative value of past awards.Yet the case of Adolf Beck, the first recipient of compensation for wrongful imprisonment at the turn of the twentieth century, sheds further light on just how ungenerous our contemporary treatment of the wrongly convicted is. Beck was twice wrongly convicted for larceny and served 5 years of penal servitude. In response to the public crisis of confidence in the criminal justice system that accompanied the public knowledge of the Beck Affair the court of appeal was established in 1907. For his personal loss of liberty, the government of the day awarded Beck £5000 in compensation. This equates to a sum of almost £310,000 in terms of its current purchasing power, or around £62,000 in today's money for each year of wrongful imprisonment.Yet, even before any proposed reductions, Michael O'Brien's award before any proposed deductions is already around £30,000 short of that awarded to Beck; Michael Hickey's award before reductions is approximately £150,000 less than he might have expected if we apply the Beck formula and Vincent Hickey's award is over half a million pounds too little.This evidence of the the diminishing value of compensation paid to victims of miscarriages of justice is emphasised surely strengthens the challenge against the proposed reductions to the compensation awarded to Michael and Vincent Hickey and Michael O' Brien. And, at the same time, any notion of supposed progress in the treatment of victims of injustice, and the provision of adequate compensation for the harm that they have suffered, is profoundly undermined.Michael Naughton is a researcher at the University of Bristol.michael.naughton@bristol.ac.uk