The riots that started in Tottenham on Saturday night, and have since spread to other areas of London, bear a striking similarity to events on the Broadwater Farm estate in Tottenham in 1985, as local MP David Lammy highlights in his piece for Comment is Free.On Saturday 5 October 1985, Cynthia Jarrett collapsed and died during a raid on her home by Metropolitan police officers, who were searching for stolen goods following the arrest of her son Floyd.The following day, relatives led a peaceful march to Tottenham police station, but a later public meeting turned violent and quickly escalated. On the evening of 6 October, PC Keith Blakelock, who was protecting firefighters tackling a blaze, was killed by a mob on the Broadwater Farm estate.  Click on image to view main article in full.As members of the local community expressed anger at Mrs Jarrett's death and police handling of the riots, the Guardian leader on 8 October called for the government to tackle the underlying causes as well as punish the perpetrators.  Click on the image to read the full leading article.Haringey council leader Bernie Grant courted controversy when he was infamously quoted as saying "the police got a bloody good hiding", though he quickly backtracked.   Click on image to view full leader.In total, 69 men and boys were charged with offences related to the riots: 56 with affray, seven with riot and six with the murder of PC Blakelock. Winston Silcott, Engin Raghip and Mark Braithwaite were quickly charged with the police officer's murder (along with three youths who were later acquitted) and on 20 March 1987 they were found guilty (read part two of the article here).  Click on image to view full article.On 25 November 1991, after years of pressure from campaigners, Silcott's conviction was quashed by the Court of Appeal, swiftly followed by those of Raghip and Braithwaite. PC Blakelock's murder remains unsolved.  Click on image to view full article.The Gifford report, published in July 1986, criticised the police and the council, and urged stronger police-community relations. The Guardian leader column was dismissive of the effect it would have: "All one can say is that there will be a next time, and that it will be even bloodier than Broadwater Farm."