Police officers involved in high-speed chases are taking "unnecessary risks", an official watchdog said yesterday.The report by the Independent Police Complaints Commission also found evidence that some police drivers avoided guidelines aimed at minimising risks by claiming they were not in a pursuit when inspectors later found they clearly were. Examples of inappropriate vehicles such as 4x4s and vans being used in chases were also uncovered by the IPCC.About 40 deaths related to police pursuits and responses to emergencies occur each year, according to the IPCC.On Monday five people were killed in a crash on the eastbound carriageway of the M4 in south Wales when a Ford car carrying four teenagers was driven on to the motorway in the wrong direction after a police patrol tried to stop it. Yesterday Teresa Fielding, the mother of Chris Beresford, 18, thought to have been driving the Ford, apologised to the families of the victims. She said: "I am so sorry - I feel devastated for all the families. I had to go and identify my own child, which was the hardest thing I've ever done."Nick Hardwick, the IPCC's chairman, said the incident made the need to minimise the risks all the more important. "If you look at the trauma ... no one would argue that, if we can do things to avoid that, we should not," he said.The IPCC said the number of crashes involving police vehicles had increased from 101 in 2004-05 to 109 in 2005-06. Most of the deaths were linked to police pursuits, with 32 people killed in 2005-06, compared with 29 in the previous two years.The report said: "There were some specific examples where it was clear that officers were seeking to avoid the formal procedures, as they stated to the control room that they 'were not in pursuit' when they clearly were."Mr Hardwick said: "All of these pursuits are potentially risky and dangerous - for the drivers of the pursued vehicle, other road users and pedestrians, and the police drivers themselves. The key recommendation that we make is the need for strong and clear regulation of this area of policing." The report said high-speed chases put innocent road users at risk; in the two years studied, 21 people not directly involved in chases had died.Police chiefs and the government say that high-speed pursuits are a necessary tactic, but yesterday the Association of Chief Police Officers responded to the report by announcing a review.Assistant Chief Constable Andy Holt, of South Yorkshire police, who speaks for Acpo on the issue, said that pursuits were a risk which had to be lived with. "To give a message that you will not pursue, in my view that gives a green light to criminality," he said.Mr Hardwick said that Acpo guidelines on pursuits, drawn up three years ago, should be made compulsory for all 43 forces in England and Wales rather than each deciding its own rules. The report found that one in four cars chased was stolen, six in 10 had no insurance, and one in three was driven by a disqualified driver.Robert Gifford, of the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety, said: "Regular reports from ... the IPCC ... identified the need for better management of police vehicles when involved in chases or pursuits. Yet little or no progress has been made."