Behind high wire fences on an industrial estate in Enfield, there is a heavily-fortified building with thick double doors, bullet proof windows, and defences to withstand a gas grenade attack.Inside are phone, video and radio links to the nearest police station, a bank of 30 TV screens, and a man, Alan Gardner, who is itching to switch it all on to see if it really works. Mr Gardner is not a businessman protecting a property against determined burglars, but the manager of a futuristic £2.5 m CCTV centre that is the borough's latest weapon in the fight against crime. The centre, potentially the most sophisticated in the UK, is due to be open by the end of the month and receive pictures from a number of housing estates and thoroughfares across the borough. Up to 100 cameras could be operating by next spring, but that is nowhere near capacity. "The computer matrix here is capable of handling 4,000," said Mr Gardner. "We could have blanket coverage." In time, all the council's cameras will be online 24 hours a day; schools, hospitals, carparks, leisure centres, and bus lanes could also be wired into the bunker. This is Enfield's anti-crime initiative, paid for with a £2.06m grant from the Home Office, which selected Enfield over bids for such projects from all over the country. It was a coup for the London borough, said acting chief executive Donald Graham, which was why nobody at the civic centre was cracking jokes about Big Brother. "It's got tremendous potential," said Mr Graham. That is the theory, anyway. But there are murmurings about whether the centre can pay for itself. To be viable, businesses and shops will have to "buy in" to the service, and there is no guarantee they will. And there is a more fundamental question. Is a £2 m CCTV centre what the borough needs to fight crime? The borough police commander, Detective Superintendent Janet Williams, is desperate for more officers and the funds to reopen police stations. Yet her budget from the Met, £23m, is likely to be cut next year. So while the government is providing cash for local projects, there are officers in Enfield who grumble that the CCTV centre does not address the real problems. Mrs Williams, after all, cannot apply for grants to help her with staffing. If Enfield's budget is cut, it will be particularly galling for Mrs Williams's 500 officers. In the last six months they have cut street crime by 19.5% - without the extra resources given some areas - and, though burglaries have increased, there are signs this too is being brought under control. Last month, Mrs Williams re-opened Winchmore Hill police station in the south-west of the borough - without spending a cent. Earlier this year, she had put an advertisement in a local paper, asking for volunteers to work unpaid at the front office, which was closed three years ago. Thirty people replied and 10 were selected for part-time duty and given basic training. "The police have no reason to apologise for doing this on the cheap," said recruit Peter Dace, 61, speaking at the station's reopening breakfast three weeks ago. A former magistrate who recently retired from a bank, he said: "Millions of Britons do voluntary work. If anything, the police have been slow on the uptake. "I'm delighted to be helping out." Among the other volunteers are night-shift postal workers and mothers on career breaks. They were all lauded by Stephen Twigg, Enfield Southgate's MP, for being "a beacon to London and the rest of the country". If the experiment at Winchmore Hill is a success, the station at Southgate will also reopen. Other innovations in the last six months include processing teams at stations to deal with people who have been arrested, so beat officers can return to the streets without delay. Mrs Williams believes in the value of fast-time forensic analysis to trap burglars and robbers, and has set up a scientific unit and a crime squad. She has applied for 15 of the Met's new community support officers - who can issue fixed penalty tickets for antisocial behaviour, including public drunkenness, littering and graffiti. She conceded that she would be lucky to get 10. Nevertheless, they would ease the pressure on her to get more police on the beat, and provide the ward officers, responsible for community liaison, with much needed support in places such as Edmonton Green, one of the borough's most deprived areas. If budget cuts and staffing problems were not enough for Mrs Williams to worry about, there are other potential hazards looming. When the Tories won control of Enfield council in May, they brought with them a hardline attitude to crime. The flag of St George and the union flag are now on the civic centre. Michael Rye, the Conservative leader, has made it clear that tackling benefit fraud and chasing council tax evaders were more important to him than some of the community inititatives that had been tried by the previous Labour administration. Inspector Gary Buttercase, chosen by Mrs Williams to work with the council on crime projects, will be leaving his job in six months. Nobody is sure whether he will be replaced. "It would be fair to say there has been a change of philosophy," Mr Rye told the Guardian. "We believe the police should be left to get on with what they do best, and we will get on with what we do best."