The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, April 1 2004In the article below, we suggested that the Serious Fraud Office will be absorbed into the new Serious Organised Crime Agency. In fact, it will continue to operate as an independent government department under the auspices of the attorney general, although its investigators will liaise as necessary with the new agency.  Convicted crime bosses will be forced to hand over copies of their bank statements and credit card bills to the authorities when freed from jail or face another five to 10 years behind bars, if new government proposals become law. In the measures put before the Commons yesterday in a Home Office white paper, "serious acquisitive criminals" would have to provide regular financial updates as part of their post-release probation conditions. The measures would also formalise the use of informers and allow phone taps to be used as evidence."This could constitute a requirement to file every six months after release, detailed returns setting out income, assets and expenditure," says the white paper. "Released offenders would be obliged to report all bank accounts, credit cards, etc being used, and be forbid den to carry out financial transactions using any other route. "Non-compliance or false returns would be punishable by revocation of licence or by a separate term of imprisonment... perhaps for as long as five to 10 years." David Blunkett, the home secretary, said: "Modern crime bosses are sophisticated, organised and determined. No group of defendants is more adept at exploiting our legal safeguards for their own ends."We need to raise our game, put more of these parasites behind bars, keep them there for longer and watch them more closely when they get out. The strategy I am setting out will reduce the harm organised crime causes on our streets and make the UK one of the most difficult environments in the world for organised criminals to operate." The bill aims to undermine increasingly complex criminal networks required in drug trafficking, people smuggling, vice rings and money laundering, which drain the UK economy of up to £40bn a year. Other measures include:· Supergrasses: offering significantly reduced sentences to encourage criminals to testify against their gangster colleagues. It is controversial given that some victims may feel criminals are getting off lightly, and that such use of informers in England and Northern Ireland in the 1980s was so discredited. But the Home Office argues that the supergrass system works very effectively in the US and Australia, that immunity from prosecution will only be considered in exceptional cases, and that there will be a built-in safeguard whereby the sentence the defendant would have received if he or she had not given evidence can be imposed if the information turns out to be false. · Disclosure: new laws to compel lawyers, accountants, bankers and others to produce confidential documents which may provide the authorities with vital information about their clients' criminal activities. · Phone tap evidence: a review to be completed in June will consider how telephone, email and internet intercepts might be used in court. Some of the security services had reservations about this, because they feared it could expose their techniques. But Mr Blunkett promised "rigid safeguards". The police and M15 are in favour. Ministers want to toughen up jail terms to take account of the seriousness of organised crime, review conspiracy law to boost chances of putting away the Mr Bigs behind criminal gangs, and create a national witness protection programme to safeguard those in danger of retribution from criminals. The government bill also sets out details of the recently announced Serious Organised Crime Agency, a crime-busting superforce combining the National Criminal Intelligence Service, the National Crime Squad, Serious Fraud Office and customs investigators, with specialist prosecutors and financial and technology experts.It should also encourage better sharing of information between various agencies and authorities and enhance use of existing powers, such as tax, asset recovery and immigration laws, in order to curtail the cash flow of criminals and their ability to operate, as well as put them in jail.