Meredith Kercher, the British student murdered in Perugia, was stabbed three times in the neck, probably as she was held face down, and with a knife like one owned by her flatmate's boyfriend, according to a preliminary reconstruction made by the judge overseeing the investigation.Judge Claudia Matteini yesterday ordered that Ms Kercher's American flatmate, Amanda Knox, Ms Knox's Italian boyfriend and a Congolese bar owner continue to be held in jail - for up to a year - while investigations continue. In a document explaining her decision, she said there were "serious indications of guilt" in all three cases.However, none of the three has been formally made a suspect. Judge Matteini's ruling makes clear they have all denied taking part in the killing of Ms Kercher.Under Italian law, suspects can be held for lengthy periods if there is a chance they could flee the country, tamper with evidence or reoffend. Judge Matteini said that in this case there was a substantial possibility of flight since two of those being held were foreigners and the third could be helped to escape by his girlfriend.Ms Kercher, a student in Perugia, was found dead in her bed on November 2.In her reconstruction of events, the judge said that the day before, the 20-year-old Ms Knox and her boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, aged 23, "spent the entire afternoon smoking hashish". She said that Mr Sollecito was bored and had said in a blog posted last month that he was keen to experience "strong emotions".According to the reconstruction of events made by the judge, Ms Knox made an appointment by text message with the owner of a bar where she worked part-time. The official document names him as Lumumba "Patrick" Diya, 44, though his name had previously been given as Diya Lumumba and his age as younger.It said Ms Knox and her boyfriend met Mr Lumumba and went together to the flat she shared with Ms Kercher, arriving at around nine in the evening.At more or less this time both Mr Sollecito and Ms Knox turned off their mobile telephones, which became active again the following morning, the judge wrote.The document reports that the postmortem found bruising on Ms Kercher's lips and gums, and on her left cheek and chin. These injuries were compatible with a prone position into which the young woman was forced, as well as with the pressure on a face crushed down on the ground to hold her still.There were further marks on Ms Kercher's neck that suggested she was threatened with a knife. Examination showed that the knife, having injured the victim's neck twice, went in deeply the third time, causing the fatal wound.The police who discovered Ms Kercher's body found a "horrifying scene". In her room, there were "bloodstains everywhere, on the floor and on the wall".During the subsequent detailed examination by forensics experts, "three shoe imprints were found under the duvet that covered Meredith's body". Only one was sufficiently clear to yield useful results and "it turned out to be compatible in shape and size with the sole of shoes confiscated from Raffaele Sollecito".Police also impounded a knife he carried out with him, which the forensics experts said was "compatible with the possible [murder] weapon".Mr Sollecito's lawyer said yesterday, however, that there was nothing to link his knife with the wounds inflicted on Ms Kercher, which could have been inflicted "by a common or garden kitchen knife". Tiziano Tedeschi said: "If he killed Meredith, he wouldn't exactly have taken it into the police station when he was questioned."Among the leads being followed by police is a report from a member of the public who claims to have received a text message on the morning of October 31 with the words: "As far as I am concerned tomorrow or this evening Meredith dies."Mauro Palmieri, a Rome shop assistant, told the Guardian yesterday that he had deleted the message because it meant nothing to him. But then, two days later, he heard of Meredith Kercher's death on television. "It was quite a shock," he said.He reported it to the carabinieri in Rome, who said they had passed on the information to police in Perugia investigating the murder. Mr Palmieri said he had no link with any of those involved in the case and had only visited Perugia "once, about 25 years ago on a school outing".