Mark Hobson, who has been on the run for a week suspected of murdering his girlfriend, her twin sister and an elderly couple, was arrested yesterday after police were called to a service station on the A19 in North Yorkshire.They sealed off a stretch of road after Derek North, the owner of the petrol station, spotted Mr Hobson, 34, who had been described as Britain's most wanted man, attempting to buy matches. He was arrested at 3.45pm. Witnesses said Mr Hobson surrendered without a struggle and admitted his name straight away. He was said to be in "a sorry state" after apparently sleeping rough for a week. Last night he was under armed guard in Harrogate hospital receiving treatment for what was said to be an abdominal injury. Neighbour Robin Wilson, 32, called the police after he and Mr North recognised Mr Hobson. He said: "I saw this guy. He looked really scruffy, and I was concerned about Derek North who works at the petrol station next door." He added: "I thought about apprehending him, but he was obviously a dangerous man ... I was scared." Police were at the scene within minutes. Armed officers pinned Mr Hobson to the ground before taking him away in a convoy of marked vehicles. Ann Hainsworth, who had just pulled up to the garage in a car with her husband, said in an interview with Sky News: "The owner's wife came running out and said: 'We've got him! We've got him!'" Mrs Hainsworth witnessed the arrest. She said she saw a man behind one of the buildings on the floor, surrounded by police. "Everyone here is so relieved," she added. "The last week has been awful." Detectives believe Mr Hobson had been sleeping rough near the petrol station. He was described as being in a "distressed" state when arrested. Mrs Hainsworth's husband, Trevor, said: "We went into the filling station and four police vehicles pulled up. Derek came outside and I said: 'What's happening?' and he said: 'We've got him'. Derek told me that he recognised Hobson straight away. He [Hobson] had gone in there to buy some things." Officers said that search teams had closed off parts of the A19 by the village of Shipton and one minor road, about five miles away from Strensall, where the bodies of James Britton, 80, and his wife, Joan, 82, were found last Sunday. Both had been stabbed and severely beaten. The couple had been married for 58 years. Mr Britton, a second world war Spitfire pilot, used to be involved in running a local Neighbourhood Watch group. Mr Hobson had been on the run for a week but he had apparently not ventured far out of the area. The net closed in on him after more than 300 officers were drafted in to the investigation and hundreds of wanted posters were printed and distributed at York races. Mr Hobson was wanted for the alleged murders of his girlfriend, Claire Sanderson, 27, and her twin sister, Diane. Their bodies were found by their father, George, at the flat Claire shared with Mr Hobson in a cul-de-sac in the village of Camblesforth, near Selby. Police had focused yesterday on the village where Mr and Mrs Britton were murdered. Posters of Mr Hobson were handed out to people at out-of-town shopping complexes near the couple's £450,000 home. Both Mr Hobson's mother and his ex-wife, Kay, had pleaded with him to give himself up.