The menace of stalkers, including paedophiles, bombarding children with emails and text messages is a growing concern for police, who fear it is hugely under-reported.While figures for child stalking cases investigated by detectives remain low, the commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir John Stevens, said there was a "popular misconception" that this type of harassment was exclusively associated with celebrities. Launching a leaflet yesterday aimed at raising awareness, Sir John said the overwhelming majority of those targeted were ordinary people and that "children can just as easily be victims". He added: "The methods of stalking are not restricted simply to following a child or youngster about. They take many forms, including sending letters, emails, telephoning and texting." In the past 12 months the Met has investigated 121 cases of children aged 10 to 18 being stalked. Most were girls. Detective Inspector Hamish Brown, author of the Guide to Minimising the Risk to Children leaflet, said the figure was likely to represent only a "tiny proportion" of the problem. "Very little research has been done on this issue, so it it difficult to know the extent," DI Brown said. "It seems the number of cases being reported is going up as technology develops."Diana Lamplugh, founder of the Suzy Lamplugh Trust which campaigns on personal safety issues, said the stalking of children had concerned her for some time. "I am finding there are more of these cases than we had thought. I would like everyone to have a look at this leaflet," she said. Most child stalking cases investigated by the police were caused by the breakdown of teenage relationships. Some were provoked by parents getting back at estranged partners through harassing their children. A small number involved stranger stalkers. The leaflet will be distributed to schools and libraries across London and be made available in police stations. It says parents should encourage children to use nicknames on the internet which do not reveal their gender. It adds that youngsters must never meet people encountered online without a responsible adult chaperone. Families should also consider keeping computers in shared parts of the home.