Around 600 men, women and children die every year in prisons, police cells, secure mental hospitals and young offender institutions. Over a third of those deaths are, apparently, not due to natural causes. At a time when deaths in custody are again on the rise, it is worth asking why, and why lessons are not learned.Part of the answer lies in the appallingly insensitive official treatment of many families whose relatives die in custody. Their often humiliating and soul-destroying struggle to find out how their loved one died shows a system, in many instances, too quick to obscure its blunders, too slow to get to grips with what went wrong.For 25 years, the charity Inquest has worked on behalf of the relatives of those who died in custody and has campaigned for reform of both the investigation into such deaths and procedure in the coroner's courts. In a book published this week, Inquest's co-directors, Helen Shaw and Deborah Coles, trace the political, legal and historical context of such deaths and record the experiences of bereaved families from the death to the end of the investigation and inquest. The voices of the families and their accounts are powerful arguments that reform is needed.Families who come into contact with the state after a death are traumatised by their loss. But the system seems reluctant to allow them into the process of investigation. Take the family who were woken by police officers 11 hours after their son's death, with no information other than the death and a telephone number on a scrap of paper. Or take the woman whose child died in a secure training centre and who, two years after the death and six months after the Crown Prosecution Service decision not to prosecute anybody, had still not received the police investigation report.Flawed processLong delays in getting to the inquest stage after custodial deaths are cited: two to three years is the norm. The state's attitude is seen at its worst in families' struggles, in almost all cases, to get enough legal funding for their journey through the legal and political minefields to find the truth of how their relatives died.Shaw and Coles conclude that, despite changes brought about by legal reform campaign groups and parliamentary lobbying, the process is still badly flawed because of a failure to ensure that lessons are learned and more deaths prevented.The authors make two key proposals and some 80 recommendations which, they say, would provide an open approach to deaths in custody and save lives. The proposals are simple: the coroner's remit must be broadened, and a standing commission on custodial deaths be set up.Coroners today can inquire only into the circumstances of the actual death; they cannot inquire into thematic issues that may have contributed to it. This failing was illustrated at the inquest into the death of 16-year-old Joseph Scholes, who hung himself in a young offender institution in 2002. Scholes, a highly vulnerable boy with a history of self-harm, should have been sent to a secure children's home, but there was a shortage of places. At the inquest, experts agreed that prison was no place for such a disturbed boy, but the coroner's remit could not cover the issue of arrangements for such children.A standing commission would ensure that every angle of a death would be explored, by bringing together the agencies concerned. Its power and scope would extend beyond individual deaths, taking in wider policy considerations such as drug and alcohol use, mental health, penal and policing policy. The commission would play a "checks and balance" role in the penal system and investigations.Much of the suggested good practice could be implemented immediately. Shaw and Coles say there should be agreed protocols and standards about notification of deaths across the police and prison services, and that families should be told face to face. The suggestion that families of the deceased should automatically be given a copy of Inquest's information pack is part of prison service protocol, but not every penal institution follows the rule. This results in the family having no legal representation, or having the services of advocates with no prison law experience. That the system can do better is clear from the minority of case studies where families speak highly of the actions of prison officials in the wake of a death.The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) would argue that it has made sweeping changes in procedures relating to deaths in custody. It has appointed a prisons and probation ombudsman to investigate prison deaths and has set up the Independent Police Complaints Commission to investigate allegations of misuse of power in the police. It has introduced funding - albeit limited - for the families of those who die in custody and allowed more disclosure of evidence; and set up a ministerial "round table" to examine all deaths.As far as prisons are concerned, the MoJ is entitled to claim credit for the introduction of "first night" procedures, whereby prisoners are screened on reception and monitored during the first "dangerous days" in custody, when most self-harm and suicide occurs. This resulted in a sharp drop in death and self-harm rates in the two years after the procedures were put in place. That the numbers are rising again is almost certainly due to overcrowding, which has seen prisoners spend the "dangerous days" in police cells, where there is no screening or expertise available.Heavily defeatedOpponents of the current system say that, despite these measures, there is still no sign of the state giving way on the issue of accountability, and they point to the government's failed attempt to exclude the penal and police system from the corporate manslaughter bill - heavily defeated in the House of Lords in February.Perhaps the most damning indictment of the present way of investigating deaths in custody is this: despite a pattern of cases where inquest juries have rejected the official version of events and found overwhelming evidence of unlawful and excessive use of force or gross neglect, no police or prison officer or nurse has been held responsible, either at individual or senior management level, for institutional and systematic failures.Since 1990, unlawful killing verdicts have been returned in 10 death in custody cases. Such verdicts can be returned only on the criminal standard of proof, where a jury is sure beyond reasonable doubt that the death was a result of gross negligence, manslaughter or murder. Not one case led to a successful prosecution. On that evidence alone, the authors would be justified in resting their case for change.·Unlocking The Truth - Families' Experiences of the Investigation of Deaths in Custody, by Helen Shaw and Deborah Coles, is published by Inquest, price £10. Details at inquest.org.uk·Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"