Jeremy Bamber is to remain in prison for life after three court of appeal judges yesterday dismissed his bid for freedom and stressed they had no doubt about the safety of his original conviction.The killer, described by the judge at his 1986 trial as "evil almost beyond belief", had argued there were 15 grounds for appealing against his conviction for the murders of five members of his adoptive family - including new scientific evidence. But Lord Justice Kay, sitting with Mr Justice Wright and Mr Justice Henriques, threw out each of these in a 522-point judgment, and went as far as they could in stressing his guilt. "We do not doubt the safety of the verdicts and we have recorded in our judgment the fact that the more we examined the detail of the case the more likely we thought it to be that the jury were right", they said in a summary at the court of appeal, in London. The ruling - at which Bamber did not appear - was greeted with relief by the remaining members of his family, including his cousins Anne Eaton and David Boutflour. In a statement read out by Anne's husband Peter, who still lives at the scene of the murders, in Tolleshunt D'Arcy, Essex, they questioned why the criminal cases review commission (CCRC), which examines possible miscarriages of justice, had permitted the appeal, and added: "We hope the younger generation of our family are allowed to live free from the intrusions we have had to endure." Essex police - who Bamber accused of employing "a series of deceits" to frame him - also expressed relief at being exonerated not only by a 14-month inquiry by Scotland Yard's murder review group, but by the judgment which found "there was no conduct on the part of the police or the prosecution which would have adversely affected the jury's verdict". "It's unfortunate that many of the points in this appeal have questioned the honesty and integrity of witnesses and long-standing serving and retired officers," said a spokesman. But, on his website, Bamber, one of 19 prisoners - including Rose West - for whom life really means life, continued to protest his innocence. "Let no one doubt that in years to come justice will be achieved and my conviction will be quashed." No further appeal would be possible, however, unless fresh evidence was brought. Bamber, serving his sentence at Whitemoor prison, Cambridgeshire, was convicted in 1986 of killing his adoptive father Nevill and mother June, both 61, his sister Sheila Caffell, 27, and her six-year-old twin sons Nicholas and Daniel, to secure the family inheritance. He has always maintained that Caffell, who had schizophrenia, had killed the family before committing suicide, but her innocence - and Bamber's guilt - was assured when her blood was found inside a gun silencer. Bamber lost one appeal in 1989, but succeeded in bringing this one after the CCRC ruled the court of appeal should address fresh evidence that pointed to DNA belonging to June Bamber - not Sheila - being found in the silencer. Yet, when forensic scientists began to examine the inside of the silencer still further, they found DNA which appeared to be Sheila's, so flooring Bamber's argument. Yesterday, Lord Justice Kay stressed that, while it was right the CCRC had referred the case, the blood evidence used in the original trial still stood. Bamber's 14 other grounds - including the claim that police officers were deceitful; that Julie Mugford, the ex-girlfriend who told police he had boasted of committing the perfect crime had been motivated by selling her story to the News of the World for £25,000; and that a cousin who gave evidence may have been swayed by hopes of inheritance - were also all dismissed by the court.  Glamour, intrigue and horrorIt was the murder trial that electrified the 1980s with its sensational combination of money, glamour, family intrigue, and horror. In the early hours of August 7 1985, Jeremy Bamber, an angelic-looking wastrel son, crept into his adoptive parents' farmhouse in Essex, and massacred them, his sister, 27, and her six-year-old twin sons in order to inherit the family's £436,000 farming fortune.He almost got away with it, by placing his schizophrenic sister Sheila Caffell's fingers around the .22 rifle that fired 25 shots - to suggest she assassinated the family before committing suicide - a scenario originally accepted by the investigating officers from Essex police. Three days later, Bamber's cousins discovered a silencer containing Sheila's blood in the farmhouse's gun cupboard which made such a scenario impossible. For if Sheila had shot herself, there was no way that she could have replaced the silencer after doing so and then run back upstairs to the spot where her body was found. The testimony of Bamber's then-girlfriend and the combined evidence proved persuasive at Chelmsford crown court where, after an 18-day trial in October 1986, Bamber, then 25, was convicted by a 10-2 majority verdict, with the trial judge, Mr Justice Drake, informing him he was "evil almost beyond belief."