The number of police officers carrying firearms has fallen to a five-year low, despite a massive increase in gun crime and terrorist-related activity.The number of authorised firearms officers (AFOs) has dropped by more than 800 since 1998 and the rate of gun crime is increasing. Between 2001 and 2002 there was a 27 per cent increase in the number of offences involving firearms in the UK, but almost 288 fewer AFOs were available to deal with them. Jan Berry, of the Police Federation of England and Wales, has described the situation as a 'worrying disparity' and believes it is responsible for a growing fear of crime among both the public and police officers.The reduction in the number of AFOs is caused by a fall in the number of new recruits who want to join specialist firearms units. The number of officers opting out of the units is also rising. Serving armed officers blame the crisis on frustration over the way they are treated after shooting incidents - they are immediately removed from firearms duties and become, in effect, suspects in murder investigations. According to the Police Federation, many officers have been left feeling vulnerable to revenge attacks because the fall in numbers is greatest in areas where gun crime is highest. Last year there were 1,289 firearms incidents in the West Midlands police area, but the force has only 111 AFOs. By comparison, the City of London police dealt with five firearms incidents last year, but have 73 AFOs. The West Midlands has the lowest proportion of AFOs in the country and the issue is certain to come under greater scrutiny following claims that the lack of armed support in the area could have led indirectly to the death of one of two teenage girls gunned down on a Birmingham street at a New Year's Eve party. Eye-witnesses of the shootings of Letisha Shakespeare, 17, and Charlene Ellis, 18, claim Shakespeare was alive for at least 15 minutes after being shot. Although an ambulance was on the scene, police policy states that medical workers are not allowed on the scene of a shooting until armed officers are in attendance. An ambulance got there first, but by the time the armed officers arrived it was too late to save the victim. A written submission by the Police Federation to an all-party parliamentary group on gun crime, obtained by The Observer, states: 'London experiences the most gun crimes in the UK. However, while violent and gun-related crime has risen, the number of AFOs at the Met's disposal has decreased by 7 per cent. This pattern is repeated in many other areas. These trends need to be reversed to provide the public and police with the level of protection and resilience they require.' In the Greater Manchester Police area, the number of AFOs has fallen by almost 9 per cent, while in Avon and Somerset it has fallen by more than 14 per cent. In Merseyside, the number of armed officers is down by 24 per cent. Some officers involved in shootings have suffered post- traumatic stress disorder, even if they never actually pulled the trigger. Yet they are expected to write up their notes almost immediately after an incident - accounts that often provide their only defence against potential murder charges. Last week the parliamentary group on gun crime heard evidence from police officers across the country. Group chair Diane Abbott, the Labour MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington, said: 'Drug-related gun crime has been a problem in communities like Hackney for some years. It is bringing fear to the streets of the inner city. 'I want to bring together MPs from all the affected communities, whether in London, Birmingham, Manchester or Bristol, to share information, to work with the police and to draw up an agenda that can help to end the surge of gun crime in our cities.' During presentations from police officers, the group heard progress in the battle against gun crime was being hampered by a lack of communication between forces. A national forensic database that could link spent shells found in one part of the country to a gun recovered in another is yet to be operational. Although police have identified clear links between gun gangs based in London, the West Midlands, Nottingham, Northampton, Aberdeen and other areas, the police forces in each area have no formal way of sharing intelligence. 'It seems that the gangs have better inter-city communication than the police do,' Abbott said. Although gun crime is primarily seen as chiefly affecting the black community, especially in London, this is increasingly not the case. Assistant Chief Constable Nick Tofiluk, of the West Midlands Police, told the group: 'The use of firearms is not an Afro-Caribbean issue alone. White and Asian networks exist that possess firearms and are involved in the supply of illicit drugs both to the Afro-Caribbean networks and in competition with existing networks. The potential for inter-ethnic criminal disputes is increasing.'