The race-fixing case against Kieren Fallon dramatically collapsed today, leaving the six-time champion jockey free to ride in Britain again. Fallon and five other men were acquitted of conspiracy to defraud, after the trial judge Justice Forbes directed the jury to acquit because there was no case for them to answer.On leaving court, a visibly aggrieved Fallon, who had been accused of fixing 27 horse races between December 2002 and September 2004, told reporters: "I am of course relieved and delighted, but also outraged. There was never any evidence against me."Fallon's spokesman immediately called for two inquiries into the case - one into the police testimony, the other into why the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) proceeded with the trial. He estimated the trial cost taxpayers £10m.In his ruling, the judge highlighted the failings of the main prosecution expert Ray Murrihy, the chief race steward of New South Wales, in Australia, who had been critical of Fallon's riding in 13 of the races 27 races investigated by the court. Under cross-examination, however, he admitted that he was "not an expert in respect of UK races" and that it was "not incumbent that I verse myself in UK or other jurisdiction rules".Forbes claimed this was "an extraordinary admission", especially given that he was purporting to give evidence about 27 races run in the UK according to UK racing rules."In my opinion, that was tantamount to Murrihy disqualifying himself in giving evidence in relation to the suspect races," he added. "In my opinion it is now clear that Murrihy's evidence was subject to a number of significant limitations and shortcomings which were not evident from his witness statements and his evidence in chief."Remarkably, it was only in cross-examination that the very significant limitations and shortcomings in the evidence he was able to give became clear. It is abundantly clear that his evidence fell far, far short of establishing a prima facie breach of UK racing rules. I have reached the conclusion that even if it was appropriate to admit Murrihy's expert opinion, its probative value is so limited that very little value can be attached to it."However the CPS defended its decision to accuse Fallon and five others - jockeys Fergal Lynch and Darren Williams, Lynch's brother Shaun, barman Philip Sherkle and Miles Rodgers, a former racing syndicate director - of plotting to stop horses running on their merits so a betting syndicate, run by Rodgers, could win money when they lost.CPS lawyer Asker Husain said: "It was right to prosecute this case. This was a serious allegation of fraud in connection with horse racing, with the potential to undermine the integrity of a historic sport enjoyed by millions."Our case was that there was a deliberate conspiracy to the detriment of the betting public. The judge rejected applications to dismiss the case made before the trial started."He said the judge in a pre-trial application had found that there was enough evidence to convict. "Of course we respect his decision, at the close of the Crown's case, that it should not be left to the jury for final consideration," he added.Fallon is one of racing's biggest stars, having won the Derby three times and the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe twice, and the British Horseracing Authority has confirmed that he, along with Lynch and Williams, is free to ride again in Britain."The restrictions placed on the three jockeys involved in the proceedings expired at the conclusion of the proceedings," it said in a statement. "Kieren Fallon, who is licensed by the Irish Turf Club, is therefore able to ride in Great Britain, and Fergal Lynch and Darren Williams are able to re-apply for their jockey licences."The decision was greeted with delight by the Coolmore stable, which employs Fallon. In a statement it said: "We are delighted that the judge has agreed that a decision of 'no case to answer' has been returned. However we find it extremely sad that he was denied the right to display his skills and earn a living on the racecourses of Britain while this case was pending."A jockey's riding career is a short one and Kieren was cruelly disadvantaged at the peak of his career. Kieren has been nothing less than superb in his riding of our horses - his record is there for all to see. This has been a terrible time for Kieren and we are delighted that it is finally behind him."