Modernising libraries and developing new facilities are among the £20m proposals announced today, aimed at improving education in prisons.The two-year programme to rectify that only one in five prisoners access learning while in prison, will also see money spent on improving the initial assessment of prisoners at institutions and encouraging the teaching of basic skills, alongside traditional workshop training and overall vocational training.A further £2m will be spent on boosting computer training opportunities. Nine out of 10 jobs will require computing skills by 2010 and ministers are keen that training in prisons remains as relevant as possible to the job market.Announcing the programme, adult skills minister John Healey said: "This new funding brings our total spending on education in prison to £71m this year, which will increase to £87m in 2003/04, and underlines government commitment to the prison rehabilitation agenda."About 130,000 people pass through prison each year, according to figures from HM inspectorates of prisons and probation resettlement. Of these, 49% of men and 71% of women have no qualifications. Four out of 10 do not have the reading, writing or maths skills of an 11-year-old. Half of all male prisoners have previously been expelled from school and a third were regular truants.Mr Healey told EducationGuardian.co.uk this afternoon that the extra money the government was investing in tackling behaviour and truancy in schools was important in tackling the increasing prison population."Half of all male prisoners were excluded from school, so if we tackle this problem as well in schools it may lessen some of the difficulties of offending," he said. "This is the first time there has been such capital investment in prison education, this has been an overlooked for far too long".Studies show that education can help prevent re-offending after release. Canadian research carried out in 1992 indicated that the provision of vocational training and of basic skills education can contribute to a reduction in re-offending of around 12%.Prisons minister Beverley Hughes said: "We have seen a 30% increase in the number of offenders achieving level two, GCSE equivalent, qualifications this year on last. However, we need to widen the targets to ensure they meet all prisoners' educational needs. This year we want 28,800 offenders to achieve a basic skill qualification at entry, level one or level two, and in 2003/04, we want to see this number increase to 32,000."If we are to meet these targets prisoners must be offered an educational assessment upon arrival so the learning they receive is pitched at a level right for them. We want to see this screening becoming commonplace in all prisons and we want it to include screening for dyslexia."A recent survey by the dyslexia in prisons support group, Dyspel, showed that 52% of prisoners had strong indications of dyslexia.But Christina Prestney-Archer, London co-ordinator for Dyspel, said the government was "missing the point", saying prisoners with dyslexia need specialist help. "From where we are sitting the prison service is missing an opportunity to help people. They need assessment and one to one contact. The assessment the government is talking about is for basic skills. Dyslexic people will perform badly and be referred for basic skills [programmes]; what they need is specialist help."Mr Healey said assessment tests were being developed to pick up on the problem of dyslexia.