I am mesmerised by Police.uk. I am mesmerised not by the website itself, which merely tells us what we knew, that the Tories did not mean it about seeking a smaller and less intrusive state. Theresa May, the home secretary, claimed this week that the nation is "entitled to know" that two cars were broken into in my street and a couple of "antisocials" took place outside the pub. Really? Why? I happen to know there were rather more.What mesmerises me is the cast of mind that finds such a stupefying mass of information somehow vital to communicate to the world. Someone must have sat in the Home Office wide-eyed, as a snake-oil salesman offered him a league table of the most dangerous places in the land. Someone must have gone up to the home secretary in the corridor and murmured she could get some good publicity by announcing "the meanest street in Britain", even if it did turn out to be a residential backwater in Preston.May instantly turned into a tabloid editor, salivating over the tingle she would send down the nation's spine. Her geeks cheered as they scored 18m hits in an hour with her grim news. Such was the coverage that she must now be pondering her next league table, of the sex horrors of the suburbs, the dope dens of docklands and perhaps even Britain's worst planning violations.I note that May and her officials censored more delicate information, such as of white-collar crime. Believe it or not, the most crime-free area of London is supposedly the banking district of the City. Between Bishopsgate, Old Broad Street, Cornhill and the Bank, May could find no crime at all, not one incident of theft, not a sniff of cocaine or an antisocial gesture. To the Home Office, theft and antisocial behaviour are what the poor do to the rich, not the rich to the poor. The map is seriously rightwing.Any student of crime statistics knows that these maps are rubbish, since they are based not on the authoritative British crime survey but on a parlour game called "police recorded crime". This lists only a small fraction of criminal activity, selected by the police as worth recording. It is "top down" data, reflecting policy accessibility, reporting practice and various insurance company rules. The conclusion is always the same, that the way to "cut crime" is to close police stations.The truth is that there is information, useless information and Whitehall statistics. The crime map displays the same bureaucratic syndrome as has blighted Britain's schools and hospitals since the 1990s. Computer buffs blow the minds of Whitehall officials, with tales of tables and charts and scope for more rules and regulations.National school league tables are beloved by politicians and newspaper editors, but are useless for parents or teachers. They are subject to too many variables for the good news to be remotely worth the bad. Ignorance of a school, its neighbourhood or intake, merely leads to wrong or unfair conclusions. I cannot use the "fact" that my school is 200 places behind one in Exeter and 400 behind one in Tyneside. I only know what this does to morale and the ability to recruit good staff.Nor is there any point in being told that my local hospital's performance is worse or better than one in Edinburgh or Belfast. Apart from the undisclosed variables, it is not information I can employ. I do not run my hospital. But I do want to know if my hospital's MRSA rate or emergency waiting time is better or worse than another round the corner, to which I could reasonably ask to go.Such information is and should be local, and even then it should be worth the cost. A better crime map than May's has been available for six years from West Yorkshire police (beatcrime.info). It gives some comparative context and is re-checked by police on the ground. It is astonishing that May's map should have been instantly ridiculed by the police forces on whose data it was so shoddily based. Did no one check with them? Did anyone warn Preston that the Home Office was about loftily to declare it "the crime capital of England"? How can May claim this "restores confidence in national crime figures"?Those seeking information, as George Orwell warned, do so to extend their power. Since nowadays this is usually done in the name of "security", no one dares ask if it delivers value for money. The implication of the crime map is that all information in the government's possession should be in the public domain. That cannot be true. May's Labour predecessors ordered the "nationalisation" of DNA records, criminal records, health records, children's records and even personal identities, all to be stored on some gargantuan computer.They promised this would be kept secret, until it was disclosed that the police were selling their data, and that more than a thousand organisations would have access to the NHS computer. There is no such thing as a government computer secret, as WikiLeaks has shown. The only security is for government not to collect unnecessary data in the first place. The crime map clearly damages the peace of mind and reputation of some places. To what end? Why do it?In the past weeks we have been given a glimpse of the way government uses its statistical muscle. Professor Eileen Munro's examination of government guidelines on child protection revealed that they have increased a staggering 55-fold to more than 400 pages since the 1970s. Almost all is for data gathering. Social workers spend more time telling central government what they are doing than attending to children at risk. I doubt if a single Whitehall official involved in writing these manuals cared less, because they were covering their backs. If the result was a disaster, as it often is, the social worker could be blamed.The National Audit Office, top of any league for statistical fatuity, last week announced a variance in local council A4 paper procurement from £6.84 a box to £14.79. It also heaped ridicule on over 150 different specifications for NHS surgical gloves. It duly won its minute of glory on the BBC. Nobody asked what use lay in such information, which is trotted out every year. Nobody asks the cost or inconvenience of drawing up and then monitoring a national A4 paper procurement protocol to ensure that such "postcode" bureaucracy ceases forthwith.The zest to acquire control through data is to Whitehall what a bonus is to a banker, the reason for living. In 2005, a young marine arrived at America's military headquarters outside Baghdad as the city was plunging into a chaos of murders, kidnappings, explosions and anarchy. He was shown banks of computer screens viewing every horror as it happened in every part of the city. It was high technology at the service of counterinsurgency war. Yet the army was utterly powerless to do anything about it. No one had a clue why it was all happening or what might stop it. The marine marvelled at "being able to know so much and do so little".That is just like today's Whitehall.• This article was amended on 4 February 2011. The original referred to Professor Eileen Munro's examination of Ofsted's regulations on child protection and an announcement by The Audit Commission. These have both been corrected.