The three "Wearside Jack" letters and the tape were later described by Sutcliffe as "divine intervention" which gave him time to kill more women.Letter one. Sent to George Oldfield from Sunderland on March 8 1978:"I am the Ripper. I've been dubbed a maniac by the press but not by you, you call me clever and I am. You and your mates haven't a clue. That photo in the paper gave me fits and that bit about killing myself, no chance. I've got things to do. My purpose to rid the streets of them sluts ... Warn whores to keep off streets cause I feel it coming on again ... "Letter two. Sent to the Daily Mirror from Sunderland on March 13 1978:"I have already written to Chief Constable George Oldfield 'a man I respect' concerning the recent ripper murders ... Easy picking them up don't even have to try. You think they're learn but they don't. Most are young lassies, next time try older one I hope. Police haven't a clue yet and I don't leave any I am very clever and don't look for me up there in Sunderland cause I not stupid just passed through the place not a bad place compared with Chapeltown and Manningham. Can't walk the streets for them whores ..."Letter three. Sent to George Oldfield from Sunderland, dated March 23 1979:"Sorry I haven't written, about a year to be exact, but I hav'nt been up north for quite a while. I was'nt kidding last time I wrote saying the whore would be older this time and maybe I'd strike in Manchester for a change ... I bet you be wondering how come I hav'nt been to work for ages, well I would have been if it hadnt been for your cursered coppers I had the lady just where I wanted her and was about to strike when one of you cursing police cars stopped right outside the lane ... Tell you the truth I thought I was collared, the lady said don't worry about the coppers, little did she know that bloody copper saved her neck ... "The tape, sent to George Oldfield on June 17 1979: "I'm Jack. I see you are still having no luck catching me. I have the greatest respect for you, George, but Lord, you are no nearer catching me now than four years ago when I started. I reckon your boys are letting you down, George. They can't be much good, can they? ... At the rate I'm going, I should be in the book of records. I think it's 11 now, isn't it? Well, I'll keep on going for quite a while yet. I can't see myself being nicked just yet. Even if you do get near, I'll probably top myself first."Sam Jones