Madeleine McCann may have been kidnapped to order by a Belgian paedophile ring, documents released by Portuguese police this week suggest.An informant contacted Scotland Yard claiming a photograph was taken of Madeleine on holiday in Portugal and passed to a "purchaser" in Belgium a few days before she vanished.British officers gave the information to authorities in Portugal for further investigation. The lead was contained in an email from the Metropolitan police's CO14 clubs and vice intelligence unit. Portuguese police released it as part of a 20,000-page dossier on the Madeleine case. Detectives in Portugal pursued the tip-off with Interpol, which gathered further reports from Belgium, the UK, Finland and Germany. But Paulo Rebelo, the detective heading the Madeleine inquiry, ruled the intelligence showed a "lack of credibility" and ordered the report filed. The Metropolitan police email, from officer John Shord, reads: "Intelligence suggests that a paedophile ring in Belgium made an order for a young girl three days before Madeleine McCann was taken. "Somebody connected to this group saw Maddie, took a photograph of her and sent it to Belgium. "The purchaser agreed that the girl was suitable and Maddie was taken." The source of the information was anonymous and its reliability unclear. The email was sent to Leicestershire police on March 4 this year but apparently not forwarded to Portuguese detectives until April 21. There was a claimed sighting of Madeleine last August in Tongeren, a Belgian town on the Dutch border, but it was ruled out.Belgium has been at the centre of major paedophile rings. Unemployed electrician Marc Dutroux, 47, was jailed for life in 2004 after being convicted of kidnapping, raping and murdering young girls. A friend of Kate and Gerry McCann, both 40, from Rothley, Leicestershire, today said the couple's private detectives were taking the possible involvement of Belgian paedophiles very seriously. "Trafficking into Belgium forms a very strong part of their investigations, as does trafficking into North Africa," the friend said. "There is definitive hard evidence that this is very much alive and happening, and they have looked into the fact that someone was targeting children, and they may well have been stealing to order." The McCann family spokesman, Clarence Mitchell, refused to comment on "sensitive" information from the Portuguese files. "Clearly any information of that nature, Kate and Gerry would hope that the Portuguese police in conjunction with Interpol have acted to the absolute best of their ability in following this up," he said."The private investigators, as with all the other sightings and all the other information, will be pursuing this line as an absolute priority to establish if it has been fully investigated and properly ruled out."Madeleine was nearly four when she vanished from her family's holiday flat in the Algarve resort of Praia da Luz on May 3 last year. On July 21, Portuguese prosecutors announced they were shelving the case. Both the McCanns and Algarve resident Robert Murat are no longer "arguidos", or formal suspects, in the investigation.