Is prison still "an expensive way to make bad people worse"? This quote comes from a 1991 white paper by former Conservative home secretary David Waddington. The paper, written in the aftermath of the Strangeways prison riots, reflected thinking that alternatives to prison were urgently needed. Some 20 years later, a sporadic approach to penal reform means prison is still failing to properly rehabilitate offenders.Recent research shows that for the most prolific offenders, prison has not worked, and worse, this failure costs the country billions every year. Reoffenders cost the economy between £9.5bn and £13bn in 2007-08, with those serving short sentences responsible for three-quarters of this. The National Audit Office's recent report on managing short-term prisoners found 60% committed another crime within one year of their release. And the average number of previous convictions within this group was 16.These figures should not be a surprise. Lord Woolf's radical report on the Strangeways prison riots in 1990 pointed out the failings of the entire prisons system and recommended change. The three things most likely to deter a former prisoner from reoffending, he said, are a job, a stable relationship and a home. Keeping prisoners close to their local communities to maintain such ties would reduce the chances of reoffending. A further report by the Social Exclusion Unit in 2002 found that the prospect of a job on release for prisoners reduced the risk of reoffending by at least a third, while having somewhere to stay cuts the risk by a fifth. Yet overcrowding means that today prisoners are sent where there are beds, rather than where they have community ties.Lord Ramsbotham, former chief inspector of prisons, says making sure that offenders are sent to prisons where they have local ties would encourage local employers to get involved in training programmes for prisoners. "The managing director of Leyland Trucks in Preston had a skills shortage and so he thought why not go to Preston prison and see whether any of the prisoners had got the aptitude to fill the skills shortage. They did."So he then sent in some people from the firm who helped train them while in they were in prison, so that when they came out they had a job to go to with good prospects." Local businesses will be less inclined to train an offender that will move half way across the country on release.There are also sound cost arguments to support alternatives to prison for those not a danger to the public. Those who cost society the most in terms of reoffending are short term prisoners, who stay in prison for an average time of six weeks. Many spend "almost all day their cells," according to the NAO. The cost of a six-week prison stay is around £4,500, whereas one-year of probation supervision with drug treatment might cost around £1,400. This also has the added benefit of higher chance of the prisoner keeping the all important job, partner and home; therefore reducing the likelihood of reoffending.Roger Graef, criminologist and filmmaker, argues that short sentences offer few opportunities for rehabilitation. Instead, he says, "If we have to lock them up, I think we should do things like weekend prisons, so people can keep their jobs, keep their relationship but they can't go to the football match on Saturday." However, despite reports of success in places like Germany and Scandinavia, the government abandoned a much-criticised weekend prisons pilot back in 2007 to focus resources on "more serious offenders".A more popular form of rehabilitation – restorative justice – has been greeted with more enthusiasm by politicians. There are many forms of restorative justice but most involve bringing the victim and offender together to discuss the implications of the crime and the punishment. Both the Tories and Labour promise to bring in legislation to enforce restorative justice in their election manifestos, while the Liberal Democrats say they would "champion" such projects. But does it actually work?A 2008 MoJ report on three restorative justice pilot programmes recognised potential benefits but its results were inconclusive because of the small sample size. However, the Restorative Justice Consortium argues that it is a cost effective and meaningful way to combat high reoffending rates. The economic benefits of restorative justice over 10 years are about £1bn, according to its research.But what of the system currently in place, does prison work? The evidence shows that once again we are at a crossroads. Prisons are not doing enough to break the cycle of re-offending or to offer any real prospect of rehabilitation. Labour's response fell short of the mark and its plans to build five new titan prisons could mean more not less people sent to prison, and on more ineffective short term sentences. The Tories have promised a rehabilitation revolution, but they are also committed to building more prisons and ending early release. The new government should take this opportunity to rethink how criminals are managed to avoid repeating the same old mistakes.