The debate about crime and punishment is wrongly labelled (A case for law and logic, August 22). It is really about criminals and punishment. Reconciling justice, pragmatism and compassion in dealing with offenders is indeed agonising and complex. The heartbreaking anguish of many victims, poignantly illustrated by the Lawrence family, understandably becomes the focus of concern. But a plethora of research shows that the criminal justice system can have little effect on crime overall, which flows from deeper social and cultural wellsprings. In this sense the Conservatives are right in saying that crime results from society being badly broken, stealing an old Labour line. What they fail to face up to is that it was the Tories who broke it. It was Thatcherism and Blatcherism whodunit, unleashing a devastating social tsunami and an amoral maze of rampant egoism. We can only hope they are not succeeded by Bratcherism.Robert ReinerProfessor of Criminology, LSEThe issue about deporting Chindamo is surely a simple one. The entire point of having a legal system, rather than vendetta, is to make justice depend on public principle, not on private feelings. Those feelings ought not to influence legal decisions at all. At present, victims and their families are urged to express strong emotions about verdicts and sentences in a way that encourages them to cultivate vindictive malice, since forgiveness is (rather strangely) much less popular. This habit is deeply injurious to them personally, as well as to the legal system, and it ought surely never to be allowed to influence the courts.Mary MidgleyNewcastle on TyneThe controversy over the killer of Phillip Lawrence can be resolved if the issue of human rights is freed from moral absolutism. This means accepting that human rights of convicted killers are less sacrosanct than those of ordinary law-abiding citizens; and that human rights are not natural, but a privileged commodity which can only be earned through good behaviour. Putting the rights of convicted killers on a par with the rights of the victims is a betrayal.Randhir Singh BainsGants Hill, EssexI may have been inarticulate, but never have I suggested that my husband's killer "should be deprived of his own human rights", as stated by Katie Ghose (Comment, August 22). Never have I thought it. How glibly she writes of me. How little she knows of me.Frances LawrenceLondonThis granting to victims' families of the right to determine punishment is enshrined in some other legal systems, such as Sharia law. But the same press that supports Mrs Lawrence is outraged when there are reports of European nationals accused of causing death whose execution can only be commuted if the victim's family agrees, as was the case for a long time with the doctor and nurses recently released from Libya.Jasper WoodcockLondonThere is a principle more long-standing than the Human Rights Act under fire in the Chindamo case: that no one should be punished twice for the same offence. Should a young man who has been tried and served his sentence be punished again by being expelled from the main country of his upbringing. There seems to be implicit acceptance that this double punishment is appropriate for EU nationals, or non-EEA nationals. While Chindamo has been saved by the EC directive, non-EEA nationals may be in a weaker situation. With other NGOs, JCWI fought new rules in last year's immigration act which will theoretically make it easier for young people to be prevented from acquiring British nationality or deprived of it on the grounds of their behaviour. The message this sends to young people from disadvantaged minority and migrant communities is "You are not an equal member of our society". This seems particularly perverse at a time when there is growing concern about alienated young people retreating into gang culture - as did Chindamo.Habib RahmanChief executive, Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants