A man and a woman were jailed for life today for organising a botched gangland hit which saw the two young hired gunmen themselves murdered after they failed to kill their intended targets.Ian McLeod, 42, who led the infamous Doddington gang in Manchester's Moss Side area, was sentenced to serve a minimum of 21 years. His accomplice, convicted gunrunner Constance Howarth, 38, was jailed for a minimum 20 years at Manchester crown court.The pair were convicted in March of ordering two young gang members to go into a packed pub in Salford, Greater Manchester in March last year and shoot dead a man.Guided via mobile phone by Howarth, who was sitting inside the pub, Carlton Alveranga, 20, and Richard Austin, 19, burst into the Brass Handles as drinkers watched a televised Manchester United game on a Sunday afternoon.Their target, David Totton, was hit and severely wounded, along with another man, Aaron Travers, as Austin pulled the trigger of his gun six times.However, Alveranga's 9mm handgun jammed and the pair were jumped on by drinkers and disarmed. A known Moss Side gangster in the pub at the time is suspected of then shooting the hitmen with their own weapons. They staggered outside and were beaten as they lay dying.Mr Totton and Mr Travers refused to cooperate with the police inquiry.McLeod and Howarth both claimed they had nothing to do with the shooting but were implicated via mobile phone records.Jailing the pair, Mr Justice Andrew Smith said today: "Two men died, they were not innocents, but they were young, their lives were not expendable."In view of the calculating nature of this offence I consider there is every danger you are incorrigibly involved in violent crime. You will always present a danger to the public."The trial heard evidence of how the hit was arranged on the orders of the security firm boss Bobby Spiers, possibly after a petty dispute with Mr Totton over admission to a Manchester nightclub. Mr Spiers is wanted by police but is believed to have fled into hiding in Spain.Detective Superintendent Andy Tattersall, who led the investigation, described McLeod today as "an influential character within the underworld of Manchester and Moss Side". "He recruited those boys and planned an execution," he said. "It's because of him they died. He used his influence on others to do his dirty work. He is a very, very dangerous man."