Victims' groups would have a say on the sentencing of criminals under plans unveiled by the home secretary, David Blunkett today.The government's new sentencing guideline council will include representatives of victims' groups, the police, the probation and prison services and the legal profession. They will, however, be outnumbered by judges; the panel will be chaired by the most senior judge in England and Wales, the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf.Mr Blunkett said of the plans: "People need to see justice being done in a way that commands their confidence and respect." He added that the council would help provide "clearer, more consistent sentences" for all types of offence. "The current system clearly needs reform. The sentencing framework is not a complete guide to the most suitable sentence and relies too much upon individual discretion, leading, in some cases, to considerable variations." "As I spelled out on Wednesday when I announced the new principles for sentencing in murder cases, for the public to have confidence in the criminal justice system, it is essential that we have consistency in sentencing," he added. All courts will be required to take guidelines issued by the council into account and to give reasons for departing from them. Addressing a meeting of justices of the peace at the South Yorkshire magistrates' association in Barnsley, Mr Blunkett said: "The sentencing guidelines council will create dialogue between the judiciary that pass sentences and the correctional services that have to implement them.""This will strengthen the council and ensure greater confidence than ever before in the quality of the guidelines." Mr Blunkett also pointed out that research published today showed that in 2001 39% of house burglars in Leeds were sent to jail compared with 21% in Teesside. For driving while disqualified, prison terms were given in 25% of cases in north Pembrokeshire and 78% in mid-north Essex. "That is why it is important to broaden the basis on which these decisions are made and deliver greater consistency," he said.Harry Fletcher, of the probation workers' union Napo, said: "This is a very welcome move. For far too long, there have been huge inconsistencies in sentencing between very similar courts for very similar crimes. This should go a long way to bringing about greater public confidence in the sentencing process." Currently sentencing guidelines do not exist for all cases - guidelines for more serious offences such as burglary, robbery, serious drug offences, fraud or causing death by dangerous driving are issued by the court of appeal when senior judges feel they are required. The magistrates' association issues its own sentencing guidelines for summary offences. Under the government's proposals, the sentencing advisory panel, a group of legal experts which has offered independent research and advice on sentencing to the court of appeal since 1999, will remain but hand its advice to the new council instead.