A 24-year-old man is convicted of raping a 10-year-old girl and receives a two-year prison sentence, of which he will spend just four moths as a convicted prisoner after having spent eight months in prison on remand. His 34-year-old accomplice, convicted of sexually assaulting the girl, is given nine months, but after taking into account time spent on remand is immediately freed and spends not a single day as a convicted prisoner.In explaining his extraordinary decision to pass such grotesquely lenient sentences on the men, Judge Julian Hall described the victim as "a very young woman of 10" and commented that, "she liked to dress provocatively". He referred to the underwear the victim wore on the day she was raped, a frilly bra and a thong, and suggested that this in some way made the case "exceptional". He said that the victim was "a very disturbed child ... a very needy child ... a sexually precocious child". All of which suggests to me that this was a child whose circumstances demanded that she be given the highest level of protection that the state can offer.But wait a minute, and this is the bit that really adds spice to the outrageous manner in which she was abused, it turns out that the victim had in fact - supposedly - been in the care of the state since the age of four. The judge said it had been the most difficult sentencing exercise that he had ever had to decide upon. I doubt there are many easy sentencing exercises in a crown court. But what is clear to me is that the poor childhood development of the victim, her disturbed personality and alleged sexual precocity, should have been cited as a powerful indictment of those in whose care she was supposed to have been when she was at her most needy and not a mitigating factor in the defence of a couple of sexual predators.How dare Judge Hall conclude that the damaged nature of this 10-year-old made her in some way responsible for what she experienced at the hands of her two adult abusers. Giving his judgment, Judge Hall said, "Did she look like she was 10? Certainly not. She looked 16 ... " In whose eyes exactly? The judge here appeared to be in agreement with the abusers and accepted this defence argument as another mitigating factor in the case against them.But let's suspend disbelief for a moment. Even if the two men thought that the girl might in fact look 16, they would have known by her manner and behaviour that she was an exceptionally vulnerable young person, whatever her age. The 24-year-old did, after all, rape her in a park within three-quarters of an hour of meeting her. No, your honour, the age she may have looked should not have undermined the gravity of what was done to her one single iota.If ever there was an outcome in a criminal court that was guaranteed to undermine public confidence in the judicial process this is it. But a tragedy equal to the abominable way the case was dealt with is that it gravely damages the efforts of all those who work tirelessly trying to achieve realistic sentencing by the courts.Too many people are being sent to prison for short periods when they could more effectively be dealt with in the community. This is a fact that most interested parties agree upon. The courts generally are sending more and more people to prison for longer periods, arguably unnecessarily, which is why the prison system is in such a state of crisis.In this case, however, the perpetrators should have gone to prison for substantial periods, not just to allow them plenty of time to reflect on the seriousness of their actions, but also to allow the experts to ascertain the level of risk they may pose to other children in the future. No less importantly, hefty prison sentences on the men would also have afforded the child victim the respect due to her by having had the enormity of what was done to her acknowledged.