Prisoners need closer links with business and access to tailored vocational training if they are to avoid reoffending, according to government proposals published today.The green paper, Reducing reoffending through skills and employment, put forward as a joint strategy by the Department for Education and Skills, the Home Office, and the Department for Work and Pensions, acknowledges a clear link between offending and a lack of vocational skills, and proposes a strategy that better prepares prisoners for jobs when they leave prison.The paper emphasises the need for a joint government approach to the issues and focuses on finding employment for ex-offenders by understanding what employers are looking for, on skills delivery within the criminal justice system and on forging closer links with education providers.It also calls for closer collaboration between the probation service and prisons, greater involvement of job centres and a new way of delivering education, the offender learning campus, which will "develop new centres of excellence and better links with mainstream education and training".The education secretary, Ruth Kelly, said: "We need to be providing opportunities for education and training which lead to skills and qualifications that are meaningful for employers and lead to real jobs. We know from evidence from a range of existing employer-led training and employment schemes, that when ex-offenders are given the right training and opportunities for sustained and satisfying employment they can be turned away from crime. "As an example of the success vocational training can have in cutting reoffending. the paper cites a programme carried out in conjunction with National Grid, which allowed prisoners out on day release to undertake vocational and on-the-job training. Recidivism rates dropped to just 7%, compared to the national average of between 60% and 70%.The Forum for Prison Education, a charity campaigning for better education for offenders in custody and in the community, welcomed the government's commitment to improving education, but said the proposals were incomplete.The charity's director, Steve Taylor, warned: "For us, it's what's not in it. It's all about vocational skills and skills for employment. There's nothing about academic qualifications."As an ex-prisoner himself, he said the idea that his choices would have been limited to vocational training for manual jobs would not have worked for him. "It'd be rather insulting of government to suggest that all prisoners will want to be builders or painters and decorators. A large number of prisoners will want to study more academic - rather than vocational - qualifications, often through distance learning. Higher education must not be lost in this process."He added: "The bit that's lost is education for its own sake and higher education. At the beginning of a 12-year sentence, there's no point training to be a plumber. The qualification will be out of date by the time he leaves. There is a real lack of anything about what we do as an earlier process with long-term prisoners."Blue chip companies are already keen on getting ex-offenders into work, said Mr Taylor, but he warned that the government needed to do more to involve smaller businesses. "It's not the blue chips that are the problem. It's actually the SME [small and medium size companies]." The director general of the CBI, Sir Digby Jones, said better education and skills training with a strong focus on finding work were "key steps" towards reducing reoffending. But he added: "It is essential there is greater unity between what happens inside and outside the prison walls. If rehabilitation and reintegration into society begin only when a prisoner is released then we can expect continued reoffending."