The renowned artist Graham Ovenden has been jailed for two years and three months for sexual offences against children, after the appeal court ruled that an earlier non-custodial sentence was "unduly lenient".Ovenden, 70, who is best known for explicit portraits of young naked girls, was given a suspended sentence in the summer after being convicted in April, at Truro crown court, of offences against girls as young as six.At Plymouth crown court in June the judge, Graham Cottle, ruled that Ovenden was no longer a threat to children, and said that his offences, which took place in the 1970s and 80s, happened before the current laws protecting children against sexual predators were introduced.On Wednesday, the lord chief justice, Lord Thomas, sitting with two other judges in London, said Ovenden had not shown a "shred of remorse" for his victims. He ruled that the sentence should not have been suspended and that the correct total to be imposed was a term of 27 months.The attorney general, Dominic Grieve, had asked the appeal court to consider whether Ovenden had been treated too leniently, following an outcry by campaigners working with abused children.Speaking after the appeal court decision on Wednesday, Grieve said: "Graham Ovenden committed terrible sexual offences against vulnerable young girls who were in his charge and ought to have felt safe. He manipulated them and abused his position of trust."It is right that sexual crimes – whether committed many years ago or more recently – should be punished appropriately. Today the court affirmed this and sent a clear message that people who have behaved in this way in the past will face the consequences through the courts."Ovenden, who was taught by the renowned pop art pioneerSir Peter Blake, denied that he had assaulted any of the children. He claimed he was the target of a witch hunt and that his images of children were about capturing them in a "state of grace".But a jury found him guilty of seven offences, including touching a girl's breasts and getting into a bath with the same girl and asking her to feel him. The other convictions relate to photographs he took of two other girls.Ovenden had fully expected to be jailed for his crimes, and in an interview with the Guardian the day before he was sentenced compared himself to Oscar Wilde. He argued that the authorities had pursued him since a project in the early 1980s when he produced hoax images purporting to be of Victorian street children.Ovenden continued to deny that he had abused any of his young models or that his work was indecent: "It makes one wonder what's going on in this country that people can think that. It's quite embarrassing."He added: "This hasn't embittered me. My reputation is impugned, but in the art world fame and infamy are the same thing – look at Oscar Wilde."He said his conviction may have upped the value of his art. "One of my paintings sold well at auction. It hasn't buggered up my market at all."Ovenden, who lived and worked at an estate and neo-gothic mansion called Barley Splatt, in the heart of Bodmin moor, Cornwall, had also launched a pre-emptive attack on the judge who was to sentence him, alleging he had a reputation as a hanging judge.His tone was different the next day, on 4 June, at Plymouth crown court. He thanked the court meekly when Cottle told him he would not be going to prison.The judge said a stream of young girls had arrived at Ovenden's home to be photographed.Cottle told Ovenden: "The girls had no understanding at that time of the true purpose behind what you were doing, a purpose that was undoubtedly sexual. There can be no doubt that at that time you had a sexual interest in children. You maintained it was an artistic interest in the female form. The jury disagreed."I believe their view was an entirely proper reflection of the attitude the general public would take."Cottle said it was only as adults that some of Ovenden's victims had realised they had "been taken advantage of as innocent young children by a man who was pursing his sexual interest"."They were being used," Cottle added, flagging up one image of a naked girl. The judge said the offence of asking a girl to touch him while they were in a bath together could today be treated as inciting a child to engage in a sexual act, which could carry a 14-year maximum jail sentence.But Cottle said he had to take into account the sentencing regime in place at the time of the offences, between 25 and 40 years earlier. He also took into account Ovenden's age, the fact that he had no previous convictions and had endured a "steep fall from grace".The detectives who investigated Ovenden and his victims were shocked that he had avoided jail. Charities working with abused children said the sentence gave out the wrong message.