Doreen Lawrence, the mother of murdered teenager Stephen, has called for undercover officers who infiltrated political campaigns and spied on her family to be identified.She issued the call as the home secretary, Theresa May, is due on Thursday to announce the remit of a public inquiry into undercover policing following a series of disclosures in recent years.Stephen Lawrence case: Theresa May orders inquiry into police spies The demand from Lady Lawrence directly challenges police chiefs’ resolute stance of refusing to name undercover officers on the grounds that they have an absolute and lifelong duty to protect officers who worked in covert roles.Last year, May ordered the inquiry following the “profoundly shocking and disturbing” revelations that a Scotland Yard undercover unit had spied on the Lawrence family and their supporters while they pressed police to carry out a proper investigation into Stephen’s murder.Pressure had already been mounting for an inquiry after revelations that undercover officers had formed long-term relationships with female campaigners, stolen the identities of dead children, and hidden key evidence in court cases.In an interview with the Guardian, Lawrence drew a parallel between the undercover infiltration of political groups and the police’s bungled handling of their investigation into the murder of her son by a racist gang in 1993. “For far too long, the police have had a mantra of ‘we can do whatever we like’. That’s what I found after Stephen’s murder.”Referring to the undercover officers who spied on her family, she said: “They were doing the deception. Why should they be allowed to be anonymous while people like me had their faces all over the newspapers ? These people were not innocent. They knew what they were doing.”How the scandal of Scotland Yard's secret spy unit emerged The Labour peer said the public inquiry to be headed by Lord Justice Pitchford should have a “presumption in favour” of naming the police spies, adding that she believed it should be as broad as possible.May is expected to announce that the inquiry will last up to three years and will examine how the undercover officers have targeted political and social justice campaigners since 1968.It will examine the motivation and scope of the covert operations, how they affected individuals, how much was known by government ministers and officials, and whether controls were strong enough. It will also scrutinise how much the undercover officers helped to prevent and detect crime. It will be left to Pitchford to decide whether to identify individual undercover officers, according to a Home Office source. Critics fear that concealing them would undermine the public’s confidence in the inquiry. Police argue that they have a long-established policy of neither confirming nor denying the identity of undercover officers, even after they have retired. They say that the officers are given an assurance that they will never be identified before they embark on their covert missions. Lawrence said that the public would be left “feeling shortchanged” if the inquiry failed to uncover the truth.She said senior police officers should be called to be questioned at the inquiry as she suspects that the undercover operation emanated from the top. “I can’t see how the senior officers did not know what the junior officers were doing. The junior officers must have got their orders from somewhere.”More than 100 undercover officers are thought to have infiltrated at least 460 political groups since 1968, but only a small proportion of them have been exposed, following investigations by campaigners and the media. The undercover officers adopted fake identities – usually for periods of up to five years – to live the life of a campaigner and gather information. Police facing claims that senior officers knew about spying on Stephen Lawrence family Lawrence said the inquiry was an opportunity to address issues such as claims that police have been covertly helping major firms to blacklist trade unionists. “If it is too narrow, you will never know what is out there,” she said. A wide range of groups and individuals who were monitored by the undercover spies have been pressing for a broad inquiry. She said the women who unknowingly had long-term, intimate relationships with undercover officers and the parents of children whose identities had been stolen should be told what the police spies had been doing. More than 10 women have been taking legal action against the police after finding out that their boyfriends were undercover officers sent to spy on them or their friends. However, with many of the undercover officers still hidden, there is a possibility that other women have had relationships with police spies without knowing their true identities.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Undercover whistleblower Peter Francis describes how he spied on the Stephen Lawrence campaign“For so long, these women were deceived,” she said, adding that without the spies being identified, “nobody knows exactly what they were doing”. She added that undercover spies had stolen the identities of dead children without the permission of the parents. She said they should be now told, adding: “Why shouldn’t these parents know?”Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, has issued a general apology for the theft of the children’s identities, but insisted that the parents would not be informed. Hogan-Howe argued that campaigners could use the fake names to gather other information that could lead to the unmasking of undercover officers who had infiltrated political groups. Names of two police officers under investigation in alleged Stephen Lawrence spy plot kept secret At least three undercover officers collected information on the Lawrence family and their supporters in the aftermath of Stephen’s racist murder, including personal details such as the state of the Lawrences’ marriage. The identities of two of them are being concealed by police, but Lawrence said the pair should be “definitely” be disclosed to the inquiry.She said she was “shocked and alarmed” to discover that the police had used undercover officers to collect information about their campaign. She added that her family had only found out because Peter Francis, the third undercover officer who gathered information about their campaign, blew the whistle in 2013. “Without Peter Francis, we would not have known what had happened. He was the one who came forward.”She added that undercover officers, such as Francis, who come forward proactively and tell the truth should be given immunity from prosecution. Those who don’t should be prosecuted for any offences where there is enough evidence to do so, she added. Lawrence said she believed that the reputation of the police had been damaged by their failure to investigate her son’s murder properly and by the revelations about the undercover officers.“They need to rebuild their reputation. The only way is come out and say what you have done and speaking the truth. What I am hoping is that they will have learnt the lesson that the truth will come out eventually.”