The parents of the murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence are to sue the Metropolitan Police for more than £500,000 for the way they were treated during the failed investigation into the racist killing of their son.They are also claiming for psychological damages, the cost of their son's funeral in Jamaica, and for the cost of the campaign to achieve some kind of justice for Stephen. Neville and Doreen Lawrence also plan to sue the five white youths who they believe killed Stephen, 18, in Eltham, south-east London. The couple lodged writs for damages at the high court in April last year, but the details of their claim has only been recently revealed, 11 months after an independent inquiry report harshly criticised the police investigation into Stephen's murder. Using the race relations act as the backbone for their claim, the couple - who have divorced since the murder of their son - have asked for £500,000 in total from the 41 officers involved in the inquiry into the killing of Stephen on April 22, 1993. The outgoing Metropolitan Police commissioner Paul Condon is one of those being sued. The couple are also suing the Met for negligence for an additional, undisclosed sum. Mrs Lawrence, 46, is claiming £22,352 in damages for the detrimental effect the bungled police investigation had on her studies at Greenwich university in south London. Her writ also asks for £7,000 to pay for trips she took to America and South Africa to try and get over the murder and for £4,900 for visiting Stephen's grave in Jamaica. The writ also requests the cost of taxi fares to take her son Stuart to his part-time job at McDonald's - a cost of £2,189. It is claimed he could not take public transport because the whole family was under the witness protection programme at the time. Other elements of Mrs Lawrence's claim include: • £8,736 for four years of help looking after the other Lawrence children, Stuart and Georgina, during the police investigation • £3,900 for phone bills • £2,800 to cover expenses when the family moved home • £18,960 for travel expenses • £98,898 for loss of earnings due to the psychiatric damage of police negligence. Mr Lawrence has claimed £8,000 for the cost of the funeral and is also seeking compensation for loss of earnings. Neil Acourt, 24 at the time, his brother, Jamie, 22, David Norris, 23, Luke Knight, 22, and Gary Dobson, 24, were all charged with Stephen's murder but the charges were dropped because of lack of evidence. The Lawrences' writs against the five suspects are unlikely to yield concrete damages as they are not wealthy. But a court case would oblige the five to account for their movements on the night of the murder in a court. A Met spokesman said: "We can confirm we have received a claim of compensation for negligence from solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs Lawrence. In addition, a number of officers have received claims under the race relations act."