'Tis Hades here, the terminus of sin:My guide with one wide sweep revealed the realm Where earthly wrong comes to eternal woe. I've heard of it, said I; for when I lived I knew a daily journal called The Sun Which casteth judgment on the sinners there And warned its quiv'ring flock of evils which No man could e'er redeem, but must, like Myra, Rot in hell, some leagues beyond forgiveness' pale. And so my guide did lead me through the flames By whose caress immortal agony Inflicted on some demons, lowly stooped. When presently, take note, quoth he, and points Towards a clutch of buxom maids In skimpy swimwear or as nature meant. Our Lord and Master bids us call them babes Says he, or busty beauties. This doomy plain Is thickly populated with their kind. But lo! I said, diverting his attent To countless machine-boxes flickering E'er-changing pictures out of sight 'Tis television, quoth he. The other arts Are banned in this fell world, for too elite are they. Our fare is but celebrities and soaps. And sure as I peered closer to a screen Banality past measure issued forth And twitt'ring fools, and brightly gilded turds. Then sudden did a blazing pyre rise Before us, in it a writhing throng Of luckless trav'lling folk, dusky of hue And prodding at th'incinerating mass A patriotic crowd, with voices raised Cried: swamp, and flood, and piss off home. O pain! O wrack! That I should see Such sundering of men, such pity lacked That brother unto brother hate should show. Who is your Lord, that such merciless ire Can reign e'en in the kingdom of the damned? This asked, my guide did stop, and point, and say: Our Lord is yonder monster, fathoms high Whose sulph'rous breath intoxicates his flock Whose forked tail lays ruin with a swish. Mark how he stamps his cloven heel on those Who value gentler ways to live. Dark suzerain of Gotcha, Murdoch be His name. The flame rears, to engulf my very self But my dying sight discerns a brighter flame Whose fuel is truth, never to exhaust: Whichever hell the Sun condemn its foes Can never be so loveless and so ill As that which burns upon its every page. 