Police are searching for a missing five-year-old girl who they suspect was abducted while playing near her home in Wales. April Jones was last seen getting into a light-coloured van that drove off in the mid-Wales town of Machynlleth on Monday evening.Dyfed-Powys police said they were becoming "increasingly concerned" for the missing child's safety and have deployed a large number of officers and specialist teams to investigate the disappearance. Hundreds of local residents in the small market town were said to have joined the hunt for April on Monday with many continuing their efforts overnight. Detective Chief Superintendent Simon Powell said police were following a number of lines of inquiry. He said: "Dyfed-Powys police have launched an intensive search and criminal investigation into the abduction of a five-year-old girl, April Jones, in Machynlleth. "April was last seen playing on a bicycle near her home address at around 7.30pm and was seen getting into what we believe was a light-coloured van, which then drove off." He continued: "We are obviously becoming increasing concerned for her safety and are asking for any one with information to please contact us on 101." Up to 200 people congregated at Machynlleth Leisure Centre as news of the apparent abduction broke to help in the search for the missing girl, according to reports. Police said April had been out in the town riding a bike with a friend before she vanished. Local restaurant owner Razul Islam said a large majority of the town, which has a population of 2,000, was out searching for the five-year-old. "There are hundreds of people out looking for her," Islam told Sky News."It is such a small town and nearly everyone is out looking for her – I'm shocked that it has happened in a town like this." Petrol station owner Nerys Zjalic said she reopened her garage on Monday night to help with the search. Zjalic, who runs Reads Garage, told ITV Wales: "My friend called to ask if we would open so people can get petrol to help in the search. Locals are out in full force searching for her." Speaking to BBC Radio 5 Live, she said some people had returned home overnight, but were planning to reconvene their search at 6.30am. "It just shows the community spirit of the town and how people get together in a crisis to do anything they can to help," she added. Zjalic, who knows the missing girl's family, said people had been coming from far and wide to help with the search. "It's unbelievable – you just don't think that something like that would happen in a small town like Machynlleth. "Nothing will be the same again - this is a small little market town and you think children are quite safe but this shows us it's not the case. "People just can't believe such a thing has happened, the whole town is devastated and in shock." Police released three pictures of April and urged anyone with information about the youngster's disappearance to come forward. Locals have also put up posters of April around the town as part of their search efforts. Chris Dudley, who works at the Skinners Arms on Penrallt Street, said the pub was empty last night with many of the locals joining the search. "All the locals are looking for her in this area – the cemeteries, the golf field, playing field, everywhere you can think of," he said. "Police are still looking." Dudley said police officers were "everywhere" and they were also searching cars.