The girlfriend of the murdered teenager Anthony Walker broke down in tears yesterday as she recalled the racial abuse he was subjected to before he was killed with a single blow from an ice axe.Louise Thompson, 17, wept as she told Preston crown court, sitting in Liverpool, how the 18-year-old and his cousin, Marcus Binns, also 18, were subjected to the taunts as they waited at a bus stop in July this year.She said she had noticed a masked man standing outside the Huyton Park pub opposite a bus shelter in Huyton, Merseyside. Only his eyes were visible as most of his face was covered by something like a scarf, she said. "He was shouting racial comments," she told the court. "He was saying 'coon' and 'nigger'. He just told them to walk. He said, 'Walk, nigger, walk.'"Louise, who is white, said her boyfriend had shouted to the man, "We are just waiting for the bus and then we're going." The man had then shouted to a car leaving the pub car park, "See how fast you can go."She said she had felt scared and the three had decided to walk her to the next bus stop. Louise said she had also wanted to walk to the Asda supermarket in Huyton village so she could phone her mother and ask her to pick her up. They took a short cut through McGoldrick Park.As they approached the exit of the park, she said three or four men had jumped out of the bushes. "I panicked," she said. Asked by Neil Flewitt, prosecuting, if she had run, she replied: "Yes." She said she had not looked round and did not know what had happened to Anthony.She ran towards Huyton police station and met a woman who took her into the station, where she told officers what had happened.The court earlier heard that Mr Walker had been found near the exit of the park, lying on the ground with an ice axe embedded in his head. He died in hospital six hours later. The prosecution claims that he was murdered for no reason other than the colour of his skin.Paul Taylor, 20, from Huyton, has pleaded guilty to murder, but his cousin Michael Barton, 17, also from Huyton, denies murder and conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm. A pathologist found Mr Walker suffered a huge disintegration of his brain and the axe had punched a hole through his skull and penetrated to a depth of 6cm to 7cm (2.5in-3.5in).Mr Binns, who lives in Coventry, told the court he had been standing next to the bus stop when he noticed a man across the road who was wearing a ski mask and shouting abuse. "The first thing he said was 'Microphone head'," he told the jury. "He said, 'Oi, you. Michael Jackson.'"Mr Binns said he had realised the man was talking to him. At the time, he had been combing his afro hairstyle. He said he had made no reply, but his cousin had asked the man what the problem was. "He just stood there and stared," he said of the man. "I wasn't feeling comfortable. Anthony said, 'Come on, let's move to the next bus stop.'" They had said nothing to provoke the man, Mr Binns said.As they walked towards the park, he noticed a green Peugeot 406 travelling at speed with its lights off. It made him anxious because of the "little issue" outside the pub. As they walked through the park, he had a "kind of feeling that someone was following".Near the exit, he noticed a figure creep out of the bush and he shouted "Run" to Anthony and Louise, as he pushed them in the direction he was running. He did not look back and he did not recognise the figure.He had told the occupant of a nearby house about the attack and was given a lift back to the park. "We seen him lying there," he said in a whisper. "He was in a critical condition lying face up. There was a two-handed axe in his head. I started to panic - so I called 999."Under cross-examination by David Steer, he said there were inconsistencies between his evidence and a statement he had given to police because he was in a "confused state" after the attack.The trial was adjourned until Monday.