The police service has been pursuing the wrong strategy for 10 years and needs to listen to the public and put officers back on the street, its two most senior representatives admitted yesterday.Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner, and his deputy, Ian Blair, said it was a flawed argument to suggest Dixon of Dock Green-style "bobbies on the beat" were a waste of resources. "We got it wrong when we distanced ourselves from the public 10 years ago," Sir John said. "The argument that a uniformed officer is not a crime-fighting asset is not true - he or she prevents crime. The forces which have succeeded most are those that put resources into street policing and find local solutions." He and Mr Blair said officers had been withdrawn from beat duties under pressure from "a huge body of academic evidence" that seemed to show staff were better off in fast-response cars. By doing this, the police had failed to recognise the importance of providing "public reassurance" and had not appreciated that minor crimes, such as graffiti and vandalism, were serious "quality of life" issues for all communities. "We might regard this as minor, but they [the public] don't," Mr Blair said. "Public reassurance is now an end itself; 10 years ago, it wasn't." He said studies proved there was an "absolute correlation" between putting officers back on the beat and the number of street robberies. The two officers spoke of the u-turn in strategy as they outlined their vision for policing in London. The force will be 30,000-strong by the end of the next financial year and the longer term target is 35,000, a level endorsed by London's mayor, Ken Livingstone, and the Home Office. Sir John believes the increase in size gives the Met a chance to change the way the capital is policed. He intends to put 6,000 extra officers on the beat by the summer of 2006. The Met believes the key to improvements is to focus resources on the London boroughs' 758 wards. Police ward teams will get to know local people and gather intelligence on criminal activity. Mr Blair said it was clear an officer on the street did cut crime by tackling "habitats of disorderliness" where crime flourished. Speaking at a meeting of the Metropolitan police authority yesterday, Sir John said he wanted to shake off the perception that the police were a 999 service capable only of "delivering a sticking plaster service". He said: "People want to see street patrols, lots of them, real community based policing where ... local needs are addressed." Evenin' all· Police constable George Dixon first appeared in 1950 in Basil Dearden's tribute to the Metropolitan police and their fight against the post war crimewave in The Blue Lamp · He died in the film but was resurrected five years later in the BBC television series Dixon of Dock Green · Played by Jack Warner, with his catchphrase "Evenin' all!", he was seen as an upholder of morals, a reliable, helpful and hard-working community copper · Storylines were based around local issues, lads playing with airguns and petty thefts from the ushers' staffroom at the local theatre. In every episode, Dixon always got his man or solved the crime · The brainchild of Ted Willis, Dixon is still the longest running police series on British television. After 434 episodes and 21 years, Jack Warner finally hung up his helmet at the age of 82 in 1976Sally James Gregory