I am breaking into my holiday because I can't let a fourth witness statement to the Leveson inquiry by Mazher Mahmood pass without a mention.He has been forced into making a second embarrassing climbdown to the inquiry, which calls into question his long-held claims about the number of people prosecuted due to his News of the World articles.It follows an internal investigation ordered by Sunday Times editor John Witherow, his current editor, into Mahmood's previous statements to Leveson.He has claimed for some time that he was responsible for more than 250 successful criminal prosecutions, testifying to Leveson last December that the exact total was 261.But the Witherow investigation, conducted by the global law firm, Linklaters, managed to discover proof of only 94 prosecutions.In his new witness statement, Mahmood explains that Linklaters took strenuous steps to verify the facts through researching press cuttings and making requests to various courts and the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS).He admits that although he kept "a broad running check" on the number of prosecutions he did not maintain records and clippings of every case, "nor was any proper log or record maintained by the News of the World."Mahmood (aka the Fake Sheikh) gives a convoluted explanation for the difference between his original claim and the Linklaters total, and apologises for certain errors. He writes:"I provided to Linklaters details of all of the prosecutions which I could recall that predated my first statement. This list exceeded 253 prosecutions, as I believed the number included in my first statement to be a conservative estimate...The details I provided to Linklaters included the following cases:a. Over 134 different criminal offences committed prior to the date of my first statement and carried out by 94 individuals... I should make clear here that... I would generally count separate charges on which an individual had been convicted on the same occasion as multiple convictions, if they were for what I considered different offences. For example, someone convicted of carrying a firearm who was also convicted for possession of drugs I would count separately.b. Over 140 illegal immigrants who I believe were deported as a result of my work, although I did not keep a record of their names. My understanding was that an illegal immigrant commits a crime by being present in this country... I now understand from Linklaters that it is unlikely that these individuals would have been the subject of criminal prosecutions per se...That is not something which I was previously aware of, and I apologise for my error...c. 13 individuals who were barred from their professions or by their relevant sporting bodies, or dismissed by the police or prison service, in connection with allegations of criminal conduct, which were exposed as a result of my work. Again, I understand from Linklaters that such actions do not amount to prosecutions or convictions and so I apologise to the inquiry for including these individuals in my first statement."Mahmood goes on to explain that some courts and the CPS were unwilling to provide the necessary data, adding that he remains "personally confident" that his work "led to substantially more convictions than the 94 individuals which Linklaters has been able to verify independently."But his statement has been met with extreme scepticism by Paddy French, the journalist who made a formal complaint to the Leveson inquiry about Mahmood's claims. French, who runs an investigative website called Rebecca Television, had conducted a comprehensive search of the News of the World's archive for the 20 years between December 1991, when Mahmood joined the paper, until its closure in July 2011.French alleged in his statement to Leveson that Mahmood "may have committed perjury" by overstating the number of successful prosecutions.Now, following the posting of Mahmood's fourth witness statement, French has written to Witherow to say that the Linklaters inquiry findings are closer to his analysis (which found only 70 prosecutions) than Mahmood's 250-plus claim.I have seen a copy of the letter, in which French maintains his position that Mahmood's previous evidence to the committee was questionable. He also says that Rebecca Television is conducting a second piece of investigative work into Mahmood's evidence to Leveson.A spokeswoman for News International confirmed that Mahmood is still employed by the Sunday Times. Asked whether any internal action was being taken against Mahmood and whether Witherow considered his evidence adequate, she said the company had no comment.PS: In Mahmood's first witness statement to Leveson, he stated that he left the Sunday Times in 1988 after "a disagreement." I contested that statement and, after being asked by Leveson to provide evidence to support by contention, did so.This led to Mahmood being recalled by the inquiry and conceding that his departure had been due to his having "acted improperly". Lord Justice Leveson told him he had been disingenuous in his original evidence because he had left the paper after committing an act of dishonesty.