Investigative journalism and peaceful protest are threatened by a clause in Jack Straw's criminal justice and police bill, members of the House of Lords will argue this week.Clause 41 was added to the bill with the aim of protecting scientists and staff at Huntingdon Life Sciences and other animal testing laboratories from the frightening tactics of some animal rights activists. However, its provisions have been drawn so widely they threaten to criminalise more than intimidation, it is claimed. Opponents argue a future Robert Maxwell or General Pinochet could call a passing police constable, who would have power to force anyone -including a journalist - to leave the vicinity of their home; the officer merely has to believe the outsider's presence is likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress to the victim. Non-compliance would be a crime punishable by up to three months in jail or a £2,500 fine - even though there was no intention to harass or distress, and even though no threatening or insulting words or behaviour were used. Andrew Phillips, the Liberal Democrat peer and solicitor, who unsuccessfully argued in the Lords last week for amendments, said the clause amounted to "by far the most draconian restriction of peaceful protest ever contemplated for our law". He also predicted it would join the libel writ in the armoury of those with crookery and corruption to hide. "Where you've got people who are powerful and in the know, there is going to be a real risk that they are going to ring up the local cop shop and say 'Look, we're getting real hassle from these fellows outside and we expect you to do something about it'." Charles Clarke, the Home Office minister, conceded during Commons debates on the bill that the clause would apply to journalists but insisted that it would not affect doorstepping. The "classic doorstep", he argued, "can sometimes be difficult and problematic for the people concerned, but would obviously not be unlawful - because harassment, alarm and distress would not arise." Others disagree: as Lord Phillips noted in the Lords debate, someone guilty of a concealed fraud might well be alarmed or distressed to find a determined journalist camped on the pavement outside. Mr Clarke's reassurance also overlooked the wording of the clause, which does not require actual harassment, alarm or distress. It would be enough if police believed an interloper's presence "amounts to, or is likely to result in, the harassment of the victim" or is likely to cause the victim alarm or distress. The rights organisation Liberty said: "The nearly automatic reaction to a problem is to get out the statute book and pencil in a few more powers for the police and create a few more criminal offences. The powers are not carefully crafted to deal only with the current 'problem' but are much more wide-ranging in their effects." The government seems not to have realised quite how far these powers stretch. Last week in the Lords, the Home Office minister, Lord Davies of Oldham, dismissed the idea police would interfere with the rights of journalists. In the Commons, Mr Clarke, accepted police had the power, but insisted they would not interfere with legitimate journalism. Lord Phillips asked: "Is the copper going to sit there carefully weighing up the difference between vigorous, determined, won't-take-no-for-an-answer journalism, and alarm and distress? Of course he won't. You don't take risks with basic freedoms. This power is a sitting duck for misuse by the very people who are most in need of being dogged by the press." The home secretary has warned liberal peers he would portray them as soft on burglars and paedophiles if they were to block key elements of his bill. He gave his verbal threat at a private meeting of peers a fortnight ago. The Liberal Democrats believe other parts of the bill would conravene the human rights act, put millions of innocent people permanently onto a police DNA database, and improperly deprive citizens of their passport. Lord McNally, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said yesterday: "Parliament has to hold its nerve against Jack Straw's threats, and demand proper scrutiny. "It may not be fashionable to defend the liberties of an alleged criminal, but we cannot go on giving the police more and more powers."