Britain's child protection services will face severe criticism this week when a couple are sentenced for torturing their four-year-old daughter in a case that has alarming echoes of that of Victoria Climbie.Kimberley Harte, 23 and Samuel Duncan, 26, poured boiling liquid over the child's hands, ripped out her hair, kicked her repeatedly in the groin and locked her in the toilet over seven terrifying weeks of the worst abuse experts said they had ever seen.The attacks happened only weeks after the girl had been returned to the parents by social services despite warnings from her foster carers that the child was distressed. She had been in care because of domestic violence between her parents.At their home in Maida Vale, London, Harte and Duncan forced the little girl, who has cerebral palsy, to eat her own faeces and take cold baths. This week, the pair, who have both been found guilty of causing grievous bodily harm with intent, could face life sentences.This is the latest in a string of cases that have caused questions to be asked about social services' decisions. In 2005, Ukleigha Batten-Froggatt, a six-year-old who was on the 'at risk' register, was strangled by her mother's boyfriend in their flat in north London. In 2003, Toni-Ann Byfield, was shot in north-west London while in the care of Birmingham social services.It has emerged that Westminster social services handed the child back to Harte and Duncan last January. The girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was discovered more than two months later close to death. The abuse had lasted from 1 February until 18 March.She was examined under general anaesthetic because she was in so much pain. 'These were horrific injuries,' said Detective Sergeant Anthony Smith from the child protection unit, 'some of the worst injuries I have seen.' Her ordeal had caused her to regress with regards to her disability, but, according to Detective Sergeant Smith, she is now doing far better.The Observer can reveal that an independent review of the decision to let her go back home has highlighted a string of failures. Social workers, it revealed, allowed her to return despite strong objections from her foster carers. Once she was home, staff 'too readily' accepted injuries as accidents, made 'minimal contact' with the father and believed that, on five visits in two months, the child was 'out with her father'.The review said what happened could not be attributed to 'professional errors' or 'poor practice', but said the outcome might have been different had there been 'a greater focus on the father's relationship' with her and more attention had been given to concerning findings. Professionals 'were too parent-focused', failed to see the child on her own and should have been more sceptical.The case has horrified campaigners who worked hard to change the system after Victoria Climbie, the eight-year-old who was tortured to death in 2000. 'I did not think this would be happening so long after Victoria's death,' said Mor Dioum, director of the Victoria Climbie Foundation. 'This has many similarities to the Climbie case.'Dioum said the agencies had 'grossly failed' after he read the review of the Harte and Duncan case. 'They failed to listen to the foster carer. As in the Climbie case, the carers were concerned that the child had been abused and practitioners totally failed to identify it.'Workers should have been alarmed when they were told the girl was not at home during visits, he added: 'It is well known that abusers tend to hide their victims from the public. One of the great mistakes was a lack of child focus. Had they done their jobs in terms of assessing thoroughly, sharing information and being prepared to scrutinise each others assessments then this could have been avoided.'Westminster council pointed out that the decision to return the child was made 'with the approval of the court, specifically the Principal Registry of the Family Division, and was recommended by a number of independent expert assessments'.'When a child is injured...everyone who had dealings with the family will inevitably consider whether they could have done anything differently that may have altered the deeply regrettable outcome,' said Julie Jones, deputy chief executive and director of children's services. 'It is clear that those staff who saw this child and her family could not have foreseen the injuries she sustained.'