Victims of crime are to be given a voice in the sentencing of criminals under plans announced yesterday by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to ensure that the courts impose more consistent punishments.But in the face of unease expressed by senior judges, it has been decided to give politicians only an arms-length role in the new sentencing guidelines council, which is to lay down for the first time the "going rate" for every type of crime in England and Wales. The announcement follows the publication of Mr Blunkett's new sentencing framework for murder earlier this week. It is a further attempt to boost public confidence in the criminal justice system by ensuring that judges and magistrates are consistent. Home Office research published yesterday shows that there is still a wide variation in the sentences passed by courts around the country. Some 39% of domestic burglars sentenced in Leeds in 2001 were sent straight to prison, for example, but the figure on Teesside was only 21%. The gap is even greater between the punishments handed out for driving while disqualified. In mid-north Essex, 78% of motorists convicted were jailed, while the figure for north Pembrokeshire was 25%. The new council will mark a radical departure from current practice, under which the appeal court issues guidelines only for a limited number of more serious crimes, such as robbery, burglary and serious drug offences, which do not apply to magistrate courts. The new guidelines will eventually be issued for every type of crime, and all courts will be expected to follow them. Those who decide to depart from them in passing sentence will have to give their reasons in writing. Plans for the sentencing advisory council announced yesterday by Mr Blunkett will ensure that most of its 12-strong membership is made up of judges. It will be chaired by the Lord Chief Justice. But the home secretary has also decided that it should include representatives of the police, probation and prison services, as well as victims of crime. He said yesterday that it was these people who would provide the council with a knowledge of how the current justice system worked in practice. "The council will create dialogue between the judiciary that pass sentences and the correctional services that have to implement them," Mr Blunkett told a meeting of the South Yorkshire magistrates' association. The government had faced pressure from MPs for a direct say in drawing up the new sentencing guidelines, but Mr Blunkett has decided to keep the politicians at arms length. Both the House of Commons home affairs select committee and the home secretary will be asked to comment on the guidelines for each crime at a draft stage, but they will not be able to block them. Harry Fletcher, the general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, welcomed the move. "For far too long there have been huge inconsistencies in sentencing between very similar courts for very similar crimes," he said. "This should go a long way to bringing about greater public confidence in the sentencing process."