Fears that an enraged driver could be mounting a letter bomb campaign heightened tonight after a second attack in consecutive days on companies linked to the administration of motoring fines.The latest blast happened this morning when a package exploded at the offices of an accountancy firm linked to Speed Check Services, the provider of digital speed cameras to the police. Two men suffered wounds to their hands and upper bodies in the explosion at the offices of Vantis on an industrial estate in Wokingham, Berkshire. It followed yesterday's letter bomb attack at the central London offices of Capita, which runs London's congestion charge system. That bomb exploded in the hands of a post room worker, who is still receiving hospital treatment.Thames Valley police said it was "likely" that an item of mail had ignited and caused the "small explosion" in today's incident.It was reported that the package was addressed to the managing director of Speed Check Services, which provides cameras that record an average speed of motorists over a number of miles using number plate recognition technology. A worker at Speed Check Services said they had not been told by police that the package was addressed to the firm but confirmed that Vantis was its accountants.A spokesman for Vantis said the two injured men were left shocked by the blast, but did not need hospital treatment. He also said the company had no direct involvement in the administration of speeding fines and that the package did not appear to have been targeted at Vantis. "We are not directly involved in any speeding fines or anything like that," the spokesman said. "We do not do any administration of such things. It is not our business. "Our business is, we are accountants, tax and business advisers. We give advice to small businesses, that is what we do." He said the company had no connection with Capita, adding: "I think it needs to be made clear that we act for lots of companies and lots of companies have their registered offices at our office, it is standard practice."Police said it was too soon to say whether it was connected to yesterday's letter bomb attack at the offices of Capita, in Victoria Street, central London, in which a woman suffered injuries to her hands and stomach.Fourteen workers were evacuated from the Vantis premises and given check-ups by ambulance staff.Vantis employs more than 1,000 staff and, according to its website, is ranked as the UK's 13th largest accounting, business and tax advisory group. Its scope of operations ranges from representing Premiership footballers and clubs in transfer negations to reducing the tax bills of London restaurants. The website says the company also works in outsourcing.