The chipping of stolen mobile phones could become a criminal offence under government plans to tackle the surge in handset thefts. Home Office officials are looking at legislation making it illegal for thieves to reprogramme phones that have been blocked by a network operator.The Observer can also reveal that Scotland Yard is to launch a major investigation into mobile phone theft to determine its links to organised crime. This will track the movements of thousands of handsets stolen in the capital over a three-month period to expose the extent to which a sophisticated black market is fuelling the crime wave. Police believe it will make prosecution of mobile phone thieves easier if it becomes a crime to reconfigure a stolen handset's IMIE serial number so it can be reused on another phone network. Anger is mounting over the refusal of two major networks, Vodafone and BT Cellnet, to introduce measures that shut down stolen phones. If the telecommunication giants continue to spurn technology enabling them to block stolen handsets from their networks, officials believe only a change in the law will help crack down on the spiralling problem. A spokesman for the Home Office said: 'It is not a criminal offence to reprogramme a stolen phone, and this is something we are currently looking at while we consider if legislation is required.' Figures published by the Home Office last week revealed 710,000 handsets were stolen last year in England and Wales - equivalent to one every 45 seconds. There was a fivefold surge in the violent theft of mobile phones over the past three years, with 26,300 such cases reported last year. Scotland Yard's investigation, which is backed by the Home Office and mobile phone industry, is the first major attempt to determine the motives of thieves. It also aims to solve the mystery of what happens to the hundreds of thousands of handsets that vanish once stolen in the UK every year. Only a quarter of stolen handsets are re-used in Britain, and the proportion that are reprogrammed with a new identity is still unknown. The new investigation will be launched in the next fortnight on the back of the findings of last week's Home Office report. Jack Wraith of the Mobile Industry Crime Action Forum (Micaf), which represents networks and some manufacturers, said there was evidence that a sophisticated criminal racket - and not just opportunistic street theft - is fuelling the problem. He said a number of lorry hijackings - included a truck containing phones that was stopped on the M25 near Heathrow by criminals dressed as police officers - pointed to a thriving black market.A Home Office spokesman said: 'To solve this crime we need to find out the motives.This project will track the movements of stolen handsets and answer questions relating to the so-called 'black hole' of mobiles that seem to just disappear.' The investigation could be extended to Merseyside, Manchester and the West Midlands in the next few months, according to Micaf. Scrutiny on the problem has intensified after a woman was shot in the head by a mugger who stole her phone on an east London street on New Year's Day.   Cristiona Odone, Comment page 21