A nationwide witness protection service is to be launched to improve co-ordination between police forces and safeguard those who risk their lives giving evidence in court.The UK Protected Persons Service, designed to combat organised crime, will be run by the soon-to-be-established National Crime Agency and overseen by the victims' minister, Helen Grant.With as many as 3,000 people across the country receiving support and protection, the aim of the service is to provide a more consistent and "enhanced" standard of help for witnesses who may need to be moved and given new identities.The initiative is a demonstration of the coalition's promise to prioritise support for victims and follows concerns over the murder by gangland gunmen of a middle-aged couple, John and Joan Stirland, at their Lincolnshire bungalow in 2004.Grant, who has departmental responsibilities at the Ministry of Justice, said: "Witnesses are the unsung heroes of society, especially those who could be jeopardising their own safety. I cannot thank them enough for the vital role they play in bringing criminals to justice."We are clear any witness whose life could be in danger must be given the best possible protection. The UK Protected Persons Service will ensure those in need receive the expert protection and support no matter wherever they are in the UK."More than a quarter of collapsed prosecutions last year were owing to witnesses or victims being unwilling to give evidence, says the MoJ. The enhanced service is expected to start in December 2013.About £19m a year is spent on protection schemes. For decades, witnesses threatened during Northern Ireland's Troubles have been given sanctuary in England.More recently victims and witnesses of the Morecambe Bay disaster in Lancashire in which 12 Chinese cockle pickers died have been among individuals given protected status. So too those who were prepared to testify about the murder of 11-year-old Rhys Jones in Liverpool.Merseyside Assistant Chief Constable Andy Cooke, who is the lead official on witness protection for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said: "A UK-wide protected persons service which is regionally delivered by the police service, but co-ordinated through the National Crime Agency, will strengthen the fight against organised crime. Chief constables support the plan for its development and believe it will provide a more consistent approach to delivery of protected persons services across the country. "Around 18% of witnesses who gave evidence in 2009/10 reported that they or their family felt intimidated at some point, while 40% reported concerns about coming into contact with the defendant and their supporters, according to the MoJ.The new protection service will introduce national quality standards, improve co-ordination across existing services, promote intelligence sharing between police forces and strengthen local services. It will receive a one-off £211,000 grant from the MoJ and Home Office to get the service off the ground.Police calls for an improved protection services emerged after the killing of the Stirlands. The couple, who had declined to be part of a formal protection programme, were shot dead in a revenge attack; Joan Stirland's son, Michael O'Brien, had killed 22-year-old Marvyn Bradshaw outside a Nottingham pub in August 2003.At the inquest into the Stirlings' death there was evidence that Nottinghamshire police failed to share intelligence about the threat to the couple. The force was cleared by the jury of failing to protect them.There is already legislation permitting evidence to be heard anonymously when witnesses fear the consequences of being identified. There have been complaints in the past of the way police witness protection programmes operate.A solicitor, Fiona Murphy, told the BBC File ON 4 programme this year that she received "quite a significant number of telephone calls from protected persons seeking legal advice, they tell pitiful tales of lives absolutely destroyed".A life under witness protectionPaul lives in a different part of the country and under a different name from where he began his life. He survived two attempts in prison to murder him for being a "grass" after giving evidence against an organised gang.Details of his supposedly protected status had not been handed on when he was shuffled from one jail to another. He says he hopes that a unified witness protection scheme will, in future, ensure that no one else will be exposed to the dangers he experienced."People risk their lives to convict criminals. They need to know they have [officers] they can trust. In your new [assumed] life, you have to worry in order not to disclose anything stupid but you also have to balance that with not being entirely crippled by fear."The name "Paul" is one of many false identities he has adopted in recent years after renouncing his earlier years of drug dealing and criminality. He had been the inside man on a violent robbery during which he was severely beaten by gangland colleagues in order to provide a credible story.Eventually he decided give evidence against his former colleagues. When the police eventually accepted the significance of what he was saying they spirited him away from his old life."I received a call and was told to pack a bag and be ready to leave in 20 minutes," he recalled, "I gave them the full facts. That was the last time I went home. I was given a new mobile, my bank accounts were frozen so that any trail wouldn't lead to me and I was allowed to ring my family briefly." (He had no partner or children)."I lost everything I had. I was given about £60 a week, the equivalent of a job seeker's allowance, to live on."I went to court and looked the defendants in the face. They had gone on to international crime. They were convicted. I received a reduced prison term of two and a half years. It would otherwise have been eight years."