The Conservatives today rowed back from their new-found liberal ethos on homosexual rights by tabling an amendment aimed at outlawing cottaging.Tories in the Lords are spearheading the campaign against sex in public lavatories, and claim they have huge public support behind them.But the move will also undermine the party's attempts, starting under William Hague and continued under Iain Duncan Smith, to sound a more tolerant note towards minorities, homosexuals included. The Tories claim their move follows protests about the problem of gay men "cottaging" and parents' fears about allowing children to use public conveniences unaccompanied. Lady Noakes, opposition frontbench spokesman on the sexual offences bill, which is now at report stage, says she has received a huge postbag of letters from the public on the issue. She warned that if the government today voted against the Conservative amendment to toughen up the law, it will give a green light to sex in public loos. She said: "Our amendment makes it clear, once and for all, that sex in a public lavatory is not legal. "And that applies whether or not it is happening behind the doors of a locked cubicle. We think that this is what decent people in our country want. "They want public lavatories that they can use and, more importantly, their children can use without worrying what else might be happening." Lady Noakes said the current draft of the bill significantly weakens the legal protections against sex in public lavatories, because it also repeals the gross indecency offence which was often used to deal with the issue. She said the government wanted to make it more difficult for the police to bring prosecutions. "We are worried about that because there is already a high level of concern."Mothers are not happy about allowing their sons to use a public loo unaccompanied, when they are too old to go into the Ladies. "The government want to rely on the ancient law of outraging public decency, which we think is unclear and ambiguous. "What we want is a certainty in the law with an up-to-date statement of what is not allowed. I still hope that the government will support my amendment. "But if they do not do so, I shall have to ask the House of Lords to vote on the issue. A vote against my amendment is a vote to allow sex in public lavatories." The government dropped a specific offence of "sex in a public place" after fears it could lead to charges against couples having sex in their own gardens, instead relying on the already existing "outraging public decency" offence.However, the Tories claim this is to difficult a charge to prosecute for an offence committed in a closed toilet cubicle, since it requires two witnesses.They want a maximum two-year sentence to accompany the new charge outlined in their amendment. With the government not having a majority in the Lords, a lot could now depend on how Liberal Democrat peers see the issue.Despite the thrust of the amendment, Lady Noakes insists it is "gender neutral".