Its centres are the only source of support for the thousands of victims who experience sexual violence in the UK every year, however Rape Crisis is in the middle of its very own crisis, due to a severe shortage of funding, according to a new survey by the organisation.In a country where the conviction rate for rape stands at a woeful 5.3%, as many as half the centres - which provide a crucial support service for women with recent and historic experience of rape and sexual assault - are facing closure.In 1984 there were 68 Rape Crisis centres in England and Wales but now there are just 38 that are affiliated members of Rape Crisis. They cover vast geographical areas across England and north Wales. Recent research by the charity End Violence Against Women and the equalities watchdog, the Equality and Human Rights Commission, found that London (which has two centres covering 33 London boroughs), south-west England, Wales and West Midlands are particularly under-served. Counties including Suffolk and Bedfordshire do not have a Rape Crisis centre at all.The main reason for the funding shortage is because, until recently, there have been no local targets set by central government on sexual violence. Also, decision-makers and funders have not always been clear about the relationship between sexual violence and domestic violence, which does have local targets. Sexual violence is also a stand-alone issue and survivors require specialist and tailored support, which is different from domestic violence services. But local authorities and related partnerships such as crime and disorder reduction partnerships (CDRPs) and local strategic partnerships (LSPs) have tended not to address sexual violence or fund services, even when lobbied by local organisations.Securing funding is a constant struggle for the centres, often resulting in low staff morale and the "freezing" of services until suitable sources can be identified and secured. Despite sending out numerous applications and often costing salaries well below market value in order to improve their chances of success, the survey found that eight centres have still not secured funding for 2008-09.This may also be due to the government's focus in recent years on developing a network of sexual assault referral centres (SARCs), which are one-stop locations where victims of sexual assault can receive medical care, counselling, and have the opportunity to assist police investigations. However, Rape Crisis says that while SARCs play a valuable role in helping women recover they only manage to reach a small group of victims."Only 10% of Rape Crisis service users ever report a rape, so SARCs are only helping a very small percentage of women," says Angie Conroy, policy officer for Rape Crisis. "A lot of statutory funding is being diverted to SARCs, meanwhile the 90% of victims who don't go to the police are the ones we are working with and struggling to support under current conditions."Of course there is only so much funding to go around and with many organisations competing for the same pot of grants, there are bound to be those who fall short. However, with the combined annual income (2006-07) of the 35 Rape Crisis centres that responded to the survey less than half what the government spent on advertising and public relations in 2004-05, it is perhaps understandable that frustration about the situation at Rape Crisis is growing.One area where the picture doesn't look quite so bleak is in Scotland, which is the only part of the UK where Rape Crisis centres are actually expanding. Over the past three years the Scottish executive have taken a strategic approach to sexual violence support services and has even ring-fenced funding in a rape-crisis pot. "We would love to see the same model in England and Wales that has been implemented in Scotland and then we could end this postcode lottery. Receiving support services after you've been raped is a right not a privilege and at the moment you are lucky if you have a Rape Crisis centre locally to turn to," says Conroy.Even in areas where Rape Crisis centres do operate there are long waiting lists for services. According to the survey the average length of time a victim spent on a waiting list was 84 days, meaning that women who are in crisis aren't always getting a crisis response.So, what does the future look like for Rape Crisis? "If we continue to lose three centres a year then we won't survive for much longer it is a simple as that," says Conroy. "If the funding situation doesn't change, more centres will close and that's what we are desperately trying to prevent. When we lose a centre we lose staff with years of experience and the only people who are putting sexual violence on the agenda in their area of the country. The result is that victims suffer more."