If the poignant thing about youth is that it is wasted on the young, then perhaps the equivalent tragedy for political wisdom is that it is fated to be acquired only by politicians whose careers have ended or are drawing to their close. Tony Blair's criminal-justice speech in Bristol yesterday had liberals donning their tin hats in advance and moderates hunkering in their bunkers against the expected onslaught. After weeks of official blunders and with the tabloids in full cry, Blair's liberal critics were braced for the worst. In the event, though, the speech was more reflective and less reflexive than they must have feared.Blair has been burned, as well as emboldened, by the past couple of months. Though he remains as committed as before to ensuring that Labour rather than the Conservatives have the approval of Rupert Murdoch - hence his decision to address the News Corporation's annual get-together this summer in California - the belief that Labour will do anything that the News of the World demands is an extremely damaging one. Hence, in part, the strikingly subtle and balanced tone of yesterday's speech.Balance is unusual for any politician these days - in their different ways both Gordon Brown and David Cameron find it elusive. But yesterday's Blair was not the Blair of the "talk tough, vote soft" jibes against the Tories and the Liberal Democrats that we saw on Wednesday at prime minister's questions. It was one who seemed to acknowledge difficult realities and conflicts, rejecting "simple explanations" and "false solutions" such as the tabloid campaigns against the Human Rights Act or judge-baiting. Precisely as a result of this more reasoned approach, Blair's speech made a stronger-than-usual case for his central conclusion: that the police, the courts and the penal system are gradually losing the battle for the public's confidence, and that this is a serious and deepening national problem that has to be addressed.But does anyone seriously doubt that this is so? Does anyone advocate an ineffective or unpopular criminal-justice system? If they do, I have never heard anyone say it. One of the most tawdry features of Blair's approach to these issues - and it was still there yesterday in places - has been to build Aunt Sallies that he can knock down in order to prove how closely in touch he is with public opinion. Public opinion certainly matters. But it is a lot more contoured and nuanced about criminal justice than Blair pretends.So too, just as importantly, is liberal opinion. Is there anyone in the much-maligned political and legal liberal establishment who thinks, for example, that the criminal-justice system should be balanced against the victim? Or who wants detection rates to fall? Do you ever read letters in the Guardian campaigning against victims? Or pressing for more trial delays? Or suggesting that paedophiles should get short sentences? This is all fantasy stuff.So let's agree that there is a problem and that it needs to be addressed. Let's agree, too, that it won't do to prejudge the best outcome of that debate. Unfortunately, Blair's addiction to campaigning by legislating remains voracious. Yesterday he spoke of the need for yet another across-the-board criminal justice bill, this time to fill in the gaps left by the more than 40 predecessor bills passed by this government. This is a far less important answer to the problem than finding practical ways of helping local people to reclaim their streets and estates - these things will never happen by passing new laws. But in general the tone was a long way from the shoot-from-the-hip comments with which Blair has helped to infantilise so much of the recent furore over criminal justice.Yet throughout the speech an inner voice kept saying: "Why have you waited until now?" Because the truth is that Blair was right yesterday. A changing society requires fresh thinking about the difficult issues in criminal justice. His speech asked some tough questions that cannot merely be dismissed. The problem is that he has missed his chance. Blair has had more than nine years to develop this debate and to start putting things right - and has not done so. And now his time is running out.It is easy to suspend disbelief when Blair is on good form, as he was yesterday. Yes, you think, we really do need to acknowledge how British society has altered, how individual and public behaviour is different from 50 years ago, and to take seriously the perception that things have regressed in law and order. But then you remember that thought should always precede action, not the other way round. Blair may have initiated a debate, but he will not be around to implement its conclusions. If Labour had not been so controlling, arrogant and insouciant about the difficulties of government when it came to power, we could have had this debate in 1997-8 and things might have been very different.That doesn't mean that Blair's portentously titled series of speeches on Our Nation's Future is worthless, or that the more open process that has been adopted by Downing Street for preparing them is unwelcome. It's just that the lessons of such speeches will now be for his successors to draw.It was certainly brave and honourable of Blair and his people to engage with critics of their policies beforehand, and then to provide them with a public platform from which to challenge the strategy, as Professor Ian Loader and other criminologists did with such devastating effect this week. Loader's criticisms of the government's legislative hyperactivity and headline-chasing undoubtedly helped to tone down the final version of Blair's speech, not least because there are several people close to the process in Downing Street who privately think Loader was pretty much spot-on. But the open process is set to be replicated when Blair turns to public services in his next speech in the series.The important thing about these speeches is that they are valedictory. This is Blair beginning to bow out. These speeches are summations of his years in power and assessments of the problems that remain for the next generation of political leaders to solve. If the Bristol speech is any guide, they read like drafts of the later chapters of the Blair memoirs. The mere fact that the prime minister has begun to give speeches of this kind suggests that the countdown to Blair's departure from Downing Street has now begun. In that sense, even his bitterest critics should welcome them.martin.kettle@theguardian.com