Can anyone throw any light on this matter, a query raised separately by a national newspaper editor and a City University student. At what point, and in what circumstances, did the police start to formally arrest people rather than merely calling them in for questioning?Older journalists will remember that newspaper stories regularly told of people "helping police with their inquiries." It's a moot point about whether it implied guilt to the person taken in for questioning. Whether it did or not, that phrase vanished long ago from reports. A helpful Met police press bureau spokesman said, after consulting colleagues, that it hadn't been in use since at least 1986. No-one in the office could remember exactly when it fell by the wayside.However, a former senior Met police press officer thought it dated back to the introduction of the police and criminal evidence act (PACE) in 1984. In a 17-paragraph exposition of the rules, it formalised how arrests were to be carried out.Police can informally interview people who are not suspects. If they have suspicions about someone having committed a criminal act, they can interview the person "under caution." If those suspicions are greater - what are called in the legislation "reasonable grounds" - then an arrest is likely.The benefit of an arrest is that it invests the police with the powers of search and seizure of evidence. When people are formally arrested, they don't have to be charged right away. And until a decision is made about a charge, they are placed on police bail. As Sun journalists know all too well, there may follow a lengthy gap between the initial arrest and the decision on whether to charge, or to clear, the suspect.Aside from that specific problem - which surely requires some investigation by the authorities - it generates other related questions. On reading or hearing about the arrest, what view do media audiences form of an arrested person? Does the very fact that a person is arrested, and therefore said to be a suspect in a crime, tend to harm his or her reputation (even accepting that we believe, or should believe, in innocence before proof of guilt at trial)?If this is the case, then should we report the fact of an arrest? I touched on this contentious problem earlier this week, when considering the legal threats made to the Mail on Sunday about the arrest of Rolf Harris.I still believe, despite the potential harm to a person's reputation and, incidentally, to their psychological state, that it would be iniquitous to prohibit the reporting of arrests. Justice must be seen to be done. Just as problematical, should a reporting ban be imposed, is the likelihood that many people may get to know about an arrest, whether by word of mouth locally or through social media sites located outside the jurisdiction. I'm eager to hear what people think about the questions above, whether in comments here, or privately to me at roy.greenslade@guardian.co.uk