I recently asked a prison governor, at his wits' end over the pressure on his establishment, why he thought that prison numbers were rising like a thermometer in a heat wave.'We are a deeply punitive society,' he replied. For the past 15 years, our leading politicians have supposed that the key to Downing Street lies in the hands of he (or she) who can be 'toughest' on crime. Remember those bidding games between Home Secretary, Michael 'Prison Works' Howard, and the then contender for his crown, Jack Straw. The word 'soft' became the deadliest in public life.The last few weeks have seen this game of ersatz he-man politics reach new heights. Seldom has so much wilful misinformation been peddled in public than in the course of the current brouhaha over sentencing. To put it mildly, we (or rather they) have lost the plot. As crime figures fall, we jail with an enthusiasm that would appal Saudi Arabia and Burma. Liberal left politicians fall over one another in outbidding their opposite numbers on the right. Judges, applying the law passed by Parliament, are abused and castigated.I have been writing about jails (usually reporting from the other side of the razor wire) for more than 30 years. When I began, there was much debate about what it would say about us as a society and how the system could possibly cope if the number of prisoners in England and Wales rose above 40,000. When I trot this fact out to professionals in the criminal justice system today, they stare in slack-jawed amazement. They are pondering the same questions, but the barrier about to be broken now is 80,000.Particularly depressing is the quality of the debate. Last week a broadsheet splashed on the story that paedophile Craig Sweeney had been sentenced to 'only five years'. He hadn't. In reality he had been given the maximum sentence possible, 'life', and there is every chance that he will serve a great deal (if not all) of his remaining years in jail. The 'five years' is the minimum time before he can be considered for parole. Sweeney's crime was not murder, and his life sentence was 'discretionary' rather than 'mandatory', supposedly enabling him to be offered positive treatment inside and released if and when he has fully benefited.No dangerous life prisoner is released at the first opportunity. In the present climate, many who are no longer dangerous are held for many years beyond the 'tariff' set by their trial judges. There are 'murderers' kicking their heels for decades, not because they threaten further danger but because of the outcry about 'softness' and 'leniency' that would swamp the popular press should they be released.One problem is language. In penal terms, 'life' (as we all know) actually means long, but flexible, sentences, which reflect the relative gravity of serious crimes and allow sensible decisions about when the offender should be returned to society. There are only 30 prisoners of the Ian Brady, Ian Huntley category who will never walk through the door. If 'life' really did mean 'life' we would soon have a prison population of more than 100,000. It is long-term prisoners who predominantly occupy the cells. We need a new, more accurate, term for indeterminate sentences.In the meantime, the consequence of turning ourselves into the jail capital of Europe is a system bursting at the seams in which anything vaguely positive by way of rehabilitation becomes daily more difficult. I was recently in a prison education class which was supposed to have 20 pupils - it had five. The rest, in the never-ending merry-go-round hunt for spare cells, had been shifted to other prisons since the course (which addressed offender behaviour) had started. The governor and the education staff were in near despair; the prisoners philosophic.In these circumstances prison is not just unpleasant, but hell. I spoke to a middle-aged ex-prisoner who was close to tears when recounting life inside - bullying, drug barons, staff reduced to mindless turnkeys. Thousands sit most of each day in fetid cells with deeply uncongenial cellmates, often in cells originally designed for one, at best twiddling their thumbs, at worst building attitudes and alliances that will almost guarantee them returning to crime the minute they are released.The way to reduce crime is to have constructive regimes; the way to have constructive regimes is to have fewer prisoners. Prison doesn't begin to work in the sense that Michael Howard had in mind. It embitters, hardens and (above all) often further disables thousands of (badly damaged) men and women each year. Are we a safer society more at ease with ourselves than when I first wrote about jails? As I scurry home, glancing furtively over my shoulder, I think not.Almost 100 years ago, Winston Churchill, then Home Secretary, sought to define a civilised society by the way it treated its prisoners. He said in 1910: 'A calm and dispassionate recognition of the rights of the accused against the state, and even of convicted criminals against the state ... these are the symbols which, in the treatment of crime and criminals, mark and measure the stored-up strength of a nation and are the sign and the proof of the living virtue in it.'When Blair, Blunkett, Reid and Straw are asked in their dotage by young reporters what they achieved, what will be their proudest boast? 'We locked 'em up, son. We locked 'em up.'