A man who beat three sisters in a “vicious and merciless” hammer attack as they slept with their young children in a luxury hotel has been jailed for life.Philip Spence, 33, bludgeoned the three women, tourists from the United Arab Emirates, in the four-star Cumberland hotel in central London and left them for dead.He hit one of his victims, Ohoud al-Najjar, 34, with such force her skull split open as her nine-year-old nephew cowered under the sheets next to her. She survived the attack, but was left with just 5% brain function, can no longer speak and lost sight in one eye.Her sisters Khulood, 36, and Fatima, 31, were both also left with life-threatening injuries and are still having medical treatment following the attack on 6 April this year.Spence, from Harlesden in north-west London, was found guilty of attempted murder at London’s Southwark crown court last month.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Cumberland hotel in London, where the attack took place. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PASentencing him to life with a minimum term of 18 years, Anthony Leonard QC said: “It is nothing short of a miracle combined with the finest medical attention that led to Ohoud surviving the attack. You used deliberate and gratuitous violence over what was needed to carry out the robbery.”Spence, who has 37 convictions for 62 offences dating back to 1993, showed no reaction as he was sentenced. He was found guilty of three counts of attempted murder and conspiracy to commit aggravated burglary.Neofitos “Thomas” Efremi, 57, from Islington, north London, was also found guilty of conspiracy to commit aggravated burglary. He was sentenced to 14 years and told he would serve half of his term before being released on licence. The court heard that Efremi, who described Spence as a “hotel creeper” to police, supplied the hammer used in the assault.James Moss, 34, who pleaded guilty to handling stolen goods, was sentenced to 21 months, suspended for two years.Leonard said it was relevant that Spence had carried out his attack in front of Khulood’s three children, aged seven, 10 and 12. “It is impossible to say what long-term affect this incident will have on the children,” the judge said.“Hardened police officers and paramedics who attended the scene said what they saw was horrendous and the worst they had seen across their careers.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Philip Spence leaving the lobby of the Cumberland hotel with a stolen suitcase. Photograph: Metropolitan police/PAThe court heard that Spence was permanently excluded from school aged eight, smoked cannabis from the age of 11 and was addicted to crack cocaine and heroin aged 18. Spence’s history of violence includes chasing his landlord with a hammer and punching a woman at council offices in 2007 as well as biting a passerby in 2011, the court heard.Jurors heard that the women left their hotel rooms unlocked on the night of the attack to allow a fourth sister to return later in the night. Spence fled the scene with a suitcase stuffed with iPads, gold jewellery and mobile phones, and dumped the hammer just outside the hotel.The fourth sister, Sheika al-Mheiri, returned later that night and discovered her sisters lying injured on the floor, with blood spattered on the walls.Prosecuting, Simon Mayo QC said CCTV footage captured Spence on a bus examining items he had stolen from the women after his attack.In emotional victim impact statements read to the court, Fatima al-Najjar said the injuries to Ohoud had left her with a “living dead sister”. “On that night I lost everything,” she said. “Seeing Ohoud like this breaks my heart.”Khulood al-Najjar said her emotions were still raw following the attack and Spence had stolen her children’s innocence. “They will never trust anyone. They are fearful about leaving home. They cannot sleep alone.”In mitigation, Spence’s barrister, William Nash, said his client had consumed a large amount of drugs at the time of the attack. “He didn’t know of any other crackhead as big as him,” Nash said. “He can’t forgive himself. He describes himself as being a totally different person. He is not unempathetic.”