Second trials in high-profile cases such as the murders of Stephen Lawrence and Damilola Taylor could be permitted under a sweeping reform of the trial system, the home secretary revealed today.The proposed shake-up of both criminal trial procedure and judicial sentencing was widely leaked in advance - but a controversial proposal to restrict the rights of defendants to a jury trial has been dropped.The white paper will eventually become Labour's 13th criminal justice bill in only five years.The most controversial measure, as predicted is set to be the partial reversal of the 800-year-old principle of the double jeopardy rule - which prevents suspects being tried a second time for an offence for which they have previously been acquitted. This will only apply in cases of murder, rape, manslaughter and armed robbery. The change will be retrospective, so that suspects who have already been acquitted could find themselves back in the dock if there is "compelling new evidence".But almost as contested will be the planned revealing of a defendant's previous convictions - where the judge agrees it is "relevant".The far-reaching nature of the plans has alarmed both opposition parties. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, told the Commons that while he approved of some of the measures, "the right to a fair trial and the presumption of innocence are a precious part of our birthright".Mr Letwin said his party would examine very carefully proposals on double jeopardy, trial by jury and previous convictions to ensure that changes not only increased the chances of convicting the guilty but also included safeguards for the innocent. Simon Hughes, for the Liberal Democrats, responded to the home secretary's 10-minute statement by objecting to the revelation of previous convictions.But Mr Blunkett insisted that the bill would "reinspire trust and confidence in the criminal justice system" and added it was time to put "the sense back into sentencing" with his other proposals - those on reformed sentencing for defendants found guilty.He insisted, following recent European pronouncements on the subject, that a "whole life tariff should mean life".Dangerous or violent offenders will be kept in prison indefinitely, even if they have not been sentenced to life, it added. Mr Blunkett revealed his frustration with the chancellor Gordon Brown's cash handout this week - in which the Home Office came off badly compared with other departments such as education and transport - when he admitted he did not have enough money to introduce all his plans. Unveiling his double jeopardy proposals, Mr Blunkett said: "With the development of DNA and forensic science it would be entirely wrong to rule out compelling new evidence that actually does show the person committed the crime. The director of public prosecutions will have to personally give the go-ahead for police to re-investigate the suspect. If there is "new and compelling evidence" the court of appeal will be asked to quash the original acquittal and order a re-trial. "If there are people out there who have committed murder and rape, I don't think anyone can justify - with their hand on their heart - saying that because it's a difficult issue we shouldn't be able to prevent that person committing such acts again," said Mr Blunkett. The white paper, entitled Justice for All, also sets out a series of new punishments to ease the pressure on overcrowded jails and reduce reoffending - such as "intermittent" custody where offenders are only locked up at weekends or at night, and "custody plus", which involves a short jail term followed by a lengthy community sentence. But on the funding issue, the home secretary said: "We have enough resources to do quite a lot of implementation alongside and immediately after the legislation. "We do not have the resources within this spending review to implement custody plus in the way it would be envisaged if it were nationwide. "The implementation of these aspects which involve substantial resources will be phased in over the next five to 10 years. "We will try to sort out the system from end to end with what I call straight common sense." The white paper revealed the rules of evidence will be "rewritten" to allow a defendant's previous convictions to be revealed during their trial in some cases. It would be up to judges to decide whether a jury should know about previous convictions, balanced against the defendant's right to a fair trial. On "indeterminate sentences" for dangerous offenders, the document says: "We want to ensure the public are adequately protected from those offenders whose offences do not currently attract a maximum penalty of life imprisonment but who are nevertheless assessed as dangerous. "We believe that such offenders should remain in custody until their risks are considered manageable in the community." Such an offender would serve their minimum term and then remain in jail until the parole board agreed they no longer posed a risk to society. They could remain on licence for the rest of their lives. Mr Blunkett said he had been struck by a case which arose four weeks after he became home secretary in which a sex offender was due for release but ministers had "no power whatsoever" to keep him inside. After he was let out, the man kidnapped and sexually assaulted a young woman, added Mr Blunkett. "We want to try to deal with that by much more rigour in the system of release," he said. The document also lays out a number of moves to reduce the number of crown court trials. Juries will be abandoned for serious fraud trials - currently numbering 15 to 20 a year - and cases where there is a risk of jurors being intimidated or "knobbled". Judges will hear such cases alone, and the government may later extend this to organised crime trials, said Mr Blunkett. Magistrates' sentencing powers will be doubled to 12 months in jail and the practice of JPs sending cases to crown court for sentencing will be abolished."We have decided that the right of defendants in these cases to elect trial by jury in the crown court ought to remain. However, this right should not be abused by defendants who hope that a sufficient case against them will not be made if they protract the process," said the paper. The home secretary said: "We are trying to provide a blueprint for the next decade." Legislation will go before parliament later this year, he added.