Since her husband's death two years ago Elizabeth Saunders has been determined it should be fully investigated. Today she accepted and respected the jury's verdict after a hearing of almost three weeks, which she attended every day.In a statement, the 42-year-old barrister said: "From the day Mark died I have been committed to ensuring that the circumstances of his death should be subjected to a thorough and independent investigation. I did not approach the process with any predetermined conclusions and I respect the verdict of the jury who have carefully considered all the evidence. I spoke at length about Mark when I gave my evidence. He was a loving and much loved husband, son, brother and friend."In legal submissions during the inquest, Elizabeth Saunders' counsel, Patrick Gibbs QC, said: "Mrs Saunders, coming into this inquest, held no preconceived views of what appropriate verdicts might be. She simply wanted to hear the officers who killed her husband, and those that presided over his death, explain why it was absolutely necessary to kill him."Mark Saunders' parents, Rodney and Rosemary, and his sister, Charlotte, left the inquest without making any comment. A source close to the family said they remained "extremely upset" and were considering what to do next. One person who has supported them through the hearing said: "It is some sort of closure but the feelings are very raw."Saunders' family have been highly critical of the police in the past, questioning why it was necessary to shoot him, and have found themselves in conflict with the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). In September 2008 Charlotte Saunders went to the high court seeking a judicial review in an attempt to have the IPCC inquiry declared unlawful.The family argued that the practice of allowing firearms officers to confer about their version of events gave rise to the risk of collusion. They launched a high court claim that echoed concerns about police procedures in the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes at Stockwell tube station in July 2005.Although the case was dismissed by Mr Justice Underhill, he did express concerns about the practice of allowing officers to confer. The Association of Chief Police Officers issued revised guidelines that said officers should document any discussions but did not ban conferring outright.