A man found dead outside a hotel at the weekend has been formally identified as a suspect in the murder of student Sally Geeson, police confirmed today.Lance Corporal David Atkinson, 31, is understood to have committed suicide by jumping from the seventh floor of a hotel in Glasgow early on Saturday after setting himself on fire.After completing DNA tests, Strathclyde police today formally identified the man found dead outside the hotel as Mr Atkinson. He was found dead about 12-hours after the remains of Ms Geeson, 22, were discovered in woodland at Madingley, near Cambridge on Friday. She had vanished in the early hours of New Year's Day after celebrating in a pub in the city. Mr Atkinson, who served with the Royal Engineers and who was based at Waterbeach near Cambridge, has been linked with the case sine last Wednesday, when army officials contacted police. Detectives were told he was missing and received other information - the details have not been publicly disclosed - which led to police linking him to the inquiry.It is understood that his behaviour towards women had caused concern and police are investigating suggestions that he may have been disciplined by the army.A police spokeswoman said today: "If anyone has any information about David Atkinson that could be relevant we would want to hear from them. We would, as a matter of course, investigate any reports of previous behaviour that might be relevant." Ms Geeson was a forensic science student at Anglia Polytechnic University in Cambridge, which said today it was "very likely" she would be awarded a posthumous degree. [ here]Detectives are also understood to have recovered clothes belonging to Ms Geeson from an area near where her naked body was found. Police have been searching close circuit television footage in Cambridge seeking images of Ms Geeson or Mr Atkinson and have also tried to locate mobile phones belonging to her and Mr Atkinson. Ms Geeson had sent several increasingly desperate text messages seeking help on the night she disappeared. Today her mother, Sue Geeson, of Southend, Essex, told the Cambridge Evening News today: "Sally was a lovely girl and a pleasure to be with. She has been robbed of her life when she had so much to offer and I have been robbed of a beautiful daughter."She said she was funny and "lovely to be around" and a "breath of fresh air". "It is so awful. We can't believe what has happened," she said.