Derek North was in no doubt. "We've got him," he said, crossing the garage forecourt at Shipton-by-Beningbrough where he usually gives drivers a hand with problems at the petrol pumps.Another apparently mundane transaction - a passerby calling to buy a box of matches - had just ended the hunt for the double murder suspect Mark Hobson, thanks to huge publicity and Mr North's seasoned eye for a face. Robin Wilson, 32, who works at Oakdale Upholstery, next door to Mr North's filling station, was checking on the owner, who is in his 80s, when he recognised Mr Hobson. He said: "He looked scruffy and was wearing dirty jeans. He didn't say anything, he was just looking at his shoes. "I phoned the police. I thought about apprehending him, but he was obviously a dangerous man. He didn't look to be all there. He was obviously in difficulty." Mr Wilson said he thought Hobson had been living rough in bushes next to his shop. He added that police were at the scene just minutes after he and Mr North had made the call to the police. He described seeing armed police pinning Hobson to the ground before he was taken away in a convoy of police vehicles. The area has been on tenterhooks since two pairs of stabbed and battered bodies were found a week ago in the usually sleepy villages of Camblesforth and Strensall, on opposite sides of York. The first to die was Claire Sanderson, 27, the girlfriend of Mr Hobson. She is thought to have been killed up to two weeks ago and left naked and wrapped in binbags in the flat. Her twin, Diane, died there on the evening of Saturday July 17, after being phoned from the flat and driving round there. The bodies were found by the twins' father and Diane's boyfriend at 8am the next day, when they drove to Camblesforth because Diane had failed to come home. Within hours, police named Mr Hobson, 34, a divorced father of three, as the main suspect. The hunt became doubly urgent three hours later, when a frail, housebound couple, James and Joan Britton, 80 and 82, were found beaten and stabbed with a kitchen knife in Strensall, 25 miles from Camblesforth. The killings were linked by forensic evidence and the biggest murder hunt of the year began. Hundreds of reported sightings poured into two operation rooms at York and North Yorkshire's force headquarters in Newby Wiske. A small force, covering a predominantly rural beat, North Yorkshire accepted help from eight other forces and commissioned outside criminal profilers through the National Crime Faculty at Bramshill in Hampshire. But friends and family of Mr Hobson, a Wakefield miner's son who became an alcoholic after his father's death and his own marriage break-up, also gave copious information. None of it suggested that the runaway had the skills to flee abroad, use convincing disguise or take to wild "survivalist" country such as the North York Moors.Detective Superintendent Javad Ali, leading the inquiry, said: "The thoughts of all of us are now with the families and friends of those who have lost their lives." But his brief media conference four hours after Mr Hobson was arrested, showed the vast relief for the shrewd but camera-shy head of North Yorkshire's central crime division, whose gut feeling had been vindicated. At daily media conferences, Mr Ali highlighted Mr Hobson's local links and underlined the likelihood that he would call in at off-licences or pubs. He also appealed to the public to keep an eye on hideaways such as sheds, moored craft on the many local waterways and farm buildings. At Shipton, locals pointed out an old barn used as a furniture store near the garage which the Norths have run for more than 50 years and said that a "scruffy rough-sleeper" had called at the village shop. Eric Roberts, 57, said he had seen "a guy in army fatigues" early on Wednesday when he walked to Shipton post office to collect his papers. He said: "He had short, cropped hair and was unshaven. "I remember thinking at the time maybe it was Hobson, but I thought no one would be stupid enough to use a shop in those circumstances. I know other people in the village had also spoken about seeing a man hanging around the place." Shipton is only a short hike across country from Strensall and has dozens of possible bolt-holes for a fugitive. Last night, police were on guard at the Norths' garage, and had taped off the barn and a field where Mr Hobson gave himself up without a struggle. Officers handcuffed him and drove him away in an armoured van escorted by patrol cars. Mr Hobson was under guard in hospital in Harrogate last night, where he was treated for "an abdominal injury".