The latest Home Office thinking on what to do about the growing overcrowding crisis in Britain's prisons emerged yesterday - orange bibs.Senior officials hope that fluorescent orange bibs could play a crucial role in persuading the courts and the public that community punishments are a better bet then sending minor offenders to prison. The idea has been floated by Martin Narey, the commissioner for correctional services, as part of a new marketing strategy of community punishments. He believes that if offenders wear the fluorescent bibs when they carry out work such as cleaning graffiti in public places, the public would have more respect for community penalties. The idea has also been canvassed that notices should be put up where offenders on community punishments are working, as another way of advertising the jobs they do, such as improving lighting in a multi-storey car park to make it safer. Mr Narey has privately acknowledged there is a danger that publicly identifying those sentenced to community work punishments could lead to stigmatisation. Indeed, the idea, which has not yet been put to ministers, has already sparked bewilderment in parts of the Home Office. "Are we going to start putting placards around their necks?" asked one official. Penal reformers dismissed it last night as a feeble response to the deepening crisis in the prisons. The relentless rise in the jail population, which increased last week to a new record of 73,379, has heightened the urgency of promoting alternatives. Mr Narey, who now has responsibility for prison and probation services, has privately admitted the current size of the jail population is "staggering", making it impossible to run decent regimes. The new marketing strategy is being thrashed out in a Whitehall review of the "correctional services", chaired by the millionaire businessman Patrick Carter and involving the Downing Street policy and strategy units, the Treasury, and the Home Office. It is due to report next month and is believed to have concluded that a key to reducing prison numbers was "better marketing of tough community punishments". At the same time, the Home Office is believed to be working on further options to reduce the prison population by at least 10,000. The home secretary, David Blunkett, is expected to announce plans within the next few weeks to introduce a weekend and evening jail scheme so that prisoners can keep their family and job ties while relieving the pressure on the prisons. Mr Blunkett outlined a radical plan, when he first became home secretary, to divert from jail many of the 30,000 short-term prisoners a year who serve sentences of six months or less. Penal reformers complained last night that, two years on, the new sentences have still to be introduced.