Inmates at a women's prison are still being made to use chamber pots at night, more than two years after the government's prisons watchdog urgently demanded an end to "slopping out" at the jail, a report published today reveals.The chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, who made an unannounced visit to Bullwood Hall prison, Essex, in December before compiling today's report, described the jail's night-time sanitary system as "degrading"."We once again criticise the inadequate automated night sanitation system. It remained disrespectful and reduced some women to the degrading use of potties," she said. The problem arises from an automated night sanitation system which requires prisoners to wait for hours for a place in an eight-woman queue to use the limited out-of-cell toilet facilities.Last week the Prison Service announced that Bullwood will be converted into a men's jail within three months because of the prison population crisis.In the days of slopping out, sluices were installed in landing recesses, enabling inmates to deposit their waste. No such facility exists at the Essex jail. The installation of sanitation inside cells was one of the main recommendations of the 1991 Woolf report after the Strangeways prison riots. Slopping out was supposedly ended nationwide by the close of the decade.In its last report at the prison, in 2004, the inspectorate demanded the urgent introduction of in-cell toilets. Today's report says there have been no changes to the arrangements, which remain "unsafe and degrading". "Prisoners continued to experience the humiliation of using chamber pots in their cells, and there was still the potential for bullying to take place when prisoners were let out of their cells to use the toilet unsupervised."Prisoners told us they spent most of their time during evening lock-up competing to get a place in the queue, which was restricted to eight prisoners at a time. This led to arguments about fairness and some women intimidated others into not using their buzzer to gain access to the toilets."The night sanitation system meant that staff could only enter the wings when the cell doors were closed, that is, when no prisoner was out using the toilet. Consequently there was also potential for delay in staff attending to prisoners being monitored for self-harm."Self-harm was among a series of further criticisms listed in the report. There were an average of 141 incidents of self-harm a month. Bullying, too, was described as "a serious problem" at Bullwood Hall.