The pioneering North Liverpool Community Justice Centre (NLCJC) launched in a different and more enlightened time (well, 2005), taking inspiration from the US. Its model was the Red Hook Community Justice Center in Brooklyn, which contributed to the regeneration of a part of Brooklyn once described as one of America's most "crack-infested" areas by Life magazine.In 2002 Lord Woolf visited Red Hook and was impressed. Then home secretary, David Blunkett, followed the lord chief justice over the Atlantic. He returned a somewhat surprising convert for an unprecedented and unlikely to be repeated experiment in our criminal justice system.Ten years later the NLCJC is a bold and radical project with a problem. It doesn't work.At least not according to a Ministry of Justice analysis released this month, the latest in a series of reports suggesting the court has made zero impact. A 2010 green paper, while positive about the better community involvement in the criminal justice process, noted the "prohibitive cost" of the centre.You don't have to be a pessimist to suspect that in this "age of austerity" - huge cuts to the MoJ budget and a court closure program - that the pioneering court's days are numbered.But ideas of "community justice" persist. The minister for policing and criminal justice Nick Herbert recently promised "swift and sure justice" and inevitably invoked an increasingly wooly notion of "community justice". He spoke of single magistrates sitting in community centres dispensing "rapid and effective justice in low-level, uncontested cases".New Labour had a bigger idea. It was a vision for a network of problem-solving US-style community justice centres tackling offending behaviour and listening to what communities expected from their courts. North Liverpool, based in a former secondary school on Boundary Lane in Kirkdale at a start up cost of £5.2m, was the only court centre built on that model - despite a proliferation of so-called "community justice centres", that were often little more than rebranding exercises.The centre covers four local authority wards with a population of 65,000 and is a hub for resources including Citizens Advice, probation and drug-treatment officers. One judge, Mr Justice Fletcher, presides over all cases. Fletcher is a powerful advocate of what he calls therapeutic jurisprudence – a phrase that might well cause many of his brethren on the bench to recoil in horror. He even once compared the role of a judge to that of a social worker.I have been to the court a number of times – the last time to make this short film. "The role of the judge in the criminal justice process has changed," Fletcher told me."At one time we were the managers of cases. We were there to ensure that the not guilty were not convicted. We were very concerned with the criminal justice process, not with outcomes."The therapeutic approach "related to the judge and court getting very much more involved in the causes of offending behavior so as to hopefully ensure there is no reoffending", he said.I also met Gary from Kirkdale. "I have been arrested so many times that I've lost count. I didn't give a shit about my life," he told me. Gary was given the option of going to prison for six weeks or doing a six month treatment program under Fletcher's close supervision. So far, so good: Gary had managed to keep a decade of alcoholism in check. As Fletcher explained it, the problem–solving approach of community justice is about "bringing everyone together, heads down, sorting out the problem there and then". The alternative was "locking people up for short periods and then releasing them back into the same community" without addressing the underlying problems, he said.Unfortunately successes like Gary weren't borne out in statistics. "There is no evidence that the community justice centre is any more effective in reducing re-offending than other courts," says the MoJ.Professor George Mair of Liverpool John Moores University, was co-author of a 2011 report which then noted studies of the centre were too soon and expectations too high. "In many ways, North Liverpool Community Justice Centre is a prophet without honour in its own country," the academic says, pointing to the interest of foreign policymakers. "I'm not at all sure it has the future it should have. The buzz that was behind it isn't there anymore." Studies of reconviction rates "don't tell the whole story", he adds.Julie Davies, a senior lecturer in criminal justice at Edge Hill University, takes issues with the research. She notes cuts to local services, including drug treatment services – an issue flagged by Fletcher - must impact on recidivism."The principles of a community justice centre are good but we're never going to get them in every magistrates' court. We can't afford them," reflects John Thornhill, a former chairman of the Magistrates Association and a local magistrate reckons. "We have to think about what we mean by community justice," Thornhill continues. "It goes back to the Magna Carta and when the magistracy were first established in 1361."Quite. Jim Murray, a Liverpool defence lawyer, offers a stark contract between NLCJC and neighboring Sefton magistrates. He says the latter has around 300 magistrates and its jurisdiction stretches to Southport, some 17 miles away."So the same magistrates more or less certainly will not be dealing with the same defendants,' Murray says. There is "no continuity and no local knowledge of dysfunctional families"."I'm dealing with the same families time and time again. I've seen several generations of the same family. They come out of jail. They have no structure, nothing to deal with their drug habit, no one to help with housing problems,"he says . "You might as well not bother putting them in jail in the first place."