It was hard to say who would have been more traumatised: the red-eyed burglar in a ski mask or the naked rock star with a weak bladder he stumbled across in the dead of night.But it was Ozzy Osbourne, a man who once bit the heads off bats on stage for a living, who appeared more terrified than terrifying a day after eight blinging pieces of jewellery were snatched from his bedside as he slept with his wife, Sharon, in their Buckinghamshire mansion.Hunched in a black T-shirt colourfully layered with a black suit and black coat, the Prince of Darkness turned reality TV phenomenon relived the moment he held an intruder in a headlock before the robber fled by jumping from a first-floor window of the singer's £3m home in Chalfont St Peter. "At the time when I had a go at the assailant, I acted purely on impulse," the famously incoherent former Black Sabbath singer mumbled. "In hindsight it could've been a lot worse. I could have been like George Harrison [who was stabbed in his own home]. I could have been badly injured or shot or anything." As a hellraiser (retired), Ozzy, 55, has a long history of feeling tired and emotional. But it was not a hangover but the shock of the break-in that led him to raise his hands yesterday and appeal for the paparazzi to halt the popping of flashbulbs that were piercing his black shades. The media circus had rolled into leafy rockstar-land braced for a string of expletives. Sky apparently broadcast the police press conference with a time delay. But the experience must have mellowed Ozzy. The most violent expletives - a smattering of arses, goddamns and pisses - were uttered by his wife. On Sunday evening the couple attended a birthday party for Sir Elton John's partner, David Furnish, at the Ivy, before retiring at an unrockstarly hour and turning off their burglar alarm. While they slept, two burglars scaled the wood and barbed-wire fences that surround the four-hectare (10-acre) property and used a ladder to climb into a first-floor bedroom. At 4am, Ozzy rose to visit the bathroom and stumbled into a burglar, wearing a light jacket and trainers, "collecting" jewellery, including the two wedding bands Sharon took off and put by their marital bed that night. The robbery left Ozzy contrasting life in his crime-ridden home country with the terrors of Los Angeles, where they lived for 12 years and never once fell victim to something scary: from Ozzy's lips it sounded like "drive-by sausages"."We've spent a lot of time in America where we could have been mugged, shot, murdered," he said, waving a left wrist hung with a chunky gold bracelet the burglars must have missed. "People get shot everyday and there are stalkers and drive-by shootings. "We've been over here a couple of months and all this has happened. It doesn't give me a very good reflection about the state of crime in this country," he added. You knew what he meant. The man with "Ozzy" tattooed on his left hand then turned schoolmasterly and chided the criminal classes of Britain. "I'm very disappointed," he said. "It's not just LA. The world is getting more and more ... There are a lot of people ... Crime must be on the rise."For a moment, he turned into a big soft hippie. "I'm happy in one respect because it could have got really ugly and I'm just happy no one got injured ... My wife and myself didn't get injured or any of the assailants. I wouldn't want anyone to get injured." But then he turned a shade Tony Martin. Asked whether he would grapple with a burglar again, he replied: "Is the Pope a Catholic?" Thames Valley police sympathised with the sentiment. "You can't turn around and give people advice about what happens instinctively," said Paul Miller, the detective inspector leading the investigation. After describing each item of jewellery, for which they and their insurers have put up a £100,000 reward - believed to be a 10th of its total value - Sharon, 52, stressed what Ozzy called "the sentiment" behind their finery. "I'm sure that a lot of people look at it and say, 'They've got more than us, they could buy it again and there are more serious things happening in the world - who really gives a damn?' But the thing is, you know, we worked for everything. I came from Brixton, Ozzy came from not a very nice part of Birmingham, and everything we've got we worked our arses off for. "If I chose to make an investment for my kids, that's my business. I worked for every goddamn penny and when somebody comes who hasn't worked and wants to take what's yours, it pisses me off big time." It was left to Ozzy to mutter that "you can't buy sentiment". The TV cameras may have left their home but the Osbournes' turbulent reality soap opera of a life - and Ozzy's surprising charm - just keeps going. Before the rocker sped home in his black BMW X5, he mused: "We've had our fair share of good and bad luck. The success of The Osbournes, then Sharon got cancer, then we found the kids were taking drugs, then I had the motorcycle accident, and now we've been burgled. You gain on the roundabouts and lose on the swings - what more can you do?"