We have all heard of people moving into particular catchment areas to get their children into better schools, but what if women who have been raped and battered had to do the same to access specialist sexual violence services? A report, published today by End Violence against Women with the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), finds that victims of male violence face a "postcode lottery" when seeking support.Map of Gaps: The Postcode Lottery of Violence against Women Support Services, found that despite almost four decades of feminist campaigning to raise awareness about the urgent need for refuges, rape crisis centres and counsellors trained in the affects of sexual and domestic abuse, one third of local authorities in the UK have no such services.The report makes depressing reading. Most women in the UK do not have access to a rape crisis centre, and fewer than one in 10 local authorities provide for minority ethnic women escaping or recovering from attempted "honour" crimes, forced marriage or female genital mutilation. Almost a third of local authorities have no specific domestic violence services, and fewer than one in 10 have services for women in prostitution.It is not as if sexual violence only affects small numbers. Every year, 3 million women across the UK experience some form of gender-based violence. The perpetrators are more often than not men known to the victim. So why are some towns and cities, such as Birmingham and Sheffield, relatively well off in terms of service provision, when regions like the east and north west of England, and Northern Ireland, have very little to offer those suffering such human rights abuses?With the recent implementation of the gender equality duty - a law requiring all public bodies to promote equality between women and men - the EHRC claims that the quality and quantity of services for women experiencing violence will be a key test for how it will judge government departments and local authorities in terms of whether they meet their legal obligations. It is threatening legal action against those that fail to act. Trevor Phillips, chair of the EHRC, warns that without adequate support, many women are in serious danger of becoming trapped in "a spiral of despair".There are more refuge spaces for abused and stray cats and dogs in the UK than for women and their children escaping domestic violence. For those who wish to stop smoking, there are more places to go for instant access to help than for women who feel their lives are in danger from a former partner. Professor Liz Kelly, one of the authors of the report, says that the government must recognise the "Cinderella status" of the provision of sexual violence support services at the local level.We should be looking towards Scotland as an example of good practice, says Kelly, where services are distributed more equally across the country than in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. The Scottish executive recognises that sexual violence is a barrier to women's equality. Indeed, it is the only country within the UK where the rape crisis movement is expanding as opposed to diminishing.The UK government places far more emphasis on health issues such as smoking and drink-driving than violence towards women and children. It is a disgrace that, despite the so-called commitment of the government to condemn violence towards women, and to protect the vulnerable from violent and sexual crime, that if you are raped, the support you get will depend on where you live. juliebindel@yahoo.co.uk