The head of the UK's equivalent of the FBI has admitted that his agency has yet to make a significant impact, and that it has been bedevilled by organisational problems since its launch.Sir Stephen Lander, who runs the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca), said mistakes had been made, though he insisted that it was working through them.The Guardian has learned, however, that there is severe disenchantment among staff. Hundreds of officers are said to want to be transferred back to their former organisations. An unpublished internal Mori survey shows that less than 5% are satisfied with the way that Soca is being run.There is also mounting political pressure, with MPs demanding to know why it has achieved so little, particularly in combating drugs.Sir Stephen, a former MI5 chief, acknowledged that Soca was facing problems ahead of the agency's first anniversary this weekend. "This is a marathon and not a sprint. I said from the start, it's three to five years before you should expect significant impact," he said."There are some things we did not get right organisationally at the start. We might have had a slightly difficult transfer of people. It was initially bumpy back in 2005...Soca has a very clear vision - it's just that it isn't shared by absolutely everyone outside the agency."If you start with four different agencies and 360 different IT systems and 37 pay ranges and 60 buildings, many in the wrong place, you have some housekeeping to sort out."Many former police officers are reported to have asked to "return to force", and 144 former Customs officers have shown interest in going back to their old department, according to law enforcement sources.Senior Soca staff have been sent round regional offices on "morale boosting" tours. An eyewitness at one meeting in the West Midlands said a respected former police officer described Soca as "shit", with no quality work or leadership.Soca has taken over key roles from intelligence agencies, immigration, customs, and police. It has also succeeded in absorbing the Assets Recovery Agency and is alleged to have cast eyes over the Serious Fraud Office.But bureaucracy appears to be lowering morale. In November, 147 officers who signed Soca contracts were told salaries had been miscalculated. Some moved homes and took out mortgages only to be told to pay back money.Since Soca was launched by Tony Blair to "make life hell" for organised crime, published figures show UK drug seizures have fallen rather than risen. Despite having more than 4,000 officers and an annual budget of £400m, the would-be premier crime agency has prosecuted an average of just 30 people a month in its first year.Critics say drugs are cheaper to buy than ever. David Burrowes, the Conservative MP for Enfield Southgate, who is a member of parliament's addiction working group, said: "There is a tide of drugs on the streets. We need to know whether Soca have taken their eye off the ball."As drug investigators transferred across to join Soca, total seizures fell in 2005-06. Between 2003-04 and 2005-06, cocaine seizures dropped from 20,727kg to 5,798kg and cannabis from 57,617kg to 41,611kg.The parallel fall in heroin seizures, from 1,626kg to 1,057kg, went against a wider trend, because Afghanistan raised opium production and seizures rose elsewhere in Europe.Mr Burrowes called the figures "shocking, especially when you compare the current ease of availability of drugs". Soca needed time, but he was concerned about evidence of breakdowns in communication with other agencies. Soca says that 40% of its resources are aimed at drugs - about 1,600 officers - and Sir Stephen predicts that Soca will soon reveal record cocaine hauls.David Raynes, a member of the international taskforce on strategic drug policy, said: "The UK is awash with heroin, mainly from Turkish traffickers, yet there has been a drop in effectiveness from when Customs were the lead agency."All intelligence from "cold detections" that Customs picked up at ports was intended to be passed to Soca. But it has taken up only a "handful" of 350 such referrals, according to sources. Many referrals now end up with regional police forces and their "middle market" drugs teams but they do not have the necessary budgets or staff.Sir Stephen rejected the criticism. "I don't recognise the idea that we have taken up our ball and run away. We are spending more than the former national police agencies were in some of these areas in supporting law enforcement colleagues. I can understand why people might be saying it, because we are not part of the police service."One senior law enforcement source told the Guardian that heads may soon roll. "Stories of profligacy abound. There has been overgrading for many and consequent salaries overspend, and little money for investment in IT."Mr Raynes, a former senior customs officer, says: "The way Soca is organising itself, particularly in the way it gathers and uses intelligence, is adversely affecting performance."Critics claim money is wasted on surveillance of domestic criminals - the old National Crime Squad "core nominal" system. Drug traffickers are now frequently based outside the UK, and thus unaffected."Soca doesn't really know whether it is a sort of MI7 or a super-police force," according to one source. "There are some good, highly motivated officers, but a feeling the organisation is poorly managed."As another source put it: "Soca is an agency in search of a role."