Defendants cleared of murder could face a second trial under proposals from the Law Commission today which are expected to become law if Labour is re-elected.The change could theoretically open the way for a new trial for the men suspected of killing the black teenager Stephen Lawrence, but the adverse publicity they received would probably bar any fresh attempt to prosecute them. Jack Straw, the home secretary, asked the commission, the official law reform body for England and Wales, to look at possible changes to the ancient law of double jeopardy, which states that no one who has been convicted or acquitted of an offence can be tried a second time on the same facts. The inquiry into Stephen Lawrence's death, headed by Sir William Macpherson, recommended a review of the law, adding: "Perhaps in modern times such absolute protection may sometimes lead to injustice." The commission recommends that, in murder cases only, a fresh trial should be possible if "compelling" new evidence of guilt emerges after the defendant is found not guilty. The change would be retrospective, applying to acquittals, such as those of three of the Lawrence suspects, which have already happened. Under current law, Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and Gary Dobson, three of the five suspects, cannot be retried because they were formally acquitted after a private prosecution launched by the Lawrence family following the crown prosecution service's decision that there was insufficient reliable evidence to prosecute. The collapse of the family's prosecution in 1996 sparked outrage when the three suspects were cleared after a judge ruled that identification evidence was unreliable. The Home Office's national crime faculty has calculated that there are currently 35 murder cases where defendants who were acquitted could be reinvestigated and new charges brought if the law is changed retrospectively. Lawyers yesterday argued that it would be unfair and oppressive to remove the ancient protection of the double jeopardy rule. Roy Amlot QC, chairman of the bar council, said: "In principle, it cannot be right for somebody who has been acquitted to be tried again, albeit for murder. It has to be unfair to put someone through the stress of a trial without finality. It tempts sloppy investigation by the police if they think that, should things go wrong, they may be able to have another crack at some time in the future." John Wadham, director of the civil rights organisation, Liberty, said: "The protection of double jeopardy is a fundamental part of our criminal justice system, and we increase the chances of innocent people being convicted if we remove it. People who have been arrested and prosecuted and who would have been locked up for months before trial should be free once they have been acquitted by a jury." The leading defence barrister Geoffrey Robertson QC said a retrospective change in the law would almost certainly be a breach of human rights. He welcomed the recommendation to allow second trials in technical acquittals, but said it was "irrational" to confine the change in the double jeopardy rule to murder trials and exclude "repetitive, professional" crime such as armed robbery. "Abolishing the rule of double jeopardy after a full trial and jury acquittal is unprincipled and impractical," he added. "The police will never look for anyone else after a defendant is acquitted of murder. They will just keep on after him, trying to trap him and to dig up 'fresh' evidence to justify their original decision to prosecute." In a second proposal, also likely to be enacted, the commission recommends that the prosecution should be given a new right to appeal against acquittals which result from judges' rulings. These include cases where the judge decides the prosecution should not go ahead because of adverse publicity, or where the judge rules crucial evidence inadmissible, making it impossible for the crown to go ahead. That issue was referred to the commission last May by the attorney general, Lord Williams of Mostyn, who said he thought there was an imbalance in the system. If the judge's decision could not be tested on appeal, he asked in a lecture last November, "are we not allowing a system in which judges are unaccountable to the appeal courts as to a crucial aspect of their responsibilities, at the very time that we are providing them with greater powers through the implementation of the Human Rights Act?" Judge Alan Wilkie QC, who headed the commission's inquiry, said: "We believe these new recommendations recognise the need to enhance public confidence in the criminal justice system by enabling manifestly questionable acquittals in serious cases to be called into question, whilst paying proper regard to the fundamental principle that it is not legitimate for the state to continue to pursue a person who has been found not guilty after due process."