Footballer Steven Gerrard denied today that he lost control on the night he punched a man in a bar brawl.The England international told a court he was used to "mither" (bother) and had ways of smoothing over trouble when confronted by people.Gerrard, who denies affray, told Liverpool crown court he was having a great night on 28 December last year as he celebrated Liverpool's 5-1 defeat of Newcastle United.The star began his evening with friends at a bar in Formby, Merseyside, then went on to the Vincent hotel in Southport before attending the Lounge Inn, where trouble flared.The jury has heard that the 29-year-old estimated he was seven out of 10 on a drunkenness scale. But he told the court today: "I certainly knew I had had a drink. I was certainly in control of how I felt in my surroundings."Gerrard went into the witness box shortly before 11am. His barrister, John Kelsey-Fry QC, told the jury and public gallery: "Obviously, there is no need to give an introduction to the captain of Liverpool football club."The QC began by explaining that the father-of-two had been in trouble with the police before. When he was 19 he was banned from driving for nine months for drink-driving."Have you been in trouble with the police since then?" asked the barrister."No," replied Gerrard, who was wearing a blue suit."Have you been involved in any other violent incident?" asked Kelsey-Fry."No," replied the Liverpool captain.He said he suffered "a lot of mither", not just in bars, but at traffic lights, shopping centres and in restaurants."What sort of mither?" asked his QC."For example, because I am a footballer, sometimes I get supporters coming up to me, be they Liverpool fans or Everton or Manchester United fans, and sometimes the comments can be derogatory or insulting."So I try to deal with it in the best way I can."He added: "I try to talk to them and smooth it over."Gerrard said he was given permission by the club manager to choose music from a stereo Marcus McGee was operating.Recalling McGee allegedly grabbing a music card menu from his hand, Gerrard said: "I asked Sabrina for permission to have an input into the music and she gave me permission to go over to the machine and have a look at the menu."It was a small A4-sized piece of paper covered in a plastic cover with numerous songs and then you speak to a member of staff if you want anything on. I looked for the music card and picked it up."I was looking at the music card for a couple of seconds for my songs and it was snatched out of my hands by a guy I didn't know at that time but I now know to be Marcus McGee. That's when I first spoke to Marcus McGee."Asked what McGee said to him, Gerrard apologised to the jury for his language before replying: "He said to me: 'You are not putting no fucking music on in here'. I was shocked and tried to speak to him and asked him what his problem was."I asked why I couldn't have an input in the music and tried to explain that I had permission from the manageress."Kelsey-Fry asked: "Did he explain it?", to which Gerrard replied: "No."Explaining how it came to an end, the footballer said: "He turned away from me and wasn't really listening to what I was trying to say and he swore at me a couple of times and we had an argument for four or five seconds and then he walked away."I remember asking a member of the bar staff if they saw the incident and what the guy's problem was, and the bar guy said he never saw it really, but told me to forget it."The trial continues today.