The case for halting the growth of Britain's prison population as a way of cutting crime has gone largely unheard since the home secretary, Jack Straw, launched his own version of "prison works". But yesterday an alliance of 40 voluntary organisations involved in the criminal justice system, led by the former Conservative home secretary, Lord Hurd, launched a joint manifesto for penal reform dedicated to spreading the message that, for some, "prison is an expensive way of making bad people worse". The manifesto, published under the banner of the Penal Affairs Consortium, has the backing of prison governors, chief probation officers and many others. It calls for a reduction in the unnecessary use of imprisonment and an increase in the use of community sentences that have been shown to work. Among its 70 recommendations are: • Setting up a sentencing council as part of the court of appeal to issue detailed guidance on sentencing designed to reduce the unnecessary use of prison. • Making sure the full range of community penalties is available to all courts, revising rules on use of sentences to stress the use of non-custodial punishments for minor offences. • Introducing a new prison rule to stipulate that no jail should hold more inmates than it has places for, with compliance to be achieved over a "realistic" period. • Providing high quality drug and alcohol prevention and treatment programmes across the criminal justice system. • Establishing an official inquiry into women's prisons and developing a network of small, close to home, hostel-type units to be used for the majority of female inmates. • Authorising more generous compensation arrangements for the victims of crime, with immediate payment and, if necessary, later recovery from the offender. Cedric Fulwood, chairman of the Penal Affairs Consortium, says: "We believe that our proposals provide a blueprint for a penal system which is more effective in cutting crime, rehabilitating offenders and reducing the distress of victims. At the centrepiece of our proposals lies the replacement of unnecessary prison sentences with community supervision programmes based on evidence of what works in reducing offending. This would enable the prison service to provide humane, constructive regimes for a more manageable number of prisoners." The manifesto is bound to prove influential. Hurd, president of the Prison Reform Trust, recently warned Tory leader William Hague not to regard prisons as "simply wastepaper baskets into which we can toss those of our fellow citizens about whom we wish to hear nothing further". • A Joint Manifesto for Penal Reform 2000 is available from the Penal Affairs Consortium, 169 Clapham Manor Road, London SW9 0PU.