 The control roomNew recruits to the control room of Kentish Town police station are readied for service with a reminder that one in three calls made to 999 is a non-emergency. When someone rings 999 and it's unclear whether they want the fire, ambulance or police service, their call defaults to the police. Psychiatric inpatients ring 999 for a chat, because it's the only free number they can use apart from the operator's. Foreign tourists in Britain commonly know of only one way to contact the police: by ringing 999. With this in mind, new control-room recruits are given a headset, a desk in a gloomy first-floor office where the radio plays Heart FM, and the task of dealing with up to 400 emergency callers a day. On a damp afternoon in June, Paul, Suzette, Jane and Mick, three of them civilians, one an officer on light duties, assemble for the late shift. Such is the flood of emergency calls to police operators that they log on to their computers to find 20 outstanding emergencies from the previous shift. Among them are: a shoplifter brandishing a needle at the Camden Town branch of Sainsbury's; a man collapsed at home after a suspected overdose of diazepam and methadone; an ice-cream van causing an obstruction outside Camden Town tube station; and a man conducting what an eyewitness describes as a "naked prayer dance" in the middle of Finchley High Road. "Another one gone bolo," says Paul before snapping on his headset. The officer in charge is Sergeant Jennie Coultham. A woman of unflappable good humour, she is constantly amazed by the public's ability to overreact. She keeps a photo of the actor Sean Bean handy, to lift her mood when things go pear-shaped. "I'm 52 years old," she says. "My days of chasing 18-year-old robbers down the road are over." Jennie prefers to work in Kentish Town's computer-aided dispatch (CAD) room, the Metropolitan police service's busiest, prioritising calls on a scale of I for immediate, S for soonish and E for extended. An I-grade call must be dealt with inside 12 minutes if it is to meet government targets; an S-grade call is given an hour. "We missed all our charter targets last night," says Jennie, turning her computer on and summoning a status report for Belgravia station, a sedate corner in the neighbouring borough of Westminster. (She does this throughout the shift as a sort of self-flagellating yardstick.) "Four calls outstanding!" she says in disgust. "And they have the same number of staff as we have." The previous night was a record-breaker. The station's switchboard never had fewer than 10 calls waiting. Scotland Yard was so busy, its 999 calls were diverted to Kentish Town. There should have been six people on the station's outer switchboard, but because of sick leave there were only four. The massive switching centres in Putney and Kingsbury, designed to manage the capital's non-emergency calls by weeding out time-wasters and transferring the rest to the CAD rooms of local stations, were of limited help. "Loads of them are temps," an operator on the outer switchboard complains. "They don't know how to grade, so you'll have a guy ringing in saying there's a man in his shop with a gun to his head and he'll be put on hold for five minutes. They're understaffed, too. If people ring in asking where the cops are, how do you tell them they're 54th in the queue?" "You have to laugh," says Jennie. "Not out of disrespect, but because what else can you do?" When she hands over the shift at 9pm, 63 calls requiring an immediate response remain unassigned.   2.30pm  It is raining, and rain, they say, is worth 20 officers on the beat. This afternoon there are 34, helping to cover an area of 8.4 square miles and nearly 200,000 people. "Residents of Hampstead would be horrified if they knew they were being policed on a Friday night by three cars and a sergeant," says Jennie. Still, it's an hour into the shift and the backlog is clearing. The man dying of an overdose turns out to have a stomach ulcer. The shoplifter is arrested; the ice-cream van and the naked man are moved on. There is a disturbance at a homeless hostel, which Jennie upgrades from an S to an I when the man becomes violent, but apart from that, it all looks qui.... "... Noooo!" screams Suzette. "Never say the q-word. Never." She and Paul are channel-one operators, the most experienced on shift, responsible for assigning incidents to the officers best suited to dealing with them. At 3.10pm, she gets a call concerning a two-year-old girl left in the care of her mother's flatmate. The caller says the child is dirty and covered in bruises. While Suzette sends a squad car, Jennie brings up a match on the computer. The mother is a heroin addict who went awol four months earlier, leaving her daughter with a babysitter. Jennie calls a senior officer and asks for authorisation to take the child into protective custody.  3.30pm  A man is lying in a passage next to Pret à Manger with a needle in his arm. "That's a 12-minute job," says Jennie. A hotel manager calls to complain that a drug addict is lolling about outside his foyer. There is a CCTV picture. Paul peers at it. "Isn't that our naked guy?" he says. The man is clothed, propped up against a pillar. Paul shrugs. "Maybe not. Anyway, he's not committing an offence." A repeat caller rings in. "She's not playing with a full deck, bless her," says Jennie. "She rang twice yesterday. I might send someone round if she persists." "Madam," says Mick, taking the call, "if you could stop shouting. Yes, yes... no... yes... Has an offence actually been committed? Do you need our help? No madam, I am the police."   4.30pm  A man in Archway has slipped on a noxious substance. An officer called Debbie is sent to investigate. At the homeless hostel, violence has reignited 10 minutes after two officers left having apparently resolved it. The hotel manager rings again, furious that nothing is being done about the drug addict. "We can't section him," says Suzette patiently, "because he isn't mad." Paul says: "Can't we move him round the corner or something?" Another unit rings in. They have arrived at the two-year-old's house. They think she has malnutrition.   5pm  Jane is on channel three, trying to get hold of social services. Channel three is used for operational matters such as calling ambulances. "This is the guts of it," she says. "I hate channel one. It's constantly in your ear, chatter chatter chatter, and when officers say they can't attend I take it personally. Accuracy, brevity and speed, that's what it's about. My job begins when channel one assigns a message and I do everything possible to stop the police having to go round. If it can be resolved on the phone, I'll do it. I was one of the first civvies here, the only woman. I worked bloody hard to get their respect." A senior officer tells Jennie to bring the two-year-old into the station. "I don't think a police station is the place for a two-year-old child," she says after he has gone. "I want her at the Royal Free hospital. They say there's a two-hour wait for the police doctor." "What are we supposed to do with her in the meantime?" asks Jane. "He wants me to put her in the canteen." "There's a health and safety issue there..." "... if the kid is crawling with lice." "I hate kids." A woman rings in to report two men who knocked on her door claiming to be from the water board. "I couldn't see any ID so I didn't let them in," she says. "Good for you," says Suzette.   5.41pm  Five people are injecting drugs in what the reporting officer tremulously calls "full view of women and children". "Oh," says Jennie, "that's nice." She has been overruled on the two-year-old. The wait for the police doctor is down to 40 minutes; the child will be at the station in 10. Channel one is starting to simmer. Youths in an old white Metro are doing handbrake turns on the Finchley Road. A large group has congregated in a nearby playground. "Disturbance pending," says Paul. "We've been stopping and searching for weapons." He calls another division for help on a hunch that "it might be some of their local toerags". Forty minutes after dialling, Jane is still on hold for social services.   6.08pm  Debbie has located the noxious substance. "Looks like oil, sarge. Our noxious substance expert, who is Sonia for today, thinks it's oil or drain sludge. Can we get someone from the council to put some sand on it?" Jennie turns to Jane: "Seeing as you've been on hold at Camden for fucking an hour and 12 minutes, do you want to get 'em to sort this one out as well?"   7.10pm  This is the last chance to do a McDonald's run before the team get sewn to their seats for Friday-night mayhem. Eleven incidents, some from Scotland Yard, are unassigned. The Yard is perceived by other stations as tiresomely self-important. "I love it when the Yard tries to stitch us up," Jennie says. "Listen to this one: a man had his camera stolen. Any witnesses? No. Any suspects? No. Any CCTV? No. 'Well, we won't send anyone round,' I tell them. 'We can do it over the phone.' Only the Yard promised them someone. I hate it when they promise something on our behalf." A flurry of calls from Hampstead comes in: a missing person, a bag snatch, a burglary, a malicious phone call. "They get one malicious call. One. And they ring 999." Jennie shakes her head at the infinite pitifulness of human nature. Three men are taking heroin outside the central-London offices of Bloomberg. A young officer volunteers to take it. "You're both gentlemen in that car," says Jennie. "Thank you."  8pm  Despite her initial misgivings, Jennie decides to send someone round to deal with the malicious call. "It does the younger officers good to do a bit of investigation. Otherwise they go from fight to fight to fight, never getting experience." Paul says: "Another classic just in from the Yard. They've written, 'Child found wondering.' What is he wondering about, I wonder?" "The meaning of life," says Jennie. "We do have a laugh here," says Jane.   8.35pm  Paul puts out a call to all units. "There's a group of religious personages outside Camden Town tube station. Can anyone in the area tell the people using the public address system to move on; local residents have got children trying to sleep." They squint at CCTV footage of a man shouting into a megaphone. "Why doesn't he take his doomsday news to Islington?" sighs Mick.   8.50pm  "You start to get really tired now," says Jennie. "It's a long uphill slog from here." She flicks to the screen for Belgravia and snorts. "I s'pose we're quite proud that we cope with all this work." In Hampstead, a four-year-old has got his hand stuck in a bike chain. Paul takes the call and hangs up, incredulous. "Why do they call us?" he asks. "Where's the crime?" "Maybe the kid was trying to nick it," says Mick. "Let's get the AA out too," scoffs Jennie. "They're the fourth emergency service." Mick looks at the CCTV screen and shakes his head sadly. "See how much the council spends on pavements every year? And everyone wants to walk in the middle of the fucking road." It is 10 minutes until sign-off. Jennie looks at the clock. "Three more years," she says, "and I'm retiring to Brisbane." At five to nine the station erupts. The child, hitherto minded in the canteen by a woman constable, has found the panic alarm.  The front desk Pam Clark and Cathy Power are sentries at the gate: the first point of contact for the aggrieved, the paroled, the stranded, the insane, the flat-broke and people looking for a toilet. Pushing her glasses up the bridge of her nose, Cathy says: "You talk to people for half an hour before you realise they're not the full ticket. People who hear voices in the pipes, or George Bush talking to them through the telly." She flicks her fringe. "Mad as badgers." Cathy is a 35-year-old former traffic warden. She staffs the front desk of Kentish Town police station with Pam, 32, also a former warden. Along with dispensing stationery, housing stray dogs, repulsing time-wasters and signing for lost property, they perform the key task of taking crime reports from the public. They absorb insults like flannel. "Because we were wardens, we're used to the language side," says Cathy. "Whatever illness is topical that year, they'll say they hope we get it. There are very few things we haven't been called." Since joining the Met, Cathy has grown more cynical about human nature. You get the odd faith-restorer, she says, but generally people are rude and impatient. "They'll be like, 'We just want to report something quick.' But nothing in this station is quick." "You queue at the doctor's, you queue at the dentist's. But people come to the police station and they expect to be served immediately," says Pam. "You'll have someone come in with a hand grenade he found in his garden and he'll leave it on the counter and leg it." "People come in with their junk mail, saying, 'I keep getting all this mail and I don't want it,' " says Cathy. "And I'm like, 'We don't want it either.' " "You get people who've split up, claiming their partners have stolen their cars," says Pam. "You get parents coming in saying their kids have been missing for days and they can't even tell you what they were wearing," says Cathy. "One time I had a man in here threatening to cut his throat," says Pam. "I made him a cup of tea."   10.43am  On shift with Pam and Cathy this morning is PC Brian Tinker, on light duties after putting his foot through a drain while chasing a burglar. He tends to a man whose van has been broken into. "Let me get this straight," says Brian. "They left the dress worth £20,000 and took your drill?" Officers hate front-desk duty. They say it's too much grief. On patrol they might make one arrest per shift, but on the front desk, people come in every few minutes generating paperwork. Friday and Saturday nights are peak times for assaults; Sunday morning, when the clubs empty, is rush hour for drug busts. Tuesday is the day for muggings. "We get a lot of reported 'thefts' on a Tuesday," says Cathy. "It's the day after benefit day and you get people saying, 'I came out of the post office and they took all my money and I hadn't spent a penny of it.' Of course, they can't give you a description."  1.20pm  "I was walking down the street - it's not funny, right - and this guy goes, 'Do you want to buy a laptop for £200?' So I went to the bank, gave the guy the money, and when I opened the case, look what I saw." The young man heaves a laptop case on to the front desk and unzips it. Inside are four half-filled water bottles. His mate sniggers. Brian suppresses a smirk. "You've been had, son," he says. "Yeah? Well what are you gonna do about it?" "There's not a lot we can do, besides arresting you." "Wassat?" "You were willing to buy goods that were stolen. We could arrest you for that. At the end of the day, you thought you could get something for bugger all, for nowt. You've been had." "I never knew it was stolen..." "Listen, he's just had you. It's life experience. There's nothing we can do. My advice is go to Dixons and buy something with a warranty." The boy's mate sniggers again. Brian says: "I think your mate understands." The boy trails out looking wounded. His mate says: "Any one want any water?" The queue shuffles up one.   2pm  A man with a bandage over his face steps forward and says he's been poked in the eye with a rolled-up magazine. He's a parking attendant. Cathy is sympathetic. "When did it happen, lovey?" she says. Aware that the incident is vulnerable to mockery, Cathy ignores the magazine element and enters "Victim attacked with a long object causing injuries" in the crime report. "The ticket office didn't even drive him to hospital," she says with disgust when he has gone. "They should know it will weaken his case if he doesn't see a doctor straight away. These people get assaulted sometimes twice a week." She completes the form and sends it upstairs to the crime management office, where it will be either allocated for investigation or shelved. "I always write, 'Victim pleased with service,' " says Cathy, "unless they've got really shirty."   3pm  A tramp wanders in looking for a toilet. Cathy tells him there isn't one. He sways like a tree in the centre of the room while people on metal chairs pull in their feet. "If you don't need our help, get your bag and leave," says Cathy. He sways a bit more. "The nearest toilet," she says, "is McDonald's." Gathering himself for articulation, the tramp hitches up his trousers and, ignoring the look of horror that passes through the room (will he reach for his flies while he's down there?), says with dignity: "Well done, darling." Having thus recovered himself, he picks up his bag and leaves. A man at the back of the queue takes the opportunity to push to the counter. "What bus do I get to Borough?" he asks. "I haven't a clue," says Brian.   4pm  Brian is on his break. Pam has clocked off. Cathy is alone on the desk. A man walks in with blood pouring from his head. "I'm not fucking taking it," he mutters vaguely. Cathy rolls her eyes, rings for an officer to attend and says: "This is the kind of scenario." "Do you know what you've been hit with?" she enunciates in his ear. "No." Cathy puts on plastic gloves and starts mopping his head. "I'm going to call you an ambulance." "I don't want one. I want you to go round and arrest her." "I'm not taking a report while you've got a head injury. I'm not having you collapse on me. Paperwork can be done later, OK?" "OK." A young officer comes in and leads the man through a door to the back of the police station. "You're an angel," says Cathy. "You had the worst of it," he says. The queue shifts up one. A woman steps forward to report the theft of her son's motorbike. "There's only one computer," says Cathy. "If you'd like to take a seat, ma'am, I'll be with you in a minute."