When is someone going to get tough on crime? I mean really tough. Ridiculous, scandalous, a shambles, was the tabloid reaction yesterday to the new sentencing guidelines on mugging from the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips. The tabloids are right. The guidelines are shocking. Why can't these judges just get tough?I love the language of criminal outrage. It fixes a stereotype and feeds it intravenously into the political bloodstream. Weak ministers, especially in the Home Office, live in holy terror of it. Downing Street press officers quake under its lash.I regard myself as tough on crime, particularly violent, alcoholic and drug-related youth crime. I want it stopped. I long for some politician to come along to get a grip on it. The nocturnal horror on Britain's streets is so shameful that the gloves must come off. At each new outrage I scream for toughness.But what is tough? Yesterday's guidelines supersede those of Lord Phillips's predecessor, Lord Woolf, issued in 2002. Woolf, regarded by the tabloids as a soft judge, was desperate to be seen as cracking down on an epidemic of mobile-phone robbers. He said they should all go to prison, even if no weapon or personal injury was involved. Woolf was a good chief justice but susceptible to media terrorisation. Though the 2002 guideline was widely ignored by magistrates and judges, imprisonment soared under his regime. At 75,000 it broke all known records. There are twice as many Britons in jail as 25 years ago, 50% above the proportionate rate in France and Germany. Britain imprisons more children than any country in Europe and more women than ever in the country's history. It is close to barbaric.Guidelines do not "work" in any meaningful sense since most courts rightly pay more attention to the individual criminal than the guideline. Bloodthirsty pronouncements on mugging and murder are chiefly of interest to the media and politics. Minor mugging offences are getting to be daily occurrences in most city streets. The only deterrent would be the beat police officer of fond memory. The punishment of imprisonment removes any hope of restorative justice or rehabilitation. It ruins a young life and costs the state £37,000 a year. Today, for all the guidelines, street violence and robbery continue, with iPods replacing mobiles. In a nutshell, the policy was stupid.Phillips is sensibly rescinding the Woolf guidance for first-time muggers using "minimal force"; that is where no weapons and no injury are involved. They should not automatically be sent to prison. The sentence should be a community service order (CSO). For all their weaknesses, CSOs have a reoffending rate well below that of ex-prisoners.Yet as if sharing Woolf's fear of tabloids, Phillips has felt obliged to extend the tariff for muggings involving a weapon or an injury. Here the starting sentence would be three years, or, in the event of major injury, seven years. Meanwhile, for adults even a minimal-force robbery should lead to prison. Nine out of 10 convicted British robbers go to jail.Most British sentencing is not getting tough on crime but going soft in the head on crime. CSOs are the tough option because they involve the criminal justice system having to do some work (as might Asbos, if only they were properly run). Obsessive imprisonment, the British juridical disease, is the result of judges not standing up to politicians and the press. Any fool can throw thousands of young people into jail and send the bill to the taxpayer. Any fool can then release them - jail-hardened, brutalised and now unemployable - back into the community, where three-quarters reoffend. How is that curing crime?On the radio last week, the deputy chief justice - the admirably named Sir Igor Judge - remarked bitterly that Britain had the most draconian sentencing in Europe, yet he and his fellow judges were thought a bunch of wimps. Since Tony Blair came to power, Britain has shot to the top of the European imprisonment league. British judges are now busily creating a large, criminalised underclass of prisoners and their families in every community. Judges were doing their bit, Sir Igor seemed to protest, so why should they get so much stick? It was all most unfair.The reason is that the language of crime is all wrong. The easy, soft, do-nothing prison option may appease public opinion. But we do not cure hospital diseases by sacking nurses, or congestion by slashing tyres, or illiteracy by banning books. Getting tough on crime means finding out what causes it and trying to redress that. The thirst for revenge that oozes from all fixed sentencing guidelines is medieval. Everything I have read on crime policy suggests that public protection demands the incarceration of at most a quarter of the present prison population. Britons can't be inherently worse-behaved than everyone else in Europe. It is the law that is deficient.Crime's most immediate causes are precisely those on which Britain is notoriously soft: drink and drugs. Together they are said to account for over two-thirds of all violent crimes. Yet the government indulges alcohol abuse with mild regulation and ever lower taxes. It indulges drug abuse with an unregulated open market and no taxes at all. Prices of drink and drugs have tumbled under Labour. Small wonder that they are the fuel of urban crime and the bane of every city centre. This softness leaves young people open to every temptation. It then adds idiocy to injury. Rather than get tough with drunks and addicts by finding out where policy has gone wrong and seeking to rectify it, the government passes ever more laws to lock them up.Judges may not be able to exert much influence on this government's softness on crime. But they should not compound it by joining the conspiracy to imprison. I cannot see the point of sentencing guidelines. They are a sop to "postcode lottery" centralism and a gift to parliament and the tabloids. Let local magistrates and judges fit sentences to criminals. That surely is their unique job. Delegating punishment to London delegates it to politics and to the media frenzy. This I am sure is why Britain imprisons so many.The less said about national sentencing, the less will be the hysteria. The less the hysteria, the more the common sense. The more the common sense, the tougher we can all be on crime.simon.jenkins@theguardian.com