The home secretary, David Blunkett, will tomorrow signal the second phase of the government's police reform programme, when he proposes that the police should face greater democratic accountability, and that local police chiefs should have more freedom from the control of chief constables.In a green paper, he will outline plans for part of the police authorities to be directly elected, instead of being appointed by the local authority from among its own members. He believes the current police authority structure does not work and is not understood by the public. In a speech to the Association of Police Authorities, he will argue that the public feel that they have little influence over local policing priorities, even though they regard crime levels as the single biggest factor determining their enjoyment of their locality.He expects that greater accountability will increase the demand for police patrols to reassure the public. Mr Blunkett believes he has completed the first phase of police reform with a pay package, the appointment of a central police standards unit at the Home Office and a range of performance indicators. He wants the second phase to concentrate on giving the police greater freedom to set differing priorities at the basic command unit. Local police often argue that regulations make it impossible for the basic command unit to introduce local priorities, since policies are set at the chief constable level. His proposals do not go as far as a plan by the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, for elected sheriffs through whom the police would be held accountable for non-operational decisions. Mr Blunkett regards Mr Letwin's proposals as unworkable and liable to lead to a dangerous form of populism. Mr Blunkett will stress that the idea of directly elected police authorities capable of overseeing the work of county constabularies will not represent a threat to operational autonomy. He will admit that there is tension between national consistency in performance and the local responsiveness of forces. Mr Blunkett is also expected to publish research showing that there is no widespread public understanding of how the police are accountable: some believe the police are accountable to the Home Office, others to local authorities and some that they are accountable to no one. The research also finds that almost no one understands how the police authorities work. With more performance figures devolved down the basic command unit level, Mr Blunkett would also like to see local commanders have a higher profile in their community. Government research shows that members of the public do not want to give their views on local policing, since they generally feel no one would listen. One likely outcome of a more accountable and devolved police authority is a demand for more visible policing on the streets. The previous police reform package failed to introduce changes in patrolling, such as altering the number of officerspatrolling singly or in pairs. Proposals for the new community police officers to patrol singly have been opposed. Even a compromise that the officers patrol on either side of the street was rejected on the grounds that they needed the security of walking in pairs.