The British High Commissioner in Gambia is at the centre of a diplomatic scandal after allowing a Briton charged with raping a 10-year-old girl to avoid a court trial.John MacKintosh, 63, was arrested near the capital, Banjul, on 16 May. MacKintosh, from Inverness, was taken into custody and his passport was locked in a police safe. He denied any wrongdoing but was charged and granted bail of £20,000. Yet days before his trial was due to begin Eric Jenkinson, the High Commissioner, issued him with a new passport, allowing him to fly home before he was due in court. The Gambian magistrate in charge of the case described the senior British diplomat's intervention as 'arrogant and contemptuous'. MacKintosh's trial - due to resume on 21 July - was to have been the first brought under the country's new Tourism Offences Act which was drawn up by experts who were partly funded by British aid money. The act was aimed at tackling growing sex tourism in Gambia. MacKintosh - who faces up to five years in jail if he is found guilty - has not returned there, and the trial has twice been adjourned. His lawyers have told the court he has tried to commit suicide. The High Commissioner denies a mistake was made. He claims he issued the passport because he believed the girl's family withdrew charges against MacKintosh. Jenkinson said: 'It was one of those silly bureaucratic things. The family had withdrawn charges but the passport was in a police safe and the officer had gone away. We had no idea when the passport would be available so we treated it as lost.' A Foreign Office spokesman said it too believed the family of the girl had dropped the allegation. Consulates had to issue new passports to Britons not convicted of any crime. However, officials in Gambia are adamant that the victim's family had never dropped the case. The magistrate Moses Johnson-Richards said he would do everything possible to bring MacKintosh back for trial, including asking his country's Attorney-General to make representations to the Home Office. MacKintosh's Gambia-based British lawyer, Anne Rickinson, confirmed the case had never been dropped but alleged the magistrate had authorised the release of his passport - a claim rejected by the magistrate. Johnson-Richards said: 'I only saw MacKintosh once, on 19 May for his first hearing. An oral application was made by the defence for the passport to be released, but this is not on the file, as I said I would consider the application only at the next hearing. By that time MacKintosh had left the country.' The Observer approached MacKintosh at his home in Inverness, where he has lived with his sister for 18 years, but he declined to comment.