Hundreds of mourners this afternoon attended the funeral of murdered schoolboy Damilola Taylor, who was stabbed to death in south-east London last November.The private ceremony took place at All Saints church in Plumstead, south-east London. Mourners wept outside as the small white coffin, topped with a white floral cross, was carried inside by six pallbearers.Attending the ceremony were Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria Taylor, who arrived at the church accompanied by senior investigating officer Deputy Assistant Commissioner Bill Griffiths. The police officers who arrived first at the scene of Damilola's murder also attended, with a number of high-profile figures from Damilola's native Nigeria, including Arsenal striker Nwankwo Kanu, former Wimbledon footballer John Fashanu and Nigerian high commissioner, Prince Bola Ajibola. Mr Fashanu, who was a friend of the Taylor family and had met Damilola's father in Nigeria, said before the service: "There's a lot of Nigerians here and all of them feel like they've lost a son."Prince Bola Ajibola told the congregation: "I wish on this occasion to reiterate our profound and heartfelt condolences to the entire family The people of Nigeria have been deeply touched by the manner of Damilola's untimely death." Addressing the congregation at the start of the service, the Rev Harry Owen said Damilola's death showed we live in a "fallen and imperfect world". He continued: "We dare to pray that the consciences of those responsible may be touched, filled with remorse and willing to admit the wrong that has been done." He asked people who knew Damilola try to remember happy thoughts about the boy, "something particular you can thank God for as you remember his life". Damilola bled to death on a stairwell near to his Peckham home, after being stabbed in the leg on November 27 last year. He was attacked as he walked home from an after-school computer class. He had arrived from Nigeria with his family just three months earlier. Days before his death, his mother Gloria had complained her son was being bullied. Fifteen people have so far been arrested in connection with the youngster's death, but as yet no one has been charged.Related special report Policing crimeRelated stories10.1.2000: Two youths arrested in Damilola inquiry21.12.2000: Thirteenth person arrested in Damilola case 14.12. 2000: Damilola: 11 suspects arrested30.11.2000: 'My son is dead and I am bitter'29.11.2000: Death of a schoolboyUseful links The Metropolitan Police London Borough of Southwark South London Online