Three petty criminals who murdered a village postmaster have been jailed for a minimum of 34 years, with the judge ordering that anyone considering their release or parole must watch CCTV of the raid first.  Craig Hodson-Walker was shot through the heart as he defended his father. Photograph: FacebookMr Justice Colman Treacy told Birmingham crown court he was shocked and disgusted by the evidence in the murder of Craig Hodson-Walker. He condemned Anselm Ribera, 34, and brothers Declan and Christopher Morrissey, 34 and 32, as "parasitic criminals" who had shown neither shame nor remorse. All three exercised their right not to appear at the sentencing hearing, an action the judge described as "no surprise".A 10-week trial heard harrowing evidence of how the gang used relentless violence. They all had previous convictions and had taken part in armed raids on other post offices. Hodson-Walker's father, Ken, 57, was shot in the leg; his mother, Judith, was attacked when she tried to fight the trio off with a curtain pole; and Craig was shot through the heart as he defended his father with a cricket bat.The judge told the court that the attack on Fairfield post office in Worcestershire was "wicked and ruthless" and that seeing the CCTV images had shocked him, even after many years in court. "The effect of what the raiders did has been catastrophic to the Hodson-Walker family and to Craig's fiancee, Lisa Bundy." The couple were planning their wedding at the time of the attack in January this year."Unlike the violent, parasitic criminals that these three are, the Hodson-Walkers were a hard-working, respectable family providing a valuable service to their local community. They have had great and lasting grief brought into their lives." By contrast the killers had shown no contrition but "appeared indifferent to the dreadful crime that they have committed and the consequences for their innocent victims. While such attitudes persist in three men who have led a life of crime, their prospects of release at any point in the future are slim. I regard each of them as a real danger to the public."The three, all from Birmingham, were also convicted of attempted robbery and possession of a firearm and ammunition with intent to endanger life. They fled empty-handed from the post office, where £20,000 was protected by a time-locked safe, and were arrested soon afterwards.Their getaway driver, Adrian Snape, 25, also from Birmingham, pleaded guilty to attempted robbery at an earlier hearing. He was sentenced to eight years in jail.Judith Hodson-Walker said that the sentencing would help the family start life again. "I just feel that Craig has stopped the evil and that those evil people, or as I have always called them the dregs of the earth, will never ever hurt anyone again. We have got justice, thank goodness. But prison is too good for them. I will be asking people if they can go to their MP to ask them to consider hanging so that ordinary people do not have to fear for their lives any more."Bundy, 26, told the court in a victim impact statement: "Every day I feel lonely. I have now lost the one person I felt closest to and the one person I need to hold my hand and tell me everything would be OK. It has left a huge, gaping hole in my life."More than 100 volunteers kept the post office and its associated general store going in the immediate aftermath of the killing before the couple returned to work. A summer concert at Fairfield in memory of Craig raised over £7,000 for charity.