A woman who stalked the Manchester United footballer Rio Ferdinand has been remanded in custody and charged with assaulting a police officer during her arrest.Ferdinand, 32, who is married with three young children, says he was made upset and angry by Susanne Ibru's unwelcome visits at his home in Alderley Edge, Cheshire, between February and June last year. Ibru, 38, turned up at the Manchester United and England defender's home on several occasions and was warned to keep away.Ibru also pleaded guilty to breaching her bail conditions by arriving 90 minutes late for trial on Monday at Macclesfield magistrates court.Simon Leech, defending, said she had gone to the wrong court building by mistake.He added that she was arrested on Tuesday at an address in Warrington shortly after she had called a taxi to take her to a police station, where she planned to hand herself in.District Judge Nicholas Sanders said he would not pass sentence on the harassment and bail matters yet, as he wanted the matter adjourned for reports.He indicated he would consider a community punishment.During a brief appearance at Crewe magistrates court, Ibru was charged with assaulting a female police officer in the course of the officer's duties.Prosecutor Ian Davies told the court: "During the course of that arrest, an incident occurred which led to a further charge of assaulting a constable." Davies handed Judge Sanders a list of previous convictions, which included an attempted wounding with intent, for which she was jailed for three years in 2003.Ibru also had previous convictions for carrying an article with a blade dating back to the 1990s, the judge said, as he read aloud from the list. More recently, she was convicted of criminal damage in 2003 and a public order offence in 2006.Ibru, formerly of Peckham, south London, but now of Newcastle upon Tyne, represented herself during her trial and cross-examined the England defender.The football star said he had been upset by the "unwanted and unwarranted" visits from the woman, whom he had never met. As Ferdinand left the witness box during the trial on Monday, Ibru had told her victim: "I'll see you soon. Bye."The prosecution said that in the early hours of 21 February Ferdinand and his wife were asleep when Ibru woke him after pressing the intercom buzzer at the entrance gate.He went to a bathroom window and saw a figure wearing a hooded top. He shouted down to see who it was. She looked up and he was able to see it was Ibru.Asked by Davies how he had felt, Ferdinand said: "At first I was angry and upset but then disturbed, really, because I have got a young family and this was not the time or the place to be coming to speak to me."The player called the club's security staff, who contacted police, and then watched on his CCTV as Ibru walked away and was stopped by officers at the end of the road.Ibru returned on 16 June, the court was told. Ferdinand said he saw her on the road opposite his house as he arrived home at about 8pm. He said he had no idea why she wanted to speak to him.Police attended and Ibru was given a formal warning to leave the couple alone. Her third alleged visit came just two days later, in the early hours of 18 June, and she was arrested.Ibru was bailed until 9 May on the assault charge but was remanded in custody on the harassment charge.