The home secretary, Charles Clarke, said today he would review the case of a millionaire rapist who has been living in a series of safe houses at taxpayers' expense.The Home Office operation to keep secret the identity of Iorworth Hoare, who won £7m in the lottery while serving a life sentence for rape, is costing a reported £10,000 a month. The Sun revealed today that the 52-year-old, who is said to earn £30,000 in interest from his winnings every month, is living in Sunderland, in Tyne and Wear. The newspaper has published a photograph of him walking in the city centre. Mr Clarke intervened as anger grew that so much public money was being used to look after the millionaire, who is understood to have been released from prison in March under a strict life tariff licence. The paper also claimed Hoare was living in a £150,000 house. In a statement this afternoon, Mr Clarke said the Sun's article had raised "a number of issues", and that he understood that there was alarm over how Hoare's living situation was being "managed and financed". The home secretary said: "I have today asked my department to look at the details of this particular case and some of the broader issues that it raises. "The main duty of the police, probation service and other agencies is always to protect the public from serious, violent or sexual offenders who have completed their prison sentence, and to maintain public order. "The arrangements we have in this country for managing and monitoring serious offenders in the community are as robust as anywhere in the world. "However, I fully understand the concerns that have been raised by this case and want to examine how this and similar cases are managed and financed to decide whether any changes are necessary." The Home Office said earlier today that Hoare, who is from Leeds, would now have to be rehoused. The Sun reporters who found Hoare say he lives in a red-brick, semidetached house in the city and spends much of his time buying art and antiques. Clare Phillipson, of Wearside Women In Need, said her charity would benefit from the kind of money reportedly used to house Hoare. She said: "We could do a tremendous amount of good with that £10,000 a month. It is easily enough to run a women's refuge, and that would mean we could offer protection to hundreds of women and their children who were experiencing sexual assault."The Conservative MEP Martin Callanan said: "I think the people of Sunderland will be amazed that this man is being protected in their midst after winning all this money. Someone who is so wealthy should have no need for state protection."Hoare served 16 years of a life sentence after being jailed in Leeds in 1989 for attempting to rape a 59-year-old teacher. His crimes date back to the 1970s and include one rape, two attempted rapes and three indecent assaults. Hoare won the lottery jackpot in August last year while on temporary release from prison. News of his win provoked controversy and prompted the then home secretary, David Blunkett, to pledge that in future prisoners would not benefit from lottery wins while still in jail. The conditions of Hoare's release mean he will always have to meet probation requirements and could be taken back into custody if he breaches his parole terms.