I've been visiting prostitutes for more than 25 years - ever since I could afford to. The first time I went was with a mate, because I was shy and having a friend there helped to break the ice.I have a girlfriend now, so I've cut down, but I usually see prostitutes about once a fortnight. I've picked up a few from the street over the years, but I prefer not to; those are the women with drug habits, and on occasions I've paid them just to get out of the car.The government won't succeed in getting street prostitutes into parlours. Drug addicts work on the streets because the reputable massage parlours won't take them. Parlour women are well-to-do; you might see one walking down the street with a briefcase and a smart suit. There are girls queueing up to work in these places - they're not going to take desperate women. Targeting kerb crawlers is a waste of time. They'll just choose another corner, or pick up prostitutes from one of the bars that have that kind of reputation.Usually I'll go to a massage parlour. They're clean, welcoming, cosy places with strict house rules prohibiting drugs and unprotected sex. Nearly all of them have security cameras at the entrance and facilities for showers. Police know they exist - I know plenty of policemen - and even a judge - who go to the parlours I visit.Depending on where I am, I'll pick up the local paper, or the Daily Sport newspaper, and get addresses and phone numbers of brothels in the area. The prices range between £40 and £50 for a 30-minute session. To get an escort to come to your house costs more though - at least £120 for an hour.I know it can be difficult for women to have sex with someone they don't fancy. But they get paid good money. Some women insist you don't kiss them. I'm fine with that, it doesn't offend me. They're there out of choice, and it's their decision what they do.I've never felt guilty. For the women involved there's nothing seedy about the business. Paying for sex is not that different to picking up a girl from a bar for a one-night stand. This isn't love to us; it's just sexual relief.The man's name has been changed