The Conservatives' plan to create a 10,000-strong border police paid for by scrapping identity cards is headed by someone strongly in favour of ID cards, Labour claimed today.Lord Stevens, the former Metropolitan police chief, has been appointed head of the Tory policy group that will oversee creation of a dedicated force to police the UK's "porous" borders. The party said it would pay for the scheme by scrapping the government's proposed ID card scheme, but today Liam Byrne, the immigration minister, pointed out that Lord Stevens was on the record as stating that there was an "overwhelming" case for identity cards. There is also a debate over costings. Labour claims that the ID card scheme will only cost £5bn over the first ten years, while the Tories put the cost at up to £20bn. Lord Stevens, who was head of the Met police from 2000 to 2005, was unveiled this afternoon as head of the Conservative party's working group on a plan to create a 10,000-strong dedicated ports and airports police at a press conference in east London. He is already serving on the party's working group on the 2012 Olympics, advising on safety and terrorism. Mr Cameron, said that "porous" controls contributed to pressing social problems. "Right now, our society is not properly defended against the drug dealers, people smugglers, gun importers and terrorists who find it all too easy to bypass the current system. "No single organisation is responsible for performing this vital task. Instead, we have at least six separate agencies, including Revenue and Customs, the Immigration Service, the security services, harbour police, the Serious and Organised Crime Agency [Soca], and the Metropolitan police."The border police force would be part of Soca, and would focus on preventing and detecting illegal immigration, stopping terror suspects coming into the UK, and cracking down on the trade in human beings. Officers would be drawn from the Immigration Service, HM Revenue and Customs, Soca, the Metropolitan police's security command, and the ports police forces. Mr Byrne hit back, saying that the 10,000 strong force would merely be a "rebranding exercise", and that scrapping any ID scheme would not be enough to pay for a border police force. He said: "If you read the small print, this force appears not to be 'new' at all but merely a reorganization of existing forces which would divert much needed resources into a costly re-branding operation. Mr Byrne claimed that the ID card scheme would only cost £5.4bn over the first ten years. Mr Cameron claimed that there was a "growing consensus" for such a police force, saying it had been backed by the Association of Chief Police Officers, Sir Ian Blair, the current Scotland Yard commissioner, and the home affairs select committee. Lord Stevens - who recently completed a high-profile inquiry into the deaths of Princess Diana and Dodi Fayed, and has also conducted a probe into football transfer deals - will chair an "expert and experienced" group to consider how the idea would work in practice. On retiring he was made Baron Stevens of Kirkwhelpington, in Northumberland. Lord Stevens said: "I'm very pleased that David Cameron and David Davis have asked me to lead this working group to develop their border police policy. It is essential that Britain has secure borders and one element of that must be a dedicated and effective border police force." "In the coming months my team and I will be working on the detail of these proposals, examining the powers and people that need to be brought together into this force. "I hope that this will inform the Conservative party's thinking in this area and allow them to make our borders safe and secure."