A Ugandan government official who received bribes from a British company director yesterday became the first person to be convicted of overseas corruption since Britain tightened up its anti-bribery laws. Ananias Tumukunde, a 31-year-old adviser to Uganda's president, Yoweri Museveni, was jailed for a year at Southwark crown court. Niels Tobiasen, the 65-year-old managing director of a Wiltshire-based firm, has pleaded guilty to paying £80,000 in bribes and is due to be sentenced on Friday. Tobiasen's firm had been given a contract to protect world leaders, including the Queen and Gordon Brown, at a Commonwealth heads of government meeting in Kampala last November. Judge James Wadsworth told Tumukunde, who was arrested when he came to Britain for medical treatment, that he had "dishonestly pocketed" the backhanders, adding: "What you did is serious." The British government signed up to a global anti-bribery treaty in 1997, and in 2002 outlawed the payment of bribes by British companies to officials and politicians abroad to secure contracts. But the government has been criticised by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which polices the treaty, for its poor record in prosecuting offenders. Anti-corruption campaigners who criticised the decision to terminate the Serious Fraud Office investigation into alleged bribery of Saudis by BAE, Britain's biggest arms company, gave yesterday's conviction a guarded welcome. Nick Hildyard, of Corner House, said: "It's a good start, but there's still a long way to go. Other countries have not shied away from taking on the big companies."In May last year, Tobiasen's firm, CBRN, was given a £210,000 contract by the Ugandan government to supply training and equipment to guard the Commonwealth meeting, attended by 50 world leaders and 4,000 delegates. David Whittaker, prosecuting, told the court that a month later, Tumukunde went to CBRN's offices and demanded extra payments for what he called "local tax". He told Tobiasen that the payments were "common" in Uganda. The contract was one of six worth a total of £500,000 that were given to the company. By February this year, Tobiasen had sent five payments worth £83,000 to Tumukunde and a Ugandan military officer, Rusoke Tagaswire, who is still wanted by police. Detectives from the City of London police learned of the payments and arrested Tobiasen on April 2. The following day, Tumukunde was arrested at Heathrow. At first he denied that the payments were bribes, but yesterday he pleaded guilty. Rupert Pardoe, defending, said the amount that Tumukunde had actually received was about £12,000, which he was going to give to his ill mother. The judge recommended that Tumukunde be deported after finishing his sentence.Yesterday's conviction was secured by the overseas corruption unit of the City of London police, set up 18 months ago. The business secretary, John Hutton, said: "The UK performs well on tackling corruption compared to our closest competitors, but we can still do more ... Next year, we will propose important law reforms to strengthen our crackdown on the companies who pay bribes and foreign officials who take them."