No crowds, banners or songs greeted soccer stars Michael Owen and Steven Gerrard when they turned up for a vital fixture in Chester yesterday. And if anyone had started to sing Blaydon Races or You'll Never Walk Alone, the usher would have instantly shown them a red card and had them thrown out of court number one.Owen, in dark suit, and Gerrard, in grey trousers and navy sweater, were giving evidence in a case involving two men accused of selling forged signatures of sportsmen. Owen said one of them had organised a free holiday for his family in Dubai; Gerrard didn't say much beyond stating that signatures on photographs were not his and admitting once: "You've lost me a bit here."Their time in the witness box could not match the excitement of an afternoon at St James' Park or Anfield and the only resemblance to the Kop was a fairly crowded press gallery in a court with 14 Corinthian columns, decorated ceiling, 1950s chandeliers, peeling plaster and terrible acoustics.The jury of nine women and three men at Chester crown court has been told that memorabilia including football shirts and pictures with forged signatures of sports stars were sold at Sporting Icons, a shop in Chester.Faisal Madani, 42, faces 20 charges under the Trade Descriptions Act and the Trade Marks Act and Graeme Walker, owner of the shop, faces 53 similar charges, which also include counts under the Theft Act and fraudulent trading under the Companies Act. Walker, of Connah's Quay, Deeside, and Madani, of Stockport, Greater Manchester, deny the charges.Owen told the court that Madani, whom he had met at Liverpool's training ground before his move to Newcastle United, had assisted him with his 10-day holiday in 2004. He did not have to pay because his "presence would be good publicity" for hoteliers and others."Did Madani expect anything in return?" asked Peter Davies for Madani. "Just me going," said Owen."It was just a friendly gesture, was it?""Well, he never asked for anything in return.""Had Mr Madani asked for autographs afterwards, you would have cooperated?""If it had been one or two. But if it was 50, I would have asked why."Davies also asked Owen if he knew Madani was friends with many Premier League footballers and had attended last year's wedding of the Chelsea and England centre-back John Terry. He produced a copy of OK! magazine and Owen identified Madani and players including Wayne Rooney and Frank Lampard.Earlier, Owen had been shown pictures of himself with Gerrard, with former Liverpool star Ian Rush, with David Beckham and Rio Ferdinand, and of himself when he won his 50th England cap. He said the signatures on them were not his. He was also shown a bag of 19 England captain's armbands. Asked if they carried his signature, he said: "It's not, no. I don't remember signing any armbands."He was also shown a rather grubby England shirt large enough to embrace the entire England squad. Asked whether it carried his autograph, he replied: "I can remember signing a shirt that big. It looks to be it." He admitted that he signed thousands of items a year but was careful with his signature. "Even when I do a sloppy one, I know where I start and where I finish."Gerrard was shown a picture of himself holding the Champions League cup in Turkey in 2005 and was asked whether the signature on it was his. "No," he replied. When it was suggested that he was asked for hundreds of signatures each day, he replied modestly: "Not as many as Michael [Owen]."He was then shown another 2005 Champions League photograph, inscribed to Prince Rashid, crown prince of Dubai. Davies claimed it had been signed at a restaurant when Madani was present and that Madani had said Gerrard had not liked it "because it showed the cellulite under his arm".Davies had also asked Owen about a picture of him taken after Liverpool's victory in the 2003 Worthington Cup. "And who did you beat?" Owen replied: "Manchester United."Davies, a Liverpool supporter, paused and smiled: "I just can't resist it," he said.The trial continues today.