A fatal stabbing, two attempted suicides and a paintball gun attack are revealed in a catalogue of attacks against benefit office staff in the last year, according to a confidential report sent to the Department for Work and Pensions.The report covers nearly 100 incidents including threats from claimants carrying axes, knives, scissors and screwdrivers. It also details tens of thousands of pounds of damage done to computers, office furniture and staff cars.Figures issued by the ministry recently showed that reported violent incidents have increased from 202 a year in 2002 to 329 in 2004 - the latest figure available.The report contains graphic details at offices where staff are encouraged to report attacks as part of a monitoring exercise. Whitehall unions are increasingly alarmed at the violence of recent attacks.The attacks are not confined to inner city areas but are also taking place in such towns as Wisbech, Cambridgeshire, and Boston, Lincolnshire. Women as well as men are also attacking staff. A fight in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, involved five women.The killing happened in Glasgow in April when a claimant was stabbed. No one saw the stabbing and the killer has not been caught.The two attempted suicides involved a claimant stabbing himself in the stomach with a carving knife and another slashing his wrists. Some of the more bizarre incidents involve a paintball gun attack in Liverpool and air rifles being fired on the Paddington Jobcentre in west London. Other incidents included a customer pouring petrol over an office and another setting off a spray which made staff dizzy.The upsurge is leading the ministry to introduce orders banning some claimants from entering offices to claim benefits as well as prosecuting the worst offenders.A spokesman said: "We do not tolerate abuse or violence and offices are encouraged to report any incidents. This could explain the increase in the number of cases."Research completed last year suggests that a move to open plan offices is also improving the atmosphere. Although the overall number of staff is falling, we are committed to increasing the number of front line staff."Mark Serotkwa, general secretary of the Public and Commercial Services Union, disagreed. "This report lays bare the increasingly violent environment staff are having to work in and it is no surprise that there has been an increase in serious incidents as the axe falls on jobs."Some Jobcentres are now more like the wild west as some of the most disadvantaged in society take their frustrations out on staff. The staff are low paid and it is disturbing that they are increasingly expected to put up with violence."Dole rage Wisbech social security office, February 1, 2005 Man said to be on drugs waiting for payment of a crisis loan. Kicks in reinforced glass doors. Sticks head and hands through shards attempting to reach staff. Waltham Cross Jobcentre, February 8, 2005 Man produces a 15-inch axe while talking to woman member of staff. The police are called and the office evacuated. Man comes back again, blaming the staff member for his arrest. She has been offered a transfer. Clydebank social security office, October 27, 2004 Man leaving office steals two hammers from a workmen's toolbox and smashes windows in 25 cars and a courier van in the staff car park. Streatham Jobcentre Plus office, London, May 9, 2005 Man comes into office saying arrears were not paid into his bank account. Speaks to several staff and then pours petrol over furniture and floor. Edge Hill Liverpool Jobcentre, 29th November 29, 2004 Customer threatens staff when told he has to wait two days for Giro. Leaves saying he will "brick the windows". Passes a 74-year-old woman on Zimmer frame. Picks up brick and tries to mug her, threatening "to cave her head in".