Specialist tracker dogs were yesterday searching the area where Abigail Witchalls was attacked to try to find vital clues, including the weapon used by her assailant.Conventional police dogs have already combed Water Lane, the path near Little Bookham, Surrey, where the young mother was stabbed in the neck in front of her toddler son, Joseph, on April 20. But now four dogs, all trained in enhanced search techniques and one capable of sniffing out human blood, are retracing Mrs Witchalls' route for fresh evidence. Tracker dogs like this, of which there are only a few in the UK, were last used in Surrey during the search for Milly Dowler, 13, who disappeared from her home in Walton-on-Thames in March 2002 and was later found dead in Hampshire. Detective Chief Inspector Brian Russell of Surrey police said the dogs had been borrowed from the Dyfed Powys and South Yorkshire forces because of new information that had come to light. "They will look for specific items that we believe may have been discarded by the offender, items such as the weapon, which is still outstanding," he said. "These dogs have been specially trained to track down scents of individuals and blood in particular." Police are also hoping to show Mrs Witchalls, 26, a photograph of the prime suspect, Richard Cazaly, as part of an picture identity line-up, this week or early next week. Cazaly, 23, a gardener who lived in Water Lane, drove to Scotland five days after Mrs Witchalls was attacked and killed himself with painkillers. In one suicide note he wrote: "I'm terribly sorry. I must be two people. I can't remember. But I must have done it." There has been a delay in showing Mrs Witchalls a photoof Cazaly because of legal requirements. Ideally, she should see 12 pictures of suspects with relatively similar lighting and background, in accordance with Crown Prosecution Service guidelines. Because Cazaly is dead, the police had to trawl through social snapshots provided by family and friends to try to find a suitable picture of him. The statement said Mrs Witchalls, who is being treated at the spinal injuries unit at the Royal National Orthopaedic hospital, in Stanmore, Middlesex, was making "encouraging progress". Yesterday the Witchalls family issued a statement thanking thousands of wellwishers