The Kray twins, their elder brother Charles, and six of their seven co-defendants were found guilty in the London gangland trial at the Old Bailey last night, after the longest murder hearing in British criminal history. The jury was out for seven hours after the 39-day hearing. The judge, Mr Justice Melford Stevenson, postponed sentence until today. Police with walkie-talkie radios patrolled the Old Bailey and guarded entrances to Court No. 1 as the defendants came, one by one, into the dock to hear the verdicts.Only one of them, Christopher Lambrianou (29), showed emotion. As the jury convicted him of murder, he spun on his heel towards the back of the glass-screened dock.The prison officers pushed him round to face the Judge, who said swiftly and almost gently: "You may stand down now."The verdicts, all of which were unanimous, were in order of declaration:Ronald Kray (34), of Bunhill Row, Islington, guilty of the murders of Jack "The Hat" McVitie, a bookmaster's clerk, in a Hackney flat in October 1967, and of the murder of George Cornell in the Blind Beggar public house, Whitechapel, in March 1966. John Barrie (31), of no settled address, guilty of murdering Cornell.Ronald's twin Reginald Kray, guilty of murdering McVitie and of being an accessory after the fact to Cornell's murder.Christopher Lambrianou (29), of Queensbridge Road, Hackney, his brother Anthony Lambrianou (26), and Ronald Bender (30), of Cubitt Town, Poplar, guilty of murdering McVitie. Anthony Barry (30), of Old Nazeing Road, Broxbourne, Hertfordshire, not guilty of murdering McVitie. He was discharged. Charles Kray (42), of Rosefield Gardens, Tower Hamlets, Frederick Foreman (26), of Lant Street, Southwark, and Cornelius Whitehead (33), of Rosefield Gardens, guilty as accessories to McVitie's murder. An eleventh man, Albert Donaghue (32), of Devons Road, Bow, had admitted this offence and will be sentenced today.The Judge praised the "devoted and selfless attention" of the jury. "You have set a standard by which I shall judge all juries of the future," he said. About 60 plainclothes policemen kept a 24-hour watch on the jury throughout the trial, following them home from court and even into public houses. The accused were brought to and form the court by a cavalcade of police cars and motorcycle outriders. Legal costs for the Queen's Counsel junior barristers and solicitors have been estimated at £150,000, with a further £4,000 for jurors' allowances.Ronald Kray, in the rimless spectacles he wore throughout the case, heard the verdict impassively. Only Charles Kray and Barrie glanced at the public gallery as they descended to the cells. Barrie gazed up until the side of the dock cut off his view.