Belatedly television cameras are to be allowed in courts in England and Wales for the first time. True to the judiciary's cautious tradition, it will be a tightly regulated pilot scheme. It will be restricted to a small number of cases in the court of appeal. Only the court's most senior judges - the lord chief justice, the masters of the rolls, and Lord Justice Judge - will be filmed. None of the film will be broadcast. Instead it will be edited into mock news reports, which will be shown to judges, lawyers and ministers, to illustrate the coverage that would happen in practice. Meanwhile, as Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, set out on these pages yesterday, a consultation paper examining whether the experiment should be introduced and extended to the lower courts, will follow.So some 15 years after the Bar Council first called for just such a pilot scheme, a test project has been given the go-ahead. Remember, the 1925 Criminal Justice Act banning all cameras in court - it followed newspaper publication of still photographs of convicted killers - was passed 11 years before the BBC's first television service was launched. By the time of the 1989 Bar Council report, televised court proceedings were being broadcast in eight western states. Cameras were introduced in US courts in the 1950s. By the late 1980s extensive research had been carried out in 41 out of 45 US states where cameras operated. In all cases they concluded that cameras should continue to be allowed and that the impact, if any, on the proceedings had been favourable. After nearly 40 years of experience in the US, only one case had been overturned on appeal as a result of television coverage. Hence the resoundingly positive recommendations of the 1989 report. A private member's bill based on the Bar Council's report was introduced in 1991, but rejected. More recently the media has moved the debate on by devising new ways of covering criminal trials. Television reports are no longer restricted to arrival shots and an artist's pastel sketches of the main characters. Two years ago ITV invented highly realistic computer images of the Old Bailey court for the trial of Paul Burrell, the royal butler accused of stealing from Princess Diana. Other channels have followed suit. Last year during the Soham murder trial, Sky News reporters read tranches of transcripts verbatim over computer images of the court room. Similarly, cameras are no longer shut out of judicial public inquiries. They were there for opening and closing speeches of the Hutton inquiry as well as covering parts of the BSE, Harold Shipman, and Southall rail crash inquiries. Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, rightly wants the public to achieve a more realistic view of the criminal justice system than they learn from television series like Rumpole, Kavanagh QC or LA Law. The former lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, conceded the public would have been better informed if they had had the opportunity of viewing high profile appeals like Pinochet's extradition hearings or last year's battle over whether conjoined twins should be separated. One problem of restricting coverage to the appeal court is that most cases are unlikely to be as interesting. Many appeals would put most people to sleep with their abstruse arguments, detailed reference backs to earlier legal rulings, and abstract legal assertions. Opening all courts to cameras carries obvious dangers: the risk of deterring larger numbers of witnesses from giving evidence and the temptation of lawyers to show off. There will need to be safeguards to avoid it descending to the level of the media circus surrounding America's OJ Simpson trial, but that was a one-off even in the US. The lower courts are safe from the camera for the moment, but just like parliament, closer public scrutiny will rightly arrive.