As any copper will tell you, the policeman's lot is not always a happy one. And from this week, there is little doubt that the job of law enforcement in Britain's biggest force has become a slightly colder, darker and thirstier task.In an attempt to claw back a projected budget overspend of £14m, the Metropolitan police has had to introduce a range of costcutting measures. An intranet bulletin sent out from Scotland Yard told staff that the central heating had been turned down at all stations to save on electricity, oil and gas. There are also restrictions on brewing up following a shift out on the beat: officers have been warned not to use kettles unless they are in designated communal rooms. The same rules apply to toasters. Staff have been reminded that they must switch off lights, computers and photocopiers when they leave a room. Woe betide anyone who forgets: senior officers have been asked to nominate "energy-saving coordinators" to ensure that the new rules are being strictly adhered to. There are other privations. Chief superintendents can no longer claim expenses for first-class rail travel. There is a blanket ban on replacing furniture, while office renovations have been abandoned until further notice. Canteen food is dearer than ever. "The adjustment in heating is not intended to cause discomfort to staff," says the bulletin, written by the police's director of property services, Trevor Lawrence. "Any temperatures below the fixed level, or overheating, should be reported promptly to the helpdesk." Mr Lawrence reassures officers that a drop in temperature to 20C (68F) does not mean that staff are likely to freeze this winter. "The temperature remains above the recommended level for the heating of workplaces, and staff unions have been consulted. "The Met spends £9m on electricity, gas, oil and water, and has estimated that a reduction of 1C could save up to 5% from the fossil fuel element of the budget." Nevertheless, visitors to Scotland Yard have already noted the chillier atmosphere and how the lights in certain corridors seem to remain off permanently. "I couldn't take my coat off," said one. "It's hats and gloves weather in the building." With the Met committed to increasing the number of officers in the force, the commissioner, Sir John Stevens, has had to find other ways of saving money that will not affect staffing levels. "It's no joke. We're having to cut back on everything, even power and heating," said one Met officer. "The increase in the number of officers is non-negotiable, so we've had to look at other ways. The Met cannot afford to be a wasteful organisation."