The Plymouth Argyle goalkeeper, Luke McCormick, has been charged with two counts of causing death by dangerous driving after an accident on the M6 in Staffordshire yesterday in which two young boys were killed.McCormick, 24, was arrested immediately after the crash and has today been formally charged with driving with excess alcohol and driving without insurance, in addition to the two main charges.Arron Peak, 10, and his eight-year-old brother Ben Peak were killed,Staffordshire police said. Their father, Philip Peak, 37, remains seriously ill in hospital with a suspected broken neck and back, according to police. The brothers were on their way to Silverstone for a "fun day out" when the crash happened, their mother said.McCormick, who has helped police promote road safety, was unhurt after his black Range Rover collided with a Toyota Previa, which was carrying six people, shortly before 6am on Saturday.The Toyota left the carriageway near junction 16 on the M6 southbound, going down a small embankment before hitting several trees.Amanda Peak, the boys' mother, issued a statement on behalf of the family."Phil and I are devastated by the sudden and tragic death of our two beautiful boys, Arron and Ben," it read. "No parent should have to go through the nightmare we have gone through."Nothing will ever compensate us for the loss we are feeling."Mrs Peak said of her two boys: "Arron was my eldest son, loved life and especially football, at which he excelled, Ben was a happy, loving son and brother."Mrs Peak added she had the tragic task of breaking the news of the deaths to her husband at his hospital bedside.She said: "Phil, my husband, is not only having to come to terms with the loss of his sons but he also has to cope with the serious injuries he sustained and remains in hospital."Senior Investigating Officer Paul Bennett, of the Central Motorway Police Group, said: "It is devastating. Any incident involving children is obviously tragic. My heart goes out to Amanda and Phil. I don't know how they are coping." Inspector Bennett said police were building up a "clear view" of the incident and had taken statements from a number of witnesses to the collision.Police said the Toyota Previa was travelling in the middle lane of the southbound carriageway before the crash, between junctions 15 and 16, and had left the motorway on the near side. As the people carrier left the carriageway, it careered down an embankment, hitting trees before coming to a stop.One of the boys was confirmed dead at the scene. His brother was later pronounced dead at hospital. The three other occupants of the people carrier - a 49-year-old man and his sons, aged eight and 15 - were treated at the same hospital for minor injuries.Plymouth Argyle have made two brief statements concerning the incident, the first confirming that one of their player's had been involved, and the second sending condolences to the family and friends of the two boys who lost their lives."They are very much in our thoughts and prayers at this sad time," the club's statement read.McCormick is a former England youth international and has twice been voted Argyle's young player of the season after joining the club eight years ago.He will appear before magistrates in Fenton, Stoke-on-Trent, at 10am tomorrow.Witnesses or anyone who saw the vehicles before the incident should call the Central Motorways Police Group on 0121 626 1831.