The much maligned asbo agenda may be coming to an end: Theresa May has joined the troop of pointy-heads and generally sensible types who have argued for years that with a breach-rate of around 50% and evidence that the agenda has increased the numbers of young people being sentenced, they simply do not work. Some of us would go further and say that they have made things a lot worse.Asbos were introduced by Tony Blair and brought to prominence as part of his ambitious Respect agenda, launched in 2006. Respect was aimed at treating the causes of crime and creating a framework for a non-criminal response to the low-level offences that blight local communities across the country.The motive behind their introduction was utterly reasonable: many of us, particularly in deprived communities, suffer much more from low-level crime like public drunkenness, "yobbery" and the vandalism of public places than they do from violence or theft. Basically, this is because the former are far more prolific. Almost 90% of young people admit to committing some form of antisocial offence during their teenage years, around one in 10 do so frequently and veer towards criminality. Blair's aim was to nip them in the bud and thus prevent misbehaviour from turning into something more protracted and serious. And, as he said at the time, to reassure the public that something was being done to restore order to their streets. But asbos did not do this.The actual agenda was rife with problems and misreading of the evidence: early intervention does work, but only if it involves tailored treatment to address the causes of the problem behaviour. The stats on the use of the antisocial behaviour legislation shows that overwhelmingly, rather than being used to refer a young person for treatment, they were used as a punitive measure – preventing an individual from mixing in certain circles and certain areas, setting a curfew and so on.The psychological impact of being officially labelled as antisocial and experiencing the shock of the criminal justice system does not prevent a young person from progressing to more serious crime. More than half (55%) of young people who were given an asbo in 2004 went on to commit further offences, with just less than half (46%) of those resulting in a custodial sentence. This shows that asbo legislation, rather than preventing youth involvement in crime, can in fact fast-track young people through the criminal justice system, locking them into reoffending.And the fact that so many young people struggled to meet the terms of their order (no wonder, when you consider they were served on individuals as young as 10) meant hundreds of otherwise law-abiding young people have found themselves incarcerated. Breaches of statutory orders, such as asbos, increased by 93% between 2002-03 and 2006-07 and it is this that has led to the increase in the conviction rate of young people, not more crime.Although asbos have become synonymous with young people, they were initially aimed primarily at adults. But my research at Demos shows that the asbo agenda increased the public and media focus on youth behaviour and in particular contributed to the sense that Britain is somehow broken and in decline, that parents are no longer able to parent and we are powerless in the face of a group of teenagers drinking cider. Britons are less likely to feel able to intervene in youth yobbery than anyone else in Europe: just 34% say they would intervene to stop a group of 14-year-old boys from vandalising a bus shelter, compared to 65% of Germans.In practice, asbos became a means of criminalising behaviour that in another era might simply have been labelled as youthful misdemeanour. Given that most young people have committed some form of antisocial behaviour but only a small minority go on to commit a crime, it seems plausible that most offenders will simply grow out of this "phase" without intervention.I do not mean to devalue the significant impact that antisocial behaviour has on people's lives. But I look forward to the time when I can play loud music late at night safe in the knowledge that soon it will be up to my neighbour to pick up the phone if she wants me to turn it down, rather than bother the cops.