The final moments in the life of barrister Mark Saunders, swaying drunkenly and brandishing a shotgun before collapsing in a hail of police bullets, have been shown to an inquest jury.Dramatic footage filmed from a police helicopter showed the 32-year-old divorce lawyer hanging out of the kitchen window of his top-floor Chelsea flat before lowering the barrel of his gun. As the barrel reached a horizontal position, a volley of shots could be heard as Saunders was flung back by the force of five bullets fired by seven officers stationed on nearby buildings.The shots followed more than three-and-a-half hours of intense police negotiations during a five-hour siege at his Markham Square home, footage of which was played to Westminster coroners court today. It revealed the lawyer was terrified he was going to be shot, that his career as a barrister was over, that he feared people would think him "a nut job" and that he was suicidal. He spoke of loving his wife, Elizabeth "to bits", but said "she's been duped", and that he was "not capable of being the man she needs him to be", a remark police interpreted as a reference to his alcoholism. But police would not allow him to speak to her, or to his friends, because he had said he "wanted to say goodbye". They feared it would "precipitate his suicide" and that he could "either kill himself in front of her," or endanger her, the inquest heard.Saunders, a successful divorce lawyer, died at 9.32pm on 6 May 2008, at the end of a five-hour standoff, during which police negotiators spoke to him twice, for approximately 40 minutes each time. At one point, when he appeared not to be able to hear on his mobile phone, he himself dialled 999, and asked the emergency operator, in slurring words, if he could speak to a "hostage negotiator". That call ended after the operator, to whom Saunders had described himself as "guy, from Markham Square" before giving his name, failed to understand him clearly and could not get an answer as to why.During the negotiations Saunders continued drinking wine, was repeatedly and violently sick "retching from the pit of his stomach" and on one occasion fell down his stairs. He was, he told police "terrible with booze" and had drunk "loads".Negotiator Superintendent John Sutherland constantly sought to reassure him he would not be shot, telling him at one point: "I'm sure you're scared, Mark, Tell me why? Nobody is going to shoot you". On many others he repeated: "You're not going to die today, simple as that". Several times he urged the Oxford graduate to put down his gun.At one point, Saunders waved his mobile after indicating he could no longer hear, and began displaying a series of illegible written notes in the window. When phone contact was eventually lost, Sutherland told colleagues: "He is very, very drunk and still drinking. It's very difficult to speak to him. In terms of recurring themes he keeps saying 'I am not a threat to anyone but myself', he keeps saying 'I don't want anyone to shoot me'."He has said a few times 'Who's going to employ me as a barrister now?' and he's talking a little bit about his wife, who he loves to bits, but he's not capable of being the man that she needs him to be. I suspect that's a reference to the alcohol, but he's not been that explicit"..They discussed the possibility of him shooting himself by mistake. Another negotiator, Chris White, said: "This is not a bloke who wishes to die. He is mentioning things in the future, like whether he will lose his shotgun licence. The biggest danger is that he either shoots himself by mistake or wanders out with his gun and gets popped."They also discussed using Saunders' wife as "bait" as a TPI [third party intermediary], but that was not the "preferred option" and the idea had gone "tits up" because the phone had gone down. When phone contact was re-established Sutherland was heard saying: "No, no, no. You do not have to die. That's the whole point". He went on: "You don't want that to happen, Mark". His voice took on urgency as he added: "I don't want you to come out firing one barrel, and I don't want you to take a barrel in the face". At 9pm, half-an-hour before his death, Saunders was talking about smashing his window. Sutherland replied : "You are not going to burst out, and you are not going to get gunned down".Ten minutes later, he told the lawyer: "You are not resigned to killing yourself. There's too much to live for, beginning with Lizzie". Then, in response to Saunders, he added: "How could it possibly be painless if you were to shoot yourself. It will cause her agony and I know how much you love her". He then heard two sharp bangs as Saunders shot out his window and police returned fire."The last thing he said to me was 'I'm going to blow off some steam," Sutherland told colleagues. Phone contact was then lost. Saunders, illuminated by the helicopter light, could be seen shouting at officers outside and swaying unsteadily in the window.At 9,32pm, he is seen holding his gun. A police officer could be heard shouting on a loudhailer "put down the gun". Saunders slowly lowered the barrel and appeared to align it with officers. Then, he doubled up and collapsed back into the room under the force of the volley.