Murderers who plead guilty could see their prison sentences reduced by a third under new guidelines published today.The Sentencing Guidelines Council - an independent body chaired by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf - has drawn up a sliding scale for judges to take into account when sentencing defendants.It says a reduction of a third should be given to those pleading guilty at the earliest opportunity, a quarter to those who plead once a trial date has been set, and a tenth to defendants who confess after their trials have begun.The SGC said the reductions were appropriate because a guilty plea would remove the need for a trial, saving money and sparing both victims and witnesses the distress of having to come to court and give evidence.It added that, in "exceptional cases", offenders could even get more than a third taken off their sentence if they demonstrated "absolute candour".The idea of reducing a prison sentence following a timely guilty plea is not new in English law. However, until now, judges have not been obliged to take a plea into account when setting a sentence following a conviction for murder. Mandatory life sentences for murder are widely seen as the main reason why so few murder charges result in a guilty plea.Lord Woolf accepted that the draft guidelines would "almost certainly" allow a one third reduction on the current 15-year standard tariff for murder. In some cases, murderers could serve substantially less than ten years in prison, but England and Wales' most senior judge said the guidelines were formalising arrangements that had been in place for many years."Someone who would get 15 years would now get 10 years," he said. "I have been involved in the criminal justice system for something close to 50 years and, throughout those 50 years, if a person gave a plea of guilty it was understood that there would be a reduction in the sentence."The tradition used to be in murder cases that you always contest it. There's no reason why that should apply. Today's draft guidelines encourage those who commit even the offence of murder to take responsibility."His comments appeared to contradict those of an SGC spokesman, who yesterday said it would have to be an exceptional case for a murderer to receive any reduction on their sentence, "let alone the full one third reduction".However, the lord chief justice insisted that murderers would still only be released once a parole board was satisfied that they were no longer a danger. Under the Criminal Justice Act 2003, violent and sexual offenders can receive a new indeterminate sentence keeping them imprisoned at the end of their tariff if still considered dangerous.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, criticised the new proposals. "What kind of message will this send? Just seven years for murder is not a serious deterrent," he said. "This would be a severe blow for friends and relatives of the murder victims, and a discouragement to those who enforce law and order."Parliament should set the sentencing guidelines," Mr Davis told Conservatives.com. "[Home secretary] David Blunkett cannot claim to be tough on crime if he will allow murderers to walk free after just seven years. With over 800 murders a year, up by a sixth in only five years, this reinforces the need for punishments that deter killers." Further SGC guidelines published today advise judges on a range of new community sentences which will come into effect next year. They will look at the use of intermittent custody - sometimes described as "weekend jail". Lord Woolf said he believed custody was currently used too often. "What we earnestly hope, as a result of these proposals, is that we will use custody more effectively and more appropriately than we do now," he added. "If this works, we will not need as many new prisons as we think we need at present."