A jury yesterday chose to disbelieve a woman who claimed she had accidentally shot dead her husband while performing a sexy dance as the Shania Twain song "Man! I Feel Like a Woman" played in the couple's bedroom.Linda West, 49, collapsed in the dock and her family shouted abuse as she was convicted of murder at Winchester crown court. She faces a mandatory life sentence.The crown said that West, 49, had murdered her husband of nine weeks, Gregory West, 45, as he sat in a chair in their bedroom in Southampton last May. The blast hit Mr West in the heart, killing him instantly.The jury found that West killed her marine engineer husband after an alcohol-fuelled row, which was so heated neighbours could hear it.West claimed in court that she and her husband were drunk, and as an act of foreplay she ran him a bath, and then decided to perform a sexy dance to the song by Twain, one of the biggest stars in country music. She claimed her husband wanted her to use the gun as part of her erotic routine, and at the end of the track, she banged the gun on the floor to "take a bow", but the weapon went off.As part of her defence West reenacted the events of that night, using a piece of wood as a replica gun.She told the jury: "I had the gun in front of me and I was dancing with the gun to that CD. When the CD ended I went like that, [she motioned that she banged the gun on to the floor], like to take a bow, and the gun went off."I tried to wake him. He would not wake up. I was saying, Gregory, please wake up. I was hitting him around the face trying to move him, shouting wake up, wake up."But the jury believed the crown's version of events. Michael Vere-Hodge, for the prosecution, said that earlier in the evening the couple's neighbours had heard raised voices from their flat, consistent with "a heated argument".He added: "We say it was a quarrel between them fuelled by drinking, where the defendant had attacked her husband, leaving superficial marks on his face inflicted by her nails."We say the shot was fired in anger. She went to the bedroom, got the gun and loaded it, came back to the lounge and shot her husband."She instantly regretted what she had done."The court heard that the double-barrelled shotgun's safety catch was not working properly. Weapons experts testified that if dropped on the floor the gun, could go off.West told the court she did not know this.But the jury heard that West did not mention the dance during police interviews and expert evidence showed that although the safety catch was faulty, it would have been difficult to have shot her husband in the way West had claimed.Also she could not explain to the jury how the unlicensed gun became loaded. After the shooting West called 999 and said: "We were playing with a gun, it just went off. I don't believe it."Speaking outside court, Detective Superintendent Andy Stewart said: "I am very pleased with the guilty verdict. Linda came up with one story in the witness box and the jury clearly did not believe her."She will be sentenced at a later date. The trial was a retrial after the jury in the first case failed to reach a verdict on murder or an alternative manslaughter charge.