Damilola Taylor was failed by a criminal justice system that is unfairly balanced in favour of defendants and by flaws in a police inquiry that meant the case could not be properly prepared before trial, a report into the murder investigation concluded yesterday.The 54-page review by a panel headed by the Bishop of Birmingham, the Right Rev John Sentamu, did not suggest that detectives were wrong to charge the four teenagers who were eventually cleared of stabbing Damilola in Peckham, south London, in November, 2001. Instead, it highlighted how the decision to redeploy most of the officers away from the investigation once the suspects had been charged severely hampered the case. It also noted that crucial evidence which would have bolstered the prosecution was excluded from the trial by the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, and called for changes in procedures to allow the crown prosecution service to challenge such decisions. The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, said yesterday that the investigation was still open and he appealed for witnesses to come forward. But he admitted the police were not working on any major new leads. A separate report into the conduct of the CPS by Sir David Calvert-Smith, the director of public prosecutions, insisted that the decision to go ahead with the case was correct. But after receiving Sir David's report, the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, hinted that judges should only use rules to exclude potentially important evidence sparingly. "There should be a presumption in favour of allowing juries to assess the veracity of evidence," he said. Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria, supported Bishop Sentamu's calls for changes in trial procedures. Mr Taylor described the current system as "faulty" and said it had failed his son, who died in a council estate stairwell after being stabbed in the back of the leg. The bishop was asked to review the police investigation last April following a trial in which all the defendants were acquitted of Damilola's murder. Detectives and prosecutors had been severely criticised for failing to secure convictions. A key prosecution witness, a 14-year-old girl known as Bromley, was discredited during cross-examination and her testimony struck out. Bishop Sentamu's review of the investigation praised the police and said "overall, [its] response is a manifest example of how the Met has moved on since the unsatisfactory investigation of the murder of Stephen Lawrence in 1993". However, the decision to slash the number of officers working on the case following the arrest of the suspects meant that there were "insufficient resources" to do the necessary work. Yesterday the bishop said that the criminal justice system did not fairly balance "the rights of victims, witness and defendants". The Home Office said that many of the police report's recommendations had been addressed in reforms being tabled in the criminal justice bill.