The families of four young men murdered by the serial killer Stephen Port have made an appeal for witnesses ahead of possible legal action against the Metropolitan police over the force’s handling of the investigation.Former chef Port, 41, was sentenced in November to spend the rest of his life in prison for the murders of the four men he drugged and raped before dumping their bodies near his east London flat. His trial heard he had a fetish for sex with unconscious boyish-looking men whom he sought out on dating apps and social media before drugging them with the date-rape drug GHB.The Independent Police Complaints Commission has launched an investigation into the handling of the case. Police initially failed to link the deaths despite striking similarities.The families of Anthony Walgate, 23, Jack Taylor, 25, Daniel Whitworth, 21, and Gabriel Kovari, 22, have now instructed civil liberties and police action specialist lawyers Hudgell solicitors and barrister Leslie Thomas QC.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   (Left to right) Daniel Whitworth, Jack Taylor, Anthony Walgate and Gabriel Kovari. Photograph: Metropolitan police/PAIn a statement, Neil Hudgell said: “The Metropolitan police have publicly acknowledged that the evidence heard at Stephen Port’s trial identified potentially missed opportunities to catch Port sooner.“There are many serious questions which the families of these young men need answering through the ongoing IPCC investigation and any future inquests. It is essential that we establish whether the police response to the deaths of these young men was thorough and appropriate, including whether discrimination played any part in their actions.“The families expect the IPCC to fully scrutinise the investigative work undertaken by the police and examine how any potential similarities between the cases were considered.“The families rightly want the police to be held to account but it is too early at this stage to say what form any legal action may take. The emphasis right now is on information-gathering.“We urge anyone with information they believe could be relevant to the IPCC investigation to contact the IPCC directly on 0800 151 0021 or email barking&dagenham@ipcc.gsi.gov.uk or portenquiry@hudgellsolicitors.co.uk.”Earlier this week the Guardian reported how one witness in the investigation felt he had “hit a brick wall” with police and felt compelled to raise concerns over the deaths, which detectives initially failed to link. John Pape, 38, who was Kovari’s London landlord, said he believed homophobia was a factor.The IPCC has said it will examine whether discrimination played any part. Seventeen police officers are facing investigation for possible misconduct over the failure to catch Port earlier. The Metropolitan police are re-examining 58 unexplained deaths involving the drug GHB from a four-year period across London.All four men died from overdoses of GHB, also known as G or liquid ecstasy. The body of Walgate, Port’s first victim, was found just outside the communal entrance to Port’s one-bedroom Barking flat. The other three were discovered in a churchyard near Port’s home. All were propped up in a sitting position, with signs they had been dragged there. None had their mobile phones. An apparent suicide note found on one was taken at “face value” by police, Port’s trial heard, but was later found to have been written by Port.Police questioned Port at the time of Walgate’s death in June 2014. He lied about how he had discovered the body and was arrested, charged with perverting the course of justice, and released. He then went on to murder Kovari and Whitworth in August and September 2014.In March 2015, Port was convicted of making a false statement to police about finding Walgate collapsed outside his flat when in fact he had died inside. He was jailed for eight months for perverting the course of justice, but then released on an electronic tag in June. He killed Taylor in September.Port was convicted of 22 offences against 11 men, four murders, four rapes, four assaults by penetration and 10 of administering a substance. He was cleared on three counts of rape.