Britain's equivalent of the FBI has identified 160 underworld "Mr Bigs", seized 73 tonnes of cocaine, and intercepted a shipment of rocket-propelled grenade launchers thought to be destined for Islamist terrorists since its establishment a year ago, the agency said yesterday.Most of those on the list of hardened organised criminals are British, but many are operating from abroad to run drug cartels, trafficking rings and international money-laundering syndicates. They include Terence Adams, the leader of the notorious north London Adams family, who was recently jailed for seven years for money laundering, and Abdullah Baybasin, a Turkish Kurd jailed in the UK for running one of Europe's largest heroin and opium trafficking rings.Sir Stephen Lander, chair of the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca), which presented its first annual report yesterday, said many of the organised criminals were hardened recidivists who had first come to police attention in the 70s but were still operating despite their advancing years. The list of 160 Mr Bigs - who have been chosen for immediate targeting - is drawn from a wider group of 1,600 whom Soca also considers a serious threat.The release of Soca's first annual report since it was launched in April 2006 was a chance for its directors to trumpet what they believe are major successes. It comes after a year in which there have been rumours within the organisation of poor morale, lack of direction and claims that staff are quitting in dismay.Soca officers have been involved in intercepting what is believed to be the first attempt to use rocket-propelled grenade launchers by British Islamist terrorists. Soca provided intelligence to police in the Netherlands which led to the interception and seizure of the RPGs by Dutch police in an ongoing operation. Officers believe the weapons were intended for use by British Islamist terrorists either in the UK or abroad.Officers have also worked with other agencies to stop 35 murders, including several gangland hits, according to the report. Working with its partners in America and Europe and with the Royal Navy, Soca made record cocaine seizures of 73 tonnes last year. This compares with seizures by police and customs in the past of around 50-60 tonnes of cocaine each year.The cocaine, which was heading to Britain and Europe, was worth £125m to the traffickers and represented 20% of Europe's estimated annual supply.Sir Stephen and Bill Hughes, the director general of Soca, which has taken on key responsibilities formerly held by customs, immigration officers and what was previously known as the National Crime Squad, said morale within the agency was improving. He said: "Morale is good now. We have made it clear to anyone with complaints that they should come to us about it. It is important that I don't have lumpy people in Soca."