The gang that abducted and murdered Amarjit Chohan and his family almost got away with it because of a string of police blunders and racism, it was claimed yesterday.Mr Chohan's brother-inlaw told the Guardian how he was astounded that the police at first fell for the lies and deceptions set up by Kenneth Regan and his co-conspirators.Police at first believed the businessman had run away, said Onkar Verma, whose younger sister Nancy, mother, brother-in-law and two young nephews were murdered by the gang. He had the grim task of identifying the bodies of his immediate family.He said his pain had been made worse by police errors and without him battling police to view the disappearance as suspicious, Regan and the others convicted yesterday would have escaped justice.Prosecutor Richard Horwell praised Mr Verma when opening the case in court: "It was only as a result of the persistence of ... Onkar Verma, that the defendants were foiled."Mr Verma said police indifference to him continued as the trial started. The authorities refused to pay for a flight and accommodation for Mr Verma, who lives in New Zealand, to testify at the trial, despite him being scheduled as a witness.Eventually victim support in New Zealand paid for his flight, and friends provided a place to stay.Mr Verma and his sister Nancy used to talk every day they were apart. After she disappeared, he knew she would never have suddenly taken off without telling him, such was the tightness of the family bond. Mr Verma rang Amarjit's firm, where he was told by the operations manager, Mike Parr, that Chohan and his family had gone to India.Parr even faxed over a power of attorney document Amarjit was purported to have signed which alarmed Mr Verma because the signature "was just a squiggle".On February 19, Mr Verma emailed Scotland Yard about his suspicions, a message that was passed to the missing persons unit."I spoke to Nancy every day, there's never been a day when we did not speak," he wrote. "My sister rang me twice a day, my mum also, and every day I would ring them once."All of a sudden there's no calls, no call to say we're OK or we're going to India."By March 5 Mr Verma was so concerned he flew to Britain. He got the keys to the family house from Mr Parr, who said someone had sent them to him in an envelope. When Mr Verma got to the Chohan home in Hounslow, west London, there was evidence that made him think his loved ones were in danger.He said: "The clothes were in the washing machine, the children's toys were on the floor, their feed bottles were there. There were cooked meals in the fridge, everything said they had suddenly gone. I got more worried."Mr Verma believes the first officers investigating the case blundered by becoming convinced Amarjit was in trouble with the law, when in fact there was no evidence that he was.The businessman had served time in jail for tax evasion, a fact Mr Verma believes led officers to make a false set of assumptions: "I believe they racially stereotyped him, obviously."Mr Verma said: "The police kept saying he's done a runner because he was in trouble. I never believed the police story because I was very close to my family and they would have told me about it."Eventually the case passed from missing persons to the serious crime group and a new senior investigating officer, Norman McKinley, took over and reexamined everything.He told Mr Verma that his brother-in-law was not wanted by the authorities and started investigating the case as if a serious crime had been committed.