Honour-based violence is getting attention now like never before. Senior police officers spoke at a conference in London last week on honour killings. And in an effort to assist people living at risk, the Derby-based charity Karma Nirvana is piloting a national helpline called the Survivors Network.Initially part-funded by the government's Forced Marriage Unit, the pilot has been set up by Karma Nirvana's founder, Jasvinder Sanghera, herself a survivor of a forced marriage that led her to flee her home as a young woman.Staffed by volunteers, many of whom have personal experience of surviving family persecution, the in-depth knowledge of honour-based violence means, Sanghera says, it can offer people at risk a unique insight into a situation that can be misunderstood and poorly dealt with by agencies. "I hope this network will offer people friendship when they are most alone, as well as giving specialist support at a time when they have lost all their usual support structures," she explains.Shazia Qayum, one of 17 volunteer mentors, also escaped a forced marriage and has never seen her family since. "If men and women do decide to leave home, overnight they can lose everything and everyone they have ever known," she says. "Many are made to feel that they are the perpetrators, rather than the victim. This network will help people understand that it's them that has been wronged and betrayed by their families, not the other way round."Someone else who knows that terror all too well is 32-year-old Khalid Aziz (not his real name). At the age of 17 he was told by his family that they were all going for a holiday to Pakistan. Once there, he was drugged and abducted by his grandmother before being taken to a deserted village, where he was imprisoned in shackles in a mosque. There he was meant to learn to be a good Muslim in preparation for a wedding he knew nothing about and did not agree to. After two weeks, he escaped, but several years later was nonetheless forced into marrying his cousin.Having divorced his wife and moved on in his life, Aziz is now a trained mentor for the Survivors Network. "Men in our culture are meant to be like soldiers," he says. "They don't talk about their problems. It's hard for them to come forward, but when there are men to support them, that will help. Before I came to Karma Nirvana, I found it very hard to say anything, even to my doctor."Although the national helpline service won't be operational until March next year, agencies are already referring cases to Karma Nirvana's team of mentors. They have completed eight weeks of training in child protection, the legislation surrounding forced marriage, immigration issues and mentoring skills, and have also received specialist sessions from the Metropolitan Police on the lessons the police have learned over recent years around honour-based violence and best practice in ways of dealing with imminent threat.Anna Hardy, a mentor who was married to an Iranian for 17 years and suffered emotional abuse while living in Iran, says that the variety of mentors is a strength of the network. "I've taken a call from a woman who didn't want to speak to someone from her own culture," she says. "My experience of the isolation of living in a different culture can be very helpful.""A poor agency response can lead to murder, self-harm or suicide," says Sanghera. "We have a one-chance rule - you have one chance to save a life. This network has to offer hope and enable everyone to feel that there is light at the end of the tunnel." · Karma Nirvana is on 01332 604098/299166· Any comments on this article? Write to society@theguardian.com