Detectives were yesterday preparing to question a terrorist suspect who was injured when a bomb partly detonated at a family restaurant in Exeter. Nicky Reilly, 22, was discharged from hospital, where he was treated for serious facial injuries, into the custody of Devon and Cornwall police yesterday lunchtime. He was transferred under armed guard to an unnamed police station in Devon. A spokesman said Reilly, who has a history of mental illness, would be given time to speak to his solicitor before he was questioned. Devon and Cornwall police are leading the inquiry with assistance from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch. One of the investigators' priorities will be to establish if the attack on the Giraffe restaurant in the centre of Exeter was the work of a loner. Sources stress the investigation remains at an early stage.Police have said that Reilly had been preyed upon and radicalised because of his vulnerability. His stepfather, Phil Dinner, said Reilly had spoken to his mother, Kim, by phone from his hospital bed. "He said sorry to her for the impact it's had on the family. He seems genuinely amazed at the trouble he's caused." Reilly was seen with blood on his face after a device, believed to be a nail bomb, partly exploded in the restaurant on Thursday. On Friday it was alleged that Reilly had received a text message of encouragement before leaving his Plymouth home to catch a bus to Exeter.Police were yesterday searching a house in Plymouth two miles from where Reilly lived with his parents. Neighbours claimed that Iraqi Kurds lived at the three-storey house on Old Laira Road, believed to be owned by the council, but police said they were not interested in the people who lived there but in the house itself.Neighbour Steve Harvey, 63, said: "There have been different asylum seekers there over the years but since 2006 it has been let to a group of three or four Iraqi Kurds. They are all men and seemed OK. I'd see them chatting if they had a barbecue out the back. "The police showed up on Sunday and I saw a woman carrying a baby being taken away in an unmarked car. I thought it was something to do with social services until I heard it was about the nail bomb investigation. It's really scary to think you live next to a house which is being linked to terrorism." A spokesman for Devon and Cornwall police said statements were taken from occupants, but stressed that none of the occupants of the property were regarded as suspects. No arrests were made or expected. "Our top priority remains keeping our community safe, and that all other policing activity will continue as normal whilst this investigation progresses." Two other men are still being questioned by police. One was arrested at a pavement cafe in Plymouth by armed police on Friday afternoon. A second man who was at the cafe was not arrested but is helping police with their inquiries.