"I see the Bulger parents being encouraged to feel anger and rage, and I know there is a better way of dealing with grief," says Neville Lawrence. "For me, finding a way to take the experience of what happened and using it so that Stephen's life has meaning and might do some good is the best healing there is."Healing it may be, but the way that Lawrence has found of coming to terms with his son's murder is far from easy or soothing. What Lawrence does is stand up in front of audiences, often in predominantly white areas, and talk about racism. He tells those listening - mostly parents and children - what it means to learn that your son has been stabbed to death by people who did not know him, but felt justified in what they did simply because he was black. Lawrence knows that in these places - and some have been neighbourhoods near Eltham in south-east London, where Stephen was killed - he is often viewed as a troublemaker. To some he is not a father bereaved in brutal circumstances, but a man who will not stop hounding a group of young white men that the law has said it cannot prosecute, and whom he is victimising out of the conviction that they killed his son. But these parents still come to listen, because there is a curiosity to see him in the flesh - and, perhaps, to confirm their prejudices. He has no illusions: not all have come in sympathy or support. "I go in and just talk to them about what happened and why we, as parents, had to fight because we could not just accept what happened to our son," he says. "If we don't fight, what happened to us could so easily happen to others. "Then I end by asking the mothers and fathers: 'Can you understand what it is when your child goes out and doesn't come back and you never see him again?' No parent should have to go through that." As he utters these words, this dignified man seems close to tears. Yet he continues: "The thing that makes doing this worthwhile is that, quite often afterwards, there have been questions from people asking more about what I am saying. I have even had parents crying - people who were hostile to begin with - asking if they can help." After the long and emotionally draining campaign led by the Lawrences following Stephen's death on April 22 1993 - a campaign that culminated in their private prosecution and the McPherson report into police racism - Neville Lawrence wants to use his position to tackle racism directly. And what could be more direct, he asks, than trying to get children to look at what racism is, how racist attitudes are manifested, and where they lead? "We can only change ourselves," he says. "It's a tiny grain of sand, but sooner or later all those grains together mount up to something very powerful." The result of his work, he hopes, is that kids will take the message home, challenging what their parents say and think. Which is why he can be found talking again about what racism did to his family's life, in a video of Clifford Oliver's play My England, which tackles the unthinking but destructive racism that can so easily surface among young people. Lawrence was impressed when he saw the play performed, so when Oliver asked if he would like to be involved in the video version that was to be produced for schools and youth centres, he agreed. Given the recent eruptions of racial tension in northern cities, its launch could hardly be more timely and necessary. Oliver's drama is acutely observed, powerful stuff: the action is set at an England football match at Wembley, where a white teenage supporter, Ant, arrives chanting, "Ingerland... Ingerland" and begins yelling abuse as a black player does well. Behind him in the terraces, a black teenager, Tony, complains about the racist taunting to a steward and gets stroppy when he does nothing. Both end up being escorted from the game and put in a holding cell. And it is here that we see how these boys, divided by colour, have so much in common when they are enthusing together about football. But once the questions of race and of players' different origins arise, you see how conflicts over what is permissible on the terraces move into fiercely held beliefs. They end up fighting. In that moment, the audience can see vividly how the earlier possibility of friendship formed through shared values is wrecked by the racism that unconsciously informs Ant's whole world view. "Too many kids are taught that we blacks came here to take," Lawrence observes. "But actually we came here to give, and I say to some of these kids, 'You don't know what we gave up to come here. Just go and see our country and you'll realise we must have been promised a lot to leave.'" Oliver's parable may be simple storytelling, but the importance of tackling the divisions was evidenced in a report published earlier this year. Bullying in Britain (Young Voice), based on 7,000 interviews with teenagers, found significant racial bias in bullying: among ethnic minority children and young people, a quarter had been severely bullied, compared with just 13% of the white children. Disturbingly, of both the boys and the girls who were severely bullied, 23% had experienced racial abuse as part of their ordeal. Lawrence knows the bad news, but he is determinedly optimistic that things can and will improve. "The fact that we are here has caused a lot of changes for the better. I can see that clearly when I think back to when I came here in the 1960s. "I look at the riots, the racist incidents, the tragedies that of course are still happening," he says, "but I have faith that children growing up, mixing at school and in their community with peers who come from different races, will be much more able to see the things they share and the good that comes from this - just as my children have." His hope is that black and white children will watch this video, recognise attitudes they may have adopted without realising, and decide not to be that way. His ambitions sound modest: "If I can change just one child, that will be an achievement, because one child influences another and that is how things go." He talks also about how he has just returned from Jamaica, where he visited Stephen's grave, and how his other two children - whom he has shielded from the media, understandably frightened that exposure would put them at risk - have grown up as they should. His son is about to graduate in computer science and his daughter has begun a design course. And no, he says firmly, their brother's death did not alter their view of white people any more than it did his. "We all have friends of every colour and know it was not whites who killed Stephen but six bad white people," he says. But when he returns to the subject of the video, the smile that had spread across his handsome face while he spoke of his children fades. "I do believe that if the parents of the young men who stabbed Stephen had seen this video early in their lives, it might have made a difference," he says. "As it is, I blame them for the death of Stephen because it was they who instilled such hate in their children. "If they had really thought about what they feel and why they feel it, perhaps they would have begun to question. And that might have meant my son would still be alive."• My England, produced by the Arc Theatre Ensemble, with text and resource book, is available at £39.95 from Carel Press, 4 Hewson Street, Carlisle CA2 5AU. Tel 01228-538928.