Britain's most senior policeman, Sir Ian Blair, was facing fresh controversy last night after it emerged that an inquiry he ordered into allegations of misconduct within his own force had been savaged by the Metropolitan Police Authority.The authority's chairman, Len Duval, asked Blair to prepare a report on the failure of four previous police investigations to examine allegations of police involvement in the murder of Daniel Morgan 19 years ago.Duval received the report on 31 January but, in a move likely to further damage Blair's standing, has since rejected it. In an email to Morgan's family, he branded the report as 'not adequate, for example in either reaching an understanding of past investigations or in acknowledging how possible misconduct by one or more officers may have affected the investigation of this murder'.Duval is to meet the family this week to discuss their concerns and has stressed his commitment to ensure that the truth about Morgan's murder emerges.The MPA's verdict on the quality of Blair's report comes at a difficult time for the commissioner, who cannot afford to lose the association's support. Duval has recently been publicly supportive of Blair. Last week he defended the commissioner for expressing incredulity at the level of media interest in the murder of Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, and also backed him after the mistaken shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes at the Stockwell tube station in London last July.Morgan's brother, Alastair, said that the MPA's verdict meant only a public inquiry would now reassure the family.'I am disappointed, but hardly surprised, by Ian Blair's failure to answer the questions posed. My family and I have struggled to get answers from the Met for almost 19 years. We are pleased however that Len Duval has taken a tough stance on this. The questions in this case are so serious and touch on the conduct of very senior officers that I think a public inquiry is the only way they are going to get to the bottom of this.'Morgan, a private investigator, was found dead in the car park of the Golden Lion pub in Sydenham, south London, with an axe in his skull. His business partner, Jonathan Rees, was the prime suspect. Their relationship had soured over the illegal hiring of off-duty police officers by Rees, one of whom was a detective sergeant, Sid Fillery. On the evening before he died, Morgan had been seen arguing with Fillery at the pub.In 1987 Rees, Fillery and two other officers were arrested upon suspicion of being involved in the murder. All were later released uncharged.