While raping, assaulting and attacking pensioners a short drive from his family home, Grant was apparently living a life in the comfortable terrace of Brockley Mews in Honor Oak, south London, that friends found admirable and self-sacrificing.In 2001, Jennifer, Grant's second wife and mother of his four youngest children, was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis which left her using a wheelchair. Grant, a former carpenter and minicab driver, became his wife's full-time carer."Even now, I still respect him for the way he looked after his wife. He was a No 1 to all of us on the street because he was so kind to her and so gentle," said Ray, a friend and neighbour of Grant's for the past 17 years. "He would take her on day trips if the weather was nice and come to my allotment to pick up fresh vegetables for her."A leafy barrier of trees protects the terrace of three-storey homes from the railway track opposite. Taking advantage of the sheltered, pedestrianised feel of the Mews, the neighbours bring their garden chairs out into the street to hold barbecues and domino games."He would bring his car over so we could play CDs from its stereo system," Ray added. "I never saw him lose his temper or heard him say a single swearword. He never gave away very much but we thought he was a good man: humble and cool."One of the few distinguishing features of Grant's lifestyle, recalls Ray, was how Grant kept his house so strikingly neat and clean. "It was an exceptionally tidy home," he said. "There wasn't a speck of dirt and nothing was out of place. He did that himself: Jennifer couldn't leave her wheelchair to do any cleaning herself."Wheylan Riviere, a college student who used to play football with Grant's youngest son, pointed out where Grant used to hang his punchbag and the tree on which he strung water bottles as target practice for his air pistol.But what all his neighbours noticed was Grant's fondness for late-night drives. "That man could drive," remembered Riviere. "At two to three o'clock in the morning, he would come blazing up in his family car and brake sharply outside his house. Then, 10 minutes later, he'd be back off again at high speed, and stay out for hours."The family also differed from those around him through their association with the Jehovah's Witnesses. "We used to call them 'the Christians'," said Derrick, another neighbour. "On a Saturday, they would come out in their smart suits and all go off to church together."Jennifer and her sons moved away on the day Grant was arrested. They haven't been back and the house is boarded up.An elder at the family's church admits being as baffled as Grant's neighbours as to how "that nice man" could have committed such heinous crimes. "Jennifer always seemed content and well cared-for. The boys were friendly but respectful, they were always smiling," she added. "Delroy was definitely very attentive and caring. He was affectionate. They were a nice family."