Police have smashed an international prostitution racket in which gangmasters smuggled young women into Britain to work in the illegal sex trade.The raids, resulting in 58 arrests, come as an Observer investigation reveals a 50 per cent increase in the number of prostitutes working in Britain, driven by soaring levels of illegal immigrants. London remains the hub but the prostitution map now spreads from Aberdeen to Torquay. In a fresh crackdown on Friday night, police swooped on two massage parlours in Sheffield and Leeds. Forty seven women, mostly eastern Europeans in their late teens or twenties, and 11 men were arrested. The operation involved 250 officers from South Yorkshire and West Yorkshire police and 80 immigration service personnel. David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, yesterday defied criticism that the Government is losing the fight against people smuggling and sexual exploitation. 'This operation shows the determination of the police and other agencies to put these people out of business and behind bars,' he said. 'We will remain resolute in our fight against organised immigration crime.' The operation centred on the Omega Sauna Suite at Attercliffe Road in Sheffield and Winston's Health Club in Dewsbury Road in Leeds. At the Omega parlour, 13 women were detained for immigration offences, while another 34 were held at Winston's. The 11 men were held on suspicion of smuggling illegal immigrants and living off immoral earnings. Ian Daines, assistant chief constable of South Yorkshire police, said yesterday: 'This is one of the biggest single operations carried out by two forces. Those detained will be questioned about facilitating illegal immigration and living off immoral earnings. We believe the immigrants are from European countries, and they are all adults, generally young women.' Detective chief superintendent Andy Rennison, from West Yorkshire Police, said checks were being carried out by the immigration service. 'I would like to stress the women arrested are being viewed as victims of exploitation. But they have to remain in custody until we have established their immigration status.'