Silicon Valley’s relations with the British government have hit a new low after an official report in the UK blamed Facebook for failing to prevent the jihadi-inspired murder of a British soldier.Behind closed doors in the tech community – where relations are already strained following the revelations from National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden – there is fury over the intelligence and security committee (ISC) report, published on Tuesday, which accused Facebook and its peers of running a “safe haven” for terrorists.The ISC was investigating what the UK intelligence agencies knew about the two men who murdered Fusilier Lee Rigby in a street near his military barracks in Woolwich, London, in May 2013.Five months before the attack, the report revealed, one of the two killers, Michael Adebowale, had described his intention to carry out a jihadi attack “in the most graphic terms and emotive manner” during an exchange with an Islamist militant based overseas. The report did not name the company involved, but it later emerged that it was Facebook.While the report cleared the UK intelligence services of blame for failing to prevent the killing, despite a catalogue of errors, it was highly critical of the company for failing to flag up the information. Had it done so, the committee concluded, Rigby’s life might have been saved.ISC’s chair, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, and the prime minister, David Cameron, used the findings to accuse Silicon Valley of not doing enough to flag up potential terrorists using their networks to the UK authorities.Facebook declined to comment beyond a statement at its horror at the attack. “We don’t comment on individual cases but Facebook’s policies are clear: we do not allow terrorist content on the site and take steps to prevent people from using our service for these purposes,” said a spokesperson.Nor did its peers want to engage in a bitter spat with the UK authorities over the murder.But off the record many saw the report as a cynical bid to steer blame away from the security services and to bolster controversial legislation to enhance online surveillance.“Nice fucking timing,” said one Valley executive who did not want to be named.“Given all the information they have, with and without our permission, it is outrageous that they should try and blame Facebook,” said another. “The conclusion of the report was: if only Facebook had been doing our job here.”The UK is currently considering forcing tech companies to retain records that would identify people using a particular phone or computer. While the US is at least struggling to debate ways to protect privacy in the wake of Snowden’s revelations, they argue the UK is moving in the opposite direction.Technology executives were particularly incensed by the report’s proposal that Facebook and its peers “should accept their responsibility” to review accounts immediately and pass information to the appropriate authority “when possible links to terrorism trigger accounts to be closed”.“So who is next? Do the telecoms companies have to listen in to all our calls to spot potential wrongdoing? Should Google be reading all our Gmail? Should the postal service be reading people’s mail?” said one.Privacy groups too were shocked at what they saw as the cynicism of the report’s conclusions. Eva Galperin, global policy analyst at the Electronic Frontier Foundation in San Francisco, said she was no fan of Facebook’s terms and conditions (nor of the tech firms’ own attitudes to privacy) but it was clear they had policies in place to spot bad actors and it was not Facebook’s job to police its 1.3bn-strong community for the possibility of future crimes.“They are not here to do your job for you. If you want data, you have to show up with a valid legal order,” she said. “The idea that Facebook should take the place of the surveillance state is a spurious one and frankly one that they wouldn’t even be likely to do very well.”According to the report, Adebowale did not discuss a definitive plan on Facebook as to how he might carry out an attack. The contact, called Foxtrot by the report, made several suggestions to Adebowale and wanted to be kept informed of his ideas. “However, no evidence of further contact between them has been found,” according to the report. The information was provided after the attack by an unnamed third party (presumably from Facebook) who got in touch with GCHQ, the British intelligence organisation.Facebook does do some active policing of its site but in general relies on reports from other users to highlight issues or requests from legal authorities. Before the murder Facebook had closed several accounts opened by Adebowale in accordance with its policies.These state: “Safety is Facebook’s top priority. We remove content and may escalate to law enforcement when we perceive a genuine risk of physical harm, or a direct threat to public safety. You may not credibly threaten others, or organise acts of real-world violence.“Organisations with a record of terrorist or violent criminal activity are not allowed to maintain a presence on our site. We also prohibit promoting, planning or celebrating any of your actions if they have, or could, result in financial harm to others, including theft and vandalism.”GCHQ informed the committee that the old accounts had been highlighted by “automated techniques” which identify accounts that break Facebook’s terms of service.“The company themselves only saw this information after the murder as part of a retrospective review of all 11 of Adebowale’s accounts. They had not been aware of the content of these accounts before as they did not routinely monitor content in this way,” the committee found.Despite this the committee concluded that Facebook – and its peers – “should accept their responsibility” to review accounts immediately and pass information to the appropriate authority “when possible links to terrorism trigger accounts to be closed”.The report said there was “considerable difficulty” in accessing online communications on sites belonging to US-based internet firms, which had cited a “need to protect users’ privacy”.“Where there is a possibility that a terrorist atrocity is being planned, that argument should not be allowed to prevail,” the report said.“If Adebowale’s exchange with Foxtrot had been seen by MI5 at the time, then we believe that the investigation would have increased to Priority 1, unlocking all the extra resources this would have entailed. This is the single issue which – had it been known at the time – might have enabled MI5 to prevent the attack.”The comments echo those of GCHQ’s new boss, Robert Hannigan, who earlier this month accused US technology companies of becoming “the command and control networks of choice” for terrorists, comments that have further strained relations between Britain and US tech companies.But as tech executives have pointed out, both Adebowale and his accomplice Michael Adebolajo had been under surveillance by MI5 for years before the killing. There is no suggestion in the report that Facebook was asked to hand over information about the men before the attack.What ISC is asking for was truly frightening, said Galperin. “They want these companies to survey all of our messages and then they want to be informed if there is anything suspicious. It’s the very definition of the surveillance state,” she said.