Volunteers from a mountain rescue team are searching Saddleworth Moor near Oldham for the remains of Keith Bennett, a victim of the Moors murders in the 1960s. The team is using sniffer dogs to search for the 12-year-old's body. They have searched from the main Greenfield to Huddersfield road, close to where Ian Brady and Myra Hindley buried Pauline Reade's body.The unpaid volunteers are from the Ogwen Valley mountain rescue team in north Wales and are led by David Jones, who said they could spend months or years searching the area.Keith's mother, Winnie Johnson, 76, was at the search site last week as the volunteers began the operation."Hopefully she'll have closure in the not so far future," Jones said. "I've told her I'm not promising anything and we're just going to do what we can."His team have identified 19 areas to be searched. He said they had marked off grids of land and tested the soil with metal probes before sending the sniffer dogs in.An appeal has been set up to buy specialist search equipment after Greater Manchester police last year called off their search for Keith's remains.The boy disappeared on the way to visit his grandmother in Longsight, Manchester, in 1964. He was one of five children abducted and murdered by Brady and Hindley and the only one whose remains have not been found.His mother attended a memorial service at Manchester Cathedral this month. Hindley died in jail in November 2002, aged 60. Brady, now 72, is in the high-security Ashworth hospital in Merseyside. In 1987 the pair admitted killing Keith Bennett and Pauline Reade. Both were taken to the moors to help police find the remains but they only found Pauline Reade.Johnson welcomed the search. "He [Brady) knows where he is. He admitted it and that's how I knew I would never find him alive again."I want the closure, yes, and I want him buried before anything happens to me. But I also want him buried knowing Brady's alive when they do it, because it's getting on his goat now."He knows where he is but he doesn't want him found."Hundreds of people have donated money to a fund set up to finance the search, but as yet the money has not been transferred to the charity team.Jones said: "We, as a registered charity, are giving our time and expenses for nothing but obviously we can only stretch that so far. The more we get from the appeal, the more manpower we can put on the sites and the longer we can stay."