Bailiffs enforcing court judgments will have the new right to enter debtors' homes forcibly under government plans unveiled yesterday.Enforcement agents - the new name proposed for bailiffs - will be entitled to enter domestic premises by force, but only with a judge's authority. At present forcible entry is allowed only on commercial premises. Announcing a wholesale overhaul of the system of enforcing judgments, Lady Scotland, the Lord Chancellor's Department junior minister, said it was "unhelpful" to speak of gaining entry to homes by the use of crowbars and sledgehammers. Forcible entry was envisaged as a last resort to be used against those who refused to pay. The plan to make sweeping changes to the enforcement regime recognises the widespread dissatisfaction of credit card, mortgage, loan and utilities companies with the current means for making recalcitrant debtors pay up. Lady Scotland said the government was committed to early legislation to implement the plans. The white paper, Effective Enforcement, published yesterday, outlines a unified system of regulation and licensing for the agents who execute court judgments. At present bailiffs and sheriffs' officers, who enforce county court and high court judgments respectively, work under different powers and regulation. Courts will be given the power to make a new form of order, the data disclosure order, authorising the Inland Revenue, Department for Work and Pensions, credit reference agencies and financial institutions to release information about the debtor. The information will include employment details, bank accounts, address, date of birth, national insurance number, and whether the debtor is on income-related benefit. Attachment of earnings orders, for deductions from wages to satisfy a debt, will be speeded up, and tracking systems will redirect orders to new employers if the debtor changes jobs without notifying the court. Tenants who owe rent on their homes will no longer have their belongings seized to pay the arrears: that means of rent recovery will be limited to commercial premises. Lady Scotland said: "Society wants those who owe money judgments to pay their dues, but also wants to protect the vulnerable. The system we propose will use the full weight of the law on those who won't pay while safeguarding vulnerable individuals who simply can't pay." Research commissioned by the department and published yesterday shows that most fall into the "can't pay" rather than the "won't pay" category. The study, by the personal finance research centre at Bristol University, found that "won't pays" fell into distinct groups, including those who withheld payment for certain bills, such as water or council tax, on principle, those "working the system", and those "ducking responsibility". Some creditors, whose main objective was to maintain the customer relationship, went to considerable lengths to discover the circumstances of those who fell into arrears and adapted their debt recovery approaches accordingly, it says. Others adopted a harder business approach. Fewer creditors were taking debtors to court and more were applying for attachment of earnings orders, the research discovered.