The report of the inquiry into the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence, to be published next week, is the most significant comment on police and the community since the Scarman report into the Brixton riots of 1981. Such inquiries - set up under the Police Act, to look into a matter of serious public concern - are far from common and bring to light facts and opinions that are frequently hidden from view.  They require senior public officials to account for themselves in public and provide an opportunity for individuals and organisations - local and national - to submit evidence in writing.  In both Scarman and Lawrence, the issues of central concern related in some sense to a failure in policing. Each inquiry has probed established police procedures and the extent to which paper policies have been carried out in practice. They have brought to the surface fundamental issues concerning police powers, competence, accountability, personnel and training.  The events which triggered the inquiries are fundamentally different, however. The Scarman inquiry was ordered by the then Home Secretary, William Whitelaw, two days after some of the most serious riots on mainland Britain this century. The "temporary collapse of law and order" in Brixton, south London, on April 10-12, 1981, caused widespread injury and the destruction of large numbers of vehicles and buildings.  Scarman's inquiry, which was given added urgency by the rioting which flared again across the country in July of the same year, was fundamentally about the police failure to handle riots which resulted from oppressive policing, the collapse of consent and the failure of competence in dealing with conflict and public disorder. In contrast to the immediate government response to the rioting, fire and looting seen on television by millions, the inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence came about through a much longer and slower burning sense of injustice - a process which took almost five years from April 22, 1993, when Stephen was murdered, to March 16, 1998, when the inquiry team started taking evidence. This inquiry came about not because of any governmental sense of urgency but through the relentless and impassioned campaigning of Stephen's parents, Neville and Doreen Lawrence, and their supporters in the face of official prevarication, obstruction and denial. The Brixton riots were by no means unprecedented: much more serious outbreaks pepper British history. Nor were they unexpected. But they were, for their time, exceptional and the focus of spontaneous public concern.  The murder of Stephen Lawrence was tragic. However, the deeper tragedy is that it was far from exceptional in the black experience in Britain. Racist murder is the most extreme end of a continuum which spans violent assault, arson, criminal damage, graffiti, intimidation and verbal abuse. The pattern of violence, of which Stephen's murder was the most brutal example, fundamentally undermines the security of black and Asian Britons; it affects the way we think, feel and act.  The ethnic minority communities' experience of violent racism has been compounded by the failure of the police response. Again, while the murder of Stephen seems to have been uniquely plagued by errors and incompetence in the investigative process, the same kinds of criticism have been levelled at the police for decades in cases of violent racism. Common in such cases are complaints that police do not do enough, fail to keep victims informed, seem disinterested, fail to apprehend offenders, or make mistakes in the process of investigation.  In a profound sense, Stephen Lawrence represents the numerous other people murdered under similar circumstances and whose killers have not been caught - and, more broadly still, the countless other black Britons who have been abused, attacked and harassed and whose calls for help have been mishandled by the police.  It is the wider issues of violent racism, and the failure of the police and government to respond effectively to it, that the Lawrence inquiry was set up to address. While Scarman's was a one-man show, the Lawrence inquiry is chaired by a retired judge and is advised by a retired deputy chief constable, a bishop, and a senior figure from the Jewish community. Consequently, it will reflect a deeper, more diverse understanding of the issues than Scarman's.  Crucially, the broader social and political landscape into which the Lawrence inquiry will be published is different in many ways from that in the early 1980s. For example, although there were some eloquent black and Asian people who contributed to the debates during and after Scarman, there are now key people in powerful positions who have personal experience of racial prejudice and discrimination.  Among those who can fully empathise with black Britons, and be their advocate at the highest levels, are John Sentamu, Bishop of Stepney, one of the members of the panel of inquiry, Sir Herman Ouseley, chair of the Commission for Racial Equality (CRE), and Paul Boateng, the Home Office minister responsible for police policy.  Similar changes in the public representation of the diversity of the British population echo throughout society - including, crucially, in the police service. In 1981, there were only 326 police officers from ethnic minority groups in the whole of England and Wales (0.3 per cent of strength); by 1998, the numbers had risen sevenfold to 2,483 officers (2 per cent).  As the number of black police officers has increased, so has their capacity to influence the organisational cultures, policies and routine practices of policing. A key development has been the creation in 1993 of the Black Police Association. Their submission to the Lawrence inquiry speaks from direct personal experience as police officers of an ethnocentric, "white dominated mono-cultural police service" which contributes to the "evidentially differential service" delivered to ethnic minority communities.  One of the issues which exercised both the Scarman and Lawrence inquiries is the issue of institutionalised racism. Although Scarman rejected the allegation that "society… knowingly, as a matter of policy, discriminates against black people", he went on to say that if practices adopted by public bodies as well as private individuals "unwittingly" discriminate against black people, this deserves "serious consideration" and "swift remedy". He concluded that "all the evidence I have received… suggests that racialism and discrimination against black people - often hidden, sometimes unconscious - remain a major source of social tension and conflict", citing examples in housing, education and employment.  Although many critics rightly took exception to some aspects of Scarman's diagnosis, his recommendation to enforce the law on racial discrimination and for positive efforts to be made to tackle racial disadvantage were stated clearly. At least part of the problem, as Scarman later lamented, was that the sense of urgency which existed in the aftermath of the riots dissipated until riots occurred again in 1985.  As we look around in 1999 and ask to what extent racial prejudice, discrimination and social and economic disadvantage remain, we should read again the preface to the 1986 Penguin edition of the Scarman report, in which he recommended that the government "must tackle racial disadvantage, and that means adjusting all government policies to this end". Only once the idea of institutional racism has become accepted as an explanation for the disadvantage suffered by ethnic minority communities in Britain will we be able to make progress. Although it has been suggested that "institutional racism" has defied definition, those definitions submitted to the inquiry all have a common thread - the essence of which is captured by the CRE's contention that it means "established laws, customs and practices which result in ethnic minorities being treated unfairly and less equally, often without intention or knowledge". Although Sir Paul Condon refused to accept that the Metropolitan Police is "institutionally racist", in oral evidence to the Lawrence inquiry he admitted that there is "unconscious" and "deliberate" racism in the police service which can be "played out in discrimination" and "the unfair use of arbitrary powers". There is so little difference between the words used by Sir Paul and Sir Herman that further denial of an increasingly accepted term seems pointless.  So where do we go from here? Based on the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, there is an urgent need to incorporate into UK law a duty to eliminate discrimination on the basis of race and to work actively towards equality of opportunity. This should apply to all policies and practices of government agencies - including, of course, the police, but also to other criminal justice agencies including prisons, probation and officers of the court and indeed to housing, education and employment.  Concerning the police, who have special powers in regard to protecting life, liberty and personal security, rigorous mechanisms are required to eliminate racial discrimination - direct or indirect - in the application of police powers, resources and discretion.  There should be the capacity to complain to a fully independent authority, and complainants should have direct access to the legal process. A new independent authority, staffed with trained investigators, should be charged with enforcing anti-discrimination law by responding to complaints and through its own self-generated investigations. Systems for redress should be open, accessible and speedy. Until rigorous mechanisms to ensure the accountability, transparency and the elimination of discrimination are in place, we run the risk of a recurrence of the problems which both the Scarman and Lawrence inquiries were set up to examine and solve.  • Dr Ben Bowling is a lecturer in criminology at Cambridge University. His book, Violent Racism (Oxford University Press, 1998), was submitted as evidence to the Stephen Lawrence inquiry.