A speeding police officer who caused "catastrophic" injuries to a singer-songwriter while responding to an emergency call in his van has been given a suspended eight-month jail sentence.David Lynch, 31, from Hitchin in Hertfordshire, was found guilty of dangerous driving earlier this year for hitting cyclist Joseph Belmonte after driving over a humpback bridge in Hackney, east London, on 31 March last year.Belmonte, known as Pepe to his friends and family, was hit after Lynch "lost control" of the van, suffering "catastrophic life-changing" injuries, Southwark crown court was told.Judge Jeffrey Pegden QC, sentencing Lynch to eight months in prison suspended for 12 months, said: "What has weighed significantly with me is your intense guilt, remorse and utter distress at the injuries you caused that day, coupled with your immediate and appropriate response not only at the scene but in your determined efforts afterwards, until you were told it was inappropriate, to seek information about the welfare of Belmonte."Lynch, who has since resigned from British Transport police, was also ordered to carry out 240 hours of community service and told he must be electronically tagged and subject to a 7pm to 6am curfew for 12 weeks. He was also banned from driving for 15 months and ordered to pay £1,000 towards prosecution costs.The court heard that Lynch had come on to the rise of the unmarked bridge in Queensbridge Road at 68mph while in a 30mph zone. He had reduced his speed to 63mph before his vehicle "took off" and became "airborne", landing so hard that it made gouges in the road. The van then swerved to the left, hitting the kerb, and then to the right, hitting Belmonte from behind at a speed of 45mph.Belmonte, 31, was in a medically induced coma for nine days after the collision and suffered spine, knee, brain and facial injuries. He had a broken right elbow and little finger which resulted in him having to learn to play the guitar again. He also suffered severe psychological effects and his head and associated brain injury mean he is likely to be left with permanent cognitive impairment, the court was told.Lynch, of Comfrey Road, Stotfold, Hitchin, had already pleaded guilty to careless driving but denied one charge of dangerous driving.Pegden said Belmonte had suffered "catastrophic, life-changing" injuries and his career as a musician had been "ruined". "He still suffers major disabilities and faces further significant surgery and treatment," he said.The court heard that Lynch had two previous speeding convictions. In 2005, before he joined British Transport police, he was banned from driving for two months and fined £250 for driving at 98mph on a motorway. In 2008, he was handed a fixed penalty notice for driving at 40mph in a 30mph zone.Judge Pegden said he had taken into account a "raft of fine character" references in support of Lynch, who has two children. The court was told he had driven 500 response calls in an 18-month period since qualifying as a response driver.