So, Reeva Steenkamp is dead because her boyfriend mistook her for a total stranger whom he didn’t intend to kill. The bumbling cause seems somewhat puny when it is contrasted with the annihilating effect, to say the least. But as the judge, Thokozile Masipa, pointed out in her summing up, it is hard to disprove what a person says went on in his head.Many people feared a failure of justice comparable to OJ Simpson’s acquittal for the murder of Nicole Brown, his former wife, and Ronald Goldman, who had been visiting Brown’s house on an errand. They are relieved that Oscar Pistorius has been found guilty of culpable homicide. I’m not. I’m troubled by the fact that all over the world, people now know exactly what to say when they shoot their partner dead, at home, without witnesses.Why is this high-profile case such a worry? Because this kind of crime happens so often, of course. From the start, Pistorius’s account is a perverse deviation from the overwhelming pattern of evidence that has been long established in such crimes, which is that the reasons lie in the nature of the relationship, specifically in the hostile attitudes of the killer to the killed.A number of Pistorius’s former girlfriends say that his attitudes in relationships were highly problematic. In this case, however, we are asked to believe that such attitudes played no part at all in the sequence of events that ended in a woman dying at the hand of her partner. Absolutely astonishing. Once, people got away with murder by claiming that theirs was a crime of passion. Now, they get acquitted by claiming that it was not. Plus ça change.Pistorius loved Steenkamp, he says. He wanted to protect her, not to hurt her. Literally nothing in the chain of events that Pistorius offered attests that he wanted to protect Steenkamp. Not one thing. On the contrary, he didn’t even give her the opportunity to protect herself. He says he thought there was an intruder in his home. He says he went into the bedroom to get his gun from under the bed, believing Steenkamp to be asleep. Rather than staying in the room to offer armed protection to his girlfriend while he called the police, he decided to leave her alone and unconscious, as utterly vulnerable as it was possible for her to be. How can a man with a loaded gun be so very afraid, but not so afraid that he hesitated to leave an unarmed, unconscious person to fend for herself?  At risk … Reeva Steenkamp and Oscar Pistorius. Photograph: Frennie Shivambu/EPAI suppose it’s possible that Reeva woke in the night needing the loo, and thought herself that Pistorius was sleeping, when he was actually up. I suppose she might have crept quietly to the loo, taking her phone with her to use as a torch. I suppose she might have heard Pistorius moving about, believed in turn that he was an intruder, and locked herself in the loo. I suppose she could have been so terrified that she didn’t want to risk using her phone or shouting out, even to alert a boyfriend with a gun under his bed.Except that Pistorius’s testimony is that by this time, Steenkamp knew Pistorius was awake. He’d shouted at the imaginary intruder, telling him to get out of the house, and he’d shouted at Steenkamp, telling her to call the police.Is it credible that Steenkamp didn’t guess Pistorius had his gun, since her assumption would have been that he’d come from the bedroom? Is it credible, anyway, that Pistorius warned an intruder to get out of his house, without also warning the intruder that he was armed? Is it credible that even in the knowledge that Pistorius was awake, probably armed and nearby, Steenkamp was still too scared to call the police? Is it credible that she didn’t know where Pistorius was shouting from, or have any sense that it might be him, not the intruder, who was coming towards her?Is it credible, that two people could both be so frightened of an imaginary intruder, that it occurred to neither of them that they had actually heard the other? Is it credible that Pistorius would see no benefit in shouting: “Reeva! Where are you?” before he shot a victim he could not see? Is it credible that two such frightened people would sleep with windows open, in utter darkness, neither sharing their fear with the other when it enveloped them?I don’t think any of this is credible. I don’t think it’s right that this story has been accepted.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There is an inbuilt paradox in all murder trials. It’s that the alleged killer (not even alleged in this case) gets to speak, while the victim, of course, does not. Worse, the victim becomes the sum of the excuses that were made for her death. If we are to believe Pistorius, Steenkamp died because  she was in the wrong place at the wrong time. If the wrong place and time turns out to be your boyfriend’s house at night, occupied by no one but the two of you, then the boyfriend is the problem.At best, even if you accept Pistorius’s account, Steenkamp died because she was extremely reluctant to run the risk of waking Pistorius in the night. Why would that have been such a risk anyway? Was she afraid of Pistorius? The main thing that her death proves is that she had every reason to be. Yet, somehow, it has come to be accepted that all Steenkamp’s death proves is that she is no longer alive.Pistorius may have been found guilty of culpable homicide. But that’s repellently inadequate, because it means that his own grotesque claims to victimhood have been to a large extent believed. A rambling and senseless tale, in which a man makes one incredible mistake after another, until his girlfriend is dead, has trumped the irrefutable fact of the bullet-riddled body of a woman who died as she cowered behind a door she had locked. He killed her. If these facts don’t point to murder, what does?