BankingAllow the Bank of England to lend to troubled banks on an anonymous basis in the short term in the wake of the collapse of Northern Rock. More coordination between authorities in the regulation of banks, and implement the increase in savers' protection from £35,000 to £50,000.Controversy rating:  3/3Saving gateway accountsUp to 8 million people on benefits or tax credits will get new savings accounts from 2010. Designed to kickstart a saving habit among working-age people on lower incomes. The government will make a 50p contribution for each pound saved, up to a maximum of £12.50 a month. Controversy rating:  1/3Policing and crimeThis will include proposals to criminalise men who pay for sex with trafficked women, a crackdown on lapdancing clubs, and a new mandatory code for the drinks industry giving local authorities the power to ban cutprice "irresponsible" promotions in individual pubs and bars that are linked to disorder. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, has made clear the bill would include a "strict liability" offence of paying for sex with a trafficked or pimped woman which means that ignorance will be no defence for those accused. The Conservatives have already indicated they are likely to oppose this, making tackling prostitution one of the more unlikely flashpoints in politics over the coming months. Most of the legislation centres on reforms to the police service including the proposal to introduce directly-elected police authorities.The less contentious elements include minimum national standards for neighbourhood policing teams and a new structure for police pay after last year's mass police rally and protest at Westminster. The bill will also include powers to enable police officers to take fingerprints while they are out on the beat and to use technology while on patrol, including handheld computers and other devices to cut down on police paperwork. Changes to the recovery of assets obtained through criminal means and to the procedures for judicial cooperation in extradition cases are likely to raise some civil liberty concerns.Controversy rating:  3/3Coroners and justiceModernises the law on assisted suicide so it explicitly applies online as offline. It reforms the criminal law on homicide by improving the partial defences of provocation and diminished responsibility, complicity in relation to murder, and infanticide. A new sentencing council is intended to enhance consistency in sentencing across England and Wales.Controversy rating:  2/3Borders, immigration and citizenship billThis will end the automatic right to stay in Britain after five years residence and replace it with "earned citizenship".All new migrants are to be required to demonstrate good English ability and a knowledge of life in the UK before becoming citizens. Those who work here legally, pay taxes, get involved in their communities and do not acquire a criminal record will be able to be become citizens within six years of arrival. Those do not do any voluntary work will only qualify after eight years and those who become unemployed will be asked to leave the country. Those who come to Britain because of family links will also be required to leave if their relationships cease. The bill will also deny full access to benefits, including social housing, to those yet to complete a new period of probationary citizenship of between one and five years.It will also contain powers to set up a levy on all new migrants to finance a fund to help local services deal with the short-term pressures of rapid population change triggered by migration.Controversy rating:  3/3Welfare reformThe welfare reform bill marks a big change in the right to claim benefits by insisting that jobseekers, single parents and the disabled take active steps to seek work before being paid benefits. It will abolish income support and move claimants on to either jobseeker's allowance or, if they are sick, employment and support allowance.Benefit offices and private companies in charge of programmes to get people back to work will insist individuals sign a contract promising to go on retraining courses and attend parenting classes. Claimants who fail to cooperate will face reduced benefits. The move has been criticised by charities, trade unions and left-of-centre Labour MPs, suggesting there will be a rebellion when it comes before parliament. But the government is likely to get strong support from the Tories, who want to introduce similar but even tougher reforms.The moves include a crackdown on benefit claimants by the government including lie detector tests and the loss of benefits for a month for those who fiddle the system. The bill brings in joint birth registration to ensure that wherever possible both parents are named on a child's birth certificate. It is designed to ensure that separated parents, mainly absent fathers, pay maintenance for their children after the failure of many parents to properly contribute to the costs of bringing up their children. The government says it will also help give unmarried fathers the right to have a say in their child's life.Controversy rating:  2/3HealthGives the NHS in England its first written constitution, setting out the rights and responsibilities of patients and staff. The bill will allow hospitals to be paid according to the quality of their work, not just quantity. The government promised measures to tackle smoking by young people: the Department of Health said proposals to ban cigarette displays in shops are still under consultation.Controversy rating:  2/3Child povertyThe government's targets of eradicating child poverty by 2020, which the Tories have refused to sign up to, would now be legally binding. Save the Children said yesterday ministers had to make sure the move "isn't an empty gesture".Controversy rating:  2/3Marine and coastal accessMarine conservation zones will protect nationally important habitats and species. Walkers will be given the right to walk around the English coast.Controversy rating: 1/3Children, skills and learning billLocal authorities will be required to consider intervening if a school is underperforming. The bill will transfer funding for 16- to 18-year-olds who are taught in colleges to local authorities, and complete government plans to split the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority and create a exams watchdog, Ofqual.Controversy rating: 1/3Equality billConsolidates nine pieces of legislation and almost 100 statutory instruments on equality. Public bodies will be under an obligation to consider diversity issues in developing employment policies and planning services. Abolishes the use of secrecy clauses by public bodies which prevent employees uncovering gender pay gaps by discussing their pay. Permits political parties to use all-women election shortlists until 2030.Controversy rating:  2/3Local democracy, economic development and constructionPlaces a duty on local councils to promote democracy, respond to petitions and strengthen the powers of joint committees to look at a wider range of issues raised by citizens. Regional development authorities and local authorities will produce a single regional strategy.Controversy rating: 1/3Business rates supplementsDesigned to give town halls power to raise and retain local supplements of up to 2p in the pound on the national business rate by 2010 in order to promote economic development. The move was condemned by the Institute of Directors for imposing an additional burden on business during the recession.Controversy rating:  2/3Political parties and elections billCarried over from last session, the bill will strengthen the Electoral Commission, regulate spending by candidates and parties and require more clarity about the source of donations.Controversy rating:  3/3Constitutional renewalThe Queen said the government would "continue to take forward" proposals on constitutional renewal without committing to a bill this session. But ministers indicated a bill would be introduced next year. The measures have been dismissed as a "ragbag of retreats" by some MPs, botching reform of the role of the attorney general. Controversy rating:  2/3