A 13-year-old boy is on the run after a girl and a teacher were allegedly attacked with a knife at a school in Worcestershire.Dozens of officers, including dog handlers and some equipped with Tasers, scoured the streets around the Chase Technology College in Malvern, Worcestershire, following the incident shortly before 9am on Monday. A police helicopter hovered above the Malvern hills close to the school.The male teacher and a 13-year-old girl suffered cuts and minor injuries, according to West Mercia police. The force said the suspect fled the scene shortly after the incident and should not be approached. The boy was named by West Mercia police as Joel Harbron.Pupils were not allowed to leave the school grounds at lunchtime, and other schools in the county were warned about what had happened.A police spokesman said: "Officers in Malvern are investigating an assault on a teacher and student. A male teacher and a 13-year-old female student from the school were attacked with a bladed instrument at approximately 8.45am. The man and the girl received minor injuries."The boy should not be approached, please call 999 if you see him. Police are concerned about the boy's welfare and would like to find him as soon as possible."Detectives said the suspect is believed to be a student at the school. He is described as being white, 5ft 3in tall, with short, spiky hair and was wearing glasses.He was last seen in dark grey trousers, a grey hooded jumper and may have a dark-coloured scarf covering his face. He was also carrying a dark rucksack, police said.Officers were speaking to relatives and friends of the boy to try and find out where he may be. They are concerned that he could harm himself.In a message posted on the school's website , the school said all pupils and staff were "safe".The statement said: "There has been an incident at the school, which has now been dealt with. Everyone is safe and there is no cause for concern."Parents should not be alarmed by the presence of police at the site. This is a precaution and the situation is fully under control."A second message later read: "We are continuing to work with local police who remain at school as a safety measure. Parents can be reassured that pupils are not being allowed to leave school during lunch break. The school day is continuing as normal and will close at 3pm."By lunchtime a crowd of around 100 parents and friends of pupils had gathered outside the school. One said his 11-year-old daughter had only begun at the school last week and was deeply shaken at what had happened.Another parent, whose 14-year-old daughter attends the school, said: "When I heard there had been a suspected stabbing at the school I was horrified."You don't expect this sort of thing to happen in Britain, let alone a place like Malvern. It's been a nightmare getting any information from the police or the school."I went and collected my daughter straight away when I heard what had happened. She was not in the class where it happened but it's shaken her."She's been in tears and says she saw dozens of kids screaming and police everywhere."