A 20-year-old man who stabbed his younger half-brother to death during an argument over how the teenager was speaking to their mother has been jailed for life.Jazzie Watson knifed 17-year-old student Shamus McNama 10 times in the face, leg, chest and back at the family home in Bristol. Watson, who admitted murder, was told he would serve at least 11 years and three months in prison before he could be considered for parole.Bristol crown court heard Watson took exception to the way Shamus spoke to their mother, Paula McNama, when she told him off for taking her car.Adam Vaitilingam QC, prosecuting, described how the pair argued in an upstairs bedroom of the family home in Lockleaze, Bristol, in the early hours of 28 February. They exchanged punches and held each other in headlocks before they were pulled apart by their mother and a friend. The fight resumed downstairs and Shamus was fatally stabbed with a small potato knife.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shamus Mcnama. Photograph: Avon and Somerset police/PAThe teenager died in Southmead hospital, Bristol. A postmortem examination found he had suffered 10 wounds. Shamus, who was studying bricklaying at college, was due to become a father this summer with his partner Donna-Marie Hudson. Watson, who fled the house after the attack, walked into a police station later that morning and gave himself up. Richard Smith QC, defending, said there was an “utterly disproportionate explosion in temper” by Watson after the “red mist” descended. Smith said: “He was incensed at the manner in which his half-brother was talking to their mother … He has to deal with the consequences of what happened for the rest of his life. It was a spontaneous outpouring in a moment that he bitterly regretted instantaneously. “His mother finds herself in a dreadful situation and she understands what he is going through. She remains supportive of him. He simply cannot bring himself to see her.” Jailing Watson, Judge Neil Ford QC, the recorder of Bristol, said: “It is plain that what you did was to act in an extremely violent way with a knife in an explosion of temper. “In the circumstances where life is lost the impact is always enormous. You have taken the life of your half-brother, who you loved. You have deprived your mother of a son and your siblings of a brother. You have also added to your own mother’s grief by ruining your own life. The anguish which you have caused is immeasurable.” The investigating officer, DS Leon Swaby, said: “Shamus’ tragic death demonstrates the devastating impact knives can have. In the wrong hands knives can be extremely dangerous weapons which have very real and in this case catastrophic consequences. “Jazzie Watson made a fatal decision when he armed himself with a knife that morning and he will have to live with the fact he killed his brother for the rest of his life. “Not only has a family had to mourn the death of Shamus, a much-loved son, but they now also have to suffer the loss of another for a very significant time. I hope the sentence today sends out a very clear signal that any crime involving a knife could result in a lengthy prison sentence.”