Every now and then, a politician comes up with a rhetorical formula that sounds so self-evidently sensible that it swiftly becomes the consensus view. One such was the New Labour pledge to be 'tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime'.Gordon Brown has always claimed he was the original author of that nifty soundbite and that, like the premiership itself, he let Tony Blair have first use of it. In his party conference speech this year, Mr Brown tried his hand at another crime-related truism. 'If you come to our country, you not only learn our language and culture,' he said. 'You must play by the rules.' The penalty for not doing so, he suggested, was summary deportation. Foreign criminals will be 'thrown out'.That, too, is fast becoming the consensus view. Last week, a prison service memo was leaked revealing that officials have 'no interest' in deporting foreigners whose offences earned them prison sentences of less than 12 months. Both the Tories and the Liberal Democrats seized on the memo as evidence that the Prime Minister's policy of ejecting malfeasant foreigners is a sham. Labour, they alleged, is soft on foreign criminals. The government swiftly denied this and touted statistics of mass expulsion to prove it.No one disputed the basic premise that the natural penalty for foreigners breaching the law should be deportation. On the face of it, the logic seems irresistible. A nation is a community of values. Transgressors are not welcome.In the 19th century, the same penalty was imposed on indigenous Britons. Petty theft was grounds for transportation to the Antipodes. Perhaps it is only for want of virgin colonies that the UK does not still expel home-grown villains convicted of minor offences. Or perhaps it is because we recognise that there are different orders of transgression and that driving someone from the country they live in is an extraordinarily harsh sanction.Were there not a climate of hysteria around the idea of foreign criminals preying on law-abiding British gentlefolk, the view reflected in that prison service memo might have sounded quite practical. The Home Office has limited resources. Deportation is costly. With a bit of bad fortune and fecklessness that falls well short of moral depravity, someone can wind up in jail for an offence as footling as non-payment of fines. And the people in question are not going unpunished. They have served their time. Twelve months may be an arbitrary cut-off point, but it is reasonable to expect officials to exercise some discretion and concentrate efforts on expelling the deadliest villains.But the combination of crime and foreignness has become poisonous for Labour. Last year, Charles Clarke was forced to resign as Home Secretary after it was revealed that more than 1,000 non-British criminals, earmarked for deportation, were, instead, freed. Inevitably, some went on to reoffend.In his zeal to reassert the government's authority over who is allowed to live within our shores, Gordon Brown has embraced deportation as a benchmark of 'toughness' on crime. He has done it, cynically, in full knowledge of Britain's commitments under European and national human rights laws, which impose restrictions on the state's power to uproot people and deposit them in other jurisdictions.It is arguable that the government should have more freedom to expel undesirables, but Mr Brown has not made that case. Instead, he has, in interviews and in his conference speech, hinted at the moral conviction that law-breaking is somehow alien to the nature of Britishness. The incarceration of tens of thousands of native Britons easily refutes that view.Of course there are foreigners who pose a serious threat to society. They forfeit the right to live here. Their expulsion should be swift. But a little perspective is in order. Without any serious discussion, a new consensus has emerged in criminal justice policy. It is that deportation should be the measure of first resort for all foreigners with a conviction to their name, however small the offence.That is legally and practically unworkable. It also skews our political debate towards an ugly ideological assumption. Namely, that foreignness is itself an aggravating factor whenever a non-British national finds himself in the dock; that foreigners are a toxin in the body politic. Such xenophobic nonsense is not worthy of a modern liberal society.