Dame Helen Mirren came under heavy criticism today after she suggested that women subjected to "date rape" could not expect their attacker to be charged.The Oscar-winning actor said she had been date raped on several occasions, but said it was a "tricky" area that need not lead to prosecution.Vera Baird, the solicitor-general, described Mirren's remarks as "dangerous" at a time when rape victims were being encouraged to come forward."We want women to report rape with the confidence that – albeit slowly – conviction rates are getting better. It really is a shame to cast doubt at the edges of what she thinks might not be rape."She added: "It is a pity, because she is a much-admired person." In an interview with GQ magazine, Mirren spoke about her own experiences."I was (date raped), yes. A couple of times. Not with excessive violence, or being hit, but rather being locked in a room and made to have sex against my will." Asked if she reported the incidents, which took place when she was younger, to the police, the 63-year-old replied: "No, you couldn't do that in those days. It's such a tricky area, isn't it? Especially if there is no violence. I mean, look at Mike Tyson. I don't think he was a rapist."Former heavyweight champion Tyson was sentenced to six years in prison in 1992 for raping a Miss Black America beauty contestant in an Indiana hotel room.Mirren said that if a woman voluntarily ended up in a man's bedroom, took all her clothes off and engaged in sexual activity in bed with him she had the right to say "no" at the last second, but if the man ignored her it was rape.But she went on: "I don't think she can have that man into court under those circumstances. I guess it is one of the many subtle parts of the men/women relationship that has to be negotiated and worked out between them."Mirren, who won an Oscar last year for her portrayal of the Queen, said attitudes among young women had changed for the better."I love the fierceness of young girls nowadays, and the way they just say, 'fuck off', because I wish I'd been taught to say 'fuck off' when I was younger."I wish I'd had those words in my arsenal of self-defence. Instead, I was polite and didn't have the courage to say that to men who wouldn't accept 'no' for an answer."She added: "I was pretty naive, I went to a convent school until I was 18, and had never spent a night away from home, or gone to parties, or any of that. "So I was very innocent when I went to college in London, and I was living on my own. And I found guys were horrible, mean, rude, insulting, and so without feeling."And I was looking for love and for someone who just liked me, made me laugh and was nice to me. And instead I just met all these creeps."