Police officers secretly filmed for a TV documentary which showed them watching pornography while on duty and treating rape allegations lightly could be disciplined, their chief constable said today.Reporter Nina Hobson, a former CID officer, rejoined the police service last year to go undercover at Leicestershire constabulary for a Channel 4 Dispatches programme to be broadcast on Channel 4 9pm today. She said her hidden camera footage revealed a culture of male chauvinism in which colleagues failed to believe rape allegations, watched porn films on night shifts and made sexist comments. Ms Hobson said the four-month investigation also exposed dereliction of duty including officers on patrol fetching takeaways while pretending to be busy. The Leicestershire chief constable, Matt Baggott, watched a "rough cut" of the documentary last night and today apologised for the behaviour caught on camera. "The footage contained examples of incidents ranging from poor behaviour to unacceptable attitudes," he said."I need to be clear that such attitudes and behaviours have no place in a modern professional police service. They also do not represent what is the norm in the Leicestershire constabulary." Mr Baggott said the force would "take firm but proportionate action to deal with issues raised". A force spokeswoman confirmed this meant the officers involved could be disciplined. The chief constable said he was disappointed that the documentary portrayed "a very small group of targeted individuals" as being representative of his force. He said the constabulary had been performing well in the fight against crime, and that 117 officers and police staff had received commendations for outstanding work or bravery since August last year. "If the snapshot of behaviour shown in the documentary was representative of the majority, these fantastic results wouldn't have been achieved," he said. Ms Hobson, who is now unemployed after leaving the force, today defended her decision to be a whistleblower. The 35-year-old, from Norfolk, first became a police officer in 1990. She left 11 years later after rising to the ranks of CID and rejoined in March last year. She would not reveal how much she was paid for her investigation, but admitted the foray into journalism had ended her police career. "I had a career in the police force and I became disillusioned, not with the officers, necessarily, but with the organisation," she said. "Because of that, I thought it was time to have a break. I didn't want to leave forever, but while I was out of the job I continued to hear things were not only bad but getting worse for officers on the ground, with the government targets and the way things are run. She said attitudes had not changed, and hit out at some officers for "treating rape as a second class crime".