I told my mum once that I dreaded going to the local shop because it would mean getting stared or muttered at by the gangs of boys who hung around outside it. She told me that it was ever thus. Back in the 60s she couldn't go and get her chips on a Friday without the same thing happening. There must be something about the outside of shops that draws in aimless teenagers for whom the youth club is too distant or too prissy an option, although I'm darned if I know what it is.The problem is that I now live above a shopping parade, and to leave the house means I must run the gauntlet. On the five-minute walk from my inner-city London estate to the shop or the station, eyes look daggers straight at me or through me with a forced-on mask of nonchalance. Boys grouped in twos or threes keep one hand inside their sweatpants, which are stretchy and pulled so far below their undies that when they walk they must do so in a fashion which suggests that they failed to reach the toilet on time. Some suck dummies while they stare, as potent a symbol of elective infantilisation as I've ever seen.I'm not in danger in these situations: these young people are far, far more in danger from each other. The arrest of two teenagers over the fatal stabbing of a 14-year-old in Leytonstone on Good Friday - the latest in a string of murders of male teenagers in London in recent months - is a dreadful reminder of this. The worst I am likely to suffer is hard-faced looks that let me know I'm not of the street and that, with my purposeful demeanour and unshowy clothing, I'm rubbing their noses in it by daring to live on the same estate that they do.I could tell the kids downstairs that I grew up on a council estate too. I could tell them that I was bullied for being a "boffin" but that I'm the one who's laughing now. They might mumble or they might explode. I don't know which because I'm too shy to say it. I'm as guilty as everyone else for not doing anything about it, for not opening another youth club, for not being able to communicate on the right wavelength, for just being there and reminding those who are failing that it's possible to be successful.I see the kids around my way crushing each other with the pressure to be tough. That goes for girls, too - girls who slander and abuse each other, laughing as they do so. There is always a leader of the group who is harder than the rest, and a coterie around him or her that feels duty-bound to copy. Sooner or later, what was copied becomes second nature, and another teenager forms a hard shell with which to bat off the various assaults - economic, social, racial - that constitute life at the bottom of the pile.No one else has made that shell: it's a decision that only the individual can make. In absence of the abundant choice that characterises the lives of young middle-class people, there is a single one to be made. You can be bad and fit in, or be good and be a "fucking pussy". Of course you should decide to be good. It makes life so much easier in the long run that you can tut and wonder why everyone doesn't do the same.But growing up in an environment that is myopic, petty, noisy, chaotic, tedious, and undernourishing - both emotionally and physically - makes the decision to be good for unforeseen long-term gain far harder to stand by. Those who would birch and flog the teenagers who go bad seem convinced that human action takes place in a vacuum. There is no excuse for murderous, bullying, thoughtless behaviour, but to ignore the circumstances that led to that behaviour is simply crass. Being poor will not in itself make you more likely to murder another person of your own age, but being poor, brutalised and unloved - or loved in a way that alternates neglect and indulgence - might.Like drunks who congregate on benches, gang members run with each other because the street is the one place where they can justify and pity themselves with impunity. We give governments the power to transform the conditions in which our society operates, but we must encourage them to do so for the common good. The spectre of murder, and estates through which we can move neither freely or happily, ought to be grave enough to bring down a government. It hasn't, yet, but I suspect only because it affects the few at the bottom with whom we have little in common. Only our humanity, that's all.Just as I've had enough of running the gauntlet to the shop, I've had enough of hearing about this mysterious moral vacuum in which each of us act, free of the burdens of history, parenting or class. Labour has had 10 clear years to become seriously unrelaxed about income inequality, to rein in venal markets, to insist that television producers don't treat viewers with contempt, to make schools good, to provide therapy on the NHS, to make modern life more livable. Make us equal first, then let's see how we behave.· Lynsey Hanley is the author of Estates: An Intimate Historycomment@theguardian.com