I am at a loss to understand the concern over the implementation of Asbos (Leaders, December 28). Why is it wrong for someone who persistently and wilfully behaves to the distress of others to be sent to prison, even if the basic offence itself is not subject to a custodial sentence? Surely, frequent offenders should expect to receive heavier sentences? The point that Asbos are subject to a lesser degree of proof than for criminal cases is irrelevant, provided the evidence of the breach of the Asbo is sufficiently rigorous.I also cannot see why the regional differences in issuing Asbos is so important. The extent and effects of unsocial behaviour are complex and so different environments are likely to come up with differ-ent statistics. Giving local people more powers is bound to result in less uniformity of outcome. To remove such differences would require more centralised control, which would not necessarily be an improvement.David FullerGreat Shelford, Cams In September, I wrote a pre-sentence report on a man who spent a month in prison for sitting on the bottom steps of the fire escape behind a derelict building. He had come out of our local night shelter and had an hour to wait before the homeless day centre opened, so he sat in the sunshine. That was in breach of his Asbo, which (among other things) forbade him from being on private property without the consent of the owner. So he spent four weeks in Armley prison. His Asbo also forbade him from shoplifting or driving without a licence. Eight out of 12 Asbo conditions, based on previous convictions, forbade him from doing things in West Yorkshire that would be illegal anywhere in the country. What the court had done was to ensure that this homeless man would automatically receive a longer than commensurate sentence for any crime he committed.Owen WellsIlkley, W YorksAsbos are a good response to the crisis which emerged in poor communities in the years of Tory rule, mass unemployment and escalating use of hard drugs. Criminal law and the police couldn't stop the devastation a small minority inflicted on the rest. "Jane" has a group of teenagers sitting drinking on the wall outside her house, shouting "Paki" whenever she comes out, throwing stones through her windows and painting "grass" on the side of her house. Residents know who they are, but are afraid to give evidence. Asbos are a way to stop it: professional witnesses or councillors, like me, give evidence on their behalf and use the pattern of behaviour to make the case. John Stuart Mill said: "The only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilised community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others." Asbos more than meet that test and liberals, as well as socialists, would do well to remember it.Cllr Steve MunbyLab, Liverpool Many magistrates too have voiced worries about Asbos. What concerns me is the use of an Asbo for an offender whose behaviour derives from mental illness or addiction. An Asbo will not, of itself, do anything to address the underlying problem, nor is it likely to deter further offending. Subsequent offending will inevitably put pressure on a court for a custodial sentence, when what is needed is treatment and support for the offender. Custody will achieve nothing positive and may lead to an endless cycle of custody and reoffending. Magistrates have been required over recent years to reduce the use of custodial sentences. But Asbos have the potential to reverse this trend.Les BakerFordingbridge, Hants