Kathleen Grundy, 81 , fit as a fiddle and a tireless worker on behalf of the elderly, opened the door of her £150,000 cottage between 8.30am and 9am on the morning of June 24 1998 to greet her long-standing, highly-respected GP, Dr Harold Shipman.He had arrived, by arrangement, to take a routine blood test. He unpacked his equipment from his medical bag, selected a needle and wiped Mrs Grundy's arm in preparation. But instead of drawing blood, Shipman pumped the former mayoress of Hyde with a lethal dose of morphine. Within three hours, she was dead. Despite her advanced years, Mrs Grundy was, according to her daughter Angela Woodruff, "a very vibrant, energetic, lively, happy, talkative, smiley person. She was brilliant. She was more like a 60-year-old". She had also admired and trusted her GP. "If a doctor says you need something doing, you say 'fine'. If a doctor says you need an injection, you say 'fine'," Mrs Woodruff said last night, adding that her mother had sought out Shipman because "she respected and trusted him hugely". Mrs Grundy's fully-clothed body was discovered at 11.55am on the sofa in the sitting room of her unlocked home by two colleagues who had become anxious when she had failed to turn up at her pensioners' luncheon club. They called Shipman, who gave Mrs Grundy's body a cursory once-over and pronounced her dead, later to certifying that her cause of death was old age. Two weeks earlier, Mrs Grundy had consulted Shipman at his surgery in a line of shops close to Hyde's market place. She chatted to the doctor about whether she needed to have her ears syringed before Shipman excused himself. He went into the waiting room to ask two patients, Claire Hutchinson and Paul Spencer, if they could witness Mrs Grundy's signature. He presented a sheet of folded paper; they obliged. After her unexpected death, Shipman advised her grieving friends to contact local solicitors Hamilton Ward, who he said handled Mrs Grundy's affairs. Shipman knew that the firm had a will because he had typed it himself on the battered old Brother manual typewriter that police found in his surgery. He had dated it June 9 and signed it, forging Mrs Grundy's signature; he also forged the signatures of the witnesses, Ms Hutchinson and Mr Spencer, who had unknowingly given him examples to copy. "I give all my estate, money and house to my doctor," Shipman typed on a standard will form he could have bought at the newsagent's next to his surgery. "My family are not in need and I want to reward him for all the care he has given to me and the people of Hyde." He left behind a fingerprint which was later found by forensic scientists.  Cack-handed forgery It was not a neat job: it was written entirely in upper case, with missing letters where the typewriter had failed to keep up with his greedy fingers. "It was a cack-handed attempt at forgery," said Detective Superintendent Bernard Postles, who led the murder inquiry. The will purported to leave Shipman an estate worth £386,402, including Mrs Grundy's home and a house she owned in Stockport. Hamilton Ward received it on June 24, the day Mrs Grundy died. It was accompanied by a letter which Shipman wrote on the same typewriter he had used for the will. He dated it June 9 and signed it "K Grundy". It said: "Dear Sir, I enclose a copy of my will. I think it is clear in intent. I wish Dr shipman [sic] to benefit by having my estate but if he dies or cannot accept it, then the estate goes to my daughter. "I would like you to be the executor of the will. I intend to make an appointment to discuss this and my will in the near future." Staff at the Hamilton Ward office in Hyde were puzzled: they had never acted for Mrs Grundy. They filed the will and awaited developments. On June 30, they received a letter, without an address, dated June 28 and typed on the now familiar Brother typewriter. "Dear Sir, I regret to inform you that Mrs K Grundy of 79 Joel Lane, Hyde, died last week. I understand that she lodged a will with you, as I as a friend typed it out for her. Her daughter is at the address and you can contact her there." It was signed S or F Smith. Shipman had ticked the "cremation" box on the will form. But Mrs Grundy was not cremated: she was buried at Hyde Chapel on July 1 after a funeral service attended by hundreds of friends. Shipman was not among them A couple of weeks later, staff at Hamilton Ward managed to contact Mrs Grundy's daughter Angela Woodruff, herself a solicitor living in Leamington Spa, Warwickshire. She was surprised to hear about the will because she had a will signed by her mother leaving the estate to her. When she saw it, she at once suspected it was a forgery. "The whole thing was just unbelievable," Mrs Woodruff said, giving evidence at Shipman's trial. "The thought of mum "signing a document so badly typed leaving everything to her doctor just didn't make any sense. It was inconceivable." Mrs Woodruff began her own inquiries: contacting the will's supposed witnesses and comparing the signatures. Last night, she spoke of the "credibility gap" she had to traverse in order to accept her own conclusions. "For us to believe that the doctor had possibly forged a will, had possibly killed my mother, was a huge gap to cross," she said in a BBC interview. When she told police of her concerns on July 24, she sparked what eventually became one of the world's biggest investigations into the activities of a serial killer. Shipman had never before attempted to profit from his killings; the first time he tried, it led to his downfall. No one knows why he changed tack and he has given no explanation. Mrs Grundy's body was exhumed on August 1 1998 and morphine was found in her muscle tissue. Shipman had not just taken Mrs Grundy's life; he tried to destroy her good name to cover his tracks. He altered her medical records to suggest that she was abusing codeine, which can break down into morphine after death. He made up an entry suggesting she had come to see him on December 10 1996 and that her pupils were small, a sign of a persistent drug user. He added in near illegible handwriting: "Constipated. Drug abuse at her age? Codeine - wait and see?" Kathleen Grundy's death was the last in a long line of murders carried out by Shipman. His method was consistent: a swift, injection of morphine. He sailed close to the wind on more than one occasion; five of his victims were killed in his surgery, and one, Marie West, was dispatched while - unknown to Shipman - her friend Marian Hadfield was in next room.  Morphine injection Mrs Hadfield had been in the toilet when Shipman arrived to discuss the problems Mrs West was having with her replacement hip joint and remained in the kitchen to respect her friend's privacy. She heard the murmur of conversation between doctor and patient, then after a few minutes there was silence. On discovering Mrs Hadfield's presence in the house, a startled Shipman told her that Mrs West had "collapsed on me". He neither called an ambulance nor later requested a postmortem, claiming Mrs West had died of a stroke. She was cremated. Another victim, 63-year-old Ivy Lomas, was one of Shipman's regulars with a catalogue of problems: depression, anxiety, chronic bronchitis. Shipman killed her in the treatment room of his surgery on May 29 1997, and then went on to see another three patients in his consulting room before telling his receptionist that Mrs Lomas had died. He had not called for help. There are another dozen similar tales to those of the unexpected deaths of Kathleen Grundy, Maria West and Ivy Lomas. In total 12 bodies were exhumed between September and December 1998 on the orders of the coroner. Father Denis Maher of St Paul's Roman Catholic church in Hyde witnessed the exhumations of three women: Marie Quinn, Winifred Mellor and Bianka Pomfret, all of whom were part of his congregation. "When you bury a person there is a sense of completion," he said. "But to go there afterwards and interfere with that process in a cemetery, a sacred place, is horrendous. No matter what beliefs you have, whenever someone vandalises a cemetery there is a sense of absolute shock and horror. "All those involved in the exhumations felt as if they were doing something wrong and it was stressful for them all, including the police officers." The remains of Kathleen Grundy - the first body to be exhumed - were reburied about two weeks after they were lifted from her grave. But Det Supt Bernard Postles decided that in all succeeding cases bodies would be exhumed, examined by pathologists in the mortuary at Tameside general hospital and reinterred within 24 hours to minimise distress to relatives. "We didn't embark on these exhumations speculatively," Mr Postles said. "We investigated the deaths first. We needed proper justification and cause, both for the the coroner and the families to convince them of the need to exhume. It was particularly distressing for the families. It wasn't something anyone was comfortable with." Although the police could act solely on the authority of the coroner, they always sought permission from families to prevent a legal challenge. Most cooperated, although some were distressed by the newspaper and television pictures of staff in clinical white overalls, working under arc lights as excavators dug up the graves. The family of one woman buried in Malta refused permission for her body to be removed from consecrated ground and Shipman was not charged with any offence connected with her death. A specialist exhumation company was brought in to begin work at about 4am, partly to escape the attention of the media and to provide time for thorough investigation of the bodies, partly to fit the work in around the daily routine of the cemeteries. "A graveyard is a working environment in use throughout the day," he said. "Funerals happen and people come to put flowers on graves." Looking back, John Pollard, the Tameside coroner, said it was rare to order an exhumation; he had ordered 12. "After the twelfth, I got together with Mr Postles and we were both of the same mind: that we could carry on ad infinitum and that we should now stop. We had exhumed sufficient bodies to show the pattern and the modus operandi," he said. "The exhumations have been very traumatic. It has been a psychological trauma for the relatives and a physical trauma for the police who have had to dig up the graves." Shipman was arrested, by appointment, at Ashton-under-Lyne police station on September 7 1998. He had a reputation for not suffering fools gladly, and his arrogance revealed itself when he was first questioned about a catalogue of suspicious deaths. "I think he would have liked the chief constable to have interviewed him," said Det. Insp. Mike Williams, the senior investigating officer on the case. Det Supt Postles, who headed the inquiry, says Shipman was very difficult to deal with and was contemptuous of the low rank of the officers facing him. "He tried to confuse officers by saying, 'You don't understand medical matters. You are only plods'," said Mr Postles. "He thought he had the upper hand because he had the superior intellect." A month later, the arrogance had gone: Shipman was on his knees on the floor of a police station interview room, sobbing and begging his solicitor, Ann Ball, to tell police he was unfit to be questioned. Detectives never interviewed him again. A second round of questioning had begun on October 5 1998 after the bodies of Joan Melia, Winifred Mellor and Bianka Pomfret had been exhumed late in September.  Falsified notes Shipman appeared at first to be relaxed and confident. But what he did not know was that a police expert had examined the computer in Shipman's surgery and found an audit trail, a simple part of the software which recorded when entries were made. The expert discovered that Shipman had made false entries to support the causes of death he gave on his victims' death certificates. He had given the entries dates up to six months in the past but failed to realise that the software would faithfully record the actual date on which he made them. For example, in three minutes on the afternoon of May 11 1998, Shipman created a false history of angina for one of his victims, Winfred Mellor - just after he had injected her with a lethal dose of morphine in her own home. To details of a visit Mrs Mellor had made to his surgery on August 1 1997 for treatment for ear wax, Shipman had added: "Chest pain - all appears ok - ?? angina." He then created a false record of a visit to the surgery by Mrs Mellor on January 26 1998. "Chest pain, odd times on exercise," it read. "Doesn't let it stop her. Angina. Refuses test and [referral]." The third entry purported to refer to a visit by Mrs Mellor to the surgery ten days earlier: "Ill, very vague pain in the night. Woke. Her still not wishing test or [referral]. To let us know if worse." Shortly after being questioned on this, Ms Ball, Shipman's solicitor, asked for a break in proceedings to consult with her client. During that break, Shipman broke down and she told detectives that he was not fit to go on. He returned to Ashton-under-Lyne police station two days later in a distressed and highly emotional state, and a doctor said he was unfit to be meet the waiting officers. "That was the last opportunity we had to interview him," said Mr Postles. That same day, Shipman was taken across the road to Tameside magistrates' court where he was accused of murdering Mrs Melia, Mrs Mellor and Mrs Pomfret. When the charges were put to him, Shipman shook his head from side to side and said nothing. He wept as he was remanded in custody and two security guards had to help him from the court. The police were convinced of Shipman's guilt, but were baffled over the question of motive. The only occasion on which he sought to gain from death turned out to be his undoing. Revenge was ruled out, as was any sexual motive. Eventually Mr Postles concluded: "It appears he just got the compulsion to kill. We looked at greed, we looked at revenge. We examined the possibility that the victims were all women draining his drug fund. But although some of them made visits to him, this was not the case. "Rage? Anger? He wasn't annoyed with these people. The clue to the motive is his attitude that he is superior, and wanted to control situations."