Men who use prostitutes smuggled into Britain will face prosecution for exploiting victims of the international sex trade.Harriet Harman, the solicitor general, has asked the Crown Prosecution Service to draw up ways of targeting those who pay to use women forcibly abducted or tricked into sex work. The move marks a shift towards criminalising men who pay for sex. They are not currently considered to have committed an offence, but it is illegal for women to solicit and for men to 'kerb crawl' or to pimp women. Recent changes have created the offence of sleeping with an underage prostitute - putting the onus on the man to prove he could not have known her true age. Harman has held talks with Caroline Flint, the Home Office minister overseeing a review of prostitution law, about whether similar changes are needed to protect trafficked women. 'The only reason traffickers are making huge amounts of money coming here is because men are paying for sex with these girls. If they thought that if the girl didn't speak English or looked young they could be prosecuted, it might really have a deterrent effect,' said one senior minister. Around 1,400 women are thought to be smuggled into Britain annually for prostitution: many are offered bar work, only to be beaten and coerced into sex work to repay crippling debts charged for their journey. Victims are often repeatedly raped by traffickers to 'break their spirits'. As illegal immigrants, most are too frightened to go to police. Trafficking became a criminal offence last year but ministers say the trade will not stop without tackling demand as well as supply. The idea raises complex questions about whether women freely choose to sell sex, with some feminist campaigners arguing it is wrong to treat prostitutes as victims who need to be 'rescued'. However, Natalia Dawkins, manager of the Poppy Project which provides safe houses for trafficking victims, said punters should recognise their complicity in exploitation. 'Prostitution is violence against women, the same as domestic violence,' she said. 'We would like to see men buying sex criminalised for doing it.' While some research has suggested many trafficked women have some idea they are headed for sex work, Dawkins said most did not realise they would be trapped. 'We're quite sure some know it isn't going to be bar work but it is the exploitation, the violence, the level of brutality that goes with it that they don't expect. 'It's too easy to say "she knew what she was getting into". That completely removes the responsibility from the men that are facilitating her being there.' However some campaigners argue that targeting punters could backfire if men attack prostitutes to avoid being identified. In Sweden, where paying for sex is criminalised, some research suggests more respectable men were scared off - leaving sex workers dealing only with the disturbed and desperate. Flint's review of prostitution laws - which is not expected to lead to new legislation before the election - has ruled nothing in or out, but the Home Office is expected to oppose calls for 'tolerance zones' where sex workers can ply their trade legally. Instead it will seek to boost 'exit strategies' for prostitutes who want to escape and tackle associated issues such as drugs and violence. In a separate move, immigration minister Des Browne will this week launch a register for child asylum seekers who arrive in Britain alone, amid fears they are being exploited by sex abusers. The register will help councils to keep tabs on them as they move around the country. One in six asylum seekers looked after in London is a lone child. While some are orphans, or are sent abroad by parents, others may be trafficking victims chaperoned by pimps who claim to be boyfriends or relatives.