A nurse tricked doctors to prescribe unnecessary drugs to elderly patients in an attempt to kill them and free up hospital beds, a court heard today.Robin Spencer, prosecuting, said Barbara Salisbury, 47, tried to kill four patients, aged 76 to 92, by administering unnecessary doses of diamorphine, withholding fluids and by other means. Ms Salisbury denies four counts of attempted murder of patients at Leighton hospital in Crewe, Cheshire, between 1999 and 2002. All the patients are now dead.Regarding one patient, Mr Spencer told Chester crown court: "She instructed nurses to lie him flat on his back and said: 'With any luck, his lungs will fill with fluid and he will die.'" Opening the prosecution yesterday, Mr Spencer said Ms Salisbury "quite deliberately and brazenly overstepped the line between humane nursing and callous dispatch" out of a desire to free up beds. "If she thought there was no hope of recovery, she didn't want to wait too long," he said. "If the patient could be made well enough to be discharged, she would aim for that; if not, she would hasten death. One way or another, she wanted these patients off her ward." One of the attempted murder charges concerns Frank Owen, who was 92 and who in the week before his death was given two injections of diamorphine, on two separate days, by other nurses. He had not needed any pain relief for two days, but Ms Salisbury gave him two injections of diamorphine, one at around 8.30am and one at 12.50pm. Mr Owen died at 3.15pm that day, just five minutes after Ms Salisbury finished her shift. Mr Spencer told the jury that, when another nursing colleague asked whether Mr Owen's death was peaceful, Ms Salisbury replied: "Yes, thanks to me." In the final part of the prosecution's opening statement, Mr Spencer said he would call evidence from other nurses who are alleged to have seen Ms Salisbury behave in a similar manner to other elderly and vulnerable patients. He said that other nurses had seen the defendant administer diamorphine when it did not appear to be necessary and instructed junior nurses to lie patients flat on their backs. The case was adjourned until Wednesday next week.