Though the files on the police investigation into the Paul Raymond blackmail plot have only just been transferred to the National Archives, I'd previously used the Freedom of Information Act to obtain access to them while I was researching Members Only, my biography of Raymond (The porn barons, 29 October). I discovered that the story was even more sinister and at times farcical than your article revealed.The threats against Raymond and his family began in 1970 when his wife received a series of menacing phone calls. These were followed not only by her car being sabotaged, but also by three arson attacks, the last of which necessitated her being rescued from an upstairs window of their house by the fire-brigade.One night several months later, Raymond was informed that a bomb had been planted at his Wimbledon home. He notified the CID, then drove home as fast as he could. En route he was stopped by the police, breathalysed and charged with drink driving. But the attorney general abandoned the resulting court case. Since Raymond and the police were anxious to keep the extortion story out of the press, the authorities couldn't offer any explanation as to why the prosecution had been dropped. Sensing a cover-up, the Labour MP for West Ham North succeeded in pressurising the government into issuing an explanation.Ensuing press coverage of Raymond's ordeal prompted a copy-cat extortion attempt, instructing him to leave £500 behind a phone box outside a pub in the London suburb of Barking. He complied with the demand, but arranged with the police to trap the copy-cats. When two young men collected the money, a team of waiting detectives pounced on them. At the consequent Old Bailey trial, the men were revealed to be complete innocents who had simply succumbed to curiosity when they'd seen Raymond, one of Britain's most famous people, stuffing a package behind their local phone box.The perpetrators of the copy-cat extortion plot were never identified. Yet, as your article explained, the two other extortionists were successfully prosecuted. The scene of their arrest was the Whitehall Theatre, where Raymond was staging his hit West End farce, Pyjama Tops. As Raymond handed over an attaché case supposedly containing £15,000, the younger of the two extortionists – according to Raymond's subsequent testimony – asked for two complimentary tickets to the show. Even Raymond, who had been terrorised for the previous 18 months, admitted to being amused by the stupidity of this request.Paul WillettsNorwich