Scotland Yard has launched a war crimes inquiry into events 50 years ago in Kenya, where British officials are accused of involvement in atrocities during the Mau Mau insurgency.It is thought to be the first time that British police have investigated acts by British citizens that could lead to their prosecution for breaching the Geneva Convention. The Metropolitan police confirmed that preliminary investigations began this January and are continuing. It is understood the inquiry is being conducted by two officers seconded from the Yard's SO13 anti-terrorist branch. It follows disclosures made last November in the Guardian and in a BBC Correspondent film investigation 'White Terror'. Police lawyers are also understood to be examining the issue. They have to decide whether the 1952-60 struggle for independence from Britain was a war - in which case international law and the Geneva Convention could apply - or whether it was a civil disturbance where the law is less clear. The human rights commission in Nairobi last month also agreed to sponsor its own inquiry into alleged British atrocities. For 10 weeks, a group of former Mau Mau generals will sift through accusations of torture, deliberate starvation and unlawful killings of both Mau Mau veterans and ordinary Kikuyu people.Its now thought that tens of thousands of Africans died, either directly at the hands of British security forces and their African allies in the Home Guard, or indirectly by starvation and disease. Dozens of witnesses have already presented allegations of beatings, rape and genital mutilation. Many of these acts were said to have occurred in detention camps, enforced villages and police stations, particularly at those containing the "screening centres" where Mau Mau suspects were often tortured in a bid to get them to admit their Mau Mau 'oath'. John Nottingham, a former British colonial officer who stayed in Kenya to campaign for Kikuyu and Mau Mau rights, warned: "Many of the men and women who suffered so badly are in their 80s and will not live much longer. We are concerned that the British state is adopting a policy of "procrastinate until they die".The London solicitors firm, Leigh Day, which has won a case on behalf of Kenyans injured by British army munitions, has taken up the Mau Mau reparation issue. It has testimony from Kenyan victims and is awaiting an appeal for legal aid to launch what will effectively be a class action against the British government.