A high-flying businesswoman who retired to the north for the warmth of its people and easy pace of life was convicted yesterday of turning her adopted home into the hamlet from hell through a "rampaging campaign of hatred and pure evil".Rival CCTV cameras sprang up in the battleground at Bottomley in the Yorkshire Pennines, where 57-year-old Jeanne Wilding dumped oil, animal corpses and broken glass on neighbours' drives while blasting out choral works depicting rape and murder in the middle of the night.She was finally restrained yesterday by an Asbo so tough that her defence counsel accused the court of trying to use the penalty to change the former financial consultant's personality. A judge ruled that, after 257 complaints from 15 neighbours and organisations, 30 arrests and a spell in jail on remand, Mrs Wilding had lost touch with reality when it came to quarrels about boundaries and access.Disputes began over a rambling clematis whose roots and pruning rights led to an argument of the sort heard hundreds of times a week - except that in Bottomley it spiralled out of control. Unbeknown to her new neighbours on the moorland tops between Yorkshire and Lancashire, Mrs Wilding had learned tactics during similar quarrels at her former home in the Wiltshire countryside.James Ward, prosecuting for Calderdale council, which took up the fight for Bottomley villagers after some of them broke down through stress, asked her: "You are an expert in the art of mental torture, aren't you?" Outside the court she ran a gauntlet of reporters including one who asked: "Are you evil?""No," she replied. "But all this may be pushing me that way."The court heard that Bottomley had been a large working farm until the late 1990s when it was divided into expensive homes aimed at commuters in a pretty area halfway between Leeds and Manchester. The hamlet perches on the hillside above the small town of Walsden which, appropriately, made a name for itself adapting textile processes to weave protective body armour.Mrs Wilding claimed that families were already at war when she arrived and had united against her after a boundary dispute. She said her own ordeal had included binbags ripped open, rubbish strewn around her garden and broken bottles left outside, sometimes with attempts to frame her for the mess.But the court heard that Calderdale had been overwhelmed with evidence about her own campaign, which left three Bottomley residents seeking treatment for depression and another in tears because he could not protect his young family from harassment. Mrs Wilding's specialities allegedly included directing CCTV inside neighbours' homes and making boobytraps from paint tins and flowerpots with what Mr Ward called the expertise of "a professional troublemaker".The case ended yesterday after nine days - the climax of three years of claims and counter-claims - with an unequivocal ruling from deputy district judge Sandra Keen. Granting the Asbo, she told the court that Mrs Wilding had "little or no appreciation of the effect her behaviour has on other people. If her views are challenged, she responds in a wholly inappropriate manner. She takes a confrontational stance, causing others harassment or distress. But her view remains that there is nothing antisocial in how she behaves. She has shown a complete lack of comprehension of the situation, something emphasised by her manner and behaviour while giving evidence".The judge was not able to make the points directly to Mrs Wilding, who gathered up her purple scarf and blue-tinted spectacles and left the court after hearing 10 minutes of the 35-minute judgment. The hearing had just started hearing evidence from neighbours such as Nigel Pratt, the operations director of an engineering company, who had broken down as he described his family's ordeal.The saga, which has also involved damage to cars and the beaming of high-powered floodlights into homes next to Mrs Wilding's, is not expected to end unless she moves house. Her daughter and a number of friends and colleagues gave evidence that her character had been misrepresented in court.Her lawyer, Danielle Graham, said: "She has appeared in court on so many occasions, she spends more time with court security officers and staff than she does with her own family. Can you really apply an antisocial behaviour order in order to change someone's personality?"But the judge said that as well as direct evidence, the court had also heard of Mrs Wilding's past behaviour from her previous neighbours in Wiltshire. "The evidence of the past and subsequent behaviour of Mrs Wilding reinforced the credibility of the neighbours," she said.Under the Asbo Mrs Wilding is banned from playing music louder than 30 decibels after 7pm and installing any lights or CCTV cameras which cover anywhere except her own home and garden. She must also pay £75,000 in costs to the council.Mrs Wilding, who paid £330,000 for her share of Bottomley in 2002, also owns four properties in London, which she rents out. She said after the hearing that she would appeal. "They got everything they wanted, those bullies. I just can't believe it. It's completely changed my view of British justice and the media."Banning orders· Chris Wood, a Teesside car thief, is banned from wearing a woolly hat, cap or hooded top so that he can be more easily identified.· A Londoner convicted of repeated con-tricks on homeowners has been banned from knocking on any door.· Caroline Shepherd of East Kilbride is forbidden from answering her door in underwear after neighbours said she wore skimpy clothes to upset them.· A Birmingham woman has been banned from owning a TV, radio or stereo after playing Eminem and Dido at the decibel levels of a passing train.· Kim Sutton has been ordered not to "dip one toe or finger" in any river, nor to loiter in multistorey car parks, after a series of suicide attempts were described as a waste of police time.