Michele, which is not her real name, is a small, watchful teenager from south London. She used to have a rottweiler. "Kids would offer us £300 for it because it was so aggressive," she says. One day she finally agreed to sell the dog to some teenage boys. They suggested meeting at a railway station near her flat to conclude the deal. But when she approached the boys on one of the platforms, just as a train was pulling in, they tried to grab her rottweiler by the lead without handing over the money. She refused to let go of the dog. The boys pulled. The train carriage doors gaped open behind them. In the end, the lead snapped. The boys jumped on the train without the dog and disappeared into the city.Michele tells this story without drama. She has a different dog now, "an English staff", she says, brown and white and strong in the shoulders. As we talk, he strains on his lead, skitters from side to side on the pavement, jumps up. "Staffs can be rough, vicious," she continues. "When I got him, he'd been passed around loads of owners. You could say a word and he would just go for it." A pause. "He's not like that any more."What's the point, then, of always having such scary dogs? Michele shrugs. "It's a south London thing. The rougher your dog is, the better you are." In fact, it's much more than a south London thing. In recent years, rough, or rough-looking, dogs have become a dramatically more visible part of the British urban landscape. "There are tens of thousands of pit bull-type dogs out there," says Holly Lee of the canine welfare and lobby group the Kennel Club. James Beaufoy, secretary of the Staffordshire Bull Terrier Club, estimates that there are "between 300,000 and 400,000" of the breed in Britain, and "as many again staffordshire crosses". Last year, only labradors and spaniels outnumbered staffs in the breed totals registered by the Kennel Club - and registering with the Kennel Club may not be a priority for teenage staff owners from south London.Other breeds with bodybuilders' necks and jaws like wheel clamps - French mastiffs, Japanese fighting dogs, South American hunting dogs - are well on the way to becoming urban cults, too. On hip-hop and dubstep videos, on YouTube, on specialist canine websites, rough dogs strut, lunge, fight and hang from tree branches by their teeth, snorting and wheezing, their proud owners grinning beside them. "People look at the internet to learn about breeds, get ideas," says Ali Taylor, head of animal welfare at Battersea Dogs & Cats Home. "The trend is for bigger, more muscly dogs."But it is not just the dogs that have changed. It's the owners. "We're seeing a new group," says Nigel Griffiths, a veterinary surgeon at the Blue Cross animal hospitals in London. "They're in their teens and early 20s. It's become a trendy thing to have a dog on a lead if you're a youth with a hood." Alex Neil, an SNP member of the Scottish Parliament who is seeking to extend the legislation covering dangerous dogs, is more specific still: "The typical profile of the owner of a dangerous dog is male, big build, with a tattoo, living in a housing scheme, wanting to show himself off." As this subculture has grown, so have some of the more alarming indicators of canine behaviour. In England, the number of people admitted for emergency hospital treatment after dog attacks has risen by approaching half in the past four years, to 3,787 in 2006-2007; in London, the number of these victims under the age of 18 has increased by 119%. Convictions of dog owners in England and Wales for having a dangerously out of control dog, or allowing that dog to injure or seriously intimidate someone, have trebled since 1997. Last year, a report by Southwark council in London, Public Space & Nuisance Dogs, found "dogs have become the 'weapon of choice'... for a rising number of thugs". Taylor explains: "A dog is a better weapon than a bullet or a knife, because it can go round a corner after someone."Mark Callis, head of the dog control unit at Wandsworth council in London, describes two other increasingly common scenarios: "A couple of youths come up to you and say, 'Give us your phone or we'll set the dog on you.' And dogs accompany people carrying drugs. Drug runners know many police officers are scared of dogs and will call for a dog unit, which gives the drug runners time to get away."When it comes to rough dogs, the newspaper headlines virtually write themselves. Yet all dogs will always alarm some people, reasonably or not. And the current anxiety about rough dogs may dovetail a little too neatly with other modern British fears - sometimes media-stoked and questionable themselves - about teenagers and gangs and bad estates and public menace and disorder. "One of the things you get at residents' meetings," Callis says, "is they want something done about the youths with the dogs. But Mrs Miggins upstairs with a labrador, they say she's OK." There are an estimated 7.3 million dogs in Britain, almost half as many again as 40 years ago; the amount of violence and lawbreaking in which they are involved, while it is increasing sharply, is proportionately very small. The craze for staffordshire bull terriers and similar breeds cannot be put down purely to a surge in urban aggression and criminality. What, then, is really going on? The Doddington estate in Battersea in south London is a dense, slightly forbidding forest of council blocks squeezed between railway tracks and main roads. It used to be known locally for shoplifting and occasional murders. Now it is known for its rough dogs. "The Doddington is probably our most troubled estate for dog issues," Callis says. On a sunny late summer morning, the chain of well-kept play areas under the trees along the estate's southern edge is empty of children. Instead, it is full of warning notices: "No Dogs Allowed", "No Dogs On Amenity Greens Playgrounds Gardens And Drying Areas", "Maximum Penalty £500". Some of the signs are old and faded, some newer and harder to miss. Both kinds, unlike the estate in general, have been heavily vandalised. A single small sign has been bent, slashed across with graffiti, scratched with a coin and pitted with what look like air gun pellets. The playgrounds are also full of dogs. In one a woman in her 30s talks on her mobile phone while her lean mastiff cross, off the lead, gallops back and forth. In another play area, another youngish woman stands smoking, a heavy black staffordshire beside her, also off the lead. As I walk past, the dog, without barking, notices me and charges. Its owner does not move or speak. Only the playground fence makes the dog stop. It stares from behind the bars, legs rigid, not backing off. Its owner stays where she is, silently finishing her cigarette, unconcerned. In nearby Battersea Park, a favourite with local dog-walkers, another short-haired, muscular dog is snoozing under a tree. Its owner, Pete, a big man with gold teeth and a tracksuit, is fishing in the lake. He lives on the Doddington and is unemployed. What breed is his dog? Pete smiles. "Mixed. Staffs, pit bull and labrador. That's a fighting dog. But she doesn't fight because she's mine." He laughs. "I do the fighting."Pete has another dog I don't meet until later: a Japanese akita, thick-coated and burly like a husky on steroids. According to the website dogbreedinfo.com, akitas are "intelligent" and "very affectionate", but "capable of ferocity" and "very aggressive to other dogs". Pete's akita is wearing a studded leather chest harness like a medieval breastplate and cost him £1,800. How did he buy it? "From a pub. I looked on the internet. You can get a shit staff for under £100."His dogs are called Amber and Marbles. Their coats look immaculate. He has a lead neatly coiled in his tracksuit pocket, a can of dog food with his fishing tackle. On the Doddington, he says, "The other dogs and the other owners know my dogs. They know my dogs aren't fighting dogs. But when push comes to shove, my dogs will look after themselves. You can't steal them. A lot of that goes on. Stealing for dogfighting." Pete's friend Ted is fishing next to him. Ted is 58 and has a rottweiler. "The Doddington is a good estate," he insists; he has lived on it since he helped build it in the 70s. "Everyone knows everyone. But it's got a lot worse when it comes to dogs. Loads of owners want them to fight. Young kids." The preferred part of the estate for dogfights is a low, echoing pedestrian tunnel under the railway tracks. Neither end is overlooked by many windows. Ted says half a dozen dead dogs have been found there in recent years.Yet the dogfighting craze on the Doddington and similar London estates is not quite dogfighting in the traditional sense. The latter has long involved established dogfighting rings, the placing of bets and gory confrontations in converted basements at secret addresses. The new version is often more about show and machismo than actual violence. "They call it 'chain-fighting' or 'rolling'," Callis says. "You get 20 or 30 youths, late at night. They put the dogs on thick chain harnesses. They bait them to attack each other. But they hold them back, inches apart. Staffordshire bull terriers - they scream and howl and whine like babies. But there's no fighting, unless something goes wrong and a hyped-up dog gets loose. Then you see dogs with front facial injuries. In a proper dogfight, where one dog usually ends up on top of another, you would see injuries to the back of the neck." Rolling is not illegal until it causes a public disturbance. "Then the police turn up," Callis says, "and everyone scarpers."Staffs have associations with fighting and lawlessness going back two centuries. The breed evolved in the Midlands from around 1800 as a cross between the bulldog, which was used for bull- and bear-baiting, and the nimbler old English terrier. "People wanted the fierceness and strength of the bulldog, but a less cumbersome dog," says Beaufoy of the Staffordshire Bull Terrier Club. The resulting "pit dogs" and "bull and terriers", as they were initially known, were bred to fight each other for money. After dogfighting was made illegal in Britain in 1835, the dogs and the practice remained popular with, as Beaufoy puts it, "villains in poor areas who stayed one step ahead of the police".But the breed was also found to have a strongly affectionate side and this, together with its boisterous, blunt-nosed, no-nonsense doggishness, gradually turned the staffordshire bull terrier, as the breed was finally christened in 1935, into a respectable pet in Britain and abroad. Beaufoy has 10 of them: "The stafford is clean. It's highly adaptable. It can live in a flat. It will live without much exercise. I've handled tens of thousands all over the world and I've never been bitten." He acknowledges, though, that the dogs can be volatile. "Once a stafford's been bitten, it doesn't get bitten twice. A good owner would not have his dog off the lead. In the wrong hands, a stafford could quickly be turned into a fighting machine again." At Battersea Dogs & Cats Home, five minutes' walk from the Doddington, some of the consequences of the vogue for staffs among what Beaufoy calls "macho people" are deafeningly obvious. Almost every dog in the kennel block I visit is a yelping, panting staff or staff cross. "We're pretty much overrun by them," Taylor says. "We get staffies brought in by people who say, 'He's no good. He's good with dogs. He won't bark. Have you got anything that does?'" The fashion for rough dogs means more and more people are breeding them at home for cash. The internet, or word of mouth on a close-knit estate such as the Doddington, does the rest. Prices have fallen low enough for even young teenagers to afford the dogs. Boys buy puppies for their girlfriends, or vice versa. "Often parents won't have the dogs in the house," a teenage girl on the estate tells me. Then the dogs are passed around between friends and relations, or sold and resold, or simply abandoned as too much trouble.Faced with this world of shifting owners' addresses and confusing breeds and crossbreeds, British legislators and law and order bodies have struggled. The 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act, drafted with infamous haste after two vicious and much-publicised attacks on people by pit bull terriers, banned the breeding and sale of "pit bull terrier type dogs" and three more obscure Japanese and South American breeds. But the vagueness of some of the law's language, and the fact that many existing owners of forbidden breeds simply did not register their dogs with the police as the act required, means that, 17 years on, when any "dangerous dog" alive in Britain in 1991 ought to be long dead, there are almost certainly far more of them than in the early 90s.This month, Wandsworth council, which is responsible for the Doddington and has long been a pioneering Conservative local authority, has started addressing the problem in an innovative way. All new council tenants in the borough who have dogs are now required to have a microchip the size of two grains of rice inserted into their dog's neck. The dog owner's name and address are entered into a database; any dog then found lost or abandoned or misbehaving is scanned and its owner identified. Wandsworth intends steadily to extend the scheme, which already exists in voluntary form, to all its council tenants. People who refuse to register their dogs will ultimately face eviction. "We're probably going to have a few people banging on about civil liberties," Callis says. There may also be unease that the scheme effectively discriminates against council tenants: dog owners in other properties, however irresponsible, will not be required to have their dogs chipped. The council responds that its estates are where the worst dog problems are, and where it has the most power to do something about them. "Microchipping is a start," council leader Edward Lister says. "There ought to be some sort of fit and proper person test for ownership of a dog." There is no sign of that, at least under the current government. The British dog licence was abolished 21 years ago, in part because only a minority of owners were bothering to get one. On the Doddington estate people are unsure that microchipping will make much difference. "They're going to need a lot more than chipping," says a suave young man with a staff as he polishes his convertible. He throws his arms wide: "Dogs are just like us, some good, some bad. When I'm walking along, people see a black guy with a staffy blah blah blah, but when they speak to me, they realise I'm all right." Why has he got a dog? He talks about companionship and getting out of the house and meeting other owners. "And," he says, "you need a dog to protect yourself and your home. No one's going to bother me with a knife if I've got a big dog." Tied up outside the supermarket on the estate is one of the biggest, most intimidating dogs I've ever seen: brown, cannonball headed, hip high. Its silver chain is half as thick as my arm. Its owner is nowhere in sight. Then he saunters out of the supermarket, bulky and tall, carrying two huge bags of dog food. Four other teenagers follow, all baseball caps and spliff smoke. The owner unties the dog and leads the group towards the tower blocks. I stop him and ask what sort of dog it is. "French mastiff," he says. "Mastiff de Bordeaux." Why did he get it? "I just like big dogs. If you're walking down the street, people move out of the way." How does he feel about that? He gives a cold look: "If people move, that's their business." Then his expression softens. "There was a French mastiff in that Tom Hanks film," he says. "Turner & Hooch."There is something cartoonish and blustering as well as menacing about the rough dog culture. "There is one dog on this estate called Killer," three teenage girls with staffs on the Doddington tell me. "And there's Bullet. There's Trigger..." As we stand talking by the stairwell of the girls' block, their staffs scampering delightedly up and down the slide in an adjacent playpark, the girls switch constantly between chilling specifics about dog behaviour on the estate and what sounds a little like hearsay or urban myth. "People around here feed their dogs tripe to make them look muscly. They pinch their back legs to wind them up. They use special codewords to get them to attack: 'Where's the money?'; 'Shake him'; 'Where's the cats?' Or they keep them locked in cages, so they don't see other people. When they let the dogs out, they go mad. But then other people think that if you keep the dogs in cages, they don't grow...""Probably about 10% of young problematic dog owners are a hardcore, involved in crime and antisocial behaviour," Callis says. "We're never going to change them. The rest aspire to be tough, or just really like their dogs and get roped in."Over on the Doddington estate, the man with the convertible and staff thinks that the rough dog craze has almost run its course. "This dog thing, it's dying off," he says, polishing his car as his staff watches, sitting quietly, carefully muzzled. "There's too many dogs." Tough dogs seem less tough when everyone you know has one.