The inquest into the deaths of a family of four who were found at their home in West Yorkshire this month has been opened and adjourned to a later date.Leeds coroners court heard Richard Smith, 37, his wife Clair, 36, and their sons Ben, nine, and 13-month-old Arran, were found in a bedroom at their home in a cul-de-sac in Pudsey, on 11 December. The inquest was told that the youngest child had been stabbed in his neck.Police have said the family were last seen at 11pm on 9 December, when they left a Christmas party at Pudsey St Lawrence cricket club by taxi.Ben's advent calendar was not opened on the Saturday so officers believe something happened on Friday night or the early hours of Saturday. Neighbours recalled seeing Richard Smith washing his car that weekend at the front of the house.Officers were talking to people who were at the cricket club party but confirmed there had been no reports of any unusual incidents at the function.Coroner David Hinchliff heard evidence from Detective Superintendent Paul Taylor, the senior investigating officer, who said the youngest child had died of stab wounds.No family members were present to hear the coroner release all four bodies for cremation.Taylor told the hearing that a pathologist had conducted postmortems on all four bodies and the findings of tests were subject to further investigations. "Police do not seek anybody else in this investigation," he said. "I do not require the bodies for any other tests. I therefore ask that the bodies can be released for funeral purposes."The coroner reviewed the details of Ben's death and the officer confirmed that the cause of death was "suffocation to the airway and inhalation of smoke and fire gases."The coroner also revealed the cause of death of baby Arran was "a stab wound to the neck severing the jugular vessel". Richard Smith, who worked as a quantity estimator, died of inhalation of smoke and fire gases.His wife Clair, who had worked as an accounts manager, died of a stab wound to her chest that penetrated her liver.Concluding the hearing, the coroner said: "I require a full police investigation before I can proceed. Then I will reopen the four inquests. I will probably resume all at the same time but I would like to make it clear they are separate inquests." He asked the officer to express his personal and belated condolences to the family.The family was found dead after concerned neighbours called at the house followed soon after by police officers.Relatives have expressed their disbelief at what happened and described them as a "perfect family".