When the Home Office hits another crisis old Whitehall hands wonder how staff in outlying corners such as the Immigration and Nationality Directorate in Croydon manage to get out of bed and drag themselves into work.Put simply the Home Office's basic problem is that it is the Department of Crisis and Sin, charged with tackling the darker side of human behaviour: crime, prison, drugs, illegal immigration and terrorism. Each means mountains of casework.All this before ministers and officials add their own screw-ups, computers glitch or events go pear-shaped. Voters don't care that globalisation has led to more immigration and asylum, more foreign prisoners (10%) in our ever more crowded prisons. Understandably they get cross at what looks like systemic failure. It breeds Home Office fatalism and staff demoralisation.This week IND got another kicking when Dave Roberts, the man in charge of deporting people, admitted that he hadn't "the faintest idea" how many foreigners are living illegally in Britain. Obvious really, but some MPs were appalled that he could be so frank. "Dave's responsible for real improvements in border control, but he's not policy-oriented or used to dealing with MPs. He's an operational manager," says one Home Office veteran.Now that the Foreign Office is much diminished and the Treasury has finally got its act together the Home Office is the undisputed whipping boy for MPs and the media. The more it sheds its lesser loads to other departments, the more focused it becomes on the sin agenda.The latest crisis will revive talk of breaking it up into crime-fighting and justice/custody, prompting officials to fear a knee-jerk restructuring by Tony Blair. One option would make IND an arms-length agency like benefits or child support. It is favoured by David Blunkett (2001-04), who disliked the Home Office as much as Michael Howard (1993-97). Ken Clarke, another ex-Home Secretaries Clubman (1992-93), thinks any split would be "mad".Most ex-HS Club members battle hostile public opinion and have imported officials from other ministries to be permanent secretary. John Gieve, who arrived six weeks before Mr Blunkett in 2001, floundered: the Home Office ended up with three permanent secretaries at once and is recovering.In a crisis the best staff are diverted to firefighting. Battling against a "negative culture", Charles Clarke rated prisons and probation more in need of attention than foreign prisoners. Labour insists it has got on top of IND problems. That is why the Tory attack has been switched to foreign prisoners, Mr Blunkett tells colleagues.Tories say Labour ministers neglect day-to-day hands-on management. Both are half-right.