I am grateful to Professor Jock Young for pointing out that I am dealing with less crime than I was 10 years ago (Letters, March 23). He says that crime fell by one-fifth between 1992 and 2001. Possibly so, but I am not convinced. It is hard to compare crime figures accurately when more and more types of crime are being recorded. This will change again next month when every incident known to the police will have to be recorded as a crime.I certainly have more crime reports in my docket, all of which have to be investigated. And I have had to deal with increased paperwork with every new piece of legislation (the Human Rights Act, Crime and Disorder Act and Criminal Procedures and Investigations Act, to name but a few). Changes to the system have always resulted in an increase in paperwork. Fast-tracking of offenders to court results in paperwork having to be completed within very strict timescales.Where I work, public disorder is increasing at huge rates, resulting in the "more arrests; more paperwork; fewer police on the streets; more disorder; more arrests" syndrome. On top of all that I have had to do more first-aid training and more race and community relations training. I have to fill in a form every time I even raise my voice to someone. I have spent days policing marches, sporting events and demonstrations. I wait for hours and sometimes days at court waiting to give evidence, only to be told I am not required. All these things impact on my ability to investigate and detect crime. These are failings of the criminal justice system and not just of policing. Three or four years ago, the police area where I work found that the amount of paperwork held by frontline uniformed officers was spilling out of their paperwork dockets. Fortunately, they managed to rectify the situation by issuing new, larger dockets. They too are now overflowing. I will shortly have the pleasure of filling in a form every time I stop and speak to a member of the public. I can hardly contain myself. I would have hoped for a better knowledge of practical policing from a professor of criminology. His use of statistics is as shameful as his lack of understanding.  PC Pete WattsReading