The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Thursday December 18 2003 The article below should have mentioned Mark Easton's Channel 4 Dispatches programme, Judges in the Dock. The programme, which goes out at 9pm Thursday December 18, was written, researched and is presented by Mr Easton. Nicholas van Hoogstraten is a difficult man to like. Given his talent for causing offence, any sense of schadenfreude when he was jailed last year was unlikely to have been tempered by guilt. Here was a rude and aggressive man, a self-styled "emissary from Beelzebub" whose view of other people is that they are "trash, just trash," being locked up, if not for murder - the charge he originally faced - but at least manslaughter, and for 10 years. But now, thanks to a judicial error, the charisma-free Van Hoogstraten has walked free.At his first trial, the jury heard that the 58-year-old business tycoon sent two former convicts to menace business rival Mohammed Raja into dropping a legal action against him for fraud. The paid enforcers, Robert Knapp and David Croke, shot Raja in the head and stabbed him six times. They are now serving life sentences for murder. But Van Hoogstraten's conviction for manslaughter was quashed by the court of appeal last July and a retrial ordered because the judge, Mr Justice Newman, had failed to direct the jury properly in his summing up. Last week Van Hoogstraten was released, the second trial judge, Mr Justice Stephen Mitchell, agreeing with his defence team that he had no case to answer. The case throws the question of judicial competence into the spotlight and sits uneasily with the assertion by the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, that "England and Wales are well served by judges of the highest calibre." Though most judges, particularly at the higher levels, are professional and capable, there are more than a few, especially among the £110,000-a-year circuit judges, whose conduct and decisions cause furrowed brows and, sometimes, outright astonishment. The problem is compounded by the fact that judges are virtually impregnable once they hold office. One of the most startling exemplars of judicial controversy is Judge Gabriel Hutton, now retired. The then 69-year-old judge fell asleep twice during a rape trial in Gloucester crown court in December 2001, causing the trial to be abandoned at a cost of £35,000 to the taxpayer. Judge Hutton told the jury: "I am not aware that I did [fall asleep]. I think I was well aware of what he was saying to you. But if in fact I gave the impression of not listening to what he said, it would be unfair to the defendant to allow the case to go on." His punishment? A "reprimand" from the lord chancellor. Hutton has also been criticised for freeing a heroin dealer and jailing a frail woman of 76, both of which are among the 37 of his cases that have been successfully appealed. Also controversial was the high court judge Sir Jeremiah Harman, who resigned after a 20-month delay in delivering a judgment. Three appeal court judges said his conduct, in a 1998 case, "weakens public confidence in the whole judicial process". One of the lawyers involved in the case said he had written repeatedly to the judge, asking for the judgment, and even considered taking out life insurance on him to cover lost legal costs if he died before giving his ruling. (Harman was the judge who once famously asked, on hearing the name Gazza, "Is it an opera?") Then there are the sentences handed down by Judge Richard Benson, a circuit judge for 10 years. Benson gave a 58-year-old man a three-year community rehabilitation order for six counts of indecent assault against his daughter when she was seven and eight, a case that he described as being at "the more bland edge of the spectrum." The attorney general intervened and the man's sentence was increased to 18 months by the court of appeal, which held that there was a gross breach of trust given that the girl was the man's daughter and because the abuse was deliberate, planned and sustained. Another child abuse case heard by Benson, in which the defendant had raped his stepdaughter more than 100 times, saw the judge's sentence of less than four years increased by the court of appeal to 10 years. The cases are reminiscent of the extraordinary words of another judge in a rape case, Sir Arthur Myerson, who commended a rapist for his "concern and consideration" in wearing a condom. Forty of Benson's judgments have been appealed against, 28 of them successfully, but this is still some way short of the record held by Judge David Owen of Manchester crown court. Owen, whose courtroom is nicknamed "Jurassic Park", has seen 86 appeals against verdicts or sentences, 54 of them having at least partial success. One appeal saw his handling of the case lambasted as "inadequate," "dangerous" and "positively misleading". To be fair, appeals often succeed on grounds which don't involve mistakes by the judge. But sanction against errant judges is virtually non-existent, usually consisting of no more than a reprimand from the lord chancellor. Removal of a high court judge requires a motion from both Houses of Parliament, and though circuit judges can be dismissed for misbehaviour or incompetence, only one has ever been sacked, after he was convicted of smuggling whisky and cigarettes. Often, it seems that a judge can survive the kind of scandals that would wreck a lesser mortal's career: Judge Victor Hall kept his job despite being convicted of drink-driving in 1999, and Judge William Crawford suffered a "severe rebuke", but not dismissal, from the then lord chancellor, Lord Mackay, when he said in court that he knew "many people with duodenal ulcers who work like niggers". One prominent judge spent the last few years of his career having his decisions written by colleagues as he was unable to make them properly himself owing to senile dementia. He was eventually allowed to retire quietly. The present selection process for judges involves "soundings" among existing judges and other senior legal figures, who give written comments on a candidate's suitability. A survey by the Institute of Employment two years ago found that 70% of judges came from public schools, 66% were Oxbridge graduates, and 93% were men. But change is afoot. In a report last October the official watchdog, the Commission for Judicial Appointments (CJA), criticised "systemic bias" that means women, ethnic minority lawyers and solicitors lose out on appointments as judges. The CJA welcomed government plans to create an independent Judicial Appointments Commission to take over the selection of judges and a pilot scheme which tried out a new system of appointing deputy district judges, the lowest part-time judicial job. Under the pilot, candidates completed a range of exercises at an assessment centre to determine if they had the practical skills and legal knowledge for the job. But if the way in which judges are appointed is set for an overhaul, there seem to be no moves to improve the way they are monitored. Judges who are criticised by the appeal court are sent a copy of the judgment, as is the circuit's presiding judge. Those whose performance falls short are given advice and guidance by the presiding judge, or are sent for extra training, or moved to other work. If there are serious concerns, the lord chancellor and the lord chief justice are informed. At the higher levels, a survey of lawyers by the magazine Legal Business this month found that judges in the high court's queen's bench division (which hears a vast array of civil disputes) are - albeit almost exclusively "white, middle class and Oxbridge" - seen as doing a good job. Many were praised for their sense of fairness and courtesy, as much as their legal and technical abilities, with very few attracting the criticism that "old-school" judges came in for regularly: rude, overbearing and unpleasant, as well as hopelessly slow and out of touch. As the magazine put it, "Nobody thinks they're cool or trendy, but the old white males on the queen's bench are up to the task". Some of their colleagues in the high court's chancery division, which deals with disputes about trusts, tax and land, came off less well in a survey in May: one was described as "indulging in bullying which he self-evidently enjoys", while another was "gratuitously rude and unpleasant." Lawyers say judges in all courts have improved considerably in the past few years. And, for all their faults, there appear to be none quite in the category of a French judge from Angoulême. He reportedly became so overwhelmed by a female lawyer's advocacy that he reached inside his judicial gown, and was seen to perform "unmistakable movements". He is now suspended, pending the outcome of psychiatric tests. Litigants in this country may sometimes use the W word about judges who rule against them, but at least English legal history does not provide a case where it was literally true.