Tory leader David Cameron came to town yesterday, Manchester that is. During a public question and answer session, at the offices of the Manchester Evening News and local Channel M, he revealed that, if in power, he would favour a "league table" approach to the prison system. He believes that individual prisons should keep track of the prisoners they discharge back into society, where their re-offending rates would show the effectiveness – or otherwise – of the lessons they had learned inside. He said the idea came to him on a visit to Wandsworth prison, south London, after the governor there told him that he had no idea what happened to prisoners once they were released from his charge.It's a radical notion: the prison service, as a whole, clearly fails in its stated aim of trying to rehabilitate those in its care. Currently, across the board, reoffending rates are about 65% – though this rises to more than 80% among certain categories of young offenders. A pretty dismal return, when you consider the prohibitive cost of keeping people behind bars – an average of £40,992 to keep a person in prison in England and Wales. (And remember, the reoffending rates are based only on those ex-prisoners who are caught committing a crime, within two years of release.)So Cameron wants each prison to track their prisoners after release. Is it a feasible proposition? Absolutely: the prison and probation services are now supposed to joined together – and because most prisoners are released under some sort of supervision by the latter, the logistics involved in tracking are already in place. Is it a good idea? According to Cameron yesterday, the public like league tables in schools and hospitals, so why should prisons be exempt from such scrutiny?The truth is that most people in the prison business know full well that the system does not work and very few governors will be keen to see their failures documented in public. And, across the board again, the majority would have a point. Set the record of a small training prison, where rehabilitation is high on the agenda, against that of a big local jail such as Wandsworth, whose prime function is to warehouse its inmates, and it would be a non-contest. But it would at least educate the public as to why the system fails so spectacularly. So why not give it a go?Cameron's response came in answer to my question, namely that, under New Labour, the prison population has risen by more than 20,000. Would a Cameron government continue this escalation and, in particular, would it go ahead with the Titan jails – which have been ridiculed by all the expert opinion sought by the justice minister, Jack Straw? (Who then promptly ignored the advice he had sought.)Cameron fudged the penal population issue, but said that no, a Conservative government would scrap Titans. But then he went on to remind us that Tony Blair, when in opposition, said that New Labour would scrap the privatised prisons programme and then, once in power, proceeded to embrace the practice of taking profit from punishment. In other words, talking a good fight is a little different from actually fighting one once you are in the ring.