A woman who used rohypnol, the so-called date-rape drug, to drug two men and steal their property was today found guilty of theft.While the men, who were targeted on separate occasions, lay semi-naked and unconscious on their beds, Selina Hakki, 37, helped herself to their property before returning to her east London home.Hakki chose not to give evidence in her defence, but the two men - a banker and a film director - described waking up hours after their wine had been spiked with the powerful tranquilliser to find thousands of pounds worth of property missing.Banker Volker Vogler, 38, who met the woman in a five-star hotel bar after dining out with a friend to celebrate his birthday, told the court how he had staggered around his Knightsbridge apartment, trying to make a list of what had gone.His rubbish was strewn over the kitchen floor, and he discovered that the black Versace jeans and jumper he had been wearing the night before had been stolen, along with three pairs of shoes, an £850 Omega watch, £100 in cash, a Tiffany alarm clock, another watch, a pair of trousers and a bottle of wine, with the items thought to be worth a total of around £1,500.Describing how he felt when he woke, Mr Vogler said: "I felt very dizzy ... I could hardly walk. I almost fell over when I went to the bathroom. This was certainly not a hangover - it was much more out of control."He said he had noticed an attractive woman at the hotel bar, and had walked over to chat to her. At one point, he returned from the toilet to see Hakki talking to a man in his 50s, who she said had offered her money to join him in his hotel room. However, she told Mr Vogler that she liked him better, and asked whether they could go back to his flat, the court heard. At the flat, Mr Vogler opened a bottle of wine and poured two glasses."I remember she said: 'Why don't you drink more, why don't you finish it off?' I drank more, about two-thirds of the glass," he said, adding that things then progressed very quickly. "She had taken off a bit of her clothing, and she said: 'Why don't you loosen up and go to the bedroom and I will follow you.' I remember I got up, went into the bedroom and that's it, that's the last thing I remember," he said.Film director Alexander Jovy, 34, told jurors he could barely remember the evening he had met Hakki in a nightclub. He recovered consciousness the next day to discover that a £5,000 Rolex watch - a 21st birthday present from his late father - had been taken.Traces of rohypnol were found at his flat, and traces of Hakki's DNA were on the bottle of wine they shared.