The sister of Mark Saunders, the barrister shot dead by police marksmen during a siege in Chelsea, today won permission to bring a high court challenge over the handling of an investigation into his death.Charlotte Saunders and her family are questioning why Saunders, a divorce lawyer, was killed after a five-hour standoff at his £2.2m flat in Markham Square, south-west London.Mark's mother, Rosemary, travelled with Charlotte, 26, to the high court from the family home in Cheshire. Their lawyers argued that the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) investigation into Mark's death was flawed because of rules which allow officers to confer before writing up their notes.During the hearing, the Saunders' legal team said the IPCC had unreasonably failed to reveal information to the "distressed and grieving" family. They said the watchdog had "a fundamental duty" to keep the family informed, and that the investigation had to be transparent under human rights laws.Charlotte Saunders wanted to know what had been said by the officers who fired the fatal shots, those who had taken the decision to fire, those who had planned the operation and those who had been involved in the negotiations with Saunders before he was killed. The family was not seeking to sabotage the investigation or to "sit on the shoulders" of the investigators. Nor did they want to prejudice any future legal or disciplinary action, Tim Owen QC said on their behalf. Barristers for the IPCC said it had fulfilled its duty to keep the family properly informed as to the progress of the investigation. "They have been told where we have got to and what we plan to do next. We have got to the stage of gathering statements from the officers and sending written questions to the officers," the IPCC's barrister Gerard Clarke said."The family are understandably very upset about what has happened and expressed very strong views. They have indicated that their opinion is that the police officers should be suspected of criminal offences, or misconduct, and there has been gross misconduct or misfeasance in the running of the operation," he said. "There is an assumption that Mr Saunders was in telephone contact ten seconds before he was shot, which is just not the case." Oxford-educated Saunders, 32, died on May 6 after being shot at least five times by police marksmen. The siege began after the former TA soldier began firing a shotgun from a rear window at the flat he had bought with his wife Liz, a fellow lawyer.The IPCC said in a statement before the hearing: "We are very confident that our investigation is robust and being carried out thoroughly and fairly."After the hearing Charlotte Saunders said: "My family find it difficult to believe that, two and a half months after my brother Mark was shot, none of the police officers who killed him and none of the officers in charge have been interviewed by the IPCC, and that the officers were also permitted to collaborate in writing their individual statements."The IPCC have not given us information as to why the police chose to shoot Mark at that particular point on the evening of May 6th. I hope that the court hearing in September will change all this."