The apparently random shooting of 11-year-old Rhys Jones on a Liverpool street yesterday exposed a barely concealed culture of violent gangs glorying in crime.As residents of Croxteth Park, campaigners and politicians denounced the senseless murder of a shy, polite boy who lived for football, Gordon Brown described the killing as a "heinous crime that shocked the whole of the country". He added: "The people responsible will be tracked down, arrested and punished." Merseyside's chief constable, Bernard Hogan-Howe, described the murder as the most shocking crime in his 20 years' service and said Rhys was probably Merseyside's youngest-ever gun crime victim.Rhys's parents last night made an emotional appeal for information about their son's killer saying: "We've lost our world and the world has lost a good guy."His mother Melanie, 41, wept as she said: "Our son was only 11, our baby. This should not happen, this should not be going on."Please help us. Someone, somewhere must know who has done this. Please come forward."Two teenagers, 14 and 18, who were arrested in connection with the killing, were released on police bail last night.Last night Merseyside police described the main suspect as a slim white boy aged 13 to 15 and around 1.73 metres tall (5ft 8in). He was riding a black BMX bicycle and wearing dark clothes, including a hoodie top with a peak and white trainers.As intense police inquiries continue, videos on the internet site YouTube reveal that gang violence in the area is neither covert nor underground, with rival groups competing on screen to show how they revel in a culture based on guns, violence and stolen cars.There are 3,200 private homes on the Croxteth Park estate. But its neat avenues and closes are bookended by Norris Green and Croxteth, areas that know the meaning of deprivation. Both districts have their gangs: the Crocky Eds and the Nogzy Eds. And they loathe each other.The theory most commonly-voiced outside the Fir Tree pub where Rhys was gunned down as he walked home from football practice, was that the young Everton supporter was the innocent victim of an act of gangland bravado. The street talk was of Magnum pistols bought for £400, of replica firearms which sell for £50 and can be converted to fire bullets retailing at £1 a time. The talk is chilling because it seems so incongruous on tree-lined suburban streets on a warm August afternoon. Then someone tells you to take a look at YouTube.Two grainy films, crude but terrifying, mirror each other, each beginning with the street sign for their precious turf and moving on to show guns, dogs, cars and motorbikes. The Crockys get to the point swiftly with a picture of a heavy weapon, followed by shots of a revolver with its chamber open, a sawn-off shotgun and a handgun with an ammunition clip. The pictures of the arsenal are interwoven with footage of wheelies on a trail bike, pit bull terriers and a circling quad bike.The Nogzys take longer to show their armoury, preferring to display their trail bikes and how they do handbrake turns in (presumably stolen) high-performance cars. But then a shot of scattered cartridges leads into footage of a sub-machine gun and, later, of what seems to be a machine pistol. Then come pictures of a trio of fearsome dogs.Rhys had nothing to do with any of this. He lived with his mum and dad, Melanie and Stephen, and his brother Owen, 17, in an extended semi on Crompton Drive, about 500 yards from the Fir Tree.He rode his bike and played football in the street. "He was shy and polite," said Jane Towey, a neighbour. "It's got to be mistaken identity. Who would shoot Rhys?"Tom, a caller to Radio Merseyside, said: "He was just a cheeky 11-year-old. He would rarely do anything else but play football."Mrs Jones cradled her son as he lay dying in the pub car park, a spot covered by a white police tent yesterday. She had been brought there by a football coach, Tony Edge, who usually walked Rhys home after practices. He did not do so on Wednesday as he was late home from work."She went to him, knelt down, held him and spoke to him," said Mr Edge.All morning people were drawn to the Fir Tree until police extended their cordon. A boy named Joe in an Everton shirt came to lay roses by the grass in front of the pub. "Goodnight, God bless, Rhys," said the message taped to the flowers. Joseph White, walking with his alsatian dog, described Rhys as "a really nice lad" who had nothing to do with gangs.The pub and shops were labelled a "designated area" last year, giving police powers to clamp down on antisocial behaviour. Some Asbos were handed out. But Asbos may not cure the problem of gang violence leaking into Croxteth."All the kids in the gangs round here carry weapons," said one of three 16-year-old boys who had just collected his GCSE results. "They've got everything: knuckle-dusters, knives, guns, short swords. They won't think twice about shooting you."The pessimism increased as more people appeared on the streets. "There'll be murder now," predicted one 19-year-old woman. "People know who did it."