Three men were arrested yesterday in connection with the murder of Gerry Tobin on the M40 motorway earlier this month. The arrests came in the wake of police fears of the possibility of violent reprisals in response to the shooting of Mr Tobin, who was a Hells Angel.Armed police carried out raids in Coventry, where two men were arrested, and Nuneaton, where a third man was held. Searches continued yesterday at the homes of the three as police asked the media not to speculate on their backgrounds."The investigation is active and ongoing," said Bill Holland, assistant chief constable of Warwickshire, adding that further addresses may be searched. He said the police had received more than 600 calls and emails in response to their request for information from witnesses.The men have been taken to a police station in Warwickshire to be questioned.Mr Tobin, 35, was killed with a shot from a handgun to the back of the head as he travelled south at 70mph from the Bulldog Bash bikers' festival on August 12. Officers believe the shot was fired from a dark green Rover 620 car seen passing Mr Tobin around the time of the incident.Yesterday an eyewitness reported seeing officers taking a Rover away from the scene of one of the raids. John Atkins, who works in Earlsdon, Coventry, said: "I was on my way in to work, and I saw a police low-loader was lifting up a car from the driveway, and I noticed it was a dark green Rover," he said. He added that forensic officers were examining a nearby motorcycle repair workshop.Mr Tobin's mother, Maria, who asked that her surname not be used, spoke yesterday about her son. "It was a privilege to be his mother," she said. "He always had the time of day for everybody - socially and economically - it didn't matter who you were. A mother, a parent, should not have to hold the dead body of her child who has been sacrificed because of the indifference in this world to what is good." She described her son, a mechanic who lived in south London, as "perfect".Last week a friend of Mr Tobin told the Guardian that they were aware of the identity of his killers but did not intend to give the information to the police.