The home secretary, David Blunkett, today launched the first project in Europe to use satellites to track paedophiles and other criminal offenders.Mr Blunkett launched the initiative, which uses a new generation of electronic tags, in Manchester. He described it as a "prison without bars" that can pinpoint an offender's position to within six and a half feet.A pilot programme using the satellite-linked technology will involve up to 120 offenders being tagged across three trial areas - Manchester, the west Midlands and Hampshire. If the trial is successful, the new generation tags could be fitted to thousands of offenders across the country. The technology is being used to track sex offenders, domestic violence offenders and prolific offenders. Mr Blunkett said the pilot scheme would ensure the system was "robust and reliable" and it would be expanded "as soon as possible". "The public have to be confident that this 'prison without bars' works, and that it gives the police and probation services the tools they need to protect them," he said.Ministers have put aside £3m to cover the cost of the 12-month project, which is thought likely to cost an average of £68 a day per offender. It uses global positioning system satellites, backed, in some cases, by mobile phone technology, to monitor offenders' movements. The system will sound an alarm if, for example, a tagged paedophile entered an area from which he or she had been banned, such as a playground or school, alerting police. Offenders will be tracked following their release from jail or as part of a new community penalty, the exclusion order, which courts can impose to prevent an offender from going to specific locations. It will also be used as part of existing intensive supervision and surveillance programmes for persistent juvenile offenders. Two types of satellite tracking will be tested in the pilot scheme. Passive tracking allows an offender to be monitored retrospectively, with location data being downloaded at certain times during the day. Hybrid tracking monitors offenders in "real time" if they enter an exclusion area, with their location appearing on an ordinance survey map, enabling appropriate action to be taken. The pilot scheme was first announced in July as part of the Home Office's five-year crime plan. It is part of a series of measures intended to meet a government pledge to cut offending by 15% by April 2008.Paul Cavadino, the chief executive of crime reduction charity Nacro, said satellite tracking was "very intrusive", but could be justified in some cases of serious or prolific offending. He said the technology could be particularly useful in ensuring that sex offenders stayed away from school playgrounds, but added: "It should not become routine in less serious cases, where it would be a disproportionate response."Mark Leech, the founder of the national ex-offenders' charity Unlock, and the editor of the Prisons Handbook, said: "Heralded as a breakthrough it may be, but the reality is that this pilot will cover 0.1% of the 120,000 prisoners released each year."The prisons minister, Paul Goggins, stressed that the system would only reinforce existing arrangements, and would not lead to offenders leaving prison early. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "It will be a constant reminder [to offenders] ... that we are watching them, we know where they've been, we know what they are doing and if they stray, we will act to stop them." However, concerns were also voiced about the scheme's cost. "This will prove to be a very expensive resource and therefore must be limited to those offenders that pose the highest risk of harm to the public," Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of probation union Napo, said."It's also critical that it's not used as a substitute for treatment, supervision and surveillance."