 Daily Mail  Editorial, January 26 "When the Keystone Cops of Northumbria can spend £10,000 deploying a helicopter and a plane in the hounding of a driver for the hideous offence of holding an apple in her car, the public is entitled to wonder what has gone so badly wrong with modern policing priorities. Now that question becomes more insistent, with evidence from a Home Office survey that our police are less and less effective as thieves and thugs do what they please, confident they won't be caught ... "Thousands of conscientious coppers do their best. But they are hampered at every turn by red tape, politically correct chiefs, 'efficiency' demands that keep them in their cars or inside remote police stations and an obsessive culture of targets. And who benefits from this ...? Just look again at that Home Office survey. And at the army of criminals laughing at the law."  Times  Editorial, January 26 "Crime is, depending on how you look at it, rising, declining or essentially stable. This unhelpful conclusion can be drawn from different sections of the published police records for crime and the British Crime Survey respectively ... In the general election campaign, ministers will highlight one clutch of figures and hail progress, while the Conservative party will point to other numbers and insist criminality is rampant. Both will be right and wrong at the same time. Voters will be left confused ..."It may well be impractical to create a single, comprehensive and wholly credible measure for crime which allows for simple annual comparison. Yet surely the constant reclassification of crimes and inclusion of misleading information can be curtailed. The Home Office should want to cut the uncertainty surrounding crime as well as the disorder itself."  Daily Star  Editorial, January 26  "David Blunkett was a hopeless home secretary. And the proof lies in [Tuesday's] abysmal crime figures. The disgraced home secretary's legacy includes a 6% jump in violent crime, a 5% leap in firearms offences and a 22% hike in sex attacks. An even more depressing statistic shows just how strongly yob culture expanded while Mr Blunkett was in office. An astonishing one in four male teenagers - aged 14 to 17 - admit to being persistent law-breakers ... "His policy of freeing hundreds of convicts early from prison was scandalous. And his weak immigration controls allowed organised crime gangs to sneak into the country. The way to deter crime is to show no mercy to offenders, young or old, and hit them with harsh sentences. Mr Blunkett's successor, Charles Clarke, certainly looks the part as Labour's biggest and ugliest cabinet minister. He must live up to that reputation by putting criminals in jail - and keeping them there."  Daily Mirror  Editorial, January 26  "Teenage boys have always been responsible for a high proportion of petty crime. But there has been an alarming acceleration in the number - and nature - of offences they commit. And it has created a yob culture of lawlessness that blights our country both at home and abroad. "What makes matters worse is that the conclusions of the latest survey would indicate these youngsters are proud of their outlaw status. Undoubtedly drink and drugs are contributory causes ... Just focusing on drink and drugs isn't enough. There is clearly a deeper problem with some of today's young people. "Of course the majority of youngsters are not criminals. In fact, they are the greatest victims of crime as a Mirror investigation showed last year. But that does not lessen the crisis on our streets or the terror it strikes in many decent people. Tackling it is the greatest challenge facing the new home secretary, Mr Clarke. He must waste no time in getting on with it."  Sun  Editorial, January 26  "When one in four teenage boys has committed a crime there is a time bomb ticking away which must be defused. This country has 510,000 young yobs - and that is just the number who have admitted it. "The chain that leads them on to be career criminals must be broken. In London, the police say much of the worrying rise in violent offences is caused by drink. The home secretary rightly says we are building a real problem for the future if we don't 'hammer alcohol-related crime'. He insists the crackdown he unveiled last week will work. We hope so. Too many urban centres are no-go zones for decent people on Friday and Saturday nights. We want our cities and towns wrested back from these young savages."  Patrick O'Flynn Daily Express, January 26  "The shocking figures on teenage criminality do much to explain the growing discipline crisis in Britain's state secondary schools ... It need not be like that. If headteachers were freed from politically correct pressure to keep expulsions down and allowed to implement their own disciplinary standards, the criminal underclass would be educated separately in special sin bins. That would do more than any number of ministerial speeches to rejuvenate the morale of the teaching profession and raise educational standards."