A retired colonel shot dead on the doorstep of his country cottage could have been the victim of a a deep-seated and long-held grudge, according to European psychological profilers asked to investigate the baffling murder.Revealing new information about the complex past of 83-year-old Lieutenant Colonel Robert Workman, detectives offered a £10,000 reward for information leading to an arrest and said they were particularly keen to talk to people who knew him between 1984 and 1994. Detective Superintendent Adrian Tapp, who is leading the Hertfordshire police investigation, said the case had been discussed at a convention of European behavioural profilers in the Netherlands in an attempt to identify the killer. "We have taken advice from profilers and this case has been presented to a convention of European profilers," Det Supt Tapp said. "It is their view that the motive for this murder could be a deep-seated and long-held grudge." Police have searched in vain to find a clear motive since Workman was murdered in the small village of Furneux Pelham, in Hertfordshire, on the evening of January 7 this year. At first foul play was not suspected when his body was found early the next morning, crumpled behind his side door. It was only several hours later that the police realised he had been shot dead. Officers said it was unlikely the killer was a professional hitman because of the unusual weapon - a clumsy 12-bore shotgun firing a buckshot cartridge normally used to kill deer. An analysis of previous crimes involving similar guns showed they were normally carried out by elderly people. Det Supt Tapp said although inquiries had shown that the former soldier, known to his friends and neighbours as Riley, had been well-liked in Furneux Pelham, not everyone felt the same way about him. "Riley was 83 years old. His life was understandably complex. He travelled widely and knew many, many people." "Most people talk of Riley very well but not everyone shares that view. He was a military man and a very successful military man and he cannot achieve the level he did by being popular all of the time." Detectives now believe the motive for his murder could have developed between 1984, when he and his wife Joanna returned from the US to live permanently in the picturesque village, and 1994, when he ended his business dealings and travel to care for his sick wife, who died last year. Police have also examined rumours of tension in the family, particularly between Workman and Anna Mitchell, Joanna's daughter from a previous marriage, who died in 2002. The most tantalising lead in the case remains an anonymous 999 call made from a telephone box in a neighbouring village just before 5am on the morning after the retired colonel was shot dead. Linguistic experts said the voice, which directed an ambulance to Workman's house, belonged to a man with a rural east Hertfordshire accent who was probably in his 60s. The ambulance never found Workman's home, named Cock House, because the caller identified the house as "Hollyhock Cottage", a name it had not been known by for 24 years. Det Supt Tapp said he and his officers had still not been able to trace the man who made the call, despite believing that no attempt had been made to disguise his mild and slightly wavering voice. "I am appealing to the person who made that early morning call to the ambulance service or to anyone who can identify that caller to please contact us. We still need to find out why they made that call nearly nine hours after Riley was shot. The person who made that call is not necessarily the killer and I would urge them to come forward." Hertfordshire police have spoken to 2,000 people during the murder investigation, including every resident of the village aged over 10, and taken 500 statements. They have made two arrests in connection with the case, but both men have been released without charge.