Very few Blairite ministers will have been relieved by the succession of crises that have swept this government in the past few weeks, but John Reid might just be. In late January, the home secretary was being castigated for the chaos of his prisons policy. Jails had reached capacity, and he had been reduced, in effect, to begging judges not to send any but the most serious offenders into custody. Reid was on the rack just as Charles Clarke, with the foreign prisoners debacle, had been before him.But now? Well, penal policy is so, you know, last month. The prison population is still bubbling away at just beneath its limits - last week it was 79,500, just below the 80,000 capacity - but we have stopped paying attention. So Blair can respond to the south London deaths by calling for mandatory five-year sentences for gun possession, starting at age 17, and most of us can just think, "Yes! Lock 'em up!" In doing so we forget that the policy of lock-'em-up-for-longer is not actually working.You will remember Labour's promise to be tough on crime. In one sense it has been. It has created some 700 new offences, from failing to send children to school to protesting in front of parliament without permission. The prison population has grown by a third, from 60,000 to nearly 80,000. But the growth is not due to more offenders appearing before the courts, or a higher conviction rate. It has been achieved by giving tougher sentences to those who are found guilty. In serious cases - rapists, murderers, armed robbers, paedophiles - that may seem sensible. Yet three-quarters of those given immediate custodial sentences by the courts have not been convicted of either a serious or a sexual offence. About half are inside because they are mentally ill, addicted to drink or drugs, homeless or hopeless. Jailing them addresses the symptoms of their desperate lives, not the cause.Higher sentences have been politically driven, by fear of both the media and the electorate. Labour, like the governments before it, has wanted to prove its effectiveness at dealing with crime: by insisting on harsher penalties, less flexibility by judges, and more mandatory sentencing. Yet the courts were far more responsive than the Home Office seemed to have predicted, and this has caused capacity problems for what will be years to come.These tough policies might seem worthwhile if it was clear that they reduced crime. It isn't. We imprison twice as many people as the European average, and yet we are still among the top five countries in Europe for reported crime. Around the world, researchers have found that criminal justice policies have barely any direct effect on crime. The prime minister's own strategy unit has concluded that 80% of the reduction in the official crime rate in England and Wales since 1997 can be attributed to economic factors. It has warned: "There is no convincing evidence that further increases in the use of custody could significantly reduce crime." Meanwhile, as jails have grown more overcrowded and the time and resources available for rehabilitation have shrunk, so the reconviction rate has shot up, from 51% in 1991, to 67% last year.Even the drop in official overall crime figures is less impressive than it seems. Labour's preferred measure is the British Crime Survey, and yet, as the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies has pointed out, the survey has major omissions. It doesn't question children under 15, although other studies show that, for instance, 40% of mugging victims are children. It doesn't ask about child abuse or adult sexual assaults, underestimates domestic violence and has no way of measuring corporate, financial or other white-collar crime. Most important, it does not record homicide, which many criminologists regard as an important indicator of the level of violence in a society. In Labour's first seven years, the murder rate rose by more than a third, from 608 to 820. Violent crime recorded by the police doubled between 1998 and 2005.There is nothing natural about the size of a prison population: It is entirely the result of a social and political decision about how deviant members of a society should be treated. From the 1950s, Finland decided to reduce its rates of imprisonment by two-thirds, to bring them down to a Nordic average. It did so by offering non-violent offenders alternatives to custody. During that period the crime rate rose in Finland, but only gradually, and only in line with the increases seen in other Nordic nations. It now has one of the five lowest crime rates in Europe.In Britain, the contrast could hardly be sharper. Reid has promised that there will be 8,000 new prison places by 2012, and has cited that as the greatest achievement of his time as home secretary. Yet, if current sentencing trends continue, we will have a prison population of 100,000 by that time. The cost implications will be phenomenal. The Home Office estimates that it costs £100m to build places for 1,000 prisoners. Keeping a prisoner in custody for a year costs about £44,000. If we decide that the harsher and harsher sentencing of more and more people is the appropriate response to law-breaking, we could end up with American levels of imprisonment. That would imply that we will need 400,000 custodial places - five times the level that we have now.Nothing about our penal policy inspires confidence. Tougher sentencing is not proving an effective deterrent, not least because only a tiny minority of crimes ever come to court in the first place. Most people who commit crime are breaking the rules either because they are too desperate to care - they are mentally ill, or drug-addicted, or homeless, or so brutalised by their upbringing that they don't understand what the rules are - or because they've calculated that following society's rules won't bring them the rewards that they want.The dilemma we prefer to ignore is that, eventually, the vast majority of prisoners will be released. Sending them out as angry, unskilled misfits, without the desire or the ability to keep society's rules, makes it highly likely that they will offend again. Reid might be proud of a prison-building programme that will fail to keep pace with an inhumane system, but such a policy will do nothing to reduce the causes of crime. Where he may be right, however, is that the public would rather pay for more jails than do anything substantial about the inequality and insecurity that drive crime and which describe the way we live now.jenni.russell@theguardian.com