The national DNA database is once again being hotly debated. The government is now proposing that the DNA profile of innocent people (those arrested but never convicted) should be kept for only six years, instead of indefinitely, as is the case now. This late and mealy-mouthed concession is unlikely to satisfy the European court of human rights, but it forces all of us to consider the important, long-term question. Given that this technology is here to stay, as a crucial means of solving crimes, who should be on the database?The problem with the government's approach is that it uses the criterion of whether you happen to have been arrested – even for a fairly trivial offence. This means that ethnic minorities, subject to disproportionately higher levels of arrest, end up over-represented: it's estimated that 40% of black men are on the database. Because being on the database is linked with having been arrested, it becomes a stigma, a taint of suspicion. It also means that when DNA evidence is recovered from a crime scene, whether there is a match depends, arbitrarily, upon whether the perpetrator happens to have been arrested before. Justice becomes a matter of chance.There are also huge problems with access to the database: at present 56 non-police bodies have access, including BT and the Association of British Insurers. This is ridiculous and wrong: since the justification for the database is fighting crime, access to it should be strictly confined to crime-fighting agencies and its use to generating matches from crime-scenes.But what of the much longer term? One eventual solution we should consider – if the above safeguards were put in place – is a system in which everyone is on. The logic of the proposal arises from two propositions: (a) DNA is an invaluable technology in solving serious crime; but (b) as soon as you confine it to certain classes of people you produce arbitrariness and injustice. If everyone is on, everyone is equally treated: it would cease to be a stigma and instead becomes an honourable means by which everyone makes a contribution towards protecting the vulnerable from violent crime. And of course it would mean that the database has comprehensive coverage, radically increasing its effectiveness.Many will argue that this would be a disproportionate intrusion into our privacy. I have great respect for that view, though I don't think it's quite as clear-cut as this: if we are talking not about retaining DNA samples, but only the digital profile, and if access and use were to be strictly confined as suggested above, then I don't think the intrusion into privacy is particularly grave, while the societal gains in solving and deterring appalling crimes are very significant.Sceptics doubt the effectiveness of DNA matching, and invoke fears of false matches and planted samples. As to effectiveness, a 2006 academic study found that the overall detection rate for crimes of 23.5% rises to 38% where DNA is successfully recovered; in domestic burglary, the detection rate rises more than threefold, from 14% to 48%. One estimate is that DNA-matching helps solve 400 murders a year, about 800 rapes and serious assaults and about 8,000 burglaries. And the uncomfortable fact is that some of these crimes have been solved using DNA from the innocent on the database: 114 murders, 55 attempted murders, 116 rapes and 119 aggravated burglaries, according to one estimate. US prosecutors have seen significant success in using DNA evidence to convict and deter rapists. As to false matches, thus far, the fears are exaggerated: a 2002 study found only two cases worldwide.Of course DNA evidence can be planted; but so can drugs or stolen goods; confessions are frequently unreliable; witnesses can be intimidated or bribed; even honest eye-witness accounts are so unreliable that juries have to be warned about them. DNA matching is generally much less prone to producing misleading evidence than other methods; real dangers arise only if it is thought that it is some kind of magical, infallible crime solver.It's not as simple as sinister Orwellian government database v virtuous civil libertarians: it's a real dilemma that we should try to think about dispassionately and with a full grasp of the facts.