The legal aid system is facing a crisis with only 7% of trainee solicitors considering a career in the field, according to new research published today.The survey findings, which show that many would relish the work but are deterred by student debt and poor pay, raise the spectre of a serious dearth of lawyers to tackle the legal problems of the poor and excluded. The evidence, from a Law Society survey of 1,522 trainees and 2,123 law students, will be presented tomorrow to the Commons constitutional affairs committee. The committee is looking at the shortage of legal aid solicitors, which has already led to "advice deserts" in some areas of legal aid work in the home counties. "Deterred by debt and a perception that a career in legal aid holds few opportunities, large numbers of students and trainees are turning away from work that in different circumstances they would gladly do," says the Law Society in its report today. The survey shows that 50% of trainees and 59% of law students said they would work in legal aid if all things were equal. However only 7% of 1,522 trainee solicitors and 17% of 2,123 law students questioned could see their way to working in legal aid. The difference between the views of the students - second and third year undergraduates from 14 institutions - and those of the graduate trainees may indicate that, as debt mounts and the time for career choice looms, legal aid becomes a less attractive option. In oral evidence to the constitutional affairs committee on legal aid tomorrow, the society is expected to highlight pay, promotion prospects and working conditions as factors deterring would-be solicitors from entering legal aid work. Student debt is an added factor, with 84% of trainee solicitors starting their careers in debt. Most say they owe at least £10,000. Peter Williamson, the society's president, said: "We urge the government and the Legal Services Commission to take action now so talented trainees do not turn their backs on legal aid. "This research graphically indicates the risk that there may not be enough legal aid lawyers in the future to provide advice to some of the most vulnerable members of society. We call on the government to tackle this problem on a number of fronts, including consideration of financial support for students and a new contract for legal aid practitioners that offers greater career prospects and security. "The society is keen to work with the government and the Legal Services Commission to ensure that this problem of diminishing future supply does not escalate to the point where the legal aid system becomes unviable." Solicitors starting out in legal aid firms can expect a salary of around £25,000, compared with £45,000 in large commercial firms.Rising numbers of criminal and immigration cases have put severe strains on the legal aid budget, keeping rates of pay low. With extra funding for health and education getting priority, legal aid is feeling the squeeze. Last month Citizens Advice warned that the legal aid system was "close to collapse", and that one in four citizens' advice bureaux was in an "advice desert" unable to find legal aid solicitors for many cases. A survey of more than 200 bureaux found an advice "postcode lottery", with some people facing domestic violence or homelessness having to travel more than 50 miles to find a legal aid solicitor. A large-scale survey last month by the Legal Services Commission, the funding body for legal aid, found that around 1 million legal problems every year went unsolved, largely because people were unaware of how to find legal help.