If we are to tackle the seemingly never-ending problem of gang violence, we must provide credible alternatives for those caught up in its cycle (Worried ministers move to tackle rise in gang violence, August 9). Positive role models such as middle-class, well-paid professionals provide the right trigger for some, but may be too removed from the reality of a young person who dropped out of school with no qualifications and seemingly no hope of gaining any.However, our experience at the St Giles Trust shows that former gang members who have turned their lives around can provide some of the most authentic, powerful role models.We aim to help young people involved in gangs leave this life behind by gaining a new sense of identity and purpose. We work with young people in prison to help them focus on goals and aspirations away from gang life and then provide the networks and support to enable them to do this.This isn't easy work. However, with the right support young gang members can find a better future. Since September 2006, we have worked with 24 prolific offenders in Southwark - so far only one has returned to prison.We firmly believe that one of the key strengths underpinning this work is that it is led and delivered by former offenders themselves. They have a unique insight into the issues facing young gang members and are well-placed to provide the solutions.Junior SmartSOS Massive Project, St Giles TrustMany of the recommendations in the Reach report are significant and to be welcomed. However, the report and much of the subsequent coverage neglects a part of the picture uncovered in our research with young black fathers (aged 15-25) in London. These young men were very keen to be good fathers and to play an active role in their children's lives. However, they felt they were marginalised and/or treated with suspicion by the services they came in contact with.There is considerable research evidence available to suggest that fathering can be an important factor in desistance from crime. Thus supporting such young men could meet a number of government goals. The first step must be for statutory and voluntary agencies to acknowledge that some of these young men are fathers or fathers-to-be and that services need to be geared to assisting them in their desire to be good dads.Cathy AshleyChief executive, Family Rights GroupProfessor B FeatherstoneUniversity of BradfordIt will take more than a few black barristers and actors to persuade young black men in our cities not to form gangs. Role models are only useful if you can believe you might become like them. Young people need to believe that their particular skills, resourcefulness, passions and empathy are valued, and that they will be able not only to survive but to contribute to the wider society. The message we give working-class youngsters, and especially young black men, is the opposite: that we're afraid of them; that they cause trouble; that their feelings (including the terror that lies behind much of the gang behaviour) are immaterial. This is partly an economic issue. But it's also very much about the punitive, compassionless and competitive culture that surrounds us.I hope Gordon Brown will be talking in depth to the people who know about the problem and have thought about long-term solutions.Ruth ValentineLondonWouldn't it be more realistic to offer council estate kids the promise of jobs other than Mcjobs? Does the problem not sit with the decline of relatively well-paid and secure jobs in the manufacturing industries? Council estate kids may just slip into an acceptable university, but they are more likely to secure the insecure opportunity to sit all day or night in a call centre, serve coffee for the minimum wage, stack supermarket shelves or flip burgers. The stark choice: choose work in a Mcjob and learn to live with debt; or choose drugs and gang violence for a life without debt and the drudgery of the 24/7 Mcjob culture.Rob BillingtonLondon