Since his release from prison in July, Jeffrey Archer has been enjoying his return to the high life. Friends say he is thriving.But what of a young prisoner released the same day as Lord Archer? While the peer was being chauffeur-driven away from jail, the Guardian accompanied Matt Bowler, 21 as he walked into a far more uncertain future. Two months on, he told how he had struggled to come to terms with freedom and sometimes even longed for the security of life inside. He described his battle to make ends meet and his difficulty finding a job. On the day after his release from Reading young offenders' institution, Matt got up early and went for a long walk."It felt good to be able to walk without having to answer to a prison officer." Then it was straight down to the job centre. Matt had not claimed benefits before and was determined not to do so now, although he left Reading with only his £37.50 discharge fee and £50 prison canteen money saved by forgoing treats. With 11 GCSEs and practical skills, he thought it would be relatively easy to find work. He was wrong. It was not that employers were put off by his record - the problem was most jobs available involved working in shifts, and under the terms of his release Matt was not allowed to be out before 7am or after 7pm. He swallowed his pride and claimed benefits. For a time, Matt, who was jailed for stabbing a man after a drunken night out, lived with his sister and her four young children in Denby Main, a former pit village near Doncaster. When that became too cramped, he and his brother rented a house in nearby Mexborough. Matt found life could be lonely. "In prison you are one of many people in exactly the same situation," he says. "Now I have to be much more independent, and that can be difficult." In the first hours of his release, Matt was amazed at the pace of life. "That has not changed," he says. But the good times are better than ever. "I don't take anything for granted. Even the ordinary things, like having a nice meal, I treasure." He turned down the chance to buy a car for £50 because he is banned from driving. Before, he would probably have bought it anyway. He has managed to control his temper by using techniques learned during an "enhanced thinking skills" course at Reading. After seven weeks of frustration, Matt got an interview for a job as a forklift truck driver. He began a temporary job on Monday, for £4.75 an hour. His curfew will make getting to and from work tricky. He will have to leave home at 7am sharp and sprint to the station to catch a train which will get him to work by 8am. For the future, he has ambitions of setting up his own cafe, and last week spoke to the chamber of commerce. He is in a happy relationship with Elle, whom he met a few days after leaving prison. "I gained wisdom from being in prison, but I'm still trying to adapt to freedom," he says. "Sometimes I have to pinch myself to check it's true that I'm free."