One of Britain's most senior police officers was charged today with perverting the course of justice and misconduct in public office.The Scotland Yard commander Ali Dizaei is a leading critic of the police's record on race issues. The allegations against him surfaced at the height of a bitter race row last year that convulsed the force. He is believed to be the most senior police officer in modern times to have to defend himself against criminal charges.This morning the Crown Prosecution Service decided Dizaei should face trial over allegations that he fabricated details to justify the arrest of a man after a clash at a west London restaurant in July 2008.Both charges carry a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.Dizaei is the leader of the National Black Police Association. Its members said today he was the victim of a vendetta.Dizaei, who has been suspended from duty for the past eight months, will be tried either at the Old Bailey in central London or Southwark crown court in south London.In a statement issued by his solicitor, Dizaei vowed to fight the charge: "Commander Dizaei is naturally disappointed with the Crown Prosecution ­Service's decision. He strenuously denies the allegations against him but is confident his name will be cleared."The restaurant incident was investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission, with whom Dizaei and the BPA had previously clashed.In a statement the CPS said: "The Crown Prosecution Service has today advised the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) that there is sufficient evidence to charge (Jamshid) Ali Dizaei with misconduct in public office and perverting the course of justice in relation to events that took place on Friday 18 July 2008."Last summer, Scotland Yard faced accusations of racism from its most senior ethnic minority officer, Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, whose closest adviser was Dizaei.The battle was at times dirty, with Ghaffur's allies leaking details designed to embarrass the then Met commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, while Ghaffur and Dizaei found allegations about their private lives appearing in tabloid newspapers.Dizaei has repeatedly clashed with his own force over its record on race. Despite the decision to charge him, the BPA has stood behind one of Britain's highest-ranked ethnic minority officers. The BPA says Dizaei has been accused before and shown to be vindicated.In a statement, the BPA said: "It is outrageous that the CPS, for the second time in four years, has commenced prosecution against the president of the National Black Police Association, Commander Ali Dizaei. This has not happened to any other senior police officer in the history of the MPS or the CPS."The National Black Police Association and the Metropolitan Black Police Association fully support Commander Dizaei during the course of this prosecution. We will call to account those who use the public purse and the law to settle their personal vendettas."The former Met deputy assistant commissioner Brian Paddick said: "It's embarrassing that somebody who has only recently been promoted to commander is facing criminal charges. If convicted that raises serious questions about the judgment of the people who promoted him. Conversely, if he is acquitted it looks like a racist witch-hunt."The jury in the previous trial heard Tarique Ghaffur's evidence that there was a witch-hunt and found Ali Dizaei not guilty."In statement, the Metropolitan Police Authority said: "Commander Dizaei remains a serving police officer for whom the MPA has a duty of care. We require the MPS to ensure that all necessary support is in place."