The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday 4 August 2009  The Midlothian town in which Jodi Jones was murdered is Dalkeith, not Dalkieth, as we had it in the article below. Lawyers acting for a teenager who was found guilty of the murder of Jodi Jones, the 14-year-old killed in one of the highest-profile cases in Scotland in recent years, believe they have new DNA evidence that will cast doubt on his conviction.The Guardian has learned they are preparing a fresh appeal for Luke Mitchell, now 21, who was Jodi's boyfriend at the time she died.Mitchell was found guilty in January 2005 of the murder of Jodi, who was stripped, tied up and stabbed repeatedly in an attack that horrified the small Midlothian town of Dalkieth.An investigating officer and the judge at Mitchell's trial both described it as the worst murder they had seen.At 5pm on 30 June 2003, having told her family she was off to see Mitchell, she left home for the last time. More than six hours later a search party, including Mitchell, found her body hundreds of yards from her home behind a wall on the Roman Dyke woodland path, a popular shortcut with locals. With no obvious motive for the murder, the community was paralysed by fear for months, with parents refusing to let their children outside on their own.Mitchell, whom Jodi said she loved in her diary, was viewed sympathetically initially but eventually suspicion began to point at him.In April 2004 he was charged with murder. In the absence of any DNA evidence linking Mitchell to the scene, the prosecution case was wholly circumstantial. A witness said she had seen Mitchell – although she failed to pick him out in the courtroom – near the scene of the crime. Jodi's relatives told the court that Mitchell, who claimed he had reacted to his dog barking, had led them straight to the 14-year-old's body during the night search.The case also centred on Mitchell's character, his supposedly unemotional reaction to Jodi's death and that he carried knives, sold cannabis and was interested in satanism. After the longest trial of a single accused in Scottish legal history, a majority verdict convicted Mitchell and he was sentenced to life, with a minimum term of 20 years to be served before parole.Mitchell was recently transferred to an adult prison on his 21st birthday.In the years following the verdict there has been some unease at the circumstantial nature of the case, but an appeal was rejected last year.Now Mitchell's new defence team is preparing to apply for a fresh appeal based partly on the original forensics investigation, the details of which have never before been made public. The new defence team say the original police forensic service laboratory report and biology report contradict the prosecution case that the murder did not have a sexual motive, as semen was found on Jodi's body.The reports also show, the new defence team says, that a blood sample found on her produced a full DNA match with a named individual and a second full DNA profile, for an unknown male, was retrieved from a condom found near the body.The latter individual was identified three years later when he committed a crime and provided a match on the DNA database.Mitchell's current solicitor, John Carroll, said: "It [the DNA evidence] could put two people, two associated people, at the locus in circumstances that require an explanation. If the jury had heard of this, a number of things could have arisen."Mitchell's original defence team had a copy of the reports but never raised them in court because of issues over who would pay for an expert opinion on the documents, according to Sandra Lean, an author studying wrongful convictions, who has been campaigning on Mitchell's behalf. The original defence team refused to discuss the case with the Guardian.The Scottish Legal Aid Board said they were approached for funding by the original defence team but the matter was "not concluded".The reports confirm that no DNA evidence was found to link Mitchell with the crime scene. They also reveal that there were 122 items taken from the murder scene from which attempts to obtain DNA profiles proved unsuccessful, including a number of hairs and saliva on Jodi's body and clothing.Lean said she believed the real killer was still at large. "He's out there right now and some other daughter could be at risk."As well as pursuing a new appeal in Scotland, Mitchell's defence team has lodged a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) about his pre-arrest interview, which, in accordance with Scottish law, was conducted without a solicitor present. Despite denying last year's appeal, the three judges said some of the police questioning of Mitchell was "outrageous". His mother Corinne still lives in the same house – despite the hostility she faced following the conviction – because "we've done nothing wrong". "Why did the police just go after a 14-year-old boy when there was no evidence, not one single trace of his DNA? The truth has got to come out," she said. "We just keep chiselling and the more we chisel, the more that comes out."