A potentially key witness to the homophobic attack in the early hours of Saturday which left a man dead should re-contact the murder inquiry, police urged today.An anonymous caller to police last night is understood to have said they had witnessed the assault by two men on Clapham Common, south London, which left Jody Dobrowski, 24, with fatal injuries. Chief Superintendent Joe Royle of the Metropolitan police said there had been a good response to appeals for information including a call from "somebody in the Surrey area who called at 5.15pm last evening". This caller provided the inquiry with "some very good information" and was "strongly urged" to get back in contact. Ch Supt Royle assured the witness that any calls would be dealt with in "strictest confidence". Police said that around 12 witnesses may have seen the beating of Mr Dobrowski, who died from severe head, neck and facial injuries. Some witnesses have already contacted police but others have yet to come forward. Detectives today released more detailed descriptions of the main suspects who are both white, aged between 20 and 30. One of the men is notably taller than the other man. The taller man is around 6ft, had a shaved head, and spoke with a London accent. The shorter man was of a stockier build. Mr Dobrowski had been out with friends on Friday night near the Common but parted company with them at around 10.15pm. Witnesses told police they heard homophobic shouts during the attack on the Common, which is known as a popular meeting place for gay men. It is not known whether Mr Dobrowski was gay, but police believe his attackers assumed that he was. They were called just after midnight when the victim was found unconscious in a wooded area. He was taken to hospital but pronounced dead at 10.30am on Saturday. This afternoon, friends and members of his family visited the scene where his body was found. "A beautiful and fine young man has been taken from us and the people who did this will never understand the horror they have inflicted on his family and hundreds of friends," his brother Jake said, reading from a statement."We need to ensure that as a civilised society we make sure this doesn't happen again. We would like to thank all the brave people who have helped us."Detective Chief Inspector Nick Scola, who is leading the inquiry, said: "This was a sustained and violent attack. Officers who attended the scene were shocked by the level of injuries. "I would urge anyone who was in the area of Clapham Common late on Friday evening or early Saturday morning to contact the police. We need your help to catch Jody's killers." A post-mortem examination showed that no weapon had been used against Mr Dobrowski, who worked in a bar in the area. Mr Dobrowski's murder is the latest in a number of homophobic attacks in the area and gay human rights group OutRage! warned today that there could be further attacks. Earlier this month, another man was assaulted on the Common by three men, and last month two men attempted to strangle a gay man after one posed as being interested in having sex with him. Spokesman for OutRage! Peter Tatchell criticised the police for taking too long to warn people of the risks in the area. "Officers waited a whole day before making details of the murder public and appealing for information from witnesses," he said. "This murder comes in the wake of years of government, police and prosecution service inaction against incitements to homophobic attacks." A Metropolitan police spokeswoman insisted that appeals were made through the media "as soon as enough information about the murder had been gathered to make this possible". Ch Supt Royle, the borough commander of Wandsworth police, sought to reassure the gay community. "I know the concerns and worry that this attack will have caused - we need you to help us. You may also have vital information that can assist us to capture the people that committed this murder," he said. · Anyone with any information is urged to call the incident room on 020 8721 4111 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.