A man who became the first person in mainland Britain to be shot with a rubber bullet was lucky not to have been fired at and killed with live ammunition, a police officer said yesterday.Bill Brereton, deputy chief constable of north Wales, said using a baton gun against a man threatening to stab his two children was justified and had given his officers a "non lethal" option not available to them last year. "Discharging this weapon at someone is preferable to shooting with a firearm," said Mr Brereton. "The man was able to walk to the ambulance ... he has some bruising and internal bleeding to his abdomen, but doesn't, as I understand it, have serious injuries." Thirty-six police forces in England and Wales have been equipped with the baton guns since they were approved for use by the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers last June. It is the first time the baton gun has been used in mainland Britain, though it has been used regularly in Northern Ireland. The police complaints authority has launched an inquiry into the incident at Mor Awel, Old Colwyn, north Wales, on Wednesday night. Officers went to a house following a call from a man who said he was armed with "a chopper" and was going to kill his children, aged two and six. An ambulance crew at the scene also reported - incorrectly - that he had stabbed his 26-year-old partner. Police said the man was brandishing an 8in kitchen knife, and was incoherent, making negotiation impossible. A decision to end the siege by firing the rubber bullet was taken when officers realised he was covered in blood from self-inflicted wounds to his hand. "The situation developed rapidly," said a police spokesman. "An officer fired a baton-round hitting the man in the stomach, [who] was later able to walk to the ambulance and taken under escort to hospital. The round struck him just below the ribcage." North Wales police have had the baton guns - L104 A1 Heckler and Koch models firing single 3.5in by 1in bullets - for about six months. Police called for this non-lethal option because alternatives, such as a CS spray or a baton strike, often put officers' lives at risk. Mr Brereton said yesterday the man involved in this incident was "lucky to be alive".