A national register of stalkers could be set up to help the police keep track of serial offenders, particularly the hard core of potentially violent men and women who target their victims indiscriminately, the Home Office revealed yesterday.It also disclosed that almost 6,000 people had been convicted of stalking offences in 1998. The database would prevent stalkers going "underground" and would be modelled on the sex offenders register, which gives police limited powers to alert organisations, including schools, when an offender moves into the neighbourhood. If a similar list were introduced, stalkers would be ordered to tell the police if they changed their name or moved address. Victims of stalking welcomed the proposal yesterday, but Liberty, the civil rights group, said the Home Office needed to move cautiously. John Wadham, its director, said stalking behaviour needed to be clearly defined so that only genuine offenders were included on the list. The Home Office said it was determined to crack down on a growing problem. "Harassment can have a devastating effect on people's lives," said the Home Office minister Charles Clarke."It is something that must be tackled." The department said yesterday that it had asked researchers to "establish the case" for a stalking register. Ministers and civil servants will then consult with police and relevant organisations, including Liberty, before deciding whether to press ahead. "This is something that needs to be considered very carefully and we will not rush into it," a Home Office spokesman said. "We want to test the case for establishing a register. We want to make sure we are not missing out on a really useful tool." The Home Office said it would distinguish between the non-violent stalker motivated by a failed relationship and the violent obsessive who targets strangers. "The register would not apply to all people convicted of stalking offences. We have to be extremely careful not to lump everyone together." The Home Office estimates the research and consultation could take up to 12 months. One victim, Tracey Morgan, whose case triggered the introduction of the anti-stalking Protection from Harassment Act three years ago, said a register would give people "greater peace of mind". She was stalked for seven years by former Royal Navy petty officer Anthony Burstow. Her ordeal began when she was working as a civilian clerical officer at HMS Collingwood in Fareham, Hampshire, and continued throughout the 1990s, even though Burstow was convicted on numerous occasions and sent to jail. Liberty claimed the Protection from Harassment Act had been used to stifle public protest, and called on the Home Office to specify what information the register would require from offenders. Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat shadow home secretary, added: "Registers of this type should focus on those who genuinely pose a threat, not registering people for the sake of it." The announcement of plans to consider the stalking register coincided with the publication of guidelines to police forces for using their anti-stalking powers effectively. The Home Office study revealed 5,800 people were convicted of stalking offences in England and Wales in 1998. The majority - 4,300 - were convicted of the lesser charge of criminal harassment. The rest were convicted of putting victims in fear of violence, which has a maximum sentence of five years. The study found 80% of victims were women, and 80% of stalkers were men. Nearly all of those convicted of stalking knew their victims. Only 4% were "stranger" stalkers. Scotland Yard's Detective Inspector Hamish Brown, who researched and wrote the guidelines for the police, warned cyber-stalking was on the increase and feared victims, who are often bombarded with emails, were not coming forward. "I'm quite convinced that this is one area that is under-reported. It's so easy to push a delete button when you receive an email. "It's not like reading a letter, which has to be opened. If someone is stalking you via the internet, get a hard copy of the email. Print it out. "[An email] does not have to be that abusive but when they come repeatedly and they are anonymous it can get people down." The Home Office study concluded some police officers were unclear about what constitutes harassment under the terms of the 1997 Act, and said many victims did not realise they were protected by new laws. "Public awareness of the Act seems to be quite limited," said Jessica Harris, author of the Home Office study. "Victims do not always realise what is happening to them." She said stalkers tried to make victims feel as if they were going mad.