A conman and his wife who tried to avoid justice for two years by pretending he was quadriplegic and inclined to fall into comas have both been jailed for perverting the course of justice.Alan Knight, who had tried to make out he was too ill to stand trial after swindling a frail 86-year-old man with dementia out of his life savings, was jailed for 14 months. His wife, Helen, who helped him feign illness and organised a campaign to try to stop the prosecution, was jailed for 10 months. Knight, 48, is already serving a four-and-a-half-year jail term after he was convicted of stealing more than £40,000 from the life savings of his elderly neighbour in Swansea, Ivor Richards.‘Quadriplegic’ fraudster jailed for four and a half years He had pretended to care for Richards but was in fact funnelling the cash out of his bank account and using it to pay for holidays and to buy a caravan in Dorset. When Knight realised he was going to be prosecuted, he and his wife, 34, concocted a story that he had suffered a massive neck injury in a freak accident that left him unable to move and caused him to periodically fall into a comatose state. He spent 10 weeks in hospital and underwent extensive tests but doctors could not find anything wrong with him. Nursing staff became suspicious that at a time when he was supposed to be in a coma, drinking water from his bedside table “magically disappeared” overnight. When he was sent home, he and his wife continued to see various doctors, claiming he was housebound and unable to communicate. However, detectives proved there was nothing wrong with Knight after tracing his Tesco Clubcard and finding CCTV footage of him walking around a supermarket. CCTV cameras at the Severn Bridge also captured him heading home to Swansea after holidays on the south coast of England, while photographs of him at a wedding and on fairground bumper cars were discovered.Knight was told he would be put on trial, which prompted his wife to launch a campaign, writing to the prime minister and her local MP to claim her husband was being unfairly persecuted. She also invited local reporters into their house and photographers were encouraged to take pictures of him apparently in a coma and wearing an oxygen mask. When he finally did appear at Swansea crown court, Knight pretended to be unconscious and wore a neck brace while being pushed in a wheelchair by his wife. But he was found guilty and jailed. He and his wife subsequently both admitted perverting the course of justice over their scam. Knight appeared for sentencing on Friday by video link from prison – still apparently in a wheelchair. Helen Knight appeared at Swansea crown court in person and could be heard sobbing as she was led to the cells. Judge Huw Davies QC told the couple their behaviour was “unscrupulous and selfish”. He praised the police for seeing through their lies. South Wales police have criticised the couple for costing the force, the NHS and the court system many thousands of pounds.