Police forces across Britain have reopened a series of unsolved murder cases involving young women after an itinerant handyman was convicted yesterday of raping and killing a schoolgirl who went missing 17 years ago.Peter Tobin, 62, was given a life sentence for murder after a jury found him guilty of abducting, raping and murdering Vicky Hamilton, 15, who disappeared in the centre of Bathgate, near Edinburgh, in February 1991. Her body was dug up in the back garden of Tobin's former home in Margate, Kent, last year.Detectives are understood to be re-examining at least four cases involving missing girls and women after drawing up a detailed profile of Tobin's life and movements since he was born near Paisley, Renfrewshire, in 1946.Tobin is already serving life for the rape and murder of Angelika Kluk, a Polish student. Her body was discovered bound and gagged under the floor of a Catholic church in Glasgow in September 2006, where Tobin had been working as a handyman under an assumed name.Detective Supt David Swindle, of Strathclyde police, said yesterday that Tobin had travelled extensively across Britain during his life and police were working on "any potential links between Tobin's movements and outstanding missing females or victims of crime". The detective said no house searches were planned but that might change "should the intelligence and evidence warrant it".Detective Chief Supt Malcolm Graham, head of CID at Lothian and Borders police, told reporters before Tobin's conviction that police across the UK were re-examining unsolved cases. There had been "information-sharing with a variety of other forces throughout the UK", he said, and that would continue "to establish whether Peter Tobin had committed any other crimes".The jury in Dundee took less than two and a half hours to deliver the guilty verdict yesterday. It was greeted with cries of "yes" from Vicky's family and friends. Her father, Michael, shouted "rot in hell" as the judge, Lord Emslie, sentenced Tobin to a minimum of 30 years in jail.Lord Emslie told Tobin he was guilty of a "truly evil" crime, adding: "Yet again you have shown yourself to be unfit to live in a decent society." He continued: "It is hard for me to convey the loathing and revulsion that ordinary people will feel for what you have done. Abducting and killing a child on her way home from a happy weekend with her sister and then desecrating her body must rank among the most evil and horrific acts."Tobin was also convicted in 1994 of raping and sexually assaulting two girls aged 14 and 15 at his flat in Havant, Hampshire, after he drugged them with the sedative amitriptyline - the same drug found in Vicky's remains - and gave them alcohol.In a joint statement read out by her sister, Lindsay Brown, Vicky's family thanked the jury, prosecutors and police. "Vicky was much more than a girl who was abducted and killed by a stranger, or the girl on a 'missing' poster. Our sister was a warm, clever, generous girl who shared many happy years with us."We will always remember Vicky as she lived, not as she died."Vicky's dismembered body was recovered, wrapped in layers of plastic bags, from a carefully dug pit in the garden of Tobin's former home in Margate in November last year after Lothian and Borders police uncovered DNA evidence linking him to her disappearance.Forensic tests on Vicky's purse, which was found in Edinburgh shortly after she disappeared, disclosed that Tobin's son, Daniel, then aged three, appeared to have bitten it while staying with his father in Bathgate. Further tests on a knife hidden in the attic of the house in Bathgate, found after police searched the property last year, detected a fragment of human tissue that belonged to Vicky. Four of Tobin's fingerprints were also found on one of the plastic bags covering her remains in Margate, and partial DNA fragments similar to Tobin's detected on her body.Tobin had denied all the charges and claimed he had been in Portsmouth on the day Vicky disappeared. His defence advocate, Donald Findlay QC, told the jury there was "not one solitary scrap" of evidence that Tobin had met, abducted or killed her.