To the outsider, Strangeways - before April Fool's Day 1990 - was just another dustbin of a local prison. The sort to be found in most major cities. Old, though far from crumbling, the squalid Victorian relic was grim, overcrowded and crawling with cockroaches. Two or three men were sharing cells designed in the 19th century as the minimum space that one man could live in.Within that space (12ft x 8ft) the men would eat, sleep and perform all their bodily functions. When they needed to piss or crap after the last "slop-out", they would do so in open buckets, or wrap their excrement in newspaper, to hurl out of the barred window. Each and every morning, the "shit parcel patrol" would collect hundreds of these offerings from the floor of the exercise yards. Small wonder the cockroaches and rats prospered. The food was lousy, as was access to showers or baths (once a week), and communication with the outside world severely limited - one letter a week and a visit once a month. But as bad as the conditions were, they served only to annoy, inconvenience and humiliate the prisoners. The factor that engendered the rage and hate among the jail's population was the brutal, sadistic and savage behaviour of a sizeable section of the staff.You see, above all else, Strangeways was a "screws' nick"; it was the staff's writ that ran, not the rules supposedly put in place by the Home Office. And they were proud of it. They took pleasure in letting you know in no uncertain terms that it was their jail. The general attitude was epitomised by the "heavy mob", the bullies who handed out the beatings and were far from ashamed of it. These men strutted the wings and landings in their steel toe-capped boots and slashed peaked caps. In the 1960s, many of this group wore National Front badges on their uniform - in a prison with a large black and ethnic minority population.The segregation unit at Strangeways - known as "the block" - was where the worst of the treatment was dished out. I spent many months there, in that prison within a prison, in the two decades that preceded the uprising. I heard the screams and saw the blood-spattered walls that evidenced the torture. So confident were my keepers that they made no attempt to hide the nature of the regime from the priests, doctors and governors who, supposedly, went down the block to monitor the welfare of those segregated.That is why, on that April Fool's Day in 1990, during a period when I was at liberty, I went down to Strangeways to express my solidarity with the generation who had said enough was enough and rioted. And that is why I maintained that support throughout the 25 days of the siege: I went down there every day.That first night, an old pal phoned me from London, a fit, hard ex-con, a man not usually given to emotion. His voice that night was full of passion. He was an expert on Strangeways, having been sent there after the Hull prison riot of 1976. On his arrival, the van took him and two others straight to the block, bypassing the prison reception. I was in the unit at the time and saw - through the "Judas hole" - the reception the three men were given. They were made to walk down the passage, hands cuffed behind their backs. The walls were lined with screws holding truncheons and wearing pillowcases over their heads. The trio were kicked and beaten black and blue as they traversed the passage.Fourteen years later, my mate's voice was full of passion and he spoke, in almost loving terms, of the men who had taken over Strangeways earlier that day. And I noted that, as I lay in my bed that night, my heart was with the lads on the roof of Her Majesty's Prison Strangeways, except that night it wasn't her majesty's; it was theirs.The riot, planned by a small group of inmates, was meant to be confined to the prison chapel. But once the prisoners had taken hold of the chapel and barricaded themselves in, someone realised the prison guards had done more than retreat: "They've all fucked off," he said. So they took down the barricades and seized the prison.The Strangeways riot was the biggest in British penal history. The long siege claimed two lives - a prison officer died of a heart attack, and a man on remand for alleged sex offences was so badly beaten by rioters that he ended up dead - and cost the taxpayer in excess of £100m. When it was over, the gaunt Victorian fortress, close to Manchester city centre, lay in ruins.The then home secretary, David Waddington, invited Lord Justice Woolf - later to become lord chief justice - to report on the cause of the protests. The result of his labours, published in February 1991, was hailed as a long-overdue blueprint for the reform of the prison system and a condemnation of those in high office who, for decades, had resisted all moves to extend even the most basic human rights to prisoners.In a thundering leader, the Guardian spoke of the "mandarins who had condoned and defended a prison system that in all practical ways is an affront to our definition of civilisation". It concluded: "It is a tragedy that Strangeways has forced us finally to confront the truth. But Woolf has turned that negative shame, at last, into a positive force for change."I was sent back to Strangeways in 1996 and saw for myself the difference the riot had made. Slopping out had ended, phones were installed on the landings, showers could be taken daily and the men were out of their cells longer than they were in them. But the biggest difference was the staff's attitude: the arrogance was gone.That doesn't mean that all has been put right. Fifteen years after the Woolf report, there is an abundance of evidence to show that, across the penal estate, inmates are still forced to endure atrocious conditions. The worst examples are the local prisons, the receiving centres where prisoners are taken from court. A recent report on Armley prison, Leeds, revealed precisely the sort of shortcomings that, according to Woolf, precipitated the revolt at Strangeways.Inspectors found many prisoners locked up for 23 hours a day in cells that, according to the report, were not fit for habitation; 340 cells designed to hold one prisoner were shared by two. Many were fitted with inadequate screens for the in-cell toilets. (And although the end of slopping-out was clearly a welcome reform, it must be remembered that, in most local jails, two prisoners are forced to live, eat, sleep and perform their bodily functions in a space smaller than the average bathroom.)One more thing proved to be beyond the scope of Woolf's reforms. The men who organised the riots (and were cleared of involvement in the death of the alleged sex offender) were brave men: they knew what they'd get for what they were doing. Well, they got it. Soon after the Woolf report was published, the new home secretary, Kenneth Baker, made it clear, as he welcomed the recommendations, that the prisoners who prompted the change would suffer for their protest: "The events of last April marked a watershed in the history of the prison service. We cannot and will not tolerate the savagery and vandalism in our prisons that we saw then."He was as good as his word. Twenty-three inmates received extensions to their sentences for their part the riot. One of them, Alan Lord, is still inside for his part in the uprising, his original sentence having long since expired. They have long memories in the prison service. · Eric Allison is the Guardian's prison correspondent and the author, with Nicki Jameson, of A Serious Disturbance, published by Larkin.· Caged Heat: Prison Riots, is on Bravo tonight at 10pm.