Sir Fred Goodwin is not a popular man.On Monday the former chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland was told by the government that not so long ago rewarded him with knighthood, that he had been "irresponsible". Gordon Brown even went so far as to hint at some vague notion of sanctions against the man once regarded by Downing Street as a crucial ally. The word "FSA" was used, but no more.That could be regarded as phenomenally mild language in the context of a chairman who oversaw losses of £28bn in investments and purchases in a single year, at a cost to the taxpayer so gargantuan it becomes increasingly impossible to grasp.Much easier to get a handle on, however, is the issue of crime and punishment. Take for example, the attitude of the authorities in the US to the screw-ups made by investors there. Chairman of US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Christopher Cox said recently that those found responsible would face "the concentrated resources of a relentless SEC". That is the kind of tough language that we can do little more than long for on this side of the Atlantic. It's not just rhetoric either. In the States the SEC, the FBI, and district prosecutors are actively investigating large financial institutions. Civil and criminal actions are firmly on the agenda; Washington Mutual, Freddie Mac and Fannie May and AIG – some of the biggest names in America's financial industry – are currently under investigation. Four executives from Bear Stearns and Credit Suisse have already been charged with fraud for misleading investors.How does the response of the UK authorities compare? True, Goodwin has already lost his job. He was forced to step down last November as a non-negotiable condition for the £20bn bail-out of Royal Bank of Scotland. But does retiring, with a knighthood in the bag as well as an £8.4m pension, really amount to a punishment proportionate with the nature of the offence – presiding over the biggest ever loss ever in British corporate history?But the fact is there is little prospect of any formal sanctions against those who – to borrow the language of another area of law – "bear the greatest responsibility" for the crimes against the financial sector. The FSA says it has "made clear that we are prepared to bring more criminal prosecutions to achieve our goal of credible deterrence", but the truth is it had never conducted a single prosecution for insider dealing – which research recently showed has been behind up to one third of takeovers in the City – until last year. It has only ever prosecuted once for market abuse. In what can only be described as a case of the pot calling the kettle black, it's HBOS chairman Lord Stevenson described its record in June last year as "exceptionally bad".Meanwhile the Serious Fraud Office, the other agency responsible for prosecuting financial crime, was recently described by US prosecutor Jessica de Grazia as suffering from "startlingly low productivity and convictions rates compared to its New York counterparts".As a result, there is little hope of comprehensive action being taken against any of those responsible for the mess the banks have got themselves in, let alone those at the top. And if it seems unfair for taxpayers to be asking for heads to roll – even though it is taxpayers who are quite literally paying the price, then consider a comparison with other professions.David Cameron got the hang of this recently, saying: "Doctors who behave irresponsibly get struck off – bankers who behave irresponsibly should also face professional consequences.""If anyone is found to have behaved criminally, they must be prosecuted", he added. "In the good times people working in the financial services industry paid themselves vast financial rewards ... now that it's all gone wrong they have been bailed out by the taxpayer." There is a long way to be before bankers are treated equally with other reckless professionals, but this seems as good a time as any to start the ball – and even a few heads – rolling.