David Blunkett insisted yesterday that the objective of his sentencing reforms was not to push up the prison population. The detailed costings in the Halliday report confirm, however, that the number of prison places needed in England and Wales could either be cut by 1,500 or increased by up to 9,500 depending on how the reforms are implemented.John Halliday, the former Home Office civil servant, said the extra costs of his reforms range from £300m a year to £700m depending on whether the "most lenient" or the "most severe" policy options are implemented. The costings also assume that underpinning the programme will be a massive expansion of rehabilitation programmes run by the probation service both inside and outside prison. Mr Halliday's report assumes that probation officers will work with up to 80,000 more offenders each year on top of their present workload of 180,000, whichever option is chosen by the government. The costings estimate that - depending on how severely the measures are implemented - the cost of crime could be cut by between £781m and £813m, by reducing the reoffending rate from 56% now to 40%. Mr Halliday estimates that the new sentencing framework would push up the daily prison population by between 3,000 and 6,000 if the "steady state" option is chosen, under which the courts generally would not increase the length of sentences or the rate at which they sent people to prison. England and Wales already has a record 66,600 prison population and most of the increase in this "steady state" scenario would come from persistent offenders being sent to jail for longer periods, the extended liability of released prisoners to be recalled for breaching the conditions of their release under supervision in the community, and tougher sentences for more serious offenders. Mr Blunkett's personal initiative yesterday in floating a "custody minus" sentence under which many short-term prisoners would be kept out of jail would cut this projected increase of 3,000 to 6,000 extra prison places. But other criminal justice experts yesterday said they feared there would still be a drift upwards in prison numbers. In particular they said that although far fewer minor offenders would be sent to prison "through the front door" by the courts, they might well end up there "by the back door" for breaching the terms of their new community punishment orders or "custody minus" sentences. The massive rise in the number of prisoners in the United States has similarly been fuelled by people breaching the terms of their parole rather than for their initial offence. The prison service is already struggling to prevent further overcrowding and find an extra 2,000 prison places needed as a result of the former home secretary Jack Straw's last criminal justice legislation. Whether it will need a new prison building programme will depend largely on whether the rapidly expanding probation service succeeds in breaking the most persistent offenders from a life of crime.