Charges for vetting checks by the troubled criminal records bureau are to be more than doubled from July as part of an attempt to make the public-private partnership project self-financing within four years.The Home Office also announced yesterday that a further £19m of taxpayers' money is to be spent enabling the CRB to carry out promised checks on 400,000 healthcare staff, including care home and agency nurses, working with the elderly and vulnerable from this October. These checks, to be phased in over nine months, were shelved in November when it became clear the CRB could not cope. But the CRB's director, John O'Brien, said yesterday that no date could yet be set for introduction of the government's plan to bring in basic checks on the backgrounds of all the 10 million people who - in all forms of employment -change jobs every year. The CRB is run as a public-private partnership between the Home Office and the company Capita, which was fined £1.8m this year for the fiasco of checks on new teachers last autumn, which resulted in thousands of children being sent home. Mr O'Brien said yesterday that the CRB was now processing 41,000 applications a month for "standard" and the more detailed "enhanced" level checks for those who worked with children and vulnerable people. The backlog of applications has fallen from 75,000 to 9,348. He said the fees would rise from a flat rate of £12 to £24 for the standard checks and £29 for the enhanced checks. At the same time, target times for completion of the checks are to be extended, with turnaround for 90% of standard applications doubling to two weeks and that for 90% of enhanced applications rising from three to four weeks. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said yesterday: "The CRB's performance in recent months has improved dramatically, and I am pleased that checks on healthcare workers can now be introduced. The CRB is on the road to recovery." But Liberal Democrat MP Paul Burstow said the government was forcing the CRB's customers and the taxpayer to bail out a flawed public finance initiative project. "Doubling the fees will hit schools, care homes and charities hardest, when they are already struggling with cash shortages. The fact that the taxpayer has to bail out the CRB to the tune of £19m this year demands that heads must roll." Mr Burstow said Capita had already been paid an extra £8.4m to put things right. "I doubt that this debacle of increased fees will be the last we hear of this crippled PFI project. It looks likely customers and taxpayers will be forced to dig deep yet again before 2007."