A gang targeting diplomats and wealthy individuals - including socialite Tara Palmer-Tomkinson - exported more than £1.5m worth of stolen cars to the Middle East in a "highly sophisticated" ringing operation.In the latest example of a multimillion pound illicit trade, the gang of five men from London and the Midlands displayed such confidence in their export business that they filmed themselves on mobile phones driving stolen Porsches and a rare McLaren.Their haul included a £350,000 McLaren SLR supercar, Mercedes, Porsches, Range Rovers and BMWs. One silver 645 BMW convertible belonged to Palmer-Tomkinson; another vehicle was owned by the unnamed "head of al-Jazeera television".Gang leader Imran Ganchi, 29, of Ilford, Essex, was jailed for six years yesterday at Southwark crown court in London. The team's document forger, Hameed Nawaz, 31, of Luton, Bedforshire, was given three years. Three others received sentences of between four years and one year, the latter suspended. Tens of thousands of stolen vehicles are believed to leave the country every year, mainly bound for the Middle East or Africa.The Vehicle Crime Intelligence Service (Avcis), has called for more stringent controls at Britain's ports and proposed that the insurance industry pay for police surveillance operations to prevent cars being hidden in shipping containers.This autumn a combined investigation by Hertfordshire, Essex and Kent police resulted in a 12-strong gang receiving total sentences of more than 50 years for car-jacking and theft. Most of the crimes involved burglary of keys from homes, enabling £4m worth of vehicles to be driven off.A London-based gang arrested last year was found to have been stealing 120 prestige cars a month, mostly Mercedes, stripping them down to spare parts, packing them into containers and despatching them to Nigeria. One policeman compared their methods to "an industrial production line", adding that: "they were incredibly professional, like a Formula 1 pit crew but in reverse." In recent years overall car theft has declined. Of 180,000 vehicles stolen last year, 48% were recovered. The rest were scrapped for spare parts, given a false identity, or shipped abroad.But the theft of prestige cars is a lucrative business. Repatriation agencies, collecting rewards for stolen cars, brought about 1,000 vehicles back to Britain last year. They employ spotters in places such as Cyprus, Dubai and Spain looking for suspicious UK-registered cars.Superintendent John Wake, the head of Avcis, said: "Effectively the insurance companies are paying out multimillions every year which would be stopped with a small amount of police work."