The first five high crime areas in the country in which the local police will receive specialist help were named yesterday by the home secretary, David Blunkett, as he continued to face criticism for his anti-racist guidelines on police stop and search.The pressure on the home secretary is expected to intensify today when the Police Federation announces details of its mass Westminster protest rally, and Mr Blunkett announces that he is to give the courts the power to impose an anti-social behaviour order for any offence on conviction.The five "policing priority areas" have been identified in consultation with the police by Mr Blunkett's new Home Office police standards unit, which lies at the heart of his controversial reform programme. The five sites to receive targeted help to reduce crime and anti-social behaviour were named yesterday as Camberwell Green, Southwark; the Grange estate in Stoke; Little Horton and Canterbury, Bradford; Stapleton Road, Bristol; and West ward, Rhyl, north Wales. "These areas will receive the expert advice and support they need to engage the community and build partnerships to reduce crime and improve the quality of life for all. Bucking the trend of high crime involves partnership working from all parts of the community including the police, local residents, drug action teams and crime and disorder reduction partnerships," said Mr Blunkett. "Public support and strong partnerships are key to crack ing crime and making our streets safer," he said during his visit to Stapleton Road, Bristol. Unfortunately for the home secretary some of the Stapleton Road residents did not share his confidence yesterday. A crowd of locals on the troubled estate heckled him when he arrived at the Easton Christian Family Centre making clear they felt it was just another Home Office public relations stunt. "We are living in a nightmare day in, day out," said demonstrator Miriam Henry. "If the government is so committed to doing something, then why is it getting worse? It's just the same old empty promises." The first intervention by the new police standards unit at such a local level will see plans drawn up to tackle the persistent offenders whom officers have so far been unable to curb. It is intended that within the next month a local action plan to identify the exact scale of the crime problem in each area will be drawn up in consultation with the police. The new "policing priority areas" were unveiled as the row over the changes to police stop and search guidelines intensified. Mr Blunkett made clear yesterday that the decision to require police officers to give a written reason to those they stop in the street was needed to demonstrate that they were not just being carried out because of the colour of the skin of those who were stopped. But Police Federation sources protested that the guidelines would add an impossible bureaucratic burden on officers with trials showing it took at least seven minutes to fill out the forms. The guidelines are based on recommendations from the official inquiry into the death of the black teenager, Stephen Lawrence. At present police officers have to complete a written record of the 850,000 stop and searches they carry out each year. But they are not required to give those who are searched a copy of the report and neither do they make a record of the 4 million stops they carry out each year. The latest figures show black people are seven times more likely to be stopped and searched than white people.