 Ali DizaeiThe case of Supt Ali Dizaei plunged the Met into its biggest crisis over race since the Stephen Lawrence scandal, and yesterday the Morris inquiry found the force treated the Iranian-born officer unfairly. Mr Dizaei was the subject of a four-year Met investigation costing up to £7m into allegations that he endangered national security, abused drugs and used prostitutes. All proved baseless. His phone was tapped, he was followed, an undercover officer was sent to entrap him and he was charged twice, only to be acquitted. Under Home Office pressure the Met cut a deal that saw Mr Dizaei receive £80,000 compensation and return to work with the Met, declaring his integrity was demonstrably intact.  Brian Paddick Commander Paddick became the Met's highest ranking gay officer when he was appointed to run policing in Lambeth, south London. He was moved from his post in 2002 after newspaper allegations from his former lover that Mr Paddick had tolerated cannabis smoking when they lived together. An investigation ended with Mr Paddick facing neither criminal or disciplinary charges and he has since been promoted to deputy assistant commissioner. The Morris inquiry criticised the Met for giving Mr Paddick too little support and urged a review into how the force corrects errors in media reporting about its staff. It found no evidence that the investigation was "directly related to his sexuality".  Gurpal Virdi The detective sergeant at a west London station was accused of sending racist hate mail to himself and other ethnic minority officers. In April 1998 he was arrested, his home searched and he was suspended. In March 2000 a police discipline panel found against the Sikh officer, pictured bottom left, and he was dismissed. But in August 2000 an employment tribunal found the force had racially discriminated against Mr Virdi, and in February 2002 he received an apology. He has received more than £200,000 in compensation and is now back at work. The Morris inquiry criticised the investigatory process, saying it gained "the impression that insufficient rigour was applied to important decisions made".