A police officer is in hospital in a serious condition after being hit by a moped while helping to foil an attempted robbery at a luxury store in London’s West End. Four men armed with a machete and an axe and riding two mopeds targeted the Chronext shop in Piccadilly on Wednesday morning. The gang smashed the windows of the store and tried to steal valuables, but were stopped when Scotland Yard’s anti-robbery team, known as the Flying Squad, moved in after receiving a tip-off. Tasers were fired at the men as they tried to flee.One officer was left in a serious condition after he was hit by a robber fleeing on a moped; three others suffered minor injuries. All four members of the gang were arrested. Paul Bainsfair (@PaulBainsfair)Ram raid gone wrong in Piccadilly pic.twitter.com/SkrUrAQIS7August 3, 2016Jacob Marrache, retail manager of the store, told the Guardian that the attack had caused close to £500,000 of damage to both the property and to their stock. The police had come into the store earlier in the day to warn them that a robbery might take place. Just before the incident, they were contacted once again by the police who told them it was definitely happening and they should ask their customers to leave the shop. The attack began soon after. Marrache said: “Two mopeds showed up right in front of the store. There were four guys. They had a hammer and got the door open. They shouted ‘don’t fucking move’ and made a lot of noise and started smashing up the first cabinet. At that moment, the police just stormed in at them and chased them out.” Outside the shop all of the men were apprehended, however there was a struggle with all four spitting and shouting. “The officer who got hurt was struggling with one of the guys who was trying to get on the moped,” Marrache said. “It’s not really clear what happened but he got hurt.”He praised the actions of the officers. “They were all very brave. Our biggest concern is the injured officer’s wellbeing. We’ve got expensive stock here but everything is insured and none of that really matters when it comes to someone’s life. We’re all praying for him and hoping he’s alright. They all put their lives on the line. They were all amazing.” Avi Reed, the UK director of Chronext, told BBC News that the company were delighted by the police warning.  “Thank god our employees were at the back of the store and nobody was injured,” he said. “The police acted with amazing speed. Unfortunately I believe one officer was injured. “We are delighted there was a police warning and it’s terrifying to think what would have happened without it.”One witness was Nasir Miah, an Uber driver who saw the attempted robbery unfold from his car. He told the Daily Mail: “I couldn’t believe what I was watching, it was like a scene out of a movie. Even in London you don’t see anything like that very often.“I was coming up to a junction when I saw something that looked really weird. I thought it must be a robbery because these two mopeds mounted the pavement.“The people riding them then got off and were acting quite aggressively, people were getting out of their way. The next thing there was a lot of shouting and undercover police officers jumped out from nowhere and lunged at the bikers before they could even get in the store.“The bikers had nowhere to go as they were facing oncoming traffic, then some of the public started helping the officers when they realised what was going on.”All four men were arrested on suspicion of robbery and have been taken to central London police stations. One of those arrested reported being unwell and has been transferred to hospital. An axe, knives and the stolen jewellery were all recovered at the scene. Det Supt Craig Turner said: “Our officers are absolutely committed to keeping London safe and target the criminals who pose a danger to Londoners and our city businesses day in, day out. “They know that this work carries with it very real risks and dangers but take this in their stride as part of serving the public. However, today’s events highlight how the reckless behaviour of those determined to evade justice, heedless of the consequences, can have a real impact on all those involved.”The store will reopen tomorrow after a new door was fitted on Wednesday evening, Marrache confirmed. The company also plan to increase security measures including stronger reinforced glass and extra CCTV cameras, as well as further staff training. 