Infant memories of my aunt Angela captured a lovely woman who smiled and hugged and kissed. There was usually a gift or a furtive 50p pressed into your hand with a conspiratorial wink. After she died in 1967, I next saw her kind face on a remembrance card that had been produced for the requiem mass. The adults in the family would simply say she had passed away and that her time had come. A narrative had been prepared for her daughter, barely a month old when her mother died, once the inevitable questions arose. As Margaret grew up, she was told sweetly that she actually had three mothers: the Blessed Virgin Mary, her gran (who had, of course, assumed parental duties) and her own mum who was now in heaven. You can't beat the Catholic Irish for children's fairy tales.It had been decided that the children in the surrounding families had to be decanted to other households at the time of her death and funeral, and for years afterwards I would wonder why my childhood adventures included a two-week summer holiday in Easterhouse. We were deemed to be too young to deal with the grief, even though children assimilate it better than adults. As I grew up, it still seemed to be a curiously disproportionate response to another death in the family.I finally discovered the truth about Angela's demise as I walked to Ibrox stadium for an Old Firm game 13 years later. It was a crucial match and my new college friend and I were savouring the prospects of a victory, some mild revelry involving ale and the vague promise of a student nurses' party after midnight.In a delightful coincidence, my friend's father had known many of my relatives, each family having shared bar space in a famous Maryhill pub called the Shakespeare. It was while we were swapping names, both the living and the dead, that the facts of my aunt's death were gradually, and inadvertently, revealed to me.She had been murdered in the back garden of her Glasgow home by a young man who was seeking to do odd jobs around the street. It was a hot day and Angela had gone to fetch him some cold lemonade. When she returned, he had stabbed her and then helped himself to her purse which contained £15. The joys and rewards of an Old Firm triumph had to be forsaken and I headed home to ask my parents to tell me the whole story and to ask why they hadn't done so before now.Perhaps it was a generational thing, tinged with denial and the numbing effect of intense grief. The circumstances of her death were bad enough, but here also was a vivacious young woman who had just become a mother and was looking forward to married life with my uncle, a man she adored and supported at all times. No one, it seemed, could ever face telling the children.Angela's killer, Alexander Reid, was deemed to be of diminished mental capacity when he committed the murder. As such, he was ordered to be detained in Carstairs state hospital, a psychiatric facility for people who require to be kept under conditions of high security. He's been there for 43 years. Over the past 15 years or so, various attempts have been made to free him by lawyers observing gaps and loopholes in the legal no-man's land where violent crime and mental instability meet.The latest of these occurred last week when Gerry McCabe, Angela's widower, saw the face of his wife's killer flash in front of him during a television news report. His case had been referred back to the high court by the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission on the grounds that the original sentence was unjust. The killer's lawyers had presented new clinical evidence that appears to show that Reid was not actually suffering from a mental disorder when he murdered Angela. As such, his tariff for the killing would have been in the 25 to 30 years range and he would have been released a few years ago. Unfortunately, no one had thought to inform my uncle that there had been new developments in the case of his wife's killer.If Reid had done his time and shown remorse and displayed all the signs of one who has been rehabilitated, then he would have been entitled to his freedom. Gerry McCabe and his family have great faith in the Scottish justice system which, much more often then not, gets it right.They have a concern, though. Criminal psychiatrists for 20 years have described Reid as being very highly likely to reoffend if he is released from Carstairs. This was last stated less than four years ago. Gerry McCabe is entitled to know what has changed in the last four years. For it is now being claimed that his wife's killer has gone from being a very dangerous psychopath to being a fully rehabilitated offender who killed in a different life a long time ago.The way in which we regard violent offenders, be they rapists or murderers, has altered dramatically in this generation. Routinely, they are regarded as monsters or beasts or animals. They are evil. We seek to remove from them any vestige of humanity so that we can more easily explain why they carried out their crimes. In doing so, we conveniently distance ourselves from whatever motivated them to act in such a way.Happily, the obscenity of the death penalty has departed from our penal system. Perhaps, though, the absence of the ultimate sanction makes us more eager to remove from these people the right to human existence by dehumanising them with casual and bitter opprobrium. Yet the man who murdered Angela McCabe is not a monster or a beast. I doubt even if he is truly evil. He is some mother's son and, perhaps, a still beloved brother. His relatives have had to bear the stain of his ignominy for their lives and they are victims too.Compassion remains a cornerstone of British justice and obliges us to treat violent men and women with fairness and proportion. We do not torture or kill them and this permits us to regard ourselves as civilised and decent. When we encounter those in our midst whose illness leads to psychopathic violence, we try to treat them as best we can while ensuring they no longer bear a threat to society. We allow them to live a life of sorts. We do not kill them because that decision is not ours to make.As Alexander Reid has his original sentence reviewed, the husband and daughter of Angela McCabe ask only this: that the psychiatrists who previously examined him and said that he was still highly likely to reoffend are satisfied that he is becalmed now.