The shooting of Rhys Jones epitomised the contrasting worlds that exist cheek-by-jowl in north Liverpool. The two collided with awful consequences during a warm summer evening last year, when an 11-year-old boy was murdered as he inadvertently walked into the line of fire.The respectable majority of law-abiding residents, like Rhys Jones and his family, lead unremarkable lives in their red brick homes with neat lawns on Croxteth Park. The estate is close to a popular country park of the same name, the former ancestral home of the Earls of Sefton. The Channel 4 soap Brookside was also filmed there.But just over a mile away to the north and east, via a maze of footpaths are the sprawling estates of Croxteth and Norris Green where two notorious gangs of young men battle for supremacy over the L11 postcode – the Crocky Young Guns (also known as the Crocky Young Thugs and the Crocky Crew) and the Nogga Dogz (also known as the Nogsey Dog gang or the Strand Gang).In four years, police say there have been 80 incidents of vandalism and violence linked to the two gangs, who are waging a violent campaign for control of their turf for drug dealing. Since the shooting, that violence has waned but it has not been extinguished.The gangs are obsessed with guns, knives, souped-up cars, vicious dogs and quad bikes. Their arrogance is underlined by the videos they post on YouTube. One film from the Crocky gang appeared to show the grimy Smith and Wesson revolver that killed Rhys.The Fir Tree pub car park in the area was the unlikely focus of the dispute between the gangs. When Nogga Dogz gang member Wayne Brady strayed into the hostile territory with two friends, his presence drew the rival Crocky Young Guns gang member Sean Mercer to the pub. Mercer took a gun and shot at Brady's friends but mistakenly shot Rhys, an innocent bystander, as he walked home from football practice in his England shirt, with his socks pulled down to reveal his shin pads.The shooting prompted an outcry. Gordon Brown described it as "a heinous crime that has shocked the whole of the country". The death was remarkable on a number of levels - Rhys was so young, he was an innocent boy caught in the crossfire of a petty gang dispute and he came from a respectable close-knit family, who remained dignified in spite the terrible circumstances of his death.He was, and still is, the youngest victim of gang violence in Britain. Some eyewitnesses thought the victim was only eight years old, as Rhys was so small for his age - a fact he was painfully aware of.Rhys was the star player of the Fir Tree under-12s team and a season ticket holder at Everton, attending most home matches with his father and older brother Owen, now 18. He was looking forward to starting secondary school after finishing at Broad Square primary, where he had performed well in his SATs. He was a bright and popular boy who had a loyal group of friends, all football-mad like him. A community centre in his name will be constructed at Croxteth Park in his name at a cost of £1.5m. Fundraisers have so far collected £250,000 through a fun run and selling purple ribbons in his memory.Rhys's team had just finished practice with penalties, with Rhys in goal. The team's coach had offered him a lift but fatally, he insisted on walking the short distance home.When he was killed, Rhys was a few hundred yards from his family's extended semi in Crompton Drive. He was thrown to the ground by a single bullet that struck him in the neck, killing him instantly. The appalling shooting was captured on the pub's CCTV and the grainy images were played to the jurors during Sean Mercer's trial at Liverpool crown court. There was an audible gasp from the courtroom and one female juror was visibly distressed as the footage was shown.Detective Superintendent Dave Kelly, who led the murder investigation, said: "I have been a police officer for nearly 30 years and this investigation has been the most challenging and moving investigation I have ever had to deal with."At the time, it was said that Rhys was in the wrong place at the wrong time. [His parents] Mel and Stephen took exception as he was doing what he was entitled to do – traveling home alone from football practice."Mercer, who was 17 at the time, seemed younger than his years during his first court appearance at Liverpool magistrates court in April this year, following his arrest. Pale and dark haired with childlike features and an angular nose, he appeared to belie his gangland past, nervously clutching a string of rosary beads.But his actions in the immediate aftermath of the murder demonstrated how entrenched he was in the underworld culture of the Crocky Young Guns.Within minutes of the fatal shooting, he had gathered his gangland friends and associates so he could set about destroying evidence crucial to the police investigation - his clothing, bicycle and the murder weapon – a .455 Smith and Wesson revolver that originated from the first world war.Within an hour, Mercer was driven to an industrial estate in Kirkby, owned by his co-defendant Melvin Coy. His clothes were washed in petrol to remove any traces of ballistics or gunshot residue. They were then incinerated.Mercer's name had been given to detectives by members of the public and was already being bandied around Liverpool, appearing on websites and graffiti. A Crimewatch programmed, which aired last September, resulted in 12 people phoning in to give Mercer's name. Kelly said from an early stage Mercer's name had been given to them but they needed to gather sufficient evidence to get a successful prosecution.Mercer was so fearful of reprisals because of the public outcry surrounding the killing, he often took to hiding in the boot of friends' cars as he was driven around the city.Three days after the murder, on August 25, police made a number of arrests - including Mercer. There was insufficient evidence at the time to charge him with murder. His solicitor read out a prepared statement giving his alibi and Mercer refused to answer any of the detectives' questions.It took police eight months of gathering surveillance of suspects' families and securing the evidence of a teenage supergrass, as well as obtaining witness accounts discrediting Mercer's alibi before the charge could be pinned on him. Telephone traffic between his co-defendants also proved crucial.Boy C was given immunity from prosecution in April this year because he had previously "given an open and honest account" as a suspect in previous interviews with police, Kelly said.His colleague, Brian McNeil, says the feud between Sean Mercer and Wayne Brady "went over and above the affiliated abuse of the factions in L11".Mercer had been overheard saying that Brady was "going to get it" according to one female witness, who told police. However, when the young witness came to court, she claimed Mercer was "only joking."On the night of the killing, Mercer was with a 17-year-old friend when his pal Melvin Coy phoned to alert him that Brady and his friends were hanging about close to the Fir Tree. Half an hour later, Gary Kays phoned Mercer to reiterate what Coy had said. The dark haired teenager, dressed all in black, pedalled to James Yates' home nearby, where he was given a gun that he stuffed in his jacket pocket.Police say he was intending to shoot at Brady and his friends. At 7.28pm he fired three shots towards Brady's friends. None of the bullets hit their intended targets but one struck Rhys.Realising what he had done, Mercer pedalled away furiously, with his hood up causing a motorist to swerve to avoid hitting him.The gun used to kill Rhys was found hidden in the loft of Mercer's 17-year-old friend four days later. The boy was on holiday in Florida with his family and was arrested on his return, and later became a crucial witness (Boy C) in exchange for immunity from prosecution. The Director of Public Prosecutions signed the agreement that led to Mercer and his co-defendants finally being charged.The getaway bike was taken to a field in Kirkby, near the industrial estate, and it was stripped of its wheels some time later and found by a local man, Leslie Shimmin, who later realised its significance and contacted police.The 17-year-old informant told detectives that Mercer owned a Specialized 19in Hard Rock mountain bike. Detectives were able to establish that the bike had been stolen from Mercer in February 2007 and reported to police. A replacement bike provided by an insurance company had the same serial number as the one dumped at the industrial estate. Kelly said the £400-bike was the most expensive thing Mercer possessed "yet he was prepared to dispose of it within 24 hours of the killing".Eight months after the shooting, on April 15, 11 people were arrested in a series of dawn raids, and six further arrests were made the same day. Mercer, who does not have a significant criminal record but has had asbos against him, was finally charged with murder and appeared before Liverpool magistrates two days later.He seemed to be nervous as Rhys's parents were in court watching him intently.When Mercer's 18th birthday passed on September 17, there was little cause for celebration as he was on remand for murder and he could be publicly identified for the first time. By the time the case came to trial, Mercer had grown a few inches. He no longer seemed nervous and was full of bravado in the dock - giving his mother the thumbs-up and gently but vehemently shaking his head when the prosecution outlined the case against him."He has involved others to distance himself from this crime and destroyed evidence that would implicate him," Kelly added. "He has not been remorseful at any stage in our dealings with him. He has shown no remorse whatsoever."Sean Mercer has two previous convictions for possessing cannabis and a CS gas spray, the latter for which he was given a three-month referral order. On April 1 this year, shortly before his arrest for murder, he appeared at Liverpool youth court and was given a conditional discharge for possessing cannabis. Police said since 2004, Mercer been stopped on 80 occasions and either searched or asked to give his details.He was also the subject of an anti-social behaviour order preventing him from entering Croxteth Sports Centre and harassing five named members of staff. There had been two alleged breaches of the asbo.Assistant chief constable Patricia Gallan said Mercer was not a significant member of a gang and he had been "lower down the pecking order", and Yates was "probably higher up".