A young black man found hanged in a children's playground may have been the victim of a racist lynch mob, his family believe. They say police have been reluctant to pursue the possibility that the killing might have been racially motivated and were too quick to write off the death as a suicide, possibly losing vital evidence. On 26 April last year, three days before he was found hanging from a tree in a park in Frimley, Surrey, 24-year-old Ghanaian student Akofa Hodasi had been the victim of a vicious racist attack. He had been punched and threatened with a knife and his black friend, Nathan Evans, had been repeatedly slashed with a knife by a group of white people. One of the attackers told Hodasi: 'You're black. I know where you live. Next time I'll shoot you.' His family say Hodasi had no history of mental illness or suicide attempts. He had spent the evening before his death with friends and gave no indication of distress, apart from admitting to being shaken by the assault. Tenu Smith, Hodasi's aunt, alleged that: • Police taking her statement initially failed to record the concerns she voiced about the attack on her nephew. • Officers had 'joked' that she might be a drug dealer because she had several telephone extensions. • Police only pursued links between the death and the racist assault after she had written in protest, three weeks after her nephew's body was found. Eventually, a man and two juveniles were charged and convicted in relation to the assaults but police told her that they had alibis for the night of the death. Now, nearly a year later, Surrey police are reviewing the case. Last week officers visited her house to investigate why buttons were missing from Hodasi's jacket. They deny the move follows pressure from the family. Det-Sup Bill Harding said: 'I ordered a review as a matter of good practice.' He said the evidence remained inconclusive and that there was no indication that anyone else had been involved in Hodasi's death. 'We have always treated this as a suspicious death, and we are continuing to do so.' The family are now seeking the opinion of a second pathologist, because the initial report did not note bruises and swelling from the assault which, Smith says, were visible on Hodasi's face. They want the inquest held in front of a jury. The Surrey coroner is resisting their request. Hodasi's noose was made from unusual nylon cord of the kind used in football nets but its source was never traced. A police reconstruction concluded it would have been possible, but difficult, for Hodasi to have hanged himself, but that it would also have been difficult for others to have lifted him if he had resisted. Yesterday Harriet Wistrich, the family solicitor, said: 'In the context of an extremely serious racist attack in which threats were made to kill the black victims, the fact that one of them was found hanging from a tree two days later should have caused the police to open a murder inquiry.' Hodasi's aunt added: 'Had I felt the police examined the possibility of murder as closely as they have examined us - his family and friends - then maybe I would have been able to accept that Akofa hanged himself. 'Instead I feel I will never know why Akofa died. I will be left with a lurking fear that somebody responsible may be walking free.'