John Reid becomes the umpteenth home secretary to promise to try to stop offenders benefiting financially from books about their life and crimes. Like all the others, he will fail. He is soon to begin discussions with publishers and victims' representatives, with the aim of framing a law to ensure that high-profile criminals do not make money either from their autobiographies or by being paid to cooperate with authors of books about them. The trigger for this new flurry of activity appears to be a report that Johnny "Mad Dog" Adair, the former Ulster loyalist terrorist, has been given a large advance for his story. Previous concerns have been expressed over the memoirs of, among others, the Scottish murderer Jimmy Boyle, the gangster "Mad" Frankie Fraser, the armed robber John McVicar, the drug dealer Howard Marks and three Great Train robbers - Ronnie Biggs, Bruce Reynolds and Buster Edwards. There was disquiet, too, when it was revealed that the child killer Mary Bell had been paid a reputed £50,000 by the publishers of a biography of her. In a slightly different category were the books written by Jeffrey Archer and Jonathan Aitken, not so much about their crimes as the personal experiences and thoughts that followed.The government's only success in this field came in 2000, when the House of Lords ruled (on grounds much criticised by legal experts) that George Blake, convicted in 1961 of spying for the Soviet Union, should not be allowed to retain the royalties he earned for his autobiography.An excuse sometimes advanced for freely allowing publication of criminals' memoirs is that they enabled the authorities better to understand the workings of criminal minds and methods. That is a specious argument. I have yet to hear the police or psychologists commending such books for the important new insights they contain.Mr Reid's wish will not be fulfilled. There is no possibility of the books themselves being banned, and indeed I don't believe he's going down that road. If he tried, he would soon be confronted by the Human Rights Act's insistence on freedom of expression. He would have to find some way of making sure that any money earned by the book could not find its way back to the criminal, directly or indirectly. Past governments have tried and failed to find a formula that works in practice. If the criminal himself must not benefit, does that mean that every member of his family, or anyone else he knows, will be covered by the ban, just in case the money gets back to him? Is it fair to punish his aged parents or sick daughter for his sins? In theory, it might be possible to set up trust funds, with the trustees obliged to make sure that any payments made are outside the criminal's grasp. Or there could be a law under which a book's publishers would pay out advances and royalties only to a named charity. Fine in theory, but bound to be a nightmare in practice, and require close supervision if not policing. And for what? To assuage our moral outrage when, very occasionally, a former criminal appears to be being rewarded (usually by not very much) for previous wrongdoing. Is it worth the effort? Hasn't the home secretary got more important things to do?