Anne Darwin, the wife of John Darwin, who reappeared five years after he was assumed dead in a canoeing accident, has been charged with two counts of deception, Cleveland police said tonight.The 55-year-old will appear before Hartlepool magistrates' court tomorrow morning - the same court where her husband was remanded in custody today.Cleveland police said Anne Darwin faces one charge of dishonestly obtaining £25,000 by money transfer and one charge of obtaining £137,000 by money transfer. Both offences relate to 2003. Detectives in Teesside had earlier been given a further 12 hours to interrogate Anne Darwin, who moved to Panama seven weeks before her husband reappeared nine days ago. She was arrested at Manchester airport after stepping off a plane yesterday morning.Earlier today police issued a passport photograph of a full-bearded John Darwin and appealed for information about where he had spent the missing years.Det Supt Tony Hutchinson, of Cleveland police, told a press conference that John Darwin could have been known as John Jones after supposedly dying in the North Sea in March 2002.The black and white photo had been supplied by the passport office, Hutchinson said, and the intense media interest in the case had already led to reported sightings of him in Spain and the Caribbean.The 57-year-old appeared before Hartlepool magistrates this morning charged with making an untrue statement to procure a passport and obtaining £25,000 by deception in relation to a life insurance policy. His case was adjourned until Friday when he will reappear at the same court via video link.He appeared in the dock accompanied by a single security guard during the brief hearing. Wearing the claret-coloured sweatshirt he was pictured in last week, he spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth.He sat impassively as the clerk read out the two charges he faces. The first charge is that on May 16 2003 he fraudulently obtained £25,000 from Unat Direct Insurance Management Limited by deception, by falsely representing that he had been killed in an accident on about March 21 2002.The second charge he faces relates to making statements known to be untrue to obtain a passport. The prosecutor, Sue Jacobs, said the crown would oppose any application for bail. No application was made. The chairman of the bench, Alan Langshaw, said the severity of the case meant it would be dealt with at crown court.John Darwin, a former teacher and prison officer, disappeared from his home in Seaton Carew, Hartlepool, in March 2002, and was presumed drowned after his wrecked canoe was found. He walked into a central London police station nine days ago saying he was a missing man.His wife, who sold the family's two homes, initially claimed she was in "total shock" that her husband was still alive, but later admitted knowing he was not dead, and that he had been living next door to the family home for much of his disappearance.