The court of appeal yesterday increased sentences passed by trial judges on three men who raped or sexually abused children and one who raped a mother in her child's hearing.The sentences were hiked after a plea by the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith QC, who told the court some judges were passing "unduly lenient" sentences on men who raped or abused children because they paid too little regard to the lasting harm done to young victims. The attorney general has a statutory power to refer sentences deemed unduly lenient to the appeal court, but yesterday, to reflect the level of public concern, he appeared for the first time to argue the case himself, rather than briefing a barrister. "Rape is an abhorrent crime calling for severe punishment," he said. "But rape of a child is perhaps the most abhorrent form of rape." The offences which fell short of rape involved abuse and exploitation of children for the gratification of adults, and the way those offences were sentenced should reflect those circumstances, said Lord Goldsmith. He said such offences caused "lasting trauma, pain and hurt, mixed with shame, often guilt". He added: "It is not at all uncommon for a victim to suffer severe depression leading to self-harm - sometimes to attempts at suicide - and loss of self-esteem causing difficulties in developing relationships and getting on at school." Where the offences were committed within the home, "the very place where a child should feel safe is the very place where a child is most at risk and traumatised," the attorney general said. "There will be no place where the child will feel safe." Lord Goldsmith urged Lord Justice Mantell, Mr Justice Bell and Mr Justice Andrew Smith to apply guidelines issued last week by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf. These stated that eight years was the "starting point" for rapes of children and must be increased when there were more than two victims, or when violence was used, or when there was a degree of "planning" by the defendant. In one of the four cases, a father had set up a "video club" in his garden shed to which children were lured to drink and watch pornographic films. The man, who was jailed for eight years for raping two girls and for offences of child cruelty against another child, had his sentence increased to 13 years by the appeal judges. The judges ruled that a man sentenced to a three-year community rehabilitation order for sexual offences involving children should now have to serve a three-year jail term. A six-month sentence on another child abuser was increased to 12 months. In the case of the rape of the woman, the judges were told that her young daughter, although she was not in the room when the attack took place, had heard what was happening and dialled 999. The man's six-year sentence for rape and wounding with intent was increased to eight years.