Ticket touting at major sporting and music events from Wimbledon to charity concerts will be stamped out under new government plans to halt the exploitation of fans. Initial plans will introduce a voluntary code, but this could be replaced by legislation that would make touting illegal.Andy Burnham, the Culture Secretary, is to draw up a 'Crown Jewels' list of fixtures central to British national life, such as Six Nations rugby and Test cricket, where the widespread practice of touts block-buying tickets to sell on for vastly inflated prices will be ended. Promoters would be expected to take all precautions possible to prevent resale, such as allowing people to buy only a limited number of tickets, offering fans refunds if they find themselves genuinely unable to use tickets, and tightening security - for example, by printing names on tickets and requiring those collecting them to bring photo ID, a measure recently introduced for the Glastonbury festival.In return, ministers will broker an agreement with agencies and online auction sites such as eBay, plus other parties, such as local newspapers whose classified columns are used to sell tickets, not to facilitate resales. The code of practice would be voluntary, but Burnham, who admits to having paid over the odds himself for tickets to sold-out gigs, is prepared to legislate if it does not work. 'What Andy Burnham is concerned about is that tickets go to real fans, so that they don't get ripped off. At the moment he thinks real music and sports fans lose out and it is too easy to buy and sell tickets just to make a profit,' said a source in the Department for Culture, Media and Skills. 'Promoters also want to protect their fan base. The industry has got to find new ways of getting tickets straight to fans.'The source said sporting bodies had become increasingly frustrated that when they tried to make cheap tickets available to some events, these were immediately seized on by touts as an opportunity to maximise profits. Burnham is said to be determined to ensure that younger fans in particular are not priced out of live events and that those who are desperate enough to pay hundreds of pounds for a ticket worth a tenth of that on the black market are not exploited.He has, however, ruled out making resale of tickets a criminal offence, arguing that genuine fans need to be able to offload one or two unwanted tickets.Major events that could be covered by the 'Crown Jewels' agreement include the Wimbledon tennis, Six Nations rugby, Test cricket matches, the Grand National and cricket's Twenty20 World Championship. Other fixtures would be covered by a voluntary code of practice committing organisers to do all they could to make the sale of tickets secure. Burnham will say in a formal response tomorrow to the Commons committee on culture, media and sport, which has been investigating touting, that live spectators should be treated in the same way as armchair spectators watching sport on TV. The department already maintains a 'Crown Jewels' list which ensures certain key fixtures are shown on terrestrial TV rather than paid-for satellite channels and a similar tactic could be adopted for ticket sales, Burnham will say. The announcement is likely to be welcomed by major sporting bodies, including the England Cricket Board and the Rugby Football Union, which have struggled to appease angry fans who find tickets are snapped up by touts before genuine fans even get to them. Sir Bob Geldof reacted with fury last year when Live8 tickets were put up for sale on eBay at up to £1,000 apiece, accusing the sellers of profiting from the misery of millions in the developing world.Ministers have had preliminary talks with eBay and other key players such as viagogo.com, the UK's only licensed reseller of football tickets, and believe they will co-operate in restricting sales on a set number of publicly important events, such as Live8.Tim Payton, an adviser to the ECB and other bodies including the Lawn Tennis Association, said the plan was a 'great move' but warned that legislation to ban touting must remain an option if a voluntary code did not work: 'It will be difficult to get some of these sites to comply. But we welcome this as a real step forward.'Football matches are already covered by touting restrictions introduced for crowd safety reasons to prevent fans getting hold of tickets for the opposing team's end of the ground, and Olympic event tickets are covered by separate legislation. Payton said unless it took action the government would be in the invidious position of seeing minority events such as the Olympic archery competition in 2012 protected by strict restrictions while that year's Wimbledon or cricket at Lord's was not.