Opposition parties today backed a ruling by the lord chief justice that will see many first-time burglars avoid a prison sentence.Lord Woolf yesterday ruled that the average first-time, non-professional and non-violent domestic burglar should receive a community punishment rather than a spell behind bars. The sentencing "starting point" of up to 18 months in prison should no longer apply, he said. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said much burglary was committed by "appallingly mixed up" young people addicted to drugs such as heroin and crack. But he warned that the new sentencing guidelines would be a "disaster" unless the government invested heavily in intensive drug treatment to prevent addicts re-offending. The Liberal Democrat home affairs, spokesman, Simon Hughes agreed with Lord Woolf that prison was "ineffective" for most burglars and should be reserved for aggravated cases. But Labour MP Graham Allen, who is scrutinising the government's criminal justice bill, said the ruling sent out the message to burglars that "the first one is free". "There has to remain the threat that any burglary can result in a prison sentence," said Mr Allan, the MP for Nottingham North. "We should not let burglars think that the first one is free." MPs will examine the new sentencing powers proposed in the criminal justice bill in January. Mr Allen added: "I am rather surprised that the lord chief justice has issued this ruling ahead of consideration of the House of Commons for sentencing in general. "Is it appropriate that he can make this sort of decision, which is completely disengaged from the reality of people's lives on council estates and other parts of the country?" Lord Woolf recommended that the initial approach of the courts should be to impose a community sentence, so long as it was an effective punishment that would tackle the offender's underlying problems, such as drug addiction. "If, and only if, the court is satisfied the offender has demonstrated by his or her behaviour that punishment in the community is not practicable should the court resort to a custodial sentence," he said. Lord Woolf stressed that the new sentencing guidelines were intended to provide "better protection for the public and to result in some reduction in the use of custody". The prison system, he said, was "grossly overcrowded" and statistics show that relatively few people are put off by their first experience of jail. Lord Woolf, sitting with Mr Justice Silber and Mr Justice Grigson, said they had not forgotten the importance of maintaining public confidence in the criminal justice system and protecting the public from offences that cause great distress. He emphasised that the new guidelines will be subject to the circumstances of each offence, its effect on the victim and the record of the offender. Lord Woolf's proposals come as a new phase of the Home Office's electronic tagging programme has begun to ease the prison overcrowding crisis. The number of inmates in England and Wales was 71,354 today, down from a peak of just under 73,000 earlier this month. Welcoming Lord Woolf's ruling, the director of the Prison Reform Trust, Juliet Lyon, said: "For 10 years we have driven more and more people through the prison gates, ignoring the appalling reconviction rates and all the evidence that large overcrowded prisons do not work. "Now we can begin to use more effective community sentences for most offenders and keep prison for those serious and violent offenders who need to be there." Mr Letwin told BBC's Radio 4's Today programme that prison does not work for drug addicts, who carry out a large proportion of burglaries."I am afraid at the moment ... what we actually have is a desperate prison overcrowding problem; a complete lack of serious drug rehabilitation. "Much of this crime ... is done by people who are on heroin and cocaine and they get referred at the moment to a bit of counselling here or there. "Much of the community sentencing is laughable. There is no excuse for trying to solve prison overcrowding by having people wander around adventure playgrounds gently chatting to children, picking up pieces of litter every so often. "If that's what it's going to mean, then it's a disaster. "If we have serious community sentencing, if people were engaged in things which were tough, if there was real rehabilitation for the drug addicts, then I think there is a great deal to be said for trying to distinguish between first-time burglars on one side and persistent crooks or violent crooks." Every heroin and cocaine addict should be forced into intensive drug treatment, added Mr Letwin. "What we are talking about in many cases is young people who are not desperately ill, but they are appallingly mixed up, they are on cocaine or heroin, they are unable to pursue that lifestyle without stealing."  Mr Hughes agreed that "just sending them [burglars] to prison for what is a serious offence but not a violence offence is ineffective." But where offences were aggravated, prison was the right sentence, he told the Today programme. "No prison for burglary - that should be the presumption. But prison if it's a repeat offence, a serious offence, or where there is a particular aggravation factor," he added. 