A former Labour mayor and his wife were jailed yesterday for falsely claiming benefits totalling nearly £37,000. The couple claimed they had been victims of politically-motivated allegations made by their enemies. John Walker, 57, the former mayor of Sefton, Merseyside, was jailed for 15 months and his wife, Catie, was sentenced to eight months at Liverpool crown court.The couple, from Bootle, were found guilty last month, at the end of a seven-week trial, of conspiring to obtain falsely almost £37,000 in disability living allowance and income support.An investigation was launched into the former mayor after an anonymous tip-off to the benefits fraud hotline. The caller suggested Walker was well enough to carry out political activities, despite the fact that he was claiming disability benefit. A fraud investigation team then filmed him carrying out political functions and making speeches. He resigned his seat after the allegations first surfaced.The court heard that Walker, who was elected as a Labour councillor in Crosby in 2004, had fallen ill in 1998. He had suffered from ME, or chronic fatigue syndrome, and also from fibromyalgia, which causes muscle fatigue. His illness at this stage was agreed to be genuine but it was alleged that, after his condition improved, he continued to claim a disability allowance.The court heard he had claimed he was barely able to walk and needed round-the-clock assistance. He also claimed he had difficulty communicating. In fact, he regularly walked unaided from Anfield, where he watched Liverpool FC games, to a city centre pub for after-match drinks.His wife, Catie, was found not to have declared her earnings from acting as an escort to an autistic child and for handing out flyers for a taxi company.John Gruffydd, who represented Walker, told the court his client had been the victim of "intrigue and backstabbing which is part of the politics in Sefton". This was denied by the prosecution and dismissed by Judge Brian Lewis. "Your own recourse was to blame others for your predicament," said the judge, "suggesting either you had been victims of a biased investigation or that witnesses who gave significant evidence against you were themselves acting dishonesty."The judge added that "as the two of you postured in your civic finery, being chauffeured around in your publicly-funded limousine", they were systematicly cheating of the community which had honoured them. "It is a disgraceful breach of trust...You have stained the reputation of the mayorality and let down those who put you there."The judge said he bore in mind Walker's ill-health in his sentence but he noted that the couple had shown no remorse.It was accepted that the couple did not have a lavish lifestyle but had used the money to pay for the school fees of their teenage daughter. "He did not do it to benefit himself," Gruffydd said. "He did it to give his daughter a better start in life."John Walker was jailed for 15 months for conspiracy to defraud £32,871.85 in disability living allowance and six months concurrently for conspiracy to defraud £4,000.25 in income support. Catie Walker was jailed for eight months for the disability living allowance offences with four months concurrently for the income support fraud. The government has recently announced plans for cutting down on benefit fraud and enabling those on disability allowance to get back to work.