The home secretary, David Blunkett, is to announce a drive against police red tape, including the introduction of a non-emergency contact number, and a review of basic police procedures.The package was seen last night as an attempt to mollify an expected "raw and unfiltered" reception from officers when he intends to "explain and not to lecture on" the virtues of their new pay and conditions deal at the annual Police Federation conference in Bournemouth today.But he will also announce measures to lift the burden of paperwork on rank and file police officers including a review of the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act which lays down basic police procedures for everything from stop and search, to interviewing suspects and locking them up in custody. The home secretary is expected to tell the police that the PACE codes rulebook has grown in length by 25% since 1984 and it is unacceptable that it can take between two and eight hours to take a suspect into custody. He is also to announce measures to reduce the amount of police officers' time wasted waiting in courts to give evidence. The introduction of a national non-emergency number follows research which showed that the number of 999 calls had risen by 33% in the last three years. The number - which will probably be 333 - would be modelled on the NHS direct service. It would deal with non-emergency calls such as whether your car had been towed away. Mr Blunkett's prediction that he would get a rough ride at this year's Police Federation conference looked correct yesterday when two leading figures from the rank and file organisation tore into him. Speaking on the first day of the federation's annual conference in Bournemouth, chairman Fred Broughton described Mr Blunkett as "domineering". John Harrison, who represents sergeants across England and Wales, said the home secretary had "done more harm to the police service in five minutes than others have taken years to do". He said the government had produced "more spin than my washing machine". Mr Blunkett is due to address the conference today following several months of negotiations with the federation over radical changes to pay and conditions. Though a settlement has been reached, Mr Broughton's remarks betray the continuing ill-feeling by federation leaders towards the home secretary. Mr Broughton said the federation's demonstration in Westminster in March had prevented Mr Blunkett from introducing a package that would have left thousands of officers worse off. "The result was that Blunkett backed down. No matter what spin he chose to put on it, and my God he did, the fact is that he had to withdraw the proposals. The home secretary who implied he would force those cuts down our throats had to eat his words." Mr Broughton drew an unflattering comparison between Mr Blunkett and the former mayor of New York, Rudolph Guiliani. "Mr Blunkett, who finds a new windmill to tilt at every day, is no Guiliani, he is more of a Don Quixote." Mr Harrison said Mr Blunkett was "too arrogant to listen to what we had to say ... Well, he's managed to achieve a zero tolerance of another kind. Our tolerance of him is at zero." Last year, the then home secretary, Jack Straw, was jeered at the federation conference. Mr Blunkett has urged delegates not to treat him in the same way, saying it would set a bad example to young thugs and tearaways.