Britain's most prolific serial killer, Harold Shipman, may have taken his own life to ensure his wife would be eligible to receive an NHS pension, it was suggested yesterday.By hanging himself before his 60th birthday, he was exploiting a loophole in the law which would allow his widow, Primrose, to receive a tax-free lump sum in excess of £100,000 as well as an annual pension of about £10,000. The Department of Health confirmed that she was entitled to a pension and lump sum because of the death of her husband.The relatives of Shipman's victims have received a one-off payment of £10,000 each to compensate for their loss. Some of the families are said to be "deeply uncomfortable" at the prospect of Mrs Shipman receiving the money. Ann Alexander, the lawyer representing relatives of 200 of Shipman's victims, said: "The families that I have spoken to are deeply uncomfortable with this. When Shipman was convicted we were told he had forfeited his pension altogether." A Department of Health spokeswoman said: "Mrs Shipman will be entitled to a lump sum and continuing widow's pension. Ministers directed that 100% of Shipman's personal benefits from the NHS pension scheme should be forfeited. However, Mrs Shipman is entitled to the relevant survivor benefits on his death." When Shipman was convicted, in January 2000, of murdering 15 of his patients by lethal injection of diamorphine, ministers said he would be stripped of his pension. The Shipman inquiry later concluded he had killed 215 patients, and possibly 40 further patients. Had he lived beyond 60, Mrs Shipman, 56, would have received only a half pension of £5,000 a year and no lump sum on his eventual death. She has had little private income since her husband was convicted and is believed to have been living on state benefits. Mrs Shipman stood by her husband, visiting him in jail each week. He spoke to her on Monday night, in a six-minute telephone call which was recorded by the authorities. Only once has she spoken about her husband in public. She was subpoenaed to the Shipman inquiry in November 2001, where she was questioned for 90 minutes. Andrew Spink, representing the families of some of Shipman's victims, asked her: "You remain convinced of your husband's innocence of the charges of which he is convicted. Is that right?" "Yes," she replied. "You are doing all you can to assist the solicitors bringing the appeal?" he asked. "Yes," she said. Mrs Shipman, who was married for 37 years, was given immunity from prosecution arising from any evidence given to the inquiry, except for charges of giving false evidence. Her replies were often a stark "yes" or "no", or "I can't remember". She has been questioned by police about the final telephone call from her husband from his prison cell. Officers acting on behalf of the West Yorkshire coroner, David Hinchliff, invited her to give her account of what was said during the brief call. Although the call was recorded, the coroner wants to establish if Shipman gave any clues about his state of mind on the eve of his death. An independent inquiry has been launched by the prisons ombudsman, Stephen Shaw.