One down, 800,000 to go. That was my first reaction to hearing that the police had agreed to take me off the national DNA database, on which my records have been sitting since I was arrested last November for embarrassing the government in a persistent and unhelpful fashion.What is now important is that I am not treated differently just because I am an MP. There cannot be one rule for innocent public figures and another for innocent members of the public. In this regard the revelation of the inner thoughts of Acpo, the Association of Chief Police Officers, is both instructive and worrying.Senior police officers have been "strongly advised" by Acpo that it is "vitally important" that they resist individual requests based on the recent European court ruling to remove DNA profiles from the national database in cases such as wrongful arrest or mistaken identity, or where no crime has been committed. The Metropolitan police have sensibly ignored this in my case, and other forces would be well advised to follow suit.The home secretary is dragging his feet in producing even a consultation document in response to the European court's ruling, which destroys the legal basis of current policy. So the policy, which intrudes on the privacy of hundreds of thousands of innocent people, could remain in place for months.Britain is at the extreme end of this kind of state intrusion. At the end of September 2008, the national DNA database contained computerised DNA profiles and linked DNA samples from approximately 4.7 million individuals (more than 7% of the UK population). This is a much higher proportion of the population than any other EU or G8 country.What is particularly galling is that we do not even need to look outside the borders of the UK to find a better model. In Scotland the DNA profiles of those not convicted of an offence are retained only in circumstances relating to a crime of violence or a sexual offence. Even in these circumstances, DNA profiles can be retained for a period of three years subject to an extension to a maximum of five years.The British used to pride themselves on a phrase that became a cliche. "This is a free country." By stealth we have become a citizenry whose masters distrust us the most. We are more spied on, interfered with and kept in check than the people of most other democracies. Across the political spectrum there is now a revolt against this. This revolt needs to grow and strengthen, and cutting the DNA database down to size is a good place to start.