The hiding place of a leading terror suspect was inadvertently released by Justice Ministry officials last night after he was freed from jail under unprecedented bail conditions. The man, who can be identified only as U, was released from Long Lartin, Worcestershire, after the appeal court ruled there was no reason to hold him indefinitely as he could not be deported to his native Algeria.The media has been prohibited from publishing his address, or even identifying the town where he is to reside. When the Ministry of Justice supplied journalists with copies of his bail conditions, however, the document included his exact address in the south-east of England. A spokesman for the ministry's Tribunals Service said: "The bail conditions were released to the media with the agreement of the judge in this case. Although the individual's address details were deleted they could still be viewed within this document due to a technical error."U settled in Britain in 1994 and moved to Afghanistan two years later, where he is said to have forged links with Osama bin Laden. He is accused of presiding over a pre-9/11 al-Qaida network of north African terrorists who trained in Afghanistan in the mid-90s, and has links with men convicted of offences in this country and abroad. Ahmed Ressam, convicted of a plot to blow up Los Angeles International airport on New Year's Eve 1999, was carrying U's telephone number when he was arrested with 60kg (130lb) of explosives on the Canadian-US border. Attempts to extradite U to the US collapsed when Ressam refused to give evidence against him. Prosecutors in France and Germany said telephone intercept evidence indicated U was the driving force behind a plot to bomb a Christmas market in Strasbourg the following year. Fourteen men were jailed for their roles in that conspiracy.He has been subjected to bail conditions even more stringent than those imposed on Abu Qatada, the Islamist preacher who was subjected to a 22-hour-a-day curfew last month. U must remain at home 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and may enter his back garden only between 9am and 8pm. Permission to enter his garden will be reviewed as the days become shorter.U can allow only his lawyer, his landlord and the emergency services into his home, and may not meet anyone else without the prior permission of the home secretary. No computers or mobile telephones are to be allowed, he must wear an electronic tag at all times, and his home may be fitted with "such equipment as may be considered necessary to ensure compliance".In addition, police officers or Home Office officials are allowed to enter his home at any time, remove any item and, if they wish, take his photograph. U, aged 45, has been in jail in Britain since his arrest for immigration offences in February 2001. Although British authorities have insufficient evidence to prosecute him, they say the intelligence indicates he is a dangerous individual.