At a public meeting in October, Boris Johnson invited Stephen Greenhalgh, his deputy for policing and crime and would-be successor, to tell the world how London’s cops were faring in the battle against crooks, thugs and thieves. Unsurprisingly, Greenhalgh gave him good news. Unveiling the new “crime dashboard” of the mayor’s office for policing and crime (MOPAC), Greenhalgh announced “very impressive results”. The capital, he said, was “driving the national crime reduction curve”. Moreover, the Met was well on the way to “achieving the 20% reduction target in the MOPAC 7 crimes,” these being the septet of types of offence singled out for special attention in MOPAC’s Police and Crime Plan. Indeed, having already hit 18%, they were practically there already. “Looks good,” said the mayor. And so it did. But before we get carried away it’s worth recalling that this was the same Boris Johnson whose 2008 election manifesto heaped scorn on claims by his predecessor Ken Livingstone that crime was coming down. “We need to stop kidding ourselves,” it declared. “We all know that we are suffering from an epidemic of unreported crime.” Pledging to “take personal responsibility” for putting things right, candidate Johnson railed against a “target-driven culture” and promised that “no offence will be too trivial to demand my attention”.If politicians’ populist boasts were subject to the law of the land “Good old Boris” would have had his collar felt some time ago. Indeed, his first term as mayor was just a few months old when, in the surroundings of Bexleyheath police station, he demonstrated a striking conversion to the reliability of Met stats relating to bus crime – stats which, as it happened, reflected favourably on him. Now in the sunset of his final term at liberty in City Hall we find Johnson, formally Londoners’ police and crime commissioner, presiding over a veritable hit parade of targets: the MOPAC 7; the 20.20.20 Challenge; the “record high” 26,000 PCs; the 20.20.20 Challenge (Part 2). All they’re missing are the Four Tops and the Dave Clark Five. Not all of these toe-tappers, admittedly, concern acts of villainy. But what if the MOPAC dashboard flatters to deceive?There are reasons for treating its data with caution. Let’s go back two years to when the draft Police and Crime Plan was assessed by a trio of eminent criminologists. One of them, Professor Marian FitzGerald, spoke of chasing targets having “perverse effects” such as increasingly cynical officers preoccupied with meeting them at the expense of everything else and even fiddling figures in order to do so.FitzGerald said there was “a wide and growing literature” on the latter. This already included written evidence to the Commons Home Affairs select committee by Dr Rodger Patrick, the former chief inspector of the West Midlands police. He described a repertoire of “gaming behaviours” among police forces in the compiling of crime stats to enable them to tell the story the target culture required. Patrick found this malpractice “managerially driven in a ‘top down’ fashion”. The slang terms for the manipulations involved – “cuffing”, “nodding” and “skewing” – sound like they were lifted from a movie set in HMP Wormwood Scrubs. Patrick has just published a book entitled A Tangled Web: Why You Can’t Believe Crime Statistics. There will be lots of political debate over the coming months about the funding of the Met. Perhaps there should be just as much about the claims politicians are making for its effectiveness. And, of course, their own.