John Reid is not a politician given to seeking the sympathy vote. But at the end of this half-term week, as spring finally turns to summer, spare a thought for the home secretary, already four weeks into his new job and still tied to the TV studios by day and his red boxes by night. And then, just as immigration and prisons and foreign prisoners finally fade from the front pages, the issue of policing, accompanied by its old associate terrorism, lands back in the headlines. A new crisis at Scotland Yard and a legal challenge to the plan to merge many of Britain's 43 forces reappeared even before he could have had time for a briefing on the latest anti-terrorist operation, a police shooting and another inquiry by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.As our front-page story revealed yesterday, the met's chief commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, has finally moved to crack down on the dissidents in his force. There was little doubting the identity of his principle targets: two of his most senior officers, deputy assistant commissioner Brian Paddick, and assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, both of whom have let it be known that they are unhappy with recent job moves. The discontent at the top may have a different cause but is mirrored in the seething resentment lower down at the nature and pace of the reforms still being pressed by the government, in the face of the Conservatives' inaccurate claim that the police remains the last great unreformed public service. The problem is not too little reform but too much, all at once. It needs more authoritative debate.Unhappily, Sir Ian who began to engage on the issue in his Dimbleby lecture last year when he asked what kind of police the country wanted, is suffering from an authority deficit. He is only partly to blame. His tendency to be brave to the point of recklessness in some public remarks has made him an easy target, but the continuing uncertainty about the findings of the inquiries into the De Menezes shooting (which cannot be published until any proceedings have been completed) is the more serious handicap. Some self-assertion against the mutterings in his own ranks was overdue.The police and justice bill, likely to be law by the end of the year, is the third major piece of legislation in four years, and there have in addition been a plethora of white papers, green papers and consultation documents. All of these reflect the unresolved tension between national and local policing (as well as this government's misplaced passion for structural reform as the universal panacea).Nowhere is this conflict more obvious than in the plans to merge the 43 police services of England and Wales perhaps to as few as 12 - a policy the former home secretary Charles Clarke seemed set to impose. West Mercia - faced with a shotgun marriage to the West Midlands - announced yesterday that it would challenge the edict in the courts. It is possible it may need to do nothing further. The noises from Mr Reid's office (and Downing Street) suggest at the very least that a welcome pause for reflection is under way.But controversial decisions about the future of policing are looming. The public want bobbies on the beat, and lots of them, and as local as possible. Terrorism and organised crime mean national, hi-tech policing like the new Serious Organised Crime Agency. Plans for merger are intended to help deal with the crimes in between, the murders and major frauds, that tax the smaller services' manpower. But it is not clear they can do that without destroying the tradition of local policing that remains so strong. Mr Reid might get more time in the sun this summer if he opted for a real devolution of power. Organic change that allowed local and national priorities to work out the best reforms may provide the most workable solution. Just give them that most scarce of political commodities - time.