Civil liberties campaigners and motoring organisations urged caution today after it emerged police are to set up a national network of cameras across England and Wales to track down criminals using the roads.The scheme will use automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) to identify vehicles the police want to trace. The system was tested by 23 forces between June 2003 and June 2004, leading to a substantial number of arrests, police said. The cameras scan vehicle number plates, which are compared in less than a second with a database containing more than 8.5m plate numbers. If a "wanted" vehicle passes the camera, it can be identified and tracked. A human rights group today warned that advances in crime fighting technology such as ANPR were outpacing laws preventing the misuse of information."Our position is that these new technologies need to be developed together with legislation that protects individuals' liberties," a spokeswoman for Liberty said. "If they are being used to by police to enforce the law and convict criminals, that is fine. But we do have concerns if the new technology is being used to trace people's movements."A spokesman for the RAC said the organisation broadly welcomed ANPR technology, particularly for its effectiveness in identifying uninsured motorists. However, he warned that ANPR technology was "vulnerable in that determined criminals can steal other cars' identities."The chief constable of North Wales police, Richard Brunstrom, said ANPR had increased his force's motoring arrest rate 10-fold."It is by far the most successful measure we have found to bring criminals to justice," he told Sky News.He confirmed the system was being deployed in the hunt for people in connection with non-motoring offences, such as robbery. He also said it could be seen by critics as a revenue-raising tool for the force. He said motorists with tax disks slightly out of date need not worry about being stopped but those whose vehicle licences had expired six months previously could expect to be pulled over."Our belief, and that of the government, is that criminals should pay for policing, not taxpayers," he said.The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) said the ANPR trials had led to 13,499 arrests, including 2,263 for theft and burglary and 1,107 for drugs offences. The government has pledged £15m to implement ANPR this year.