How delighted I was, returning to the UK after a couple of weeks away, to find the Panama case in the news again. 'The Panama Case': its name sounds like a Conan Doyle short story and the details don't disappoint.The prosecution claims that John Darwin faked his own death in a canoeing accident, with the aid of his wife Anne, in order to snaffle the insurance money and embrace a new life in Central America. As we gargle our coffee over the newspapers, guessing and imagining what the truth of the matter could be, the only thing we really want to know is: why would they come back again?I mean, as cunning plots go, it all sounds like a magnificent success. If they were really living in Panama, high on the insurance hog, with Interplod none the wiser, it would be madness to chuck it in and come home to potential prison, debts and furious, broken-hearted children. What would motivate such a decision? Probably, muse the wives of Britain as they gaze across the duvet at their spouses, Darwin ate his huevos de leche too noisily. Slurp slurp belch, he probably went. Or maybe he teamed his Bermuda shorts with socks?Perhaps, when chatting to locals, he insisted on speaking English very loudly, or with an exaggerated Spanish accent, 'to help them understand'.Maybe, despite having enough money to live out their days very happily if some economy were involved, he insisted on having sailing lessons at $200 an hour. Or did he make a habit of whipping his T-shirt off to dance the tamborito, looking like a crimson English tit? Perhaps it was the snoring.Of course, it was John Darwin who arrived first, turning up in a London police station, claiming amnesia. Unless proven otherwise, we must assume that they are completely innocent of any deliberate fraud, but still, after whatever tragic complications befell them, they managed to create a sunny new life in a glamorous country.Why on earth would Darwin return to a world of rain, pain and sporadic British bin collections?Presumably, grunt our nation's husbands as they flick through 'The sons' tales' and sip their morning tea, the wife's voice just got too nasal. Shriek whine nag. She probably didn't grasp the essential principles of a laid-back Latin lifestyle and went on and bloody on about mowing the lawn first thing on a Sunday morning when a man's trying to read the goddamn newspaper.We speculate and wonder, because this is nothing to do with the Darwins and everything to do with us. Their story, whatever its truth, comes back into the news at that perfect time - just when we are all dreaming about escape. It's the natural byproduct of a summer holiday. We all fantasise about fleeing the drizzly recession for an eternal life of tanned skin, beach parties and lightly grilled aubergine.Day 1 of your holiday, you are disappointed by the hotel. Noisy, poky, breakfast not included. Days 2 and 3, you start to relax. From Day 5 onwards, you are mildly drunk at all times.By the weekend: big plans! You're very refreshed by this break. When you get back, you're going to write a novel. Redo the whole house in purple. Learn the tango.Week 2: what if you didn't go back at all? You're so well suited to this warm, relaxed environment. That busy, grumpy urban person isn't you! The obvious thing is to stay abroad permanently and open a waterskiing business. Or perhaps a small cafe. You start writing postcards home: 'Lovely weather, great food. We won't be back on the 16th after all, we're going to stay here forever and weave things.'Day 10, cushioned by sangria, you and your spouse sit, plotting and scheming, under the beating sun. 'We could get bicycles and change our hair! Fix up an old barn, breed sheep. No more rain for us. We need never see your sister again. Don't even give her the new address. Let's fake our own deaths! Pass the rosé.'Day 12: you suddenly want to go home, eat a Big Mac and open the post. Those plans were never meant to come off. You were always going to wedge yourself into a faulty seat next to the loo, fly back, lose a suitcase and settle the gas bills. Let's be honest, we feel more comfortable with a narrow horizon.And this is why we need the Darwins to be an escape fantasy gone wrong. We need to know that it can't work. We also needed to see Ronnie Wood slinking back home with a hangover and checking into rehab, before we started thinking it was really possible to start a new life in an Irish pub with a flexible Lithuanian.(Ronnie did well not to bring his young waitress back with him. Where would he put her? You're having enough trouble trying to fit a multicoloured Turkish carpet into the living room which you remembered, on that hot day in Bodrum, as being bigger.)As I discovered in Las Vegas over the last fortnight, you can't run away from anything. Three days of 'abroad' might chase away your stresses, griefs and worries, but soon enough they'll be banging on the gate and tumbling in, like pensioners who have queued overnight outside Wimbledon and just heard the strawberry truck. Here's an extra tip: escape fantasies are especially unwise in the location I visited. 'What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas' - tell that to my bank manager.