The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday April 12 2006. In the article below it was stated in error that Avon and Somerset police had been found guilty by an employment tribunal of discriminating against white officers in trying to boost its level of ethnic minority officers. Instead, the force had admitted having discriminated on the grounds of race and sex against a white male applicant, and paid him damages before the case came to the tribunal. The force had received legal advice saying its policy, now dropped, was contrary to anti-discrimination legislation.' Britain's chief police officers have asked the government to abandon one of the key reforms introduced after the bungled investigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence. Forces were set a 2009 deadline to become racially representative of the communities they serve, by boosting the numbers of ethnic minority officers. But police say the target is unrealistic and cannot be met, despite being given 10 years to achieve it.One chief constable told the Guardian that senior officers had to take the blame for failing to convince their staff and the public that diversity was essential for better policing and not just about "political correctness". They believe the government will agree to scrap the pledge, in return for anew target on ethnic minority recruitment.The target was drawn up after a public inquiry found the 1993 murderers of black student Stephen Lawrence had evaded justice, in part because of institutional racism among officers.By 2009 7% of all police forces were supposed to be Asian or black. At present 3.5% of Britain's 140,000 officers are from ethnic minorities.The Association of Chief Police Officers says the law does not allow them to recruit Asian and black candidates fast enough, and that their attempts to get the law changed to allow positive discrimination have been rebuffed.Cheshire's chief constable, Peter Fahy, and Acpo spokesman on race and diversity issues, said: "We have to hold our hands up. What the police force has failed to do is get across the business and operational case for diversity. We've lost the diversity argument with our own staff, the popular press and public overall. They see it solely in terms of political correctness."Mr Fahy said the Home Office had accepted in principle the new police plan. Every year forces will now aim to recruit a similar percentage of recruits from ethnic minorities as exists in the working population of areas they serve. Ethnic minorities are 7% of Britain, but make up 8% of the "economically active" population.Mr Fahy said the new targets were not watered down but more realistic: "Everyone knows we'll miss the target [of 2009]. The targets were clearly too ambitious in the first place."Overly white forces could hamper counter-terrorism operations by lacking sufficient officers able to gain the community's trust and so gather intelligence, he added.Forces across Britain have run into trouble in the effort to make their ranks less white. Avon and Somerset police were found guilty by an employment tribunal of discriminating against white officers in trying to boost its level of ethnic minority officers. The Met pressed the government to suspend a ban on positive discrimination, so that qualified ethnic minority candidates could be recruited ahead of white ones, but its efforts failed.Mr Fahy said some other police chiefs wanted positive discrimination: "The Home Office would not be happy with that. We can carry on plodding on, but we're not making progress fast enough."Under the new plan the Met's ethnic minority target will be 27% a year, and West Midlands police 18%. Forces serving less multicultural areas will aim to recruit at least 5% of ethnic minority officers.Police have been dogged by accusations that too little is being done to stamp out racism in the ranks.The BBC's Secret Policeman programme showed white police recruits bragging about their racism. That led to a investigation of the 43 forces in England and Wales by the Commission for Racial Equality, which found continuing racism in the ranks and said progress in stamping it out was "glacially slow".But Keith Jarrett, chair of the National Black Police Association, said: "The police service is not seen as a viable and sustainable occupation for people from an ethnic minority background."The majority of police were "decent", but there were still "a few die-hard bigots and not enough is being done to get rid of them".In 1999, the year of the Macpherson inquiry report into the Lawrence murder, 5.6% of the Met's annual intake was from an ethnic minority background. The force says this will rise to 15.4% during this year.Another factor for the failure to meet the target is that Asian and black officers are more likely to leave the service than white people. An inquiry by Sir Bill Morris into the Met found the force was more likely to subject ethnic minority officers to disciplinary investigations than white officers, which was "a serious issue of discrimination".