I am assuming as are the police, and because all reason points to the same, that Christopher Foster killed his family, himself, and set fire to their home in Maesbrook, Shropshire. As police exhumed the body of a 15-year-old girl so unsuspecting of her father's lunacy that it seems she was chatting on the internet just before he shot her, it was extraordinary to notice where and how the nation's immediate sympathy was parcelled out.Typically, there is a lot of focus on the horses, the four dogs, the ducks, the chickens, the guinea pigs, all shot, police believe, after Foster's wife and daughter, then incinerated with the family. The British suffer a lot of unflattering comparisons with the rest of Europe, indeed, the rest of humanity, but our love of animals, above all other things, really marks us out as peculiar to the point of a mass personality disorder. I'm as guilty as anyone of this. When police found the dogs and horses, but had yet to announce they'd been shot before the fire, I did have a moment of nauseating pity that I never get for the human victims of tragedies. There's no excuse for this. It's not just a strange national quirk, it's an active rejection of sophistication, an indulgent wallowing in a lesser tragedy so we can pretend to be sympathetic creatures without ever having to wrestle with meaningful emotional consequence.By concentrating on the dogs and horses, we don't even have to admit the slight frisson that draws people to bad news in the first place: the relief that it's them, not you; that furthermore, having happened to them, it is in some (statistically fallacious) way less likely to happen to you. Never mind all that - poor pets! Imagine how confused they must have been! Seriously, if this were just me, I would just have a word with myself. I am having a word with myself. But given the tabloid coverage (where else in the world would anyone have even mentioned the guinea pigs?), I am guessing that it's not just me.More to the point, though, there is something savage and strange about the way men are presented when they destroy their own and all these other lives for something as petty as a money worry. We have just about, as a society, come to see as aberrant and wrong those men who kill their children in an act of vengeance on their wives - there was a time, not even that long ago, when such an event would have been portrayed as a simple, no-fault tragedy, the children as innocent, big-eyed victims, not of a murderous father, but of a messy divorce. We persist, though, in seeing a certain nobility in the man who destroys everything to avoid "shame". Sure, he must have been crazy, but in a nice way. He has his priorities the wrong way round, but that doesn't mean he didn't treasure these lives that he took possession of so freely. As the Sun (or rather, "a source") said of Foster: "In the end his state of mind must have been, 'If I can't have all this, nobody will'. He adored his wife and daughter so he must have been in a terrible mental state to do what he did." It makes no sense, this stuff: to talk in one sentence of a dog-in-the-manger motivation so idiotic and immature you'd balk at it from a toddler; and then in the next breath to attribute an emotion as deep and encompassing as adoration to this petulant, wanton, arrogant man-child. Other newspapers have scented the act with an Egyptian grandeur, as Foster interred himself, pharaoh-like, with all his "belongings", his wife and pets and offspring, in the rustic tomb that was so soon to be repossessed. It's ludicrous, and outrageous, that he should be invested with such dignity. When a teenage thug knifes a grandmother for a wallet full of buttons and coppers, we all agree what a poisonous creature he is, what a failed human being, what a depressing waste of a life for such meaningless booty. And yet, when a businessman chokes out his entire family just to avoid the bailiffs, surely that's worse? Surely it's more depressing to lose people to a concept as small-time and curtain-twitchy as public humiliation? Why have all the reports given Foster such a pass, when newspapers are normally so free with their condemnation?A few reasons: first, there is a residual, tacit sense that the head of the family has to butcher the whole lot because it would have been worse to kill himself and leave them unprotected. Furthermore, there is an assumption that, since the man is engine, the epicentre of the family, he feels everything most strongly, and nobody else's feelings, let alone censure from outsiders, can match the hell he will have put himself through. There is, again tacitly, an understanding that when you're dealing with large sums of money - a house worth more than £1m, debts of more than £2m - then the players are somehow more noteworthy and noble than people who kill one another for 25 quid. This is all total, throwback bilge. If anything, the snobbery is more offensive than the sexism, but it's a close-run thing. There is nothing laudable or lofty about any of this. It is just another worm playing God; it's just another murder.mszoewilliams@yahoo.co.uk