Since Securitas, the firm that lost £50m in last week's Tonbridge robbery, offered a reward of £2m for information it has received more than 1,300 calls from members of the public. But it won't be easy to claim the money."It will be paid on the arrest and conviction [of the robbers] and the recovery of the money," is the verdict of a Securitas spokesman. "And that will be handled by Securitas and its insurers." If the person with the vital info wants anonymity, then the police may also be involved in ensuring that the money goes to the right person.But what if all the gang is caught but not all the money is recovered? This is a bit of a "grey area" according to the man from Securitas, but the "spirit" of the reward would be followed and it would ensure that the absence of some of the loot would not be used by the company as a get-out clause. If more than one person helps, however, the £2m will be split, with Securitas and its insurers deciding who gets what share.So does Securitas - motto "integrity, vigilance, helpfulness" - have a good record on paying rewards? Well, it has never offered such a large amount before because it has never lost so much. And it would rather not say how much its previous biggest pay-out is or indeed the totals it has handed over in rewards. "That's not in a spirit of unhelpfulness," said the spokesman, explaining that everyone had been working round the clock since the robbery.Many of us, it seems, are just happy to help without seeking a reward. Crimestoppers, the organisation that handles tip-offs from anonymous members of the public, says that less than 3% of tipsters actually seek the reward to which they are entitled. Last year, 78,468 calls that were of value to the police were made to Crimestoppers which has paid out nearly £1m in total since it started in 1988. But the rewards, whether from Crimestoppers or Securitas, are only paid on conviction - so anyone hoping for that £2m will have to be very, very patient. There will be plenty of time to check out the right hedge fund to invest in.