Joanna Yeates's best friend has spoken of the moment she heard the Bristol landscape architect was missing and the desperate search for her before her body was found on Christmas Day.Rebecca Scott, who is the last person known to have spoken to Yeates before she vanished from her flat in Clifton, said she knew immediately Yeates must have been abducted and harmed.Scott echoed Yeates's parents by saying the discovery of her body came as some sort of relief. "I was gutted too but I knew that she was now not a missing person and no further harm could come of her," she said. "I remember sending her mum a message saying, 'I'm sorry'. I didn't know what else to say. Everyone was devastated."Yeates called Scott on Friday 17 December, the day she went missing, after leaving the Ram pub on Park Street in Bristol where she had been drinking with workmates."I got a call from Jo as she was on her way," Scott said. "It was to arrange our plans for Christmas Eve." The pair planned to spend Christmas with their families in Hampshire and Yeates was going to take her boyfriend, Greg Reardon."It was tradition that we'd meet in our local area," Scott said. "She was trying to persuade me to spend new year in Edinburgh with her, too."Scott did not hear from Yeates after that conversation. "It wasn't unusual not to hear from Jo from then, we were both useless with our phones," she said."The next phone call I got was around 4am on Monday 20 December. It was a missed call from the police, I instantly knew something was wrong so I called Jo's phone and Greg answered telling me what had happened. We all knew something was wrong but were in denial about the situation."I always hoped she was still alive but deep down I couldn't help but think she'd been abducted and some harm had come to her."Scott and another friend travelled to Bristol and handed out flyers and put up posters asking for information about Yeates."We needed to do something to help. I couldn't sleep so kept in regular contact with Jo's family, Greg and Emma [another friend]. As the days went by, as best we could we tried to have a Christmas, my parents were concerned about me and were upset as they too were close to Jo. On Christmas Day we heard the news we had all been dreading. We had the TV on watching the news when it was reported a body had been found. In a way I felt relief at the news."Scott, 25, said she met Yeates more than 10 years ago when they were studying at college in Winchester. "We were 15-years-old and hit it off straight away. We were inseparable and have always remained close friends, even when we went off to separate universities."Although we didn't see that much of each other in recent months, as both our lives were so hectic, we always remained close and when we did see each other it was like we had never been apart."She was a great friend and I have many fond memories of her, everyone did. She was full of life and energy, and she had so much life still to live, but that has now been taken away. She was extremely warm and friendly and was at a very happy point in her life."Scott added: "Every memory I have her is a fond one, from those first nights out we had together to holidays in Cornwall where we'd spend time camping. Jo was a great lover of the outdoors. When I came to Bristol to visit we'd often sit by the Clifton suspension bridge – this was one of her favourite places – and talk about everything best friends do."Scott said Yeates was "so happy" with her boyfriend, Greg. "She'd been with him for over two years and they were perfect for each other. They were very close and anyone around them could see that happiness and just how good they were together."Jo was besotted with Greg and it was great to see that happiness when they moved in together and got the cat. They were perfect."She dismissed any idea that Yeates may have been romantically involved with anyone else.Police say they are making steady progress. They have refused to confirm a report in today's Sun that they are working on a sample of DNA taken from saliva found on Yeates's body. The newspaper claimed the saliva may have been left by the killer as he dumped Yeates's body on a rural roadside verge three miles from her home.Scott said: "We are now all desperate to see justice done, so if anyone has information I urge you to call the police. You may not have seen or heard anything but think back. Has a friend or family member been acting strangely or suspiciously? If so please call the police and think about how you'd never want your best friend found murdered on Christmas Day."