First they had to eat some raw chicken liver, followed by a cola nut, some white chalk and a piece of alligator pepper. All of it was washed down with a hot drink with a worm in it.The five girls stood in the middle of a clearing in a wood some 50 miles from Lagos in Nigeria, surrounded by small statues dressed in rags torn from other people's clothing. The native doctor cut the girls' arms, drawing blood, and scarred their chests. He told them to swear they would not run away, that they would work to pay back the money they owed and that they would never tell who had helped them. The man then took locks of their head and pubic hair and pared their finger and toe nails, warning them that he was keeping a part of them and if they broke their word they would die. All of this was supposed to be a blessing for their travels abroad. It turned out to be a voodoo curse. Charity Osatin was just 14 when her uncle's wife's brother - known to her as "Uncle Sam" - offered to take her on a holiday. But Charity soon found herself in a brothel in Lagos, where she was first raped then forced into prostitution. Now, here she was in a wood with a native doctor, frightened out of her wits. "They cut us and told us it would be a secret. They made us swear that if we start working we would have to pay the money back," she said. "It was scary because of the statues and the blood everywhere. They gave us something to wash your body, and some leaves. I believed that I was going to die if I told anybody. If you swear and you don't keep your promise, the thunder will come and you will be hit by lightning and you will die. I have seen it happen and I thought that that would happen to me. They kept some of my body stuff, my hair and nails, and it is still with them so I am still frightened of them." On her way to the airport, Charity was surprised to see her picture in a passport with the name Elizabeth on it. With the other voodoo girls, she was heading for London's Gatwick airport. They had a photograph of a man who would meet them at the airport. He would be wearing a suit, black and white shoes and have scars on his face. Upon arrival at Gatwick, the girls were told to go to the toilet and destroy their passports, then they would go to the counter and claim asylum, telling the officers that they had come from Sierra Leone. Eventually, they would hook back up with the black and white shoes, get a new passport and head for Italy, where - though they did not know this - they would be forced into prostitution. Charity could not bring herself to destroy the passport. She hid in the toilet for a while before declaring herself. Eventually, she was placed in a safe house for young girls who had been trafficked to the UK. In its report, Unicef says: "In the case of west African children, voodoo is used to terrify the girls into thinking that if they tell anyone about the traffickers, they and their families will die. They are told that the only way to lift the curse is to pay back the money they owe to the traffickers, usually about £25,000. "In most cases, the children are told they owe large amounts of money for their air fares, accommodation, food, etc, and they must work to pay this back. In reality, they are never able to earn enough to pay back the ever-increasing amount, due to daily interest." "Voodoo is a way of life in west Africa, generally speaking, and so it has a lot of influence," said Debbie Ariyo, of the charity Africans United Against Child Abuse. "People take it very seriously. It has a very, very powerful influence because the girls believe terrible things will happen to them if they don't pay the money back to the traffickers." · Names have been changedThe teenagers traded for slave labour and sex