The government's planned shake-up of the way criminals are sentenced, from the youngest petty offender to the most dangerous killer, is based on the claim by Lord Birt that the present system has done little to deter the 100,000 persistent criminals who carry out half of all recorded crime.The 165-page report, Making Punishments Work, published yesterday by John Halliday, the Home Office's former head of criminal justice policy, set out the options on which legislation, to be introduced into parliament this autumn, will be based. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said yesterday he wanted to see widespread consultation on the proposals, including with communities, but in a speech to the national probation service, made clear some of his initial thoughts and floated his ideas. In sharp contrast to the "prison works" mantra of some of his predecessors, Mr Blunkett said yesterday that his objective was not to drive up prison numbers. "The aims of sentencing should be prevention, protection, punishment; and reparation, reducing crime and rehabilitation," he said, adding that his benchmark would be whether or not the reoffending rate was reduced. The proposals provide for:   • Community punishments  Mr Blunkett said he wanted to introduce a new "virtual clip around the ear" by introducing "acceptable behaviour contracts" to curb the anti-social activities of young offenders and prevent them drifting further into crime. Sanctions could include the court imposing anti-social behaviour orders including the threat of eviction against their parents. The alphabet soup of 12 different community penalties, including parenting orders, probation orders, reparation orders and action plan orders would be brought together un der the single name of "community punishment orders" with a "menu of options" including compulsory work, paying reparations to victims, curfews and drug treatment.   • Persistent offenders  Mr Blunkett backed Mr Halliday's proposals to make the sentence fit the criminal rather than the crime, saying that the greater the number of offences the greater the punishment to be expected. New sentencing guidelines backed by parliamentary authority would be issued to judges so that more account is taken of previous convictions in sentencing. Mr Halliday says research shows the big rise in the short-term prison population has been driven by the fact that the courts are already sending more repeat offenders to jail. There is no evidence, though, that they are being given longer sentences.   • Custody plus  An innovative, flexible sentence is to cover the 60,000 short-term inmates serving 12 months or less. No decision has been taken yet as to whether the custody element will be maximum of three months or six months but a shorter jail term is to be followed by a period under supervision of the probation service in the community undergoing programmes to tackle offending until the end of the sentence. This could be up to nine months depending on the length of sentence. Mr Blunkett said the new sentence recognised that short sentences - 26,000 are currently jailed each year for less than three months - provided little or no opportunity to change their criminal behaviour. Mr Halliday also suggests weekend prison so offenders can keep their jobs and family ties. Mr Blunkett said the prison service did not like the idea but he was willing to explore it. Mr Halliday sees no further role for early release under home detention curfew. Mr Blunkett yesterday said he wanted to explore how some of its benefits could be kept. He also disagreed with Mr Halliday's plan to have judges more involved in reviewing prisoner progress, saying it could "clog up the courts". Mr Blunkett backed custody plus but also suggested a new sentence of "custody minus" under which the courts would suspend the prison element on condition the offender completed a demanding programme of activity in the community, including paying reparations to victims. If he failed to complete it he would spend rest of sentence inside.   • Sentences over 12 months  Offenders will serve the whole of their sentences - whether in custody or under supervision in the community. Mr Halliday recommends that after serving half the sentence in custody, the remainder be served under the strict supervision in the community right up to the end of the sentence. This is tougher than the present situation, where conditions only bite up until the three-quarters point. The most serious violent and sexual offenders will no longer be automatically released after two-thirds of their sentences. Instead release will depend on a parole board risk assessment and the offender could face a further 10 years under supervision if considered a risk to the public. New mental health legislation will give power to detain indefinitely the most dangerous with "untreatable" severe personality disorders.   • A new sentencing body  A new body will draw up guidelines to apply to all criminal courts to avoid "unpredictable consequences" such as in sentencing persistent offenders. This proposal will lead to clashes with judges over curbing their discretion as present guidelines are not mandatory. Mr Blunkett said it was important that parliament and the public had a role in sentencing, and too often courts ignored new sentences passed by parliament. A new independent judicial body will produce and monitor the sentencing guidelines, which could take in the work of the appeal court and the sentencing advisory panel. This will lead to the creation of a French-style statutory penal code which will set out the principles of sentencing. If it failed to get judges' agreement then the government would look at passing mandatory minimum sentences for particular crimes.