Tony Blair returned to the domestic political fray today after the summer holidays, hailing the government's controversial anti-social behaviour orders as "immensely positive" during a visit to Essex.The prime minister's meeting with council leader and police officers who have pioneered the implementation of the measure is timed to coincide with the publication of new figures showing a doubling in the number of Asbos orders last year.And it comes as the government announces the creation of a corps of "asbo ambassadors"; Home Office experts who will be dispatched round the country to encourage reluctant local authorities to use the orders.Touring Harlow town centre, Mr Blair told reporters: "For many people, anti-social behaviour is probably one of the most important things that affect their lives. "It doesn't always get the headlines but if you've got really difficult people living next door or down the street ... if you've got groups of young people misbehaving ... it makes life absolute hell." The prime minister visited Harlow's Potter Street district, an area where local youths are said to have terrorised the community, and where police and the council claim that anti-social behaviour has fallen dramatically since seven Asbos, 20 acceptable behaviour contracts, two injunctions and two dispersal orders were granted. At a meeting with residents and shopkeepers in a nearby community centre, Mr Blair said: "For years people thought they could get away with it - now that's changing. You cannot change a person into something else - let's be realistic - but what has to happen is that the penalty they are paying for being a nuisance becomes more of a hassle for them then to stop being like that." Pharmacist David Grainge told the prime minister how a gang of youths used to kick footballs at the wall between his shop and a doctors' surgery - sometimes deliberately aiming at and hitting pensioners in their eighties and nineties. They smashed windows and once urinated through the surgery skylight. He said a dispersal order granted against the youths "seems to be working" but criticised the "often slow response" from the police when called by worried residents. "You get a number for the incident and then the police may not turn up for a day or two." Mr Blair responded that he wanted to see a more visible police and a community support officer presence on the streets.Asbos - which criminalise formerly legal activities such as standing on street corners for those they are imposed on - have become one of the government's flagship measures. They played a large part in the Labour party's recent Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill byelection campaigns.Today's figures show the number of Asbos has doubled over the last year. Since they were introduced in 1999, 2,455 Asbos have been granted. The latest figures are to be published by the Home Office later today. However, the government remains concerned that some local authorities have been reluctant to use the new powers. Today's trip to Essex is intended to highlight what the government regards as a trailblazing example.