The ex-German officer Schroder, who has been a spy in this country under the name of Gould, was sentenced at the Central Criminal Court yesterday to six years' penal servitude and recommended for deportation at the end of the term. His wife was also charged with the same offence (feloniously obtaining plans and other documents calculated and intended to be of service to an enemy), but the Attorney General withdrew the charge against her in court yesterday on her husband pleading guilty.Mr. Justice Atkin, in sentencing Schroder, said he had betrayed the hospitality of a country renowned for ages for its hospitality to persons of other lands. Schroder appeared entirely unmoved.The Attorney General, who prosecuted, said the man passed by the name of Gould, but his real name was Schroder. He was a German who had enjoyed the hospitality of this country whose law he had broken for a long period. He was born in Germany in 1854 and came to England in 1858, and apparently was educated at the German school in the Savoy. Then he went back to Germany. In 1870 he joined the German army and remained with the army for twelve years, receiving the iron cross and a captaincy. He was then apparently engaged in various commercial pursuits. In 1900 he received an offer apparently to serve, in plain language, as a spy. In 1902 he admitted to an old schoolfellow of' his who happened to meet him that he was a foreign agent. In 1904 he was representing himself as in a position to get valuable information from naval and military circles in England.On February 22 the woman was found to be getting into an Ostend boat train at Charing Cross Station. She was there spoken to by the police, and in the compartment which she occupied there were found three envelopes. One contained a chart and a confidential gunnery book; the second contained a plan of an unarmed cruiser and an engine-room of one of His Majesty's ships, and the third was one of the Admiralty charts of some place abroad. She tore up a piece of paper on the way to Bow Street police station, and the pieces when put together were found to contain an address similar to an address in a pocket-book found on the male prisoner at the time of his arrest. On that afternoon the police went to his house and found amongst other things a remarkable document. The Attorney General handed the document to the judge, and continued: "I do not think it is in the public interest that one should read the document in detail. If your Lordship examines it, you will see with what minuteness and precision the man was invited to pursue his inquiries. A series of detailed questions, many of them dealing with highly confidential points having to do with the administration, management, and conduct of operations in connection with His Majesty's ships of war, are included in that document."Addressing the prisoner in quiet, even tones, his Lordship proceeded: "You have, for a number of years, made it your business to betray the interests of the country whose hospitality you have accepted…In the course of your stay here it is apparent, from the documents before me, that you have laid yourself out, so far as possible, to seduce from their allegiance officers of the State, drawing upon their impecuniosity and endeavouring to induce them to betray, through you, their own country.”