A police officer today told the Soham trial how Ian Huntley had helped her to search the area outside the hangar building where murdered schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman's clothes were later found.Dog handler PC Anna Burton said that she had been approached by Mr Huntley soon after starting to search the grounds of Soham Village College, where he was caretaker.PC Burton said that she spent around an hour walking round the site with Mr Huntley, but did not go inside the hangar - which was used as a store by the school - because he said he did not have the keys.Appearing on the tenth day of the Old Bailey trial, she said that Mr Huntley had been around 75 or 100 yards away when she first saw him as she carried out her search in the early hours of the morning after the two 10-year-olds had disappeared.She said: "I called my dog to heel and put him on a lead and walked over to this man. I asked him who he was. He said he was the caretaker, and I said that was handy, because I'm here to search for two girls. He explained he lived at the building behind." Under cross-examination, PC Burton said she had thought it strange that Mr Huntley did not have the keys to the hangar, because he had a large bunch of keys for school buildings. However, she said she had not thought any more of it. She said: "Mr Huntley had been incredibly helpful all the way round ... and when he said he hadn't got the keys, I didn't take it any further." She added: "I actually walked completely around the building with the dog running free and rattling at the doors. The dog sniffed at the bottom of the doors to test if there was a reaction, but there wasn't."Earlier, the court heard how, on August 16, police found a bin in the hangar containing the partially-burned clothing Holly and Jessica had been wearing on the day they disappeared. It was mixed with some of Mr Huntley's hair.Asked whether Mr Huntley had spoken about the girls as they searched the site, PC Burton said: "There was no knowledge or acknowledgement of any 10-year-old girls at all."Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the girls but has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. His ex-girlfriend Maxine Carr, 26, a former classroom assistant at the girls' primary school, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The prosecution alleges that Mr Huntley killed the girls on Sunday August 4 2002, the night they went missing, and put their bodies in his Fiesta before dumping them in a ditch at Lakenheath, Suffolk, later that night. The trial continues.