When a child has been missing for more than a week and is not the subject of a parental custody battle, the chances of them being found alive start to dwindle, as the family of Madeleine McCann have learned since she was abducted in Portugal last year. But there are still many examples of children who are abducted but survive.In 1999 Lisa Hoodless and Charlene Lunnon, then 10, were grabbed on the street on their way to school in St Leonards, East Sussex. Their abductor Alan Hopkinson, a paedophile who had already served a five year sentence for kidnapping, bundled them into the boot of his car and drove them to his flat in Eastbourne.He kept them locked up there as a massive police hunt was launched.Four days later, the girls were found by chance. They not only lived to tell their tale but spoke about their experience in detail last month in a Channel 4 documentary, The Girls Who Were Found Alive. They told how they kept each other's spirits up even though, for a while, they believed that they would spend the rest of their lives locked up. "When someone goes missing they can come back," said Lunnon, now 19. "Don't give up hope."Both girls said it was possible to come through the experience. "We got through this," said Lunnon. "It hasn't ruined our lives. We want people to know that." The best known international case of an abducted child surviving is probably that of the Austrian schoolgirl, Natascha Kampusch, who was held captive in a house for eight years before finally escaping in 2006. In an interview after she was released she said of her abductor, who took his own life: "Sometimes I dreamed that if I owned an axe, I would chop his head off ... I promised myself I would grow older, stronger and sturdier to be able to break free one day."According to the charity Missing People, who received an early tip about Shannon's whereabouts, some 70% of young people under 16 who were reported missing were absent by choice, 4% had "drifted away", 10% were unintentionally missing and 8% forced to leave. Since 2002, the police have recorded between 600 and 1,000 child abductions and attempted abductions annually, according to the Home Office. Of these a very small proportion were instances where a child was taken by a stranger.