A gun fanatic who lured a total stranger to a deserted, rural railway station and shot him dead was jailed for a minimum of 30 years yesterday.Colin Cheetham, 61, of Ripley, Derbyshire, had been convicted of murdering a taxi driver, 41-year-old Stuart Ludlam, at Cromford railway station, just south of Matlock in Derbyshire, in September 2009. The body of the father-of-three was found in his own vehicle. He had been made to kneel in the boot and was shot in the head, Nottingham Crown Court heard.The prosecutor, Peter Joyce, QC said Cheetham appeared to have no motive other than the desire to shoot a "complete stranger". He had planned the killing "meticulously", reconnoitring the location to choose the best time and place to carry out the killing.Ludlam was shot as soon as he arrived at Cromford station. He was found with two gunshot wounds to the head by a holidaymaker, Peter Noble, who dialled 999.Records showed the mobile phone used by Cheetham, who was previously a member of a gun club, to call Ludlam was bought from Morrison's supermarket in Derby.Officers searching Cheetham's house also found a camera and photographs of various train stations – including Cromford – while he had also researched train timetables to ensure the killing could take place in a secluded location.Opening the prosecution's case, Joyce said: "It was his [Cheetham's] gun, he had planned it, it was his phone. He had no knowledge of Mr Ludlam but he had a fascination with taxis and a fascination with guns and Mr Ludlam was just the unlucky man with whom this fascination ended."During the trial it was claimed that Cheetham was caught only because he made the error of topping up his mobile phone – which had been bought with cash – on his credit card.Yesterday Detective Chief Superintendent Tony Blockley, from Derbyshire police, said: "Colin Cheetham is an evil man who carried out a despicable act which was seemingly motiveless."This crime was totally unpredictable. My own personal point of view is that he has executed Mr Ludlam simply to see what it would be like to kill someone due to his personal fascination with firearms."My only hope is at some point he can explain to someone why he has done this as we have never been able to prove a motive or glean the real story about what happened from Cheetham. That leaves many unanswered questions for Mr Ludlam's family and friends."Another man, Andrew Brough, 57, of Heanor, Derbyshire, previously pleaded guilty to firearms offences in connection with the investigation. He will be sentenced on 22 July.• This article was amended on 30 June 2010. The original referred to Mr Ludlam topping up his mobile phone on his credit card. This has been corrected.