  PC Claire Howarth was murdered by Martin Forshaw, who staged a car accident to try to make her death look accidental. Photograph: Greater Manchester Police/PAA policeman was jailed for at least 18 years today for killing his fiancee by bludgeoning her with a hammer before trying to cover his tracks by staging a car accident.Claire Howarth, 31, a police constable, was declared dead in hospital following the fake crash hours before the pair were due to fly to St Lucia. The couple were to have been married there five days later.Martin Forshaw, of Bury, Greater Manchester, pleaded guilty to murder on the day his trial had been about to start at Manchester crown court. He was jailed for life with a minimum term of 18 years for what the judge, Mr Justice Clarke, described as a "brutal killing".The court heard that Forshaw had been torn between Howarth and the mother of his four-year-old son. He had told Howarth the wedding was off shortly before attacking her early one morning in May.Howarth suffered multiple injuries, 14 to her head and neck, and was attacked twice, in the couple's home, and later on the drive of another house. Forshaw later told detectives he struck her while trying to defend himself from her attacks, an account pathologists called "totally implausible".The first assault took place at the couple's home, when Forshaw hit Howarth at least five times with a lump hammer. He carried her downstairs, put her into the driver's seat of her BMW car and drove around secluded country lanes before accelerating the vehicle into a hedge.Prosecuting, Ray Wrigglesworth said Forshaw, who rang 999 after the crash, told police that Howarth had not been wearing a seatbelt and said the accident had happened at 50-60mph. But the vehicle was not badly damaged, the windscreen was intact and the airbags were not deployed. Howarth was pronounced dead at a Bolton hospital later that day.The couple had been in a relationship for 10 months, but kept the planned wedding secret from some colleagues.Peter Wright QC, representing Forshaw, said he admitted striking his girlfriend with the hammer twice during a break in the car journey as he wanted to "put her out of her pain". He had stopped at a house to seek assistance but, struggling with her on the driveway, had realised she was "mortally wounded and was dying".Forshaw had been a "responsible and caring" father to his son, and had a continuing affection towards the boy's mother. "He was torn. Torn as to his loyalties and torn as to what, if any, future he ought to pursue for the best." Forshaw had known for some time he had no desire to go through with the wedding and had told Howarth so, Wright said. Howarth had confronted Forshaw with a hammer and she was injured as the pair struggled.Senior investigating officer Andy Tattersall, of Greater Manchester police, said: "Claire suffered horrific head injuries and forensic analysis showed she was struck with brutal force. Forshaw admitted during his initial interview that he panicked and drove Claire to a secluded spot ... where he put her in the driver's seat and deliberately crashed the car."It was such a poor attempt to make it look like a crash that both the police and the ambulance service were immediately suspicious, and the severity of Claire's head injuries meant they could not have been caused by such a minor crash. That caused us to question Forshaw's account and led us to unravelling this tragic sequence of events."Howarth's mother, Irene, said her daughter's death was "horrific and meaningless".Forshaw, an expert in self-defence and training in how to deal with violent people, had served with Cheshire constabulary since November 2003, while Howarth had joined Greater Manchester police in 2007 and had just completed two years' probation. She had been selected to be a community beat manager in Rochdale.