Brian Perry was a creature of habit. Three mornings a week he would leave the plush home in Brasted, Kent, that he shared with his wife and children to make the two-hour drive to Creedon House, a south London office block.The 63-year-old would always follow the same route and, as landlord of the building and owner of the Blue Car minicab firm that operated from the top floor, Perry would always park his car in the same spot. This made him an easy target for the professional hitman who had been sent to kill him. As Perry stepped from his car on 16 November, a masked man ran up and fired three shots into the back of his head. Perry died instantly, his hands still clutching his car keys, a bag of shopping by his side. The tenants of Creedon House knew little about their affable, silver-haired landlord. There was nothing to suggest that he was a well-known, highly respected member of the south London criminal fraternity and little evidence of the key role he had played in the £26 million Brinks-Mat gold bullion raid at Heathrow in November 1983. But an investigation by The Observer has revealed that Perry's death is just the latest twist in this 18-year saga of betrayal, double-dealing and murder. Just after 6.40am on 26 November 1983, six armed men burst into the Heathrow depot of the security company Brinks-Mat. The robbers seemed to know their way around and easily disabled the sophisticated security system. The few guards on duty were tied up, doused with petrol and threatened with being set alight unless they revealed the combinations to the final locks. In the following days, police and security experts remarked on how well organised and professional the raid had been. The truth was very different. 'That job had been punted around south London for a few weeks,' says Ron, a well-known south London criminal and friend of Perry who wishes to remain anonymous. 'Mickey McAvoy, a young hardman, and an old blagger called Brian Robinson had put the word out that they were looking for a couple of sensible lads to help them with an inside job. 'They had heard there would be £3 million in cash in the vault and the plan was to split it five ways. It was only when they got there that they found the gold. They hadn't expected it at all. They were so disorganised that they didn't even have a big enough vehicle to deal with it. They had to go and get a van. They were supposed to be in and out within minutes but the job ended up taking nearly two hours.' Until the Brinks-Mat job, London's underworld had been a strictly cash business. No one within the robbers' immediate circle had any experience of dealing with gold and the desire to turn the bullion into hard cash meant the call for help had to be put out far and wide. McAvoy had worked for a man nicknamed The Fox, a shadowy character who for 30 years has been one of the most senior figures in British organised crime. The pair quickly became good friends. At the time of the robbery, The Fox was engaged in lucrative business deals with virtually all of London's gangs, including the notorious Adams family and an up-and-coming firm from Canning Town called the Hunt gang. The Fox was asked to help find people willing to smelt the gold. The Adams, then involved in running clubs and smuggling cannabis, eagerly signed on. The gold was re-smelted through a Hatton Garden jeweller called Solly Nahome. The Hunt gang turned down the opportunity because it was obvious that anyone who touched the stuff was going to get burned. Tracking down those responsible proved relatively easy for the detectives on the case. The robbers had seemed to know their way around the depot's security system, which pointed to an inside job. One of the security guards, Anthony Black, had arrived for work late that day and missed the robbery. Pulled in for questioning a few days later, he quickly spilled the beans. Robinson, who had been living with Black's sister, and McAvoy were quickly arrested. The two main players had done little to disguise their new-found wealth. Within weeks of the robbery both men had left the council houses they were living in and had bought enormous homes in Kent for cash. McAvoy had two Rottweiler guard dogs called Brinks and Mat. Soon after his arrest, McAvoy asked Brian Perry and others to look after his share of the gold so it would be waiting for him when he got out. They promised they would. Perry, who ran a minicab agency in east London, brought in a little-known petty criminal called Kenneth Noye to help smelt the gold. Noye brought in his pal John Palmer who ran a Bristol-based gold dealership called Scadlyn. The company was used as a cover for the gold-smelting operation with the end product being sold on the scrap market and the funds deposited in the local Barclays Bank. In five months, Noye, Perry and Palmer had deposited more than £10 million. Acting on a tip-off, Scotland Yard put Noye under surveillance using specialist officers to stake out the grounds of his home. One of the team, John Fordham, was discovered by one of Noye's Rottweiler guard dogs. Noye, who allegedly thought his life was in danger, stabbed Fordham 11 times. He was later acquitted of murder by a jury that accepted that he had acted in self-defence. However, 11 gold bars - the only ones to be recovered from the robbery - were found at his home, and he was imprisoned on conspiracy to handle stolen goods. Mickey McAvoy was sentenced to 25 years and quickly tried to strike a deal to give back his share of the money in exchange for a cut in his sentence. But by then the money had vanished. McAvoy asked The Fox to help track down the money. The Fox, who had recently bought a new car, said Perry had taken the money and was refusing to hand it over. Perry denied this. When McAvoy asked again, The Fox, by now living in a massive mansion in Essex, blamed a string of people before eventually naming Perry once more. 'It might sound as though it would be obvious where the money was and what was going on, but McAvoy was incredibly close to and loyal to The Fox,' Ron says. Three years after the robbery Perry was arrested for his role in trying to smelt the gold. During his trial a threatening letter to Perry emerged warning that he would be 'signing his own death warrant' if he believed that the robbers would be in prison so long that he had nothing to worry about. Perry was sentenced to nine years in 1992. While in prison he is believed to have finally convinced McAvoy and others that he had not taken his money. After his release he focused on rebuilding his cab firm and making a series of property investments. Police say he had not requested protection or given any indication that he believed his life was in danger. In 1995, Tony White, who was acquitted during the original trial, was ordered to pay back almost £28 million. McAvoy and Robinson received the same orders. It means virtually any money they earn for the rest of their lives will have to be paid to the courts. In 1997, Tony White was jailed for his part in a £65m smuggling ring. Noye is serving life for the 1996 road-rage murder of Stephen Cameron. John Palmer has been imprisoned for his part in a massive timeshare fraud. Solly Nahome, who handled the gold for the Adams family, was shot dead in a gangland shooting in December 1998. Only the Hunt gang came out of the experience unscathed.