Over the last decade the supporters of Cardiff City have gained a fearsome reputation, more of their fans are subject to banning orders than any other club in England and Wales.In the last three seasons however the club, South Wales police and supporters' groups have set about changing things, and the latest arrest figures suggest their efforts are working.Arrests at Cardiff matches last season were down 22%, from 152 to 118, exceeding the national average decline of 10%. Simon Insole, a football intelligence and liaison officer who knows the infamous Cardiff fans better than anyone, said: "There's no doubt that three or four years ago Cardiff City was a very dangerous place to come and watch football."Now though, I would say it is one of the safest. We regularly get letters from people saying 'I was dreading coming to Cardiff, but I now I don't know what the fuss was about'." The secret to changing attitudes, says Mr Insole, is communication. "We realised here that we had a very serious problem and we had to do something. We played Bristol City in December 2002, and there were 2,500 people outside the ground looking for trouble. That's far too many. "What we did was to get in touch with the club and supporters groups and start listening to the fans about how we could do things better. They were really helpful about things we hadn't thought of. "We used to set up filter cordons to allow ordinary fans to get to their cars, but stop troublemakers getting to visiting fans. What happened was that the law-abiding fans thought we were stopping them getting to their cars, and that caused resentment. "Those little things make the ordinary fans feel that they're not tarred with the same brush as the troublemakers, and makes our job easier to do." Mr Insole visits every force that polices Cardiff City away from home in the week before a game to brief them, as well as keeping in contact with supporters. "Our fans are not angels, but it helps if people understand our area. This is a strong working class area, and they will look after each other."