Divisions between the police and the government, already strained by accusations that the home secretary was pandering to a 'tabloid' agenda, deepened tonight after senior police officers lobbied against the Home Office's police reforms.The Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) and the Association of Police Authorities (APA) joined forces to condemn the current policing bill and urged the House of Lords to make significant changes.They warned they had "considerable concern" that the legislation would damage vital checks and balances that prevent politicians interfering directly in policing in England and Wales.Moves in the Police and Justice bill would make it easier for the home secretary to order changes in local forces. Allowing the politician to direct the actions of a chief constable rather than channelling his demands through the police authority was described as an "unprecedented and seismic shift" that was "strongly opposed" by both groups.Earlier, Downing Street defended John Reid by denying the government was pandering to a "tabloid" agenda and rushing into new paedophile laws after the home secretary announced he was sending a minister to the US to investigate the publication of paedophiles' whereabouts. Tony Blair's spokesman rebuffed criticism from Terry Grange, the chief constable of Dyfed and Powys police and ACPO's spokesman on violent crime, that the government was making policy "on the hoof" driven by media headlines.Asked about the criticism from Mr Grange, Mr Blair's spokesman said: "If we had said we are going to introduce Megan's law today that would have been policymaking on the hoof."This is not something we are rushing into."At the weekend Mr Reid announced he was sending a junior minister, Gerry Sutcliffe, to learn lessons from the operation in the United States of "Megan's law". This allows parents access to information about paedophiles who may be living in their neighbourhood. It was introduced after the murder of seven-year-old Megan Kanka in July 1994 by known paedophile Jesse Timmendequas. Mr Reid's initiative follows a six-year campaign by the News of the World for "Sarah's law" since the murder of eight-year-old Sarah Payne. Yesterday Mr Grange told BBC Radio 4's The World Tonight: "The last three years has been a litany of abandonment of any real strategic design in the Home Office in the management of sex offenders in favour of trying to find out what one particular tabloid newspaper wants and then complying with their wishes."Anybody who has watched the last six months in all forms of the debate on public protection, whether it's our own home-grown criminals, foreign criminals, the immigration and nationality department, sex offenders, violent offender orders - one of my favourite on-the-hoof policies - all brought about by the media putting pressure on the government and the government responding."The reality, as I perceive it, is that the only people with any real strategic intent and understanding on where they want to go and the will to be ruthless in getting there is the News of the World."The government is attending meetings at the behest of a newspaper and then altering its approach overnight."Mr Blair's spokesman hit back: "I'm not aware of the law which says it's wrong to reply to a media organisation's questions... There's nothing wrong in meeting representatives of the press."We do have to recognise that there is a balance to be struck between what in many local communities up and down the country is a genuine, ongoing concern about this issue and the need to give the public information that reassures them, at the same time as avoiding vigilantism. "What John Reid has announced are two perfectly sensible things: no paedophiles to be housed in hostels near schools. Secondly, his minister is to go to the US to study what is now 10 years of experience of Megan's law. That's important. "This is not something we are rushing into. This is something we are taking our time to study whether we can do more to get that balance right. No one is underestimating the complexity of this issue."But the shadow home secretary, David Davis, while backing the idea of sending a minister to the US, also warned Mr Reid against making policy "on the hoof" in order to gain headlines. "I actually welcome the idea of a minister going to America to look at what they do because there are very many different states each doing different things and therefore you can learn from it. "At the end of the day we have to make a judgment based on our own circumstances and I would be very, very careful about that. I certainly would not do it on the back of a campaign to get headlines. The first and pre-eminent issue here must be public safety." "One of the dangers of this is the possibility that paedophiles will go underground and that you will lose track of them and that is the sort of thing that has to be assessed."In a further blow to John Reid a serving judge delivered an unprecedented attack on the home secretary's "intemperate remarks" in the Craig Sweeney sentencing row and warned that politicians are undermining public faith in the judiciary by criticising supposedly "soft" sentences. Judge George Bathurst-Norman took the unusual step of speaking out publicly to warn that Britain risks falling into anarchy or becoming a police state if confidence in the judiciary is lost. The judge characterised Mr Reid's comments, which were later echoed by constitutional affairs minister Vera Baird, as "an intemperate attack on those who can't properly defend themselves". "I thought he had perhaps not fully understood the way that the judge had sentenced, had not understood the guidelines or the fact that this was a life sentence," the judge told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "I suspect that his remarks were made without actually reading the judge's sentencing remarks." And he added: "If we are so soft as judges, why are the prisons so, so over-crowded?" Judge Bathurst-Norman warned: "The trouble is, if you go on for political reasons undermining the public's faith in the judiciary, sooner or later you are heading for anarchy and... in due course for the equivalent of a police state."