Antoni Imiela liked controlling other people, perhaps because he could not control himself. The turmoil of his early years created a hard, bitter and volatile man.His sadism in the string of brutal rapes for which he was convicted today went far beyond the aggression with which he attacked victims ranging in age from 10 to 52. It was epitomised by the fact he stole one victim's mobile phone and used it to taunt her mother about having raped her daughter.Not only Imiela's victims but thousands of women went in fear of him, thanks to the randomness and geographic spread of his attacks and his willingness to strike in busy areas in broad daylight. He sparked the largest joint inquiry since the Yorkshire Ripper hunt. Yet he was also a pathetic figure, frequently breaking down and sobbing; his self-pity in stark contrast to the dignity shown by even his youngest victims. Imiela was born to a Polish soldier and his German wife in West Germany in 1954. For his first seven years the family lived in 'displaced persons' camps.Their move to County Durham brought little of the stability he craved. They spoke no English and their father was neglectful and bullying. The welder - who died six years ago - often beat his sons with a belt. He was enraged when his youngest son disgraced him by falling into petty crime. In 1968, Imiela's mother Elfriede, who died last year, walked out. Within a year, Imiela was in Borstal. After release he became a plasterer and had a son, Aidan, with his girlfriend. Then in February 1987 he burst into a post office in Darlington, brandishing a sawn-off shotgun and threatening to "blow the heads off" terrified staff, who handed over £10,000.He is thought to have fled to Europe, but returned in October to continue the spree of robberies. He was later jailed for 14 years. He was a model prisoner and was released in 1996. But Detective Inspector Arthur Proud, now retired, who caught Imiela, was certain that the "arrogant, smug" offender would strike again. Initially, Imiela sought a fresh start, moving to the south. He married, settling in the village of Appledore, Kent; just 15 miles from Ashford, where he attacked his first victim in November 2001. He abducted the ten-year-old from outside a police-run youth club, raping and abandoning her in nearby woodland. But he made one crucial mistake: not wearing a condom. Police scientists recovered the DNA profile which would, eventually, trap him. In July he struck again. This time, the victim was a 30-year-old woman in Earlswood, Surrey. The method of attack was astonishingly similar.It is rare for sex offenders to target both young children and women; just as it is rare for armed robbers to turn to premeditated, rather than opportunistic, rape. Imiela struck again, and again, in Surrey, Hertfordshire and London; on one occasion raping two women in the same day. But police were getting closer all the time. The release of the offender's e-fit prompted almost 5,000 calls. Officers took a swab for DNA from him on November 19. Imiela knew that his time was up. In a final, terrible act of defiance he drove to Birmingham to abduct, indecently assault and attempt to rape a 10-year-old girl. Tellingly, he warned her he had "nothing to lose".Days later the police learned that his DNA matched that of the Ashford rapist. Afraid that he might flee again, they swooped immediately, forcing him off the M20 in a dramatic motorway arrest on December 3. For Imiela it was all over. For his victims, no end is in sight. · A fuller version of this article will appear in Friday's Guardian