Ian Huntley went to great pains to try to cover his tracks in the days after Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman went missing, the Old Bailey was told yesterday. The jury heard details of how the school caretaker allegedly changed the tyres of his car and tried to "sanitise" the vehicle by cleaning it thoroughly.Richard Latham QC also suggested that he had tried to lay a number of false trails to lead the police away from him - evidence, the court was told, that showed that Mr Huntley was acting in a careful and calculating way. At the start of the second day of the prosecution's opening speech, Mr Latham gave details of how Mr Huntley had allegedly changed the tyres of his red Ford Fiesta. Less than a month before the girls' deaths Mr Huntley took his car in for an MOT, the court was told. The tyres were checked and considered "perfectly good". On Monday August 5 - the day after Holly and Jessica disappeared - a man arrived at a tyre depot in Ely, a few miles north of Soham, and bought four new tyres. Mr Latham claimed the man had slipped the mechanic £10 to put a false registration number on the invoice. The mechanic noticed the tyres were in "surprisingly good condition". The prosecution alleged that the man who swapped his tyres was Mr Huntley. Mr Latham pointed out that tyres left tracks when driven over soft ground. He said if a person had a "guilty conscience" and did not want his car to be linked to tracks he might pay a large amount of money to get new tyres. The prosecution said the "tyres episode" was "very important" for two reasons: "It's the act of a guilty man...perhaps more importantly I suggest it shows a man who is thinking calmly and carefully." Mr Latham added: "He's calculating his way forward." On the Monday evening, the court heard, Mr Huntley was seen washing his car. People had been turning up at Soham village college to help search for the girls, Mr Latham said, and some thought it "insensitive" that the school's caretaker was doing a chore when he could have been helping. "We say there's a sinister motive to be discerned," the prosecutor said. He said it had not been just an ordinary clean. Mr Huntley had taken the boot carpet and the car mats out and draped them over the vehicle. This, said Mr Latham, was Mr Huntley's attempt to "sanitise" the Fiesta. Ten days later, when police examined Mr Huntley's car, they noticed that the fitted carpet in the boot had been removed and replaced with a piece of domestic carpet cut to fit, Mr Latham said. He also told the jury about a "silly little detail". Shortly after 9pm Mr Huntley had returned a video which he had rented the day before. This, said the prosecution, was evidence of someone still able to act sensibly and normally. The prosecution then turned to the alleged false trails Mr Huntley had tried to lay. At 10.50pm on the Monday the caretaker met a group of special constables at the school. He told them he had seen a man near the "hangar" - one of the school's storage buildings - who had been "carrying something quite substantial", possibly a bin bag. The officers then made a search but found nothing. Mr Latham suggested that the report was a "total invention, an invention with a purpose". He said if a guilty person had done something with a bin bag and feared he might have been seen it would be a good idea to invent a sighting of another person acting suspiciously with a bin bag. The jury was later told that the girls' clothing had eventually been found in a bin bag in the hangar. Mr Latham said it showed a "devious and calculating mind". Mr Huntley wanted to "distract attention from himself". The next day, the jury heard, Mr Huntley told police he had seen a red Ford Fiesta in the area. Mr Latham claimed he was trying to introduce a second red Fiesta into the equation: "It's an insight, we suggest, into how his mind was working." The prosecution told of Mr Huntley's contacts with the police on the night of the girls' disappearance. According to the prosecution, he repeatedly sought out officers to try to eke out information about their inquiry. At 4am he was "loitering" in the foyer of the sports centre near where the girls were last seen. He asked one officer if the CCTV cameras had captured the girls. The jury was told that police had visited Mr Huntley's house the next day, had taken a witness statement and had searched his home. The caretaker claimed that at 6pm the previous day he had been outside his house brushing his dog when two girls approached. They had asked about his girlfriend, Maxine Carr. He told them she was unhappy she had not secured a full-time post at their school, where she had been a temporary classroom assistant. The girls had then left. Mr Huntley said that later on Sunday night when he was asked if he had seen Holly and Jessica he had not at first associated them with the girls to whom he spoke. It was only when it was mentioned they were wearing Manchester United shirts that he made the connection, he claimed. The court was told the police officer who interviewed him was left with the "clear impression" that Ms Carr was in Soham when, in fact, she was 110 miles away in Grimsby. By the time the police interviewed him he had spoken to her and must have been confident she would back his story, Mr Latham told the jury. When they searched the house the officers were struck by how clean the downstairs was. They noticed the scent of a "lemony cleaning product" and there was washing on the line - though it was pouring with rain. Mr Huntley claimed there had been a flood in the dining room, which, he said, had occurred when he bathed his dog in the bath upstairs.