Lord Birt, the former BBC boss named as Tony Blair's 'crime tsar' in a blaze of publicity, has been quietly pensioned off amid mounting criticism that he failed to deliver.The peer's work on why criminals reoffend is now officially finished. He will not be publishing a report on his findings, in sharp contrast to other high-profile outsiders hired by Government. Although Downing Street insists his 'valuable' thoughts were fed into Home Secretary Jack Straw's recent criminal justice plan, his contribution has been mocked within Whitehall. 'It's just been a deathly silence since he was appointed - he's made no impact at all,' said one Whitehall source. 'He was a disaster for the BBC by all accounts and frankly I don't know what he's done here.' When Birt was appointed last summer to cast a 'fresh eye' over the criminal justice system, Blair insisted that he could bring 'a strategic outlook and an understanding of social trends gained from a long and distinguished career in broadcasting'. Critics on both sides of the House, however, were sceptical, accusing Blair of simply giving a good friend a job. Privately, there was scorn within the Home Office and even within Downing Street at his appointment. Ministers have been careful to be courteous to Blair's personal envoy - Birt met Straw for talks shortly before Christmas, and has also had meetings with the Lord Chancellor, Lord Irvine, both Irvine's junior Ministers and drugs tsar Keith Hellawell. However, insiders say he was in effect limited to poring over the Offenders' Index - records of crime statistics for the past 50 years - in an attempt to discern trends. The figures, contained in a two-page annexe to the plan, show about half of crime is committed by a hard core of only 10 per cent of known criminals, suggesting these should be the most closely targeted. Birt's critics say this is hardly a surprise to experts in the field. 'All he has come up with is a few daft ideas for Jack Straw's youth justice plan, about building more children's jails when the ones we have don't work and making parents of persistent offenders attend the court hearing to explain what measures they are taking to control their children,' said Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers. 'He has not spoken to anyone here and we are not sure who he has spoken to.' It is understood Birt has not met the Association of Chief Police Officers either, nor organisations working with former convicts such as the National Association for Care and Resettlement of Offenders. Birt was not paid for his one day a week role. Parliamentary written answers reveal that by November last year he had claimed only £300 in expenses. The news that his role was over after eight months was slipped out in an answer in the House of Lords under questioning from Tory peer Lord Tebbit. Asked whether Birt's findings would be reported to Par liament, junior Home Office Minister Lord Bassam said they were 'considered alongside' contributions from other Government departments for the report'Criminal Justice: The Way Ahead', published in February. Birt's role is not mentioned in the document. Downing Street, however, insisted his contribution had been worthwhile and said he might be invited back for ' ad hoc projects'. 'The bulk of his work is now done and those of his proposals that we were interested in were incorporated into the 'Way Ahead' document,' said a spokesman. gaby.hinsliff@observer.co.uk