Contrary to Michael Howard's assertion earlier this week that Britain was caught in an "ethical quagmire", it is the two major political parties that are sinking to new depths of political debate. With a steep fall in his personal ratings, it was perhaps inevitable that Mr Howard would turn to law'n'order in a desperate bid to revive both his own and his party's position in the polls. Hence the grim picture he painted this week of the fear and apprehension that stalked Britain - "women fear intimidation from hooded youths as they walk home at night; couples stay in rather than run the gauntlet of binge drinkers". In a barrage of distorted crime statistics, few may have realised that Britain is currently enjoying the longest sustained fall in crime in a century. The Tory who launched his party's penal populism when home secretary returned to his old recipe with a call for more prisons and an end to early release schemes.For all the fear this may generate in progressive circles, they should not forget the focus group verdict on Mr Howard's term at the Home Office. It was so bad that the Conservative party declined to promote him at its daily morning press conferences in the 1997 election campaign. But if the Tories were desperate and dreadful this week, Labour, led by David Blunkett, was no better. He too was adopting an unbending, unforgiving and resolutely tough stance on punishment. There was the release of plans for yet another criminal justice bill - including new police arrest powers - when major proposals in the 2003 Act have still to be implemented. After a rapist in prison won a £7m lottery prize, he rushed a special article to the Sun promising new legislation that would ensure prisoners in future "don't benefit from a single penny while in prison". Meanwhile there was no response from Mr Blunkett to the news that a 14-year-old school boy had committed suicide in a secure training centre, the youngest person in British penal history to die in custody and the second within four months. A home secretary who has time to address prison lottery winnings should also be concerned with children dying in his custody. Neither side is likely to win many swing voters with its tough rhetoric, but what they will do is encourage the courts to continue with their excessive use of prisons. This is precisely what the professionals - prison service director, prison chief inspector, lord chief justice - have been insisting must be changed. Labour, which has accepted the argument, should stand up and defend it.