The parents of Madeleine McCann yesterday admitted that the hunt for their missing four-year-old daughter was starting to take its toll on them and said their campaign to find her will now be toned down. The news came as it emerged that Madeleine's father, Gerry, was considering returning to Britain, even though his wife, Kate, said that she felt unable to leave Portugal.Speaking in Praia da Luz, the holiday resort in the Algarve from where their daughter disappeared more than five weeks ago, the McCanns said they needed a 'time for reflection' once an awareness-raising trip this week to Morocco, where a Norwegian tourist claimed to have spotted Madeleine, had been completed.'When we get back from Morocco, we want to sit back and take stock of what we're doing,' McCann said. 'We've not got any other visits planned because we think we've covered all the main areas. In terms of the investigation, all the specific appeals have been done, we would've covered the two countries in close proximity with Portugal, and I think that Kate and I, and also family and friends who have been campaigning, will need a break.'Holding hands throughout the press interview, the McCanns talked about their plans once they return from Morocco. 'We'll still meet the Portuguese police, as we have done fairly regularly, and with the British police,' McCann said. 'But it is going to be a period of reflection. We can't keep doing the same thing week after week, the coverage will dwindle. What we want to be sure of is that what we put our energy into is effective. We need to take a step back and work out how we can help in the search for Madeleine.'As part of the campaign the family has been in talks with internet giant Google requesting that the 'double-o' in the famous logo be replaced with Madeleine's distinctive eyes on 22 June - the 50th day since her disappearance. If Google agrees, the search could reach up to 300 million internet users per day. Google sometimes customises its search page logo to mark famous anniversaries or events.Mrs McCann, who is reluctant to leave Portugal said she felt close to her daughter in the resort. 'She could actually be further away from here than she is from the UK, but I feel emotionally close to her here. People have told me that I could do the same, if not more, back in the UK, but I can't face leaving here.'However, her husband signalled that it was his intention to return to the family home in Rothley, Leicestershire. 'I can see myself having to go back to the UK.As a number of possible leads, including an anonymous call from a mobile phone in Argentina which was initially believed to offer 'credible' information, appeared to have come to nothing, Gerry McCann said it was time to look at the bigger picture. 'We are thinking of the wider issues now that Madeleine's disappearance might be, I'm not saying definitely, but might be linked to organised abuse of children.'And he revealed how the search was starting to affect him personally. 'In the first few weeks, when I slipped into dark moments of despair, I was finding it quite easy to emotionally switch a light back on, but I've been finding it increasingly difficult to do,' he said. 'More importantly, I don't want to do that any more. I want to be able to grieve and let those emotions out.'The couple paid tribute to British embassy staff for their support, and said the thousands of letters and emails from around the world had been a source of great support. Mrs McCann said the trauma had changed her. 'At work I never stand up and say something in front of people - I never volunteer for that kind of thing - but here I have to get over that because this situation is bigger than we are.''I feel a great deal of anxiety speaking in public, but it pales into insignificance here because nothing can compare with the trauma of losing your child.However, her husband said it was now time to draw up a contingency plan. 'We've made a vow to each other that we would take time for ourselves,' McCann said. 'The emotional time has been in private. When we're making appeals, we don't want anything to cloud that. It's given us focus and helped us keep our emotions in check.'