· Nuisance neighbours450 families and households in Birmingham, Manchester, Sheffield, and Sunderland who indulge in "persistent and serious anti-social behaviour" to be targeted by March 2005 with intervention and, where necessary, sanctions. Nuisance neighbourhood panels to be set up, including experts from local authorities, police and voluntary sector, to nominate nuisance households and ensure solutions are found for the most difficult families. Parenting programmes for families of chil dren most at risk of committing anti-social behaviour. · Begging Surveys show 65% of public resent being approached by beggars and half won't go near a cashpoint if someone is begging nearby. There will be help and support in 30 areas where criminal justice intervention programmes exist and aim to tackle begging and other "street culture" problems. Help will include drug and alcohol treatment, better use of enforcement, and "alternative giving" schemes for the public. Begging to be made a recordable offence so treatment rather than a fine can be ordered by courts. "Trailblazers" in Brighton, Bristol, Leeds, Camden, and Westminster will pick up and fingerprint beggars and persistent offenders given court-ordered treatment. Targets to be set to reduce begging in these areas. · Environmental crime Operation Scrap-it: from October 2004 abandoned or untaxed cars in London and Liverpool will be removed within 72 hours. Operation Gate-it: a fund for communities to tackle crime and grime in alleyways by putting up gates, cleaning the area or improving lighting. Operation Scrub-it: graffiti is to be treated as criminal damage that makes people feel unsafe. A "shop 'em and stop 'em" project to be set up with British Transport Police and Crimestoppers which will include a national database of graffiti "tags" so that prosecutions can take into account the full extent of damage caused. Will also include a national poster campaign targeting the most prolific graffiti "taggers" to encourage information leading to conviction. Pilot schemes in 12 areas next year so that local authorities can issue clean-up notices to owners of street furniture, including phone boxes, and to bill those companies and utilities that fail to act. Ten council estates are to be targeted for a "100 days clean-up" campaign which will remove abandon cars, deal with graffiti and other nuisances with enforcement action against those who are causing the problems. · Improving the response An action line, website and an academy are to be set up from early next year to provide advice and assistance to local authority officers, the police and others tackling anti-social behaviour. £22m over the next two years is to be spent in England and Wales to "pump-prime" implementation of the action plan. A team in the Crown Prosecution Service will specialise in anti-social behaviour cases and new sentencing guidelines are to be issued to magistrates.