Contrary to what many people on the outside believe, work in prison is not a matter of choice. Apart from "local" prisons, such as Armley in Leeds, or London's Brixton, where the majority of prisoners are on remand awaiting trial or have been freshly sentenced and are awaiting allocation to establishments suitable for the length of sentence received, work forms the backbone of the daily prison routine. The range of jobs available includes wing cleaners, workshops (textiles, metalwork, timberwork, light assembly), and maybe the laundry. A number of prisons run vocational training courses, where skills such as motor mechanics, engineering, bricklaying and even Braille transcription are taught. But places on such courses have been subject to severe cutbacks over the last 10 years or so as the prison population has almost doubled and tight budgets have had to be stretched further and further. Average prison wages are now around £7 a week. Unemployment pay is £2.50. Anyone who refuses to work when there is work available receives no pay. The main incentive for a prisoner to work is not necessarily prison wages, however. More important is that working is the only way to ensure that maximum time is spent out of cells. If you're lucky, you'll get a job you really want, perhaps with better money. If you're very lucky, you might even get on a vocational training course. But the chances that you will be in a position to get a job on the outside after release remain slim. Paul McDowell, governor of Coldingley prison, a Category C industrial training jail near Woking, Surrey, is making a determined effort to change that. That is abundantly clear as I listen to his welcoming speech to an audience made up mainly of representatives from the business community who have been invited to an open day so they can meet prisoners face to face and see the kind of work undertaken inside his prison. McDowell is aware that his idea is not particularly innovative; he knows it's just a matter of common sense. "We need to engage with you, the employers," he says. "This is something we have failed to do in the past." In the audience, representatives from the Hilton Hotel group, Ikea, Unimatic Engineers and retailer Harvey Nichols nod encouragingly. "We can make a difference to people's lives while they are in here," McDowell continues, "but you can make a bigger difference, by being open to the idea of employing people who have been in places like this, learned work skills, and made the effort to change. What we are talking about here is a partnership between employers and prisons that will make a genuine contribution to reducing crime." This is his strongest point. Currently, up to 75% of all prisoners are convicted of a further offence within two years of release. Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, recently made the same point during a speech at the Institute of Criminology at Cambridge University when he said that if a prisoner is released "with increased skills and a job to go to", the risk of re-offending is "significantly reduced". In fact, research has shown that people who find employment after a prison sentence are 50% less likely to re-offend than those who do not. Uniquely, Coldingley prison has had a reputation as a working prison since it was built in 1969. For a long time, in what amounts to a mini industrial estate comprising engineering, metal fabrication and sign design workshops within its perimeter fence, it was the only prison in the country that offered prisoners a full day's work and a 40-hour working week. It also had the best paid prisoners in the system. (At one stage, some were able to earn up to £80 per week, until protests from certain quarters unhappy about this "perk".) Wages are still relatively high - laundry workers can earn up to £30 per week - but nowhere near the level they should be in order to instil an authentic work ethic. McDowell believes that his Sustainable Training and Employment Partnerships (Steps) project is more valuable in the long term than high wages. "We have developed a sophisticated assessment, selection and induction process to allocate prisoners to the training opportunities to which they are most suited," he says. "Our intention is to empower prisoners to build a crime-free future for themselves." The range of accredited training he offers prisoners is impressive. From NVQs in a variety of engineering skills, computer assisted design programmes and information technology courses to City & Guilds qualifications in graphic design, engraving and screen printing, the training at Coldingley is suited to the needs of the modern job market. When McDowell has finished talking, some of the prisoners involved in helping to organise the day assist members of staff in taking us on a guided tour of the prison workshops. I'm accompanied by Colin, a bright, talkative man in his mid-50s, who is halfway through a six-year sentence for a drug importation offence. "His ideas are brilliant," says Colin, when I ask him for his thoughts on the governor's project. "I give him 100% for effort. But what happens when we leave here? We end up laid up in a Cat D (open prison) with no opportunity to continue what we've learned." This is a constant theme throughout the prison system. All prisons have different ways of doing things and different priorities regarding "prisoners' needs". McDowell's biggest challenge will be to get prisons talking to each other and agreeing to support his ideas. As a prisoner, it is one thing to learn skills and make contact with potential employers, but it is easy to lose momentum after a transfer to another prison that is not committed to ensuring the continuation of the process. "I'm a skilled miller," says Colin, "but when I get to a Cat D from here it'll be six months before I'm passed to get out of the gate on community work, and then another six months before I can apply for a job." McDowell is promising employers prisoners who have been through "a thorough risk assessment process". Part of that entails a period of "testing" through gradual reintegration into the outside community from an open prison. First, there is a period of working within the prison grounds for an initial assessment, then a period of escorted community work, and then an unescorted period. Once the relevant people are happy that you're a safe bet, you can start applying for a job. The response of employers to the open day tour is promising. Newton Kihanga, of the training organisation Just Lawson, is impressed with what he sees. "I like this idea," he says. "As employers, we must give the people in here who want to work encouragement. In life, we all need encouragement. It costs so much to keep people in prison. The money should be spent training people so they have work skills that employers need when they come out." Back in the assembly room, the invited guests are talking animatedly about what they have seen. Then McDowell announces: "Finally, a couple of potential employees would like to say a few words." He beckons two prisoners, Victor and Sammy, to stand up. Hesitatingly, they walk to the front. It's a dramatic moment that causes the room to hush. Sammy speaks first. "I've been a con for most of my adult life," he begins. "I've only ever had two jobs. They only lasted a few weeks. But I want to work. I've learned new skills. I've had enough of crime and that way of life. You can help by giving us a chance if you think we've earned it. Please, give us jobs." He's joined by Victor, who echoes his pleading: "If we make the effort in here, we need you to make the effort once we're back out. We won't let you down." When they sit down the applause is thunderous. Like everybody else in the room, I believe them.  Employers who would like to know more about the Steps project at Coldingley prison can contact the governor, Paul McDowell, on 01483 804302.University of Cambridge Institute of Criminology: www.crim.cam.ac.uk Latest report on HMP Coldingley: www.homeoffice.gov.uk/docs/cold