Bury, the home of the black pudding and birthplace of Sir Robert Peel, gets attention from the Financial Services Authority today with a fine of approaching £500,000 on a former commercial insurance broker in the town.Stephen Goodwin, who was a partner in the now-dissolved firm of Goodwin Best, used clients' insurance premiums to fund the business rather than investing them as required with the relevant insurer or an intermediary arranging the policy.The fine of £471,846 is one of the largest ever levied on an individual by the FSA which oversees the sector in which – as with banking – the UK has depended on a sound reputation. It includes £168,000 in punitive fines which would have been £240,000 had Goodwin not agreed to settle early, thus obtaining a 30 percent discount on that part of the penalty.The reminder of £303,846 covers the money misappropriated by Goodwin and his partner who has since died. This included payments from at least three clients who suffered lasting financial loss, one who tried to make a claim only to find that they were uninsured, and the others obliged to pay premiums twice to keep their policies valid.  The FSA's headquarters in London's Canary Wharf. Photograph: Rex FeaturesGoodwin, who was bankrupted in 2011 but discharged in April, has also been banned from working in future in regulated financial services. Further consequences are likely via clients who lost money and have contacted the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.Tracey McDermott, the FSA's acting director of enforcement and financial crime, says:This is a significant fine to reflect serious failings. Goodwin knowingly diverted money intended to pay for contracts of insurance into his own business to keep it afloat. Although the diversion of premiums did not lead to the majority of clients being left uninsured, this does not detract from the seriousness of the misconduct. These are dishonest breaches; Goodwin posed a risk to consumers and the financial system more widely and now he is paying a very heavy price.Elsewhere in the recession, Teesside Crown court heard that a mother of five would have to live to be 300 before she could repay £34,926 wrongly claimed in benefits after her disabled daughter left home. Melanie Francis, who is 39 and lives in Middlesbrough, said "I just didn't phone up and say" when her circumstances changed three years ago.Prior to that, she had correctly received income support, carer's allowance and disability living allowance, and since the failure to disclose her change in circumstances, she has been repaying the wrongly claimed money at the rate of £6.75 a week. She admitted four previous counts of fraud at the hearing. What now? Her solicitor Brian Russell asked Judge John Walford not to impose a jail term but to give her and the Probation Service the chance to work towards a lasting solution. She suffered from depression and continuing stress after looking after her disabled child. The judge replied: If that's to have any meaning, it needs to be supported by some form of medical evidenceand adjourned the case until August 3 for that to be obtained. He added to Francis:I want you to be clear that custody is the overwhelming likelihood here, if not absolutely inevitable. But if there is some material which would have a bearing on whether it would be appropriate just to suspend that sentence, it's only right that the court should consider it.