Yardie-style gangsters have spread their drug dealing and gun crime across the UK to such an extent that they now pose the biggest potential threat to policing after international terrorism, according to a senior Scotland Yard officer investigating shootings within the black community in London.In an interview with the Guardian, Detective chief superintendent John Coles said there was intelligence to show that Jamaican criminals were now targeting villages in Somerset, and that it was not unusual for his officers to be running operations in Sussex and East Anglia. There is also a strong Yardie presence as far north as Aberdeen. The problem is not just one for the black community, said Mr Coles, who is in charge of Operation Trident, the 255-strong unit set up by the Metropolitan police. He insisted it was time for "the white middle classes ... to understand that this is a big issue affecting them. It has moved out of London to all the home counties. The threat is that we will see it all over the place. Next to terrorism, this is the biggest challenge facing police in London, and potentially the rest of the country." Mr Coles said he did not want "to scare the living daylights out of people", but he believes that to tackle the problem effectively "everyone needs to know the truth". "The Jamaican [criminals] are entrepreneurs. They will go anywhere where there is a ready market. Then there is the potential for conflict and shootings. The threat is that we are going to see it all over the place. It is spreading." Mr Coles added: "There has been an attitude in society that this is a black problem. It is not just a problem for the black community. They get cross because they feel demonised. I need to get the white middle classes to understand that this is a big issue that they need to take an interest in." This chimes with the latest threat assessment from the national criminal intelligence service. "What we're seeing is a more complex and dynamic crack cocaine market than had previously been thought," said an NCIS spokeswoman. "The problem itself appears to be on the increase in terms of its scale and areas of activity. While it has often been associated solely with Britons of West Indian origin or descent, we are now seeing communities from other backgrounds working together." In the last three years, Operation Trident has compiled a database of 500 criminals involved in trafficking and dealing in crack cocaine. The major players are Jamaican and account for 40% of the crimes investigated by Operation Trident. The rest are committed by British-born criminals, most of whom are black. The crack trade is closely linked to gun crime, and the Yardies' trademark is ruthless and often indiscriminate violence against rivals. Innocent bystanders are often hurt or killed in the crossfire. On average, about 70 murders a year are investigated by Operation Trident, a third of the total for the whole capital. Mr Coles' squad has had significant success this year. The clear-up rate for murders has risen from 20% to 70%, and his officers have recovered 170 converted and imitation guns in the last three months. However, Trident's success in London might be one reason why the gangsters have been looking further afield to sell crack. Police acknowledge that any town or city where drugs are sold is vulnerable and half of the 43 forces in England and Wales have resources devoted to tackling Yardies.Aberdeen is one of the more unlikely cities to have been targeted by crack dealers. Heroin users there were lured into using it by dealers who offered them a rock of crack free with every wrap of the opiate. "If it can happen here, it can happen almost anywhere," said Detective inspector Willie Findlay, who is in charge of the city's drugs squad. Mr Coles said leaders from London's Turkish and Asian communities had been urging the Met to broaden the remit of Operation Trident because of fears that Yardies are beginning to target them. He wants to develop the "softer side" of Operation Trident, which would involve drawing together different agencies, such as social services, to tackle the deprivation in which crack use and Yardie crime thrive. "We need to focus on prevention. We need to look at social factors like poor education and poor job opportunities. Some of these people think that if they want the type of lifestyle they aspire to, the only choice is to go into drugs."