The court of appeal today added eight years to the minimum jail term to be served by a bus driver who pleaded guilty to strangling a passenger after she had refused him sex.Lord Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice, sitting with two other senior judges in London, imposed the increase as the court gave guideline rulings on the minimum sentences imposed in a series of murder cases in which the killers had admitted their crime. An increasing number of cases involving defendants who plead guilty to murder are reaching the courts, and the court of appeal's rulings will give guidance to sentencing judges hearing such cases in future. The judges gave their rulings in five representative appeals today. They increased one minimum term - the time that must be served before a prisoner can be considered for parole - reduced another and dismissed three other cases. Lee Holbrook, a bus driver, now aged 40, who pleaded guilty to strangling an 18-year-old passenger, Alicia Eborne, after she had refused him sex, had his minimum term increased from 12 years to 20. It was argued at a hearing in December on behalf of the solicitor general, Harriet Harman, that the minimum term of 12 years, set at Plymouth crown court, was not severe enough. Another appeal before the judges was that of Emma Last, 19, of Braintree, Essex, who pleaded guilty to the murder of a teenage girl who was doused in petrol and set alight after a row over a boyfriend. Her minimum term had been set at 20 years by a judge at Chelmsford crown court. Her co-accused Kerry Bauer, 21, also of Braintree, who was convicted of the murder of 17-year-old Debra Carne, had her minimum term set at 17 years. Today, the court of appeal reduced Last's minimum term to 17 years. Her lawyer had argued that her minimum term was manifestly excessive, that the "disparity" between the minimum terms imposed on her and her co-accused was "not justified", and that the judge had failed to give her sufficient credit for her early plea. The three judges today dismissed appeals by brothers Edward Quillan, 24, of East Kilbride, Scotland, and James Quillan, 18, of Fleetwood, Lancs, who admitted robbing and murdering James Fleming, aged 70, in Fleetwood. A judge at Preston crown court imposed a minimum term of 19 years on James Quillan, which his barrister argued was manifestly excessive, and that the judge's starting point of 24 years, before the application of any reduction, was too long for someone of his age. His brother had appealed against his minimum term of 25 years. His counsel argued that a starting point of 30 years was too high. The court also rejected an appeal by Sara Crane, who pleaded guilty at Kingston crown court to a knife murder, against a 12-year minimum term. In her case, it was argued that, in setting the term, the judge had not taken into account her "appalling personal life" or her guilty plea.