The government is to set out a new plan to tackle knife crime next week as Gordon Brown promised action after four people were stabbed to death in London in a 17-hour period.Brown said Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, would set out the package on Monday. The Home Office gave no details last night of the proposed measures."The terrible stabbings that have occurred this week are shocking and tragic," Brown said of the incidents that took the total of fatal knife attacks in London this year to 53, and the number of teenage murder victims to 20."We will continue to make absolutely clear that carrying a knife is unacceptable in our society," he said Brown spoke out after it emerged that a fifth man, in his 20s, was in a critical condition in hospital after he was stabbed in an attack in Willesden, north-west London. The four killings took place in Edmonton, Leyton, Walthamstow and Tottenham. Police said they were not connected. Arrests have been made in three of the four deaths. None of the victims had been named yesterday.The victim in the Edmonton murder was 19, the police said. He became the 20th teenager to be murdered in London this year, and the 16th to be stabbed. He is believed to have been killed during a drugs-related argument in a squat near the Silver Street railway station on Tuesday afternoon. The argument spilled out into the street, and witnesses said the youth staggered out of the house and collapsed.The victim in the Walthamstow murder, believed to be in his early 20s, was stabbed in the head and chest after leaving a takeaway. He died at 9.30pm on Thursday.In nearby Leyton, a 21-year-old was killed after an altercation with a group of men. In Tottenham a murder inquiry was launched after a man in his 40s was found stabbed to death behind a disused pub.The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, said yesterday his officers were doing "everything possible" to catch those responsible. The spate of stabbings was not confined to London. At 9am yesterday Joanne De Asha, 45, was killed in Liverpool. Thomas Coombes Duffield, 20, was fatally stabbed in West Bromwich, West Midlands, late on Thursday. Arrests have been made in both cases. In the village of Tarleton, Lancashire, a man was arrested on suspicion of murder after a woman was found with fatal stab wounds inside a burning house in the early hours of yesterday.