The old stone wall is scorched, the ivy and clematis are burned down to black, skeletal remains, and a pile of ash lies on the pavement. This is the scene where, on Monday night, three cars were torched, their blaze threatening the house nearby.It was the latest in a series of more than 20 arson attacks that have been perpetrated in and around the once quiet village of Farthinghoe in Northamptonshire, costing residents more than £250,000.Since last September, flames have claimed the outbuildings of the 17th century church, the village pub, the community hall and a number of barns. Bales of hay and cars have been set alight but still no one has been caught with a lighter, matches, or a can of petrol in their hands.Now, Northamptonshire police have set up a mobile police station in the middle of the village near the scene of the recent attack and ten officers have been involved in door-to-door inquiries as they hunt the arsonist or arsonists. So worried are they that firefighters have given a smoke alarm to every house in the village.Toward the end of October there was a lull in the outbreak of fire attacks but on December 17 they began again. Police have yet to confirm whether they suspect the same people or if this second series is copycat attacks.Inside the mobile police unit, one elderly villager was shaking his head. "It's getting bloody serious, the fires that they are starting," he said. "There's lives that could be lost - and it's not manslaughter, it's murder."Farmer David Dashwood has lost 3,000 bales of hay, a barn, farm machinery and 50 tons of fertiliser in two separate blazes. He said many people in the village were agitated, though he was not particularly scared because "there's not a lot you can do about it".He went on: "The police don't seem to be able to find out what's happening. At that time it all seemed very insular, things around the village like garden sheds, the village hall outbuildings and the church door. But suddenly there was a barn set on fire just outside the village, then somebody had a go outside the pub. We thought it was kids to start with, because the fires were in garden sheds and they seemed to be outside of school hours. Now it's moved on to cars parked outside houses, then it's only a matter of time before one of them goes bang, and somebody's house might get caught."Detective Chief Inspector John Jones, from Northamptonshire police's homicide and major investigation unit, said: "We are treating these incidents very seriously. We are determined to identify the offender and put a stop to these fires, which have caused thousands of pounds of damage. Thankfully, no one has been injured but that might be more by luck than judgement. It's highly unusual to have had this many incidents and someone must know who is responsible. Even if they are a friend or a family member, contact us before they or someone else is injured."Mr Jones said at least 14 of the fires had been started in the village itself, with more bearing hallmarks of the arsonist being started in the nearby areas of Brackley, Marston St Lawrence and Aynho."There have been two main spates of fires. Between September 14 and October 16 there were 11 reported arsons. Between December 17 and December 31, a further nine fires have been reported. Four offences occurred on Christmas Day."Detectives said they were linking the first 11 and believed the remainder were carried out by the same person or by a copycat offender.Beverley Allen, licensee of the Fox, which was gutted by fire and is now closed, said: "It's usually a very quiet village where nothing happens. I just hope to God people's houses aren't next."Mary Sharman, 75, and her husband Wilfred, 82, are not especially worried for their own safety but wish the arsonist would hurry up and get caught. "They said at first it was children but it's not children. I can't see children coming out at 11.30 at night and burning a barn," said Mrs Sharman. "We have just got to keep our fingers crossed. We're not too worried. But I think a few people are a bit shaky."Michael Jeffs, 65, a window cleaner, said: "I reckon they could be local. They seem to know too much about where they are going. I have lived here since 1944 and I have never seen anything like this. They are going to kill somebody before they are finished."