Police in Manchester are to investigate another 39 deaths - bringing the total under investigation to 175 - following the conviction last week of Harold Shipman for the murder of 15 women patients.Detectives suspect the total could rise again over the next few weeks. A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester police said: "We have had new complaints relating to patients from Dr Shipman's practice. These will all be investigated." Inquiries will continue at an incident room at Ashton-under-Lyne police station and will be led by Det. Supt. Bernard Postles, whose investigations helped convict Shipman. He was given 15 life sentences last week after the jury at Preston crown court had deliberated for six days at the end of a 57-day trial. "We have to take all complaints seriously," added the spokeswoman. "The file has not been closed. Some complaints have been passed on to the crown prosecution service but we cannot confirm how many." Shipman killed 15 mainly elderly women by giving them lethal injections of morphine. Most died at home but one was murdered as she lay on a bed in the treatment room in the doctor's surgery. Shipman later altered records to make the deaths appear consistent with his victims' medical records. After the trial, it emerged that police had maintained four lists of possible victims, each graded according to the strength of the evidence. The A list included the first 15 victims. The B list contains the names of 23 former patients in connection with whose deaths the crown prosecution service is considering charges. A decision is expected by the end of the month. The other two lists refer to deaths under investigation. The total grew by 10 the day after the verdicts were announced and has now grown again, with police suspecting new names will be added as other relatives make contact. Some of the new inquiries are thought to relate to deaths as far back as the 1980s, before Shipman set up his one-man practice in Hyde, Greater Manchester. The growing number of complaints will add to the dilemma facing Mr Postles and his team who want to help relatives of possible murder victims achieve justice. Their best hope is that Shipman will make a clean breast of any other killings and so avoid the need for any other legal action. But they also know admissions of guilt are unlikely after Shipman's firm denials of all involvement during his two weeks in the dock at Preston. They also know that, if more charges are laid, a second trial could cost millions and that there would be great difficulty in finding a jury unaffected by the reporting of the first trial. Shipman is in Manchester prison where he is likely to remain for two weeks before being transferred to Wakefield jail. He was visited by his wife, Primrose, at the weekend. With the help of regulations rushed through by ministers after the trial, West Pennine health authority has removed Shipman from its list of doctors. His salary payments, which continued through his time on remand and in court, have ceased and the health secretary, Alan Milburn, also stripped Shipman of his NHS pension. Mrs Shipman may be forced to sell their house, thought to be worth £90,000 and may have to rely on her children for financial help. The youngest of their four children, Samuel, 17, lives at home. The eldest, Sarah, 32, was apparently estranged from the family for several years, but attended the trial periodically. Christopher, 28, works in the south of England. Two books on the case have now been published, one produced by the Manchester Evening News, the other by a press agency in the city.