  Mayor Boris Johnson will become the crime and policing representative for London under government proposals. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/PACandidate Johnson was at pains to empathise with Londoners' fears and fury about crime during the 2008 election campaign. His pitch was founded on an assertion that statistics showing falling levels of offending were misleading, with his manifesto Making London Safer declaring:[A]fter ten years of a Labour government, and eight years of a Labour Mayor, we need to stop kidding ourselves about crime...we all know that we are suffering from an epidemic of unreported crime. Bitter experience has taught us that too often the police do not have the time or the resources to deal with our case.It further asserted that, "The Mayor of London has a statutory and moral duty to lead the fight-back against crime," and set out the following headline pledges:I will:One: Provide strong leadershipBy taking responsibility and chairing the Metropolitan Police Authority and using my influence to tear up red tape and needless form-filling, so we can get more police out on the streets.Two: Make buses, trains and stations saferBy spending less money on press officers and more money on police officers to increase their presence on buses, trains and station platforms.By introducing 'Payback London', a scheme that will require under 18s who abuse their right to free bus travel to earn it back through community service projects.Three: Tackle knife and gun crimesBy demanding they are treated as a high priority by the police, and using every strand of Mayoral power to prevent it through funding community groups, sports schemes and handheld weapon scanners.Four: Help the ignored victims of sexual violenceBy providing desperately needed long-term funding for new Rape Crisis Centres to help the ignored victims of sexual violence – a horrendous crime that is on the increase.Five: Demand a police service accountable to youBy providing local communities with New York-style crime maps which show the true crime levels in every neighbourhood, which can then be used to ensure Borough Commanders are held to account at monthly open public meetings.His record in the "strong leadership" category has been mixed and sometimes controversial. His most spectacular intervention has been his effective removal of Sir Ian Blair as Met commissioner at the beginning of October 2008, after he and his deputy for policing Kit Malthouse made clear to Blair that he did not enjoy their confidence. In hindsight, Boris's crime manifesto hinted at a desire to make such a move - "The fundamental problem with policing in London is that there is a lack of strong leadership" (page 4) - as did an attack by Malthouse on Blair in The Times the preceding January. But at the time it took everyone by surprise, the more so for appearing to display a ruthlessness in Boris few had thought existed. He chaired a public meeting of the full Metropolitan Police Authority for the first time later in the same month. His debut was Blair's farewell appearance. The drama of the occasion was heightened by the escalation campaign of assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur against Blair, alleging racial discrimination - an irony, given that Blair's critics accused of him of being too liberal. Boris used the occasion to announce, at short notice, an inquiry into the career progression of officers from ethnic and religious minorities in the Met. The strong impression was that Boris and Malthouse wanted to draw a clear line under the the Blair era, and defuse as far as possible the most distracting rows surrounding it. Supporters applauded Boris's decisiveness. Others decried his actions as a high-handed and politically-motivated power grab. Before the year was out his leadership approach was again under scrutiny after he revealed that he'd contacted his friend the Tory MP Damian Green following Green's arrest as part of a leaks inquiry. Boris had been told in advance about the operation by the then acting commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson and later criticised it publicly. He was subjected to a inquiry by the London Assembly's standards committee and an ensuing independent report described his contacting Green as "extraordinary and unwise." The episode caused Stephenson to consider not applying to become Blair's successor, despite being Boris and Malthouse's preferred candidate. He was, however, appointed to the role in January 2009.Such was the backdrop to the next high profile London policing controversy, which occurred just four months later. Police handling of the demonstrations accompanying the G20 economic summit was criticised because of the violence of some officers and the use of "kettling" to prevent protestors leaving the area when they wished to. Two years later an inquest jury found that an officer of the Met's territorial support group had unlawfully killed newspaper vendor Ian Tomlinson, who had not been part of the demonstrations and was trying to get home through the crowds. In contrast to his public indignation over the Damian Green affair, Boris restricted his comments about the G20 events almost entirely to criticism of the media's coverage. The Mayor would have needed to be mindful both of legal issues and the importance of building a good relationship with his new top cop, but his reticence gives cause to ponder what exactly he meant by his manifesto pledge to "take a public lead" to "take personal responsibility" and that "No offence will be too trivial to demand my attention (page 4)."The following January he stepped down from the chair of the MPA and was replaced by Malthouse who had, in any case, been doing most of the day-to-day work. The Evening Standard reported that the Mayor intended to "spend more time out on the beat with cops, visiting crime hotspots and talking to victims." Certainly, public appearances alongside police officers have been covered by London's local newspapersand the Mayor has recently presided at three "community conversations" about youth crime. Last September he took the chair of a new "pan-London" Crime Reduction Board. Boris's pledge to use his influence to "tear up red tape and needless form-filling" is hard to make a judgement on, such is the fog of rhetoric and definitional issues surrounding all political debate about police bureaucracy, not to mention the subsequent impact of police budget reductions by central government. It is intriguing that page 12 of his manifesto promised to "amend" the MPA's local policing plan to include "cutting red tape" as "a key strategic priority", yet the first such plan produced under Boris's chairmanship contained only a couple of general mentions of cutting waste and value for money in its opening message (page 4) and list of Mayor's priorities (page 9).Page 11 of the manifesto pledged to support calls to do away with a form officers are required to complete after using their "stop and account" powers, and provide the person stopped with a copy of. This procedure was introduced in line with a recommendation in the Stephen Lawrence Inquiry report and simplified in 2009. In March of this year the government gave police services the option to dispense with the recording of stop and account altogether. The Met has said that it will continue to record stop and account until June 2011 and is awaiting the outcome of MPA public consultation before taking a decision. In January, a report to the MPA said that dispensing with recording would enable "a time saving of approximately four minutes per input...resulting in a non-cashable saving of approximately £1,340,000 per year."Boris's manifesto also expressed support for a Conservative party proposal to replace a written form to be filled out following a stop and search with an officer sending in details of the search by radio. The government introduced changes along these lines at the same time as it made its proposals for stop and account.I've looked at the pledges Boris made under his second headline category - Make buses, trains and stations safer - in my assessment of his transport record as well as here and here. But a passage on page 18 where he elaborates on his thinking is worth a few lines. Under the heading International Initiatives it praised New York's celebrated policing policy under Mayor Rudolph Giuliani of concentrating on minor offences in the belief that this would lead to a fall in more serious ones too. I've seen for myself that the detection of fare dodgers in London can lead to the discovery of further offences by the same person, though whether this proves "broken windows" theory is another matter. Boris's enthusiasm for the Guiliani approach is shared by his predecessor and rival Ken Livingstone. Neither politician seems persuaded by the considerable evidence that the New York crime "miracle" was mainly the result of factors quite separate from policing strategy. Also like Giuliani both are enthusiasts for online crime mapping, available to the public, which Livingstone expressed a wish to introduce during his first mayoral term and Boris actually did, as his manifesto promised, in September 2008. However, the value and accuracy of crime mapping is contested. Another New York-style promise, to "ensure Borough Commanders are held to account at monthly open public meetings," seems to have evaporated. Boris also promised to follow New York by giving "support" to Business Improvement Districts as a way of reducing "quality of life" crime and antisocial behaviour. He held his first annual BIDS awards event in December.Knife crime, particularly when committed by the young, was a high profile issue in the 2008 campaign: "We have had 27 teenagers murdered by other kids in 2007," says the third paragraph of Boris's manifesto. He swiftly got the Met to introduce an intensified stop and search regime called Operation Blunt 2, and now claims that nearly 10,000 knives have been "taken off the street" since then, though any positive impact Blunt 2 has had on the rate of knife crime is difficult to isolate. Former Home Office criminologist Marian FitzGerald showed in March 2010 that there was no statistical relationship between the quantity of stop and search in individual boroughs and the rate of knife crime in them. She was dismissed by Mayor Johnson as "some professor".Boris also promised to "provide the resources for the police to have more handheld weapons scanners," and said on page 21 that he'd release £2.6 million from MPS reserves for these and knife arches, though in an answer to an assembly member's question about the hand-held devices last year was unable to "confirm the number purchased" and provided no response to the part of the question inquiring about how many criminals had been caught thanks to their use. Knife arches have been introduced, though I've so far failed to find out how many. As with stop and search it will, as the Mayor himself acknowledged in a written answer in 2008, "always remain difficult to assess the impact of such deployments given that their preventative impact is largely hidden."The defining tone of the manifesto was consistent with standard Conservative positions on crime, with its insistence that things were getting worse no matter what the figures said, majoring on "no nonsense" approaches and bemoaning the entanglements of red tape. Yet the document also contained three pledges to address issues that Conservatives and their sympathisers - and some New Labour types - commonly mock as "political correctness." I'll deal the promises about the London Development Agency funding community groups that work with disadvantaged young people when I come to the Mayor's record on young people. His promise to "provide long-term funding for four Rape Crisis Centres in London...by cutting the number of GLA spin doctors" to the tune of £744,000 a year for each of the four centres has not been kept. He can claim to have been instrumental in putting funding packages together for one existing centre and three new ones, but the GLA has provided only about half of the money and this only happened after protests that the promised provision for the latter trio had not been made in his 2009/10 budget. There has been no cull of mayoral press officers. The third unexpected pledge was to "champion diversity" in the Met by looking into how to increase the numbers of female and ethnic minority officers. The race and faith inquiry somewhat hurriedly commissioned at that first chairing of the MPA considered the specific problem of poor career progress among officers from minority ethnic and faith groups. A measured and practical report was finally produced, assisted by a considered verbal contribution from Kit Malthouse which demonstrated both his grasp of the need to tackle the problem and his belief is appropriate management strategies as the best way to do it - and approach that has characterised his stewardship of the MPA in general. The MPA has also acknowledged Londoners' civil liberties concerns. A special panel has produced a strong report into the handling of G20 and is working on another on the collection and use of DNA.What has happened to crime rates in London during the period of Boris's mayoralty? The short, simple answer is the same as it was for several years before he became Mayor - they've been falling. Not that this was acknowledged in his manifesto. It was all the more striking therefore to see the speed with which he found faith in the Met's reported crime statistics when they told a story he wished to take credit for. Lately, his eagerness to be associated with descending offending graphs has extended back through history to embrace the end of Livingstone's second term.Increasingly, the politics of London policing have centred on budget cuts and an unending quarrel over "police numbers." Boris and Tory AMs made great play of having released 550 officers from administrative roles to "frontline" duties, but didn't mention that this was a Livingstone policy - Project Herald - that Boris had inherited. Instead, the statistic was used to distract attention from a projected reduction of 455 warranted officers in the Met overall, even falsely claiming that in objecting to the latter future cut Livingstone was attacking his own policy.Boris has subsequently juggled some money and put himself in a position where he feels he can claim that "police numbers" will be greater at the end of his term than they were at its beginning - much to the disgust of his opponents. He also launched (in March 2009) a drive to recruit more part-time Special Constables and produced figures last October saying that a net 1,347 had been recruited to that stage. Sir Paul Stephenson correctly predicted last July that, "the Met will shrink." Boris will continue to claim until election day that efficiencies overseen by him and his prioritising of "the frontline" have ensured that crime in London continues to be driven down. The extent to which and good news story on crime is down to him will continue to excite fierce debate.