Portuguese police hunting for Madeleine McCann said last night they were concentrating their efforts on forensic analysis of materials taken from the villa where the only formal suspect in the investigation lives. Although it was unclear whether detectives had any definite leads, they said they had thoroughly searched Casa Liliana, where Robert Murat lives with his mother, Jenny.Casa Liliana is just 150 metres from the apartment complex from where Madeleine disappeared 13 days ago while her parents, doctors Gerry and Kate McCann, ate dinner at a restaurant 50 metres away.Portuguese newspapers reported yesterday that police had carried away computer material and video cassettes. A cesspit at the house was reportedly drained and police took samples from cars parked in front of the villa. Police said last night that they were focusing on what they called "lines of investigation which show a higher consistency".They said that as a result of information gathered over the weekend, one particular line of inquiry had become especially strong and that five homes on the Algarve had been searched.They formally confirmed that a 33-year-old man living near the crime scene was a suspect. Police sources later named him to the Portuguese state news agency Lusa as Mr Murat. But they stressed "no evidence was collected in order to ground his arrest and subsequent judicial interrogation".An apparently distraught Mr Murat told Sky News last night that police had chosen him as a scapegoat. "This has ruined my life and has made things very difficult for my family here and in Britain," he said. "I have been made a scapegoat for something I did not do." He added: "The only way I will survive this is if they catch Madeleine's abductor."Friends and family of Mr Murat yesterday described the father of one as a sometimes over-enthusiastic extrovert, but said he would not have been capable of abducting the girl.His German girlfriend, Michaela Walczuch, and her estranged husband, a Portuguese pool cleaner called Luis, were released overnight after also being interviewed at the police station in nearby Portimao. The couple have an eight-year-old daughter. Ms Walczuch refused to talk to the Guardian yesterday when contacted at the online estate agency Romigen, which she and Mr Murat set up last year.A former colleague at the Remax real estate agency in Lagos, near Praia da Luz, said Mr Murat was "very open and extrovert, but in a good way". Rui Cristino said: "He is fun. But sometimes he carries on when everyone else has stopped."Mr Murat first raised suspicions because of the way he hung round journalists while claiming to be translating for the police. Relatives described him as being "overhelpful"."Robert is so sweet and good-natured. I know he can never have been involved in Madeleine's abduction because he is so good-natured," said his uncle, Ralph Eveleigh, who runs a bed and breakfast in the village of Burgau, near Praia da Luz."He wanted to help out, which was why he was working as a translator to help the police and the media," he added.In Britain yesterday, police were guarding a house in Hockering, Norfolk, where Mr Murat's estranged wife, Dawn, and his four-year-old daughter live. Villagers said Mr Murat moved to Portugal about three years ago. Neighbours said he was friendly, and his involvement in the investigation was a "bolt out of the blue"."I used to see him in his garden, sitting outside with his ex-wife," said Fred French, 85. "We used to have a laugh and a joke. I'm Scottish and he's Portuguese and we used to say we were the foreigners of the village."Meanwhile, the McCanns continued their routine of waiting and caring for their two-year-old twins, Sean and Amelie.Lawyers working for the couple said they would give details later this week of how a fighting fund set up to help in the search for Madeleine will be used.Last night the family was due to attend a mass conducted by a family friend, Father Paul Seddon, who has flown out to Praia da Luz from Formby, near Liverpool. A spokeswoman for the family said the mass was a way of saying goodbye to the friends who came on holiday with them.