What do you do when a huge improvement in the quality of life occurs and people do not believe it? Politicians could begin by examining their own behaviour. The fall in crime, first noted almost a decade ago, continues. Yet people still believe it is rising. So, apparently, do the judges. They are sending more offenders to prison - and for longer periods - than at any time in the last 40 years.Rightwing politicians link the two, crediting the fall in crime to the increase in prison numbers. In Michael Howard's glib phrase, "prison works". Labour knew this to be untrue - 98 out of every 100 crimes do not end with a conviction - but would not take him on. Scared of being seen to be weak on law 'n' order, Jack Straw opted for penal populism. In a system which already imprisoned more people than the most hardline states - Burma, China, Saudi Arabia - he opted to tighten the screw further. No issue has been subject to more deliberate distortions. All political parties have indulged. Awkward questions have been ducked, complex causes ignored, only simplistic solutions offered. Politics has been demeaned and the public confused and insulted. But a new dawn broke yesterday over, appropriately, the Tower of London. It was there that the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation launched its three-year £2m campaign, Rethinking Crime and Punishment. The aim is to improve public understanding and promote new ways of involving the public in the criminal justice and penal system.A special opinion poll commissioned for the campaign offers some grounds for optimism. Like earlier in-depth polls, it shows the public is not as hardline as politicians believe. A majority believes better parenting and more police on the beat would do most to reduce crime with only 8% suggesting more offenders in prison as the answer. Joe Public recognises that getting more people into work is a better alternative than prison. He underestimates the current severity of sentences and is unaware of the many alternatives to prison now on offer. But, like the former Tory home secretary, David Waddington, he believes prison to be "an expensive way of making bad people worse". The aim is to tackle the present vicious circle: politicians talking up crime; the public and judges believing them; the prison system getting ever more overcrowded: a two-thirds increase in 10 years. Three key insiders have called for a stop: the prison director, lord chief justice and former chief inspector of prisons. The home secretary has said the system is not working. But will he seek to remove the 20,000 who should not be there?