Starting pointsThe Criminal Justice System website gives an official overview of the criminal justice system in England and Wales. Its Citizens' Arena gives basic information for victims, witnesses, defendants and jurors. While the Home Office deals with policing and prisons, the Lord Chancellor's Department is responsible for courts in England and Wales. Its website includes useful links to court system information and a list of relevant online leaflets for court users. The government's new White Paper deals with reform proposals for England and Wales only, but the Scottish Office provides a factsheet introducing the Scottish court system. Of the non-official resources, Leeds University's site UK Law Online provides the most comprehensive and user-friendly overview of the structure of the court systems in each part of the UK, and is at pains to explain necessary legal terminology.The numbers gameThe Home Office publishes official crime statistics, including the British Crime Survey which claims that the public has "continued to overestimate the problem of crime". For a longer term official perspective on crime trends see the Home Office's crime and justice survey Digest 4. The National Statistics site lists specific Scottish and Welsh findings from the British Crime Survey and current statistics on crime in Northern Ireland.The reform debateThe Home Office sets out the government's Crime Reduction Strategy and Youth Justice Strategy. The Scottish Executive also posts recent research papers on the web. The Audit Commission, an independent body charged with scrutinising the government's use of public money, posts its reports on policing, crime and punishment and youth justice on the web. Of particular relevance is its June 2002 publication Route to Justice. The independent body mandated by Parliament to recommend law reform is the Law Commission, whose site includes consultation papers on aspects of criminal justice including double jeopardy. While little beyond subscription details is available online from most prestigious academic journals like the British Journal of Criminology, Kings College London's International Centre for Prison Studies publishes research papers that may be downloaded from the web. The Police Federation gives a commentary on reform proposals such as ID cards and changes to stop and search procedure while the Law Society, a professional organisation for lawyers, provides responses to official consultation papers on criminal law. Of the penal reform pressure groups, the Prison Reform Trust has an excellent site including live footage of Dorchester prison, while the Howard League has a glitchy site but offers comprehensive lists of reform initiatives and links. Women in Prison highlights important issues but has a rather underdeveloped website. Looking out for the rights of suspects and prisoners is Liberty. The Commission for Racial Equality also has its say on crime and justice, and its site includes a list of downloadable publications. Whilst much of the debate focuses on the penal system, a number of sites emphasise community projects involving past offenders in crime prevention schemes, particularly the National Association for the Care and Ressettlement of Offenders (NACRO). Victim Support is an independent charity detailing its services to victims of crime through local schemes. An extensive list of further criminal justice organisation websites can be found on the Leeds University criminal justice pages.On the politics of the debate, the official party websites do not contain a great many resources but the Labour Party website offers a brief list of 'achievements' and a slightly longer list of 'work in progress'. The Conservative Party site contains less information, the most recent addition being Oliver Letwin's speech of 19th June lamenting the 'absence of a neighbourly society. The Liberal Democrats have a more detailed policy declaration, although this predates the General Election calling for more 'community sentencing' as an alternative to prison stretches. · This is intended to be a brief guide to the most useful resources rather than a comprehensive listing, but further suggestions are welcome at observer@guardianunlimited.co.uk