Children under 10 who show signs of anti-social behaviour are, for the first time, to be helped to avoid crime, the youth justice board chairman, Lord Warner, said yesterday.Home Office ministers disclosed yesterday that the power of courts to impose parenting orders on such children's mothers and fathers would be extended. The change would include youngsters pleading guilty to a first-time offence. The criminal justice minister, John Denham, will also step up the youth crime campaign today when he accuses social services, housing and education staff of allowing public nuisance and other anti-social behaviour by young children to go unchallenged. The scheme for early intervention, which will see children between eight and 13 and their families pinpointed for special help, is to run over the next six months in the 10 street crime "hotspots" of England and Wales. New youth inclusion and support panels, made up of police, teachers, health, social services and youth justice workers are to be asked to identify local eight- to 13-year-olds who show signs of problem behaviour and could offend. Their families will be offered help with dealing with anti-social behaviour, drug misuse, and mental health problems, but their attendance will not be compulsory. Lord Warner said the children involved would already be well known to local agencies. "The panels will be about intervening early so that as they grow up these young people are no longer labelled by their community or the agencies as problem children. It is my experience that many families would welcome support with their children if only it was available at an earlier stage and before problems escalate," he said. The idea has been piloted in a youth inclusion project in Bristol which has dealt with 50 youngsters over the past two years with the result that school exclusion and crime rates have fallen. But not everyone is a fan of the proposals. Sharon Moore, of the Children's Society, feared they could be a way of lowering the criminal age of responsibility to below 10 years old. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, believes the scheme does not go far enough. "The problems have already often become intractable by the age of eight. Intervention is required even earlier," he said. The Home Office minister, Hilary Benn, responded yesterday to the youth justice board initiative by announcing the extension of parenting orders. So far about 2,000 have been ordered by the courts but research shows that 81% of those who attend the classes are mothers not fathers. The new orders will require more fathers to attend the courses and they will also give the courts the power to impose them alongside anti-social behaviour orders and even in cases where the children have pleaded guilty to only a first offence.