Dalian Atkinson died after he was reportedly Tasered three times by West Mercia police outside his father’s home in Telford, Shropshire, early on Monday morning. One witness was reported as saying that after being hit Mr Atkinson “just dropped like a lead balloon”. Deaths of this kind are not common in Britain – this seems to have been the eleventh in the current decade, compared with at least 48 police-inflicted Taser deaths in the United States in 2015 alone. But they can still have some troubling common characteristics, including the use of such weapons against people with mental health problems and against black and Asian people. Mr Atkinson was a black man and reports say that he had been suffering from depression.The most unusual aspect of the killing of Mr Atkinson may nevertheless be that he was famous. As an Aston Villa footballer, Mr Atkinson was one of the early stars of the Premier League in the 1990s. His death duly made many front pages this week. It also thus received more extensive publicity than a case in Llanelli in June when a former soldier suffering post-traumatic stress disorder died after being Tasered, or a separate case in Llandudno at the end of July in which a man, said to have been armed with a knife, was still in serious condition in hospital a week later after being Tasered by North Wales police and sustaining a head injury. And it attracted much more attention than this month’s decision by the Independent Police Complaints Commission to try to reopen its investigation into the fatal use of the weapon on Jordan Begley in Manchester in 2013 following a highly critical inquest verdict.Tasers work by shooting two tiny electrodes into a suspect, through which a maximum of 50,000 volts are briefly applied, typically causing the loss of voluntary muscle control so that a victim falls to the ground or freezes on the spot. The pain they cause is excruciating but mostly temporary. The attraction of this “less lethal” option to police – especially to a police force that still prides itself on being generally unarmed – is obvious and understandable: shooting someone with a Taser does not normally kill them, but it can stop dangerous criminals in their tracks.England, Wales and Scotland have allowed firearms-trained police to use the weapons since 2004. Three years later, guidelines for England and Wales were extended to permit their use in wider circumstances, notably when severe threats of violence exist. At the end of 2008, specially trained officers who are not firearms officers were also authorised to use them. Through recent years, Taser deployment has expanded rapidly, from 3,128 cases in 2009 to 10,329 last year, although numbers have levelled off since 2013. In England and Wales, most police “red-dot” suspects – pointing rather than firing the weapons. Tasers have actually been discharged in about one in five recent cases – in 2015 there were 1,921 discharges, a slight drop from the previous year. But that is still an average of more than five discharges every day. Discharge rates in 2015 were particularly high in Greater Manchester, South Yorkshire and Surrey, but low in London and elsewhere.Home Office guidelines call Tasers “an important tactical option to help specially trained officers resolve potentially violent situations safely”. That is hard to dispute, and it is in the public interest for such situations to be resolved without killings.Yet Taser use is also now very widespread. In some cases, like Mr Atkinson’s, Taser use also kills. All such cases are rightly referred to the IPCC. Nevertheless, as anecdotal evidence and the statistics suggest, police practice differs more than it should. Taser use against children, old people, those with mental health and drug problems, as well as ethnic minorities, raises particular concerns. Any death at police hands is a legitimate matter of concern. The home secretary must do more to reassure the public that each use of Tasers is a last resort and proportionate to a real and present danger. Right now, that is simply not the case.