So, young black men (no mention of black women) involved in inner-city gangs are to have military figures as role models (Black army officers recruited to help stop gang violence, August 20). Apparently said role models "will impress young men whose horizons are often severely limited". I can almost hear the horizon-broadening conversation now: "Don't waste your time shooting each other with handguns when you can have a state of the art army issue machine gun - or maybe a small nuclear weapon? And why on earth get yourselves nicked when you can join the army and kill people with impunity?"And whose bright idea was this? - Trevor Phillips of the Commission for Equality and Human Rights and New Labour. Beats tackling that tricky (and potentially costly) stuff like horizon-limiting inner-city poverty and racism I suppose.  Hassan Mahamdallie  Belvedere, KentYour report draws attention to the need for positive role models for young people from the black community. At the London Engineering Project we are promoting a scheme to get black and Asian working scientists and engineers to give a day a year as ambassadors in secondary schools. The aim is to inspire students to take higher education routes which will open up careers in science and engineering. Not only will the scheme offer positive role models but it will also help address the under-representation of members of black and minority ethnic communities in these professions.  Dr Claire McCloughlin  London Engineering ProjectPeter Fahy, Cheshire's chief constable, is right to call for a fundamental rebalancing for the criminal justice system - away from simply concentrating on punishment towards more rehabilitation and offers of help, backed up by sanctions for those who refuse to change their behaviour (Police chief's plea on antisocial behaviour, August 20). However, this is easier to say than to achieve. A complex mix of factors is increasing our reliance on imprisonment. Indefinite sentences, that is life and the new sentence of indeterminate detention for public protection (IPP), have grown by 31% over the last year. For the first time, the number of people serving these sentences now exceeds the number serving short sentences of a year or less. Recalls to prison have grown by 350% over the last five years. Fewer people are being released on tags, with governors being more cautious in their use of home detention curfew. The release rate by the parole board has fallen from 50% to 35% for determinate sentence prisoners and from 20% to 14% for lifers.Turning the criminal justice juggernaut round will require a determined effort by government. Jack Straw's urgent review of IPPs is welcome. Two further practical measures would signal a change of intent: a national network of schemes to divert the mentally ill and those with addictions into treatment from police stations and courts would produce better clinical outcomes and lower reconviction figures; and adjusting the sentencing framework by removing a raft of mandatory minimum sentences would allow for proper judicial discretion. Without such radical action the prison system will continue to be characterised by operational chaos and short term fixes.  Geoff Dobson  Deputy director, Prison Reform TrustAs the debate around gun crime and teenage violence focuses on social control through Asbos and drink control orders, where is the liberal moral outrage? Is the absence of concern indicative that the metropolitan middle-classes have already adopted the South African model whereby we live in secure gated communities; work, socialise and shop in other safe parts of the city travelling between them in cars or taxis and never by public transport? More intensive policing of poor areas will exacerbate this social division. The real solution lies with a government committed to eradicating poverty of aspiration and reducing inequalities, but there is no chance of that any time soon.  Ken Harper  Manchester