The extremist preacher who claims to have schooled one of the suspects in Lee Rigby's murder in Islam, has said he still had influence in Britain despite being exiled from the country eight years ago.Omar Bakri Mohammad led al-Muhajiroun, whose lectures and events were attended by Michael Olumide Adebolajo.Mohammad told the Guardian he "provides advice" for his protege, Anjem Choudary, who is active in Britain – and runs "Skype courses" for others.Al-Muhajiroun was banned in 2005 by the government over fears it could incite violence but its influence reverberates: a number of people convicted of terrorist linked offences have attended its events.After 2005 a series of successor groups were set up to beat the ban, going under a series of names, from Saviour Sect, Islam4UK and Muslims against Crusades.A series of people who attended the events of al-Muhajiroun and successor groups have been convicted of offences. Last month three men, including a convert to Islam and a former police employee, were jailed for secret conversations about preparing a possible terrorist strike against the United Kingdom.Richard Dart, from Dorset, converted to Islam around 2010 after attending lectures by Choudary. Dart, Imran Mahmood, and Jahangir Alom, who was also schooled in an extremist interpretation of Islam by Choudary, were jailed for a total of more than 20 years for terrorist involvement.Choudary said he had been a key influence in Dart's understanding of Islam. Dart, the son of teachers from Weymouth, changed his name to Salahuddin al-Britani.However, Bakri Mohammad, who now lives in Lebanon, denied any link to violence against Britain. He said: "The British government knew exactly what al-Muhajiroun stands for. We are nothing more than a political organisation conveying Islam in a peaceful way. Of his followers who have been convicted he said: "None have been arrested for terrorism offences."Bakri Mohammad dissolved al-Muhajiroun in 2004, and said he left the country because he regarded counterterrorism laws as anti-Muslim which left him a choice to "migrate or fight", so he left.Adebolajo attended the meetings from 2004 to around 2011 and, according to Bakri Mohammad, chose his own Muslim name after converting from his Christian upbringing. The name he chose, Mujaahid, means one engaged in jihad.Bakri Mohammad originally came to prominence as the leader of Hizb ut-Tahrir (Party of Liberation), turning it into Britain's fastest growing Muslim group with his anti-Israel, anti-homosexual, anti-liberal rhetoric.But he was ousted in 1996 when Hizb ut-Tahrir's middle eastern leadership decided he was too extreme. Bakri Mohammad set up al-Muhajiroun (the Emigrants), stressing that they were only against the state of Israel, not all Jews.Bakri Mohammad was once arrested after he called for John Major's assassination, but was later released without charge. One of his favourite refrains over the years has been the prediction that Britain will one day become an Islamic state.