The world is full of business gurus claiming to hold the key to female success. Tracy Mackness has gone one better: she has the key to keeping young women out of prison.These days Mackness, 50, runs award-winning gourmet sausage business The Giggly Pig Company, and her bestselling autobiography, Jail Bird: The Life and Crimes of an Essex Bad Girl, is being discussed as a possible Channel 4 sitcom by the producers of Shameless.But not so long ago she was a convicted drug dealer locked up with the likes of Moors murderer Myra Hindley, unable to move on from a mindset that was wrecking her life. Tracy says the Enhanced Thinking Skills (ETS) programme in prison turned her life around and is calling for the course to be offered in schools, in order to reach girls before they go disastrously off the rails.“If they gave the therapy I got in prison to kids before they got into trouble there’d be a lot less crime in England,” Mackness says.In and out of jail from her 20s, Tracy was drawn deeper into the Essex underworld, eventually becoming a drug-debt collector known as “The Queen”. At 37, she was sentenced to 10 years for her part in a conspiracy to import £4m of cannabis. This sentence turned out to be the start of a new chapter for Tracy, giving her space and time to think and refocus. She ended up taking an ETS course, a process that aims to reprogramme the brain, using cognitive training to change the thinking that leads to criminal behaviour. It covers flexible thinking, impulse control, social perspective, values, moral reasoning and solving arguments.Mackness admits to signing up for ETS to “play the system” for parole but found herself finally confronting 25 years of destructive behaviour. “It makes you think of the bigger picture, about the consequences of your actions and the victims of your actions,” she says.“You never look outside the box at another way of life. The course is so intense and because you role play over and over, it sinks in. At first it was ‘let’s just get it over’. Then I started to think ‘this actually makes sense’. I started thinking more clearly. I could see my life had to change. I came out of prison with a different mindset.”Mackness now gives talks to schools, colleges, women’s organisations, magistrates, police and community groups, calling for ETS to be part of the curriculum.“I really do think ETS should be taught at the age of 12 or 13 and drummed into them,” she says. “It’s an intensive six-week course and not something you can forget. It would help them to make good decisions about everything from careers to relationships.”Mackness was 13 when her dad went to prison and her world started to fall apart. Her parents divorced and her dad didn’t stay in touch. “I was left behind and that was the start of me going off the rails,” she explains.“If I’d done the ETS course at 13 or even 18, my life would have been totally different. I would have thought ‘Stop! Think what you are doing.”The course represented a complete turnaround for Mackness, who went on to qualify in pig husbandry while serving her sentence, after working with British saddlebacks on the prison farm. She set up Giggly Pig when she was released in 2007. Now her business includes an 800-pig farm and shop near Romford, Essex, and employs 22 people.Mackness’s extraordinary life story was published by Simon and Schuster in 2013. Between the business, the writing and the TV talks she still doles out tough love to teenagers at risk of choosing the wrong path. “At one college in London the teenage girls didn’t particularly want to be there,” she says. “When I put my banner up they were kissing their teeth. After half an hour I said, ‘I’ve got here under my own steam to tell you how I went wrong and turned my life around. I didn’t have to do it.’ “They quietened down and listened, then came over afterwards and apologised. To me, it showed they didn’t even know that the way they were behaving wasn’t right. No one called them on it.”Mackness has seen where that kind of unchecked attitude can end. “When I was in jail one girl was in and out nine times,” she says. “I thought, why doesn’t someone take her under their wing?”So she opens her wings for her younger staff, continues to speak about her experiences and tries to pass on some of the lifechanging skills she learned the hard way.“I would like to think that one person in the room will end up having ambition and running their own business,” Tracy says. “And they’ll do it without going to jail first.”