A neo-Nazi who hoarded bombmaking materials and waged a racist campaign against a mixed-race couple was jailed for more than seven years yesterday. A jury at Grimsby crown court took three-and-a-half hours to find Nathan Worrell, 35, guilty of possession of material for terrorist purposes and racially aggravated harassment. He was described by anti-terror police yesterday as a "dangerous individual". The court heard books and manuals containing "recipes" to make bombs and detonators using household items such as weedkiller were found by police at Worrell's flat in Grimsby, Lincolnshire. Officers also discovered two tubs of sodium chlorate weedkiller and three bottles of lighter fluid, as well as fireworks. The jury was shown a video by far-right group Combat 18 - showing how to make a bomb from household items - which was found in Worrell's flat. Police also discovered a significant amount of far-right propaganda, as well as membership cards for groups such as the Ku Klux Klan, the November Ninth Society and the British People's Party. Worrell admitted to police that he was a white nationalist. He signed his texts off as "88" - a code for Hitler. The trial heard Worrell left racist stickers at the home of Susan Crofts and Mohammed Chowdhery and on a lamppost. One sticker read: "Only inferior white women date outside their race. Be proud of your heritage. Don't be a race-mixing slut", while another from the Combat 18 group said: "It's our country. Let's win it back. Repatriation now." Worrell was found guilty of possessing items for terrorism and a charge of racially aggravated intentional harassment, alarm or distress. Judge John Reddihough sentenced him to six years in prison for the terror offence and 15 months for the harassment. After the hearing, acting detective chief superintendent David Buxton, of the Leeds-based counterterrorism unit, said: "Worrell is a dangerous individual who harbours extreme antisemitic views. We are thankful for his early arrest that has stopped Worrell from taking his interest further."