Detectives were today continuing to question a 25-year-old man in connection with the attack on Abigail Witchalls, who was stabbed shortly after a man held a knife to her toddler son's throat.Police revealed overnight that a man had been arrested in connection with the attempted murder of the 26-year-old mother in a country lane near her home in Little Bookham, Surrey, last Wednesday afternoon. The attack has left her paralysed. Police said Mrs Witchalls was in "good spirits" today; she had received physiotherapy and was continuing to make slow progress.The arrested man is from Surrey but no further details have been released. He has been held at an undisclosed location in the county since his arrest, although the Press Association news agency reported today that a police van containing the suspect had arrived at Staines police station at 12.50pm.Earlier, a Surrey police spokeswoman said there was "no doubt" that the arrest was significant, but officers have emphasised that the arrest is only one line of inquiry. Police have also confirmed that there is a 24-hour police presence at St George's hospital in Tooting, south London - where Mrs Witchalls is receiving treatment - to reassure her and her family. A Surrey police spokeswoman said today: "Abigail continues to make slow progress with improvement in her breathing, she received physiotherapy yesterday and is in good spirits. Abigail continues to communicate with her family and [her 21-month-old son] Joseph visits on a regular basis." Mrs Witchalls was left for dead by her attacker who plunged a knife into her neck moments after holding it to Joseph's throat in an area described as the safest corner of the safest county in England.Officers are expected to begin working with her to create an e-fit of the man who attacked her.Police have received more than 400 calls from the public after releasing a detailed description of the attacker, which was relayed by Mrs Witchalls using blinks, mouthed words and facial expressions. Two detectives took the description from Mrs Witchalls during interviews at her hospital bedside. She relayed to police how she had been coming from a mother and toddler group last Wednesday when she first saw her attacker in a blue, five-door, "older-style" estate car on a lane.She became nervous as their eyes met and tried to run away along a narrow track after seeing that the car had been parked and that the man was coming towards her. She reached a gate leading onto another lane but could not open it. She then heard the stranger say "you have dropped your purse", turned and saw that the man was holding a knife to Joseph's throat. The attacker forced Mrs Witchalls to walk towards him, grabbed her by the hair and pulled her down to the ground before stabbing her once in the back of the neck, leaving her with a three-inch wound which has damaged her spine. The attacker was described as aged 20 to 35 with short, dark, wavy or scruffy hair. He was between 178cm (5ft 10ins) and 193cm (6ft 4ins) tall with a long, thin face and prominent cheekbones. She told police that he was wearing looped silver earrings, had a deep voice and spoke with a cockney or southern accent, adding that he may have been under the influence of drink or drugs at the time. A man, aged 28, and a woman, 29, who were arrested last week have been eliminated from the inquiry.