Three people have been arrested on suspicion of murder after a woman’s body was found in the grounds of a primary school.The woman, believed to be in her early 20s, was discovered by a police officer at Harlescott junior school in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, just before midnight on Sunday after concerns were raised for the safety of a local person, West Mercia police said.Two men – aged 32 and 39 – and a 31-year-old woman are being questioned about the death.Officers were carrying out forensic examinations at the school. The plan is for them to complete their work on Tuesday so that the school can reopen on Wednesday. The school had been due to be closed on Monday for staff training but children were expected to resume their lessons on Tuesday after the Christmas break.The body was found 500 metres from where a woman called Julie Mercer, 47, was found dead at business premises on Christmas Eve. A man was arrested on suspicion of murder but has been bailed while detectives continue their investigation. Police are not linking the two deaths.Residents on Featherbed Lane reacted with shock to the news of a second death within a fortnight.Georgina Hughes, 39, who has three children and whose eight-year-old daughter goes to the school, said: “As a parent it is very worrying. They have very high security fences so I have no idea how they have got in there.“The body was found in a doorway by a side entrance into the school. So they have managed to get well and truly on the site, which is also very concerning.“To have two murders in two weeks is also very unusual for an area like Shrewsbury, as the crime rate here is very low. The sooner we can get back to normality the better because it feels quite unnerving.”A 79-year-old neighbour, who did not want to be named, added: “I have lived on this street for 30 years and I have never known anything like it.“To have one murder is bad enough but two is very shocking indeed. This is a nice and peaceful street and always has been, but maybe it’s just a sign of the times. Unfortunately these things seem to be happening all over the place.”Harlescott junior school  caters for 277 boys and girls from the age of seven to 11.