At the end of last week, the Northerner asked why so many major northern cities were spared the violence, and suggested that this was a subject worth pursuing in detail.No one should expect rapid answers (a famous recipe for causing further problems), but lots of people on an interesting thread came up with thought-provoking ideas. Not just for the north. Scotland, Wales and many cities from Norwich to Portsmouth also stayed calm and we can surely learn from them too. But this is The Northerner, so please forgive us for staying 'twixt Tweed and Trent. Let's hope others are busy researching elsewhere.Here are ten reasons the team reckons to be worth a closer look, starting with the simplest:1. Rain. Yes, we had worse weather than the south and midlands (for once) and historically that's dampened enthusiasm for street violence. But it was dry and reasonably warm in Yorkshire and much of the north east at the beginning of the week. So this looks iffy but records for each centre would be worth compiling.2. The less ostentatious wealth gap. Leeds, Sheffield and Newcastle all have big disparities, as do Hull and Bradford although wealth has perhaps moved further out in their cases. But is it less in-your-face than, certainly London, and perhaps also Manchester which has the Cheshire/footballer phenomenon? We've asked Simon Rogers' data-mapping team how we can get more info on wealth gaps in the various cities.3. Urban geography. Is temptation less obvious in the centres which stayed quiet? Leeds has Harvey Nicks but a lot of its posh shops are in privately-patrolled arcades. The whole centre centre, as with all the other 'quiet' cities, is also small and relatively easy to police. Previous troubles in all our subject cities have tended to be localised and away from the centre. Some posters on the thread suggested that targets in unaffected cities are further away from the homes of potential troublemakers. The distances are not actually very far, but the idea warrants a closer look – maybe on the lines of Irena Bauman's mapping of conventional work/life habits in Leeds.  4. Gang culture. There seems to be evidence that this is stronger in affected cities – Manchester, Liverpool and Nottingham, for instance, but it certainly exists in Leeds, Newcastle and Sheffield. Habits and structures of gangs and their treatment by the authorities have been much-studied but an up-to-date picture would be welcome. There was an interesting piece about Strathclyde's approach on Radio 4 this morning (Monday, 15 August) in which the expert acknowledged that joining a gang can have merit as part of growing up. If gangs are rudimentary 'postcode' organisations, harm is usually limited. Where is the tipping point into something worse? Does it involve availability/acceptability of increasingly serious weapons? Particular types of gang leader? Parental attitudes? 5. Respect. The point about role-model bankers and MPs has been well-made. Is there more respect for local authority in the unaffected cities? Seems unlikely in, say, Hull; and I'd reckon that councillors etc are off most potential troublemakers' radar. But good ward councillors (and other authority figures) certainly can make a difference. Chapeltown in Leeds and parts of inner-city Newcastle, Sheffield and Bradford offer illustrations of this. Are there relevant school initiatives? Hull, and some of the others, tend to bump along at the bottom of the league tables, but are its young people getting civic lessons which don't show up in the stats?6. Policing. Respect come in here too. Is there evidence that toughness works – eg in Bradford with the harsh sentences after 2001, or in Middlesbrough, with Ray Mallon's homespun version of 'zero tolerance.' Or, does that approach only work if combined with intensive rehab and community work, as in Bradford (and apparently Stratclyde)? And is the Chapeltown (Leeds) model of pretty consistent liaison between police and the local people an encouraging one? Were police also quick to use media/social network means to help keep things calm?7. Community pride. Very iffy once you're talking about somewhere the size of a city; but it does exist and Sheffielders have been particularly quick to cite theirs. Is there any connection with the welcome, or otherwise, given to all citizens in the centres, which should after all be common property and the forum where rich, poor, old, young and everyone in between get to meet? And is rootedness a calming factor? Populations are much less transient than London's, although that also applies to Birmingham, Liverpool, much of Manchester and Nottingham.8. Diversity. The history of violent protest in the UK overwhelmingly involves groups of people who feel they are missing out or are targeted because of their perceived distinctiveness. This, rather than racism, makes an exploration of the relationship between trouble and the presence of different and fairly distinct communities worth exploring. It's interesting and encouraging that potential inter-communal trouble in Birmingham and Leeds seems to have been held at bay by impressive restraint and, no doubt, thousands of unsung initiatives over the years. Another fertile field for research.9. Unemployment and cuts. Debate is vigorously under way about this at national level and it's initially hard to see how the unaffected cities differ from those where trouble took place. Remember, that although it's not the Northerner's patch, lots of big cities elsewhere in the UK were unaffected. Some have suggested that (a) being used to hard times and (b) the survival of strong, working class communities with many and various support networks, could have played a part.10. Luck. Not very exciting intellectually, but it plays a part in everything. Leeds had the big match with Bradford drawing potential troublemakers away and also requiring a big police presence in the city. There were incidents, including torching of cars, in some of the 'quiet' cities, and worse in Huddersfield and Washington. Were there very specific reasons, in addition to all the above, why they didn't get worse?There we are. A lot more question marks than QEDs, but maybe this helps map out some of the most promising fields of inquiry. We'd be really grateful for additions and specially for specific evidence for (or against) any of the ten.