Q. There have been other occasions when your sons could have spoken out in their own defence. The most obvious one was the inquiry, when they stood in the witness box, and in one case refused even to give his name. Now people looked at that and said: Well, if anything proves their guilt, that does. A.  I think you'll find that we're talking about the inquest, where they claimed privilege. They done that on legal advice. We don't understand everything that's going on. We're normal people. We took our legal advisers' advice. It's as simple as that. Now, after six years, enough is enough. We've decided to speak out and help ourselves.  Q. I was referring to the inquiry into the handling of the case.  A.  At the inquiry, they answered all the questions they was asked, to the best of their ability. If they hadn't done, they'd have been held in contempt of court. Anyone could ask themselves, why haven't they been, because they did answer the questions they was asked, and while they was trying to answer the questions, there was chanting and shouting. The parent that was allowed in there with them was abused verbally. I was called a [word indistinct]  Q. Mrs Norris, at the inquest, we've already mentioned the inquest, the boys answered every question with: I can't answer that, I claim privilege. In the case of your son, David, these were the words he said, even when he was asked his name. That struck people at the time, and still strikes them, as most extraordinary, if he was innocent.  A.  He claimed privilege because his right is to claim privilege.  Q. But why would you do that? Why wouldn't you say: Here is my name, and I am innocent of the charges against me, I am innocent of murder, at that stage, obviously, there were no charges against him.  A.  At the time, there's a proper time to put over their case.  Q. Six years?  A.  Six years, six years, that's right, they still haven't. We've been told by legal advice not to talk, under privilege. Anyone in, what happened to them boys, anyone in their place would hold privilege. A.  You don't go to a builder and tell him how to build a wall, you take advice. We went to legal people, obviously, when this happened, and we took their advice. But now, we've just had enough; we took their advice for 6 years, 'don't say anything', 'you mustn't say anything', 'claim privilege, you do this, you do that', it hasn't helped us. We wish we'd spoken out the first day. Q. This was what I was going to ask you. Even if the boys were advised to keep quiet for legal reasons, you yourselves, the four of you, articulate women, could have insisted on their innocence every waking hour. A. There's never been one courtroom that we have been called as witnesses. Q. Newspapers, TV, radio? A.We've been told not to. We've seen the programmes the TV put across, it's all one-sided, all unfounded allegations. Q.  But it's one-sided because the other side has not been presented, the assumption was that the other side hasn't been presented because there is no defence. A.  No, no, no - we've seen it on the television, these people have been in the courtrooms, they know there is no evidence, they've made us scapegoats. They are sacrificial lambs for a political cause. Q.  But I'm puzzled as to what you mean by the political cause. This is not obviously a party political issue. No party stands to gain anything, no politician stands to gain anything politically against the other. No politician, has stood up in the last six years, not one, and said, 'perhaps these boys are innocent.' Not one. A.  We know that - we know our children was arrested the day after Nelson Mandela visited this country. That's when the first arrest was, the police was under pressure to arrest them, they arrested them with no evidence, which is why it was dropped by the CPS. The CPS don't drop cases for no reason. Q.  Well what they said of course was that the police hadn't given enough evidence, later on, of course, the police said that given more time they could have done so and would have done so. A.  So why haven't they done so? Because there isn't any evidence - our sons are innocent. Q.  There was identification. A.  The identification was by Dwayne Brooks who spoke to DS Crowley, and he told DS Crowley he picked two of the boys out, the first one he picked out because his trousers were baggy and he looked like he'd been in a cellar all night, the second one he picked out because he looked like the first boy. That is his words not mine. Q.  He wasn't the only one to say that the boys had been in the area at the time, and a lot of people in the area identified each of your sons at some stage or another. A.  No they haven't. There's not any other witnesses. Q.  No direct witnesses of the actual stabbing, but witnesses that your sons were in the area at the time, who gave names to the police subsequently.A.  All of these were unfounded allegations, we know where our sons were that night. Because of legal reasons, two of the boys haven't been to court, but we know. I would stake my life on to where they were that night. We know where they were that night, they've got nothing to do with the murder of Stephen Lawrence. Q.  There is no way that their name is going to be cleared, legally now, technically of course they have been convicted if nothing, though as you say, in the eyes of the nation, they are all guilty. They could, each one of them, stand up in front of microphones, go into TV studios, appear at news conferences, and take every question that was thrown at them. And if they're innocent they could at least make an effort to clear their name by being totally straightforward in dealing with what is thrown at them. Couldn't they do that? A.  They intended to do that on Panorama with Martin Bashir but it was stopped. Q.  Could they not have used opportunities to volunteer, fully and frankly, information about where they were that night, about who they were with, and all the rest of it? A.  Yes they could, but there again they took legal advice. Q.  But how can legal advice, if you are innocent, and your lawyer says to you I am not going to give you the opportunity to clear your name, surely what you say is: the hell with that, I'm going to clear my name if I possibly can. That's what I would do. A.  But they don't say that, the lawyers - when your son - it's the most terrible thing when your son gets arrested for a murder - I can't explain how it feels, you're frightened, Lee's frightened, we've got lawyers and you listen to them, and they're saying you mustn't say anything, so we didn't. Q.  If there is, and I don't know if there is, but if there were any lawyers listening to this programme who said they'd give you some help with libel actions? A.  Please get in touch with us because we've never had any help from anybody. Q.  So you would sue, even if it meant your son's being in the witness box in a libel action, you would take that action and you would guarantee that your sons would appear in the witness box. A.  If our son's safety was guaranteed, not like the inquiry, because I would never put my sons through that again, none of us would. Obviously. They could have been killed. Q.  But given that they have been convicted by the nation, because that is what has happened, I doubt there is anyone listening to this programme who doesn't believe that your sons are guilty, given that fact, would you say to them, appear in the witness box, in a libel action, would they say yes, because that would clear our names. A.  If they would get a fair hearing and their safety was guaranteed - yes, we'd do it tomorrow, our sons have been tried, convicted and condemned by the media. Q.  And if Mrs Lawrence, Stephen's mother, were to walk in to this room now, what would you say to her? A.  I feel for her being a mother myself, but also she knows this case inside out as we do, there is no evidence on our sons. Our sons are innocent. It's terrible for anyone to lose a child, anyone, and it's terrible for our children get blamed for something they haven't done. Q. Do you have sympathy for her? A. Yes - of course, any mother would. It's the most terrible thing in the world to lose a child. Our sons are innocent.