A bank manager who embezzled £21m from the Royal Bank of Scotland was today jailed for ten years.Donald Mackenzie, 45, had earlier admitted carrying out Scotland's largest single fraud case while working as business manager at city centre branches of the bank in Edinburgh. The high court in Edinburgh heard that he accessed the money through the bank's loan system by setting up false accounts in the names of fictitious customers. Mackenzie had worked in the banking industry since the age of 19, and in recent years won three consecutive Manager of the Year awards. The fraud stretched back to April 1999 but the police were only first informed of suspicions in 2004.Before sentencing, defence lawyer David Burns QC told the court that Mackenzie had not carried out the £21m fraud for personal gain, but to improve the bank's business loan record out of a "misguided sense of service".Passing sentence, Lord Kinclaven said the term reflected the "grave breach of trust" which the offences represented. Mackenzie also admitted the theft of £31,170 that he took while working for the bank and he was also sentenced today for two years for theft, to be served concurrently. A team of 16 investigators were confronted by a complex web of thousands of transactions made over five years by Mackenzie, who lives in Edinburgh with his wife and two young children.The court heard that his actions had led to the collapse and early closure of at least three businesses. Some of the £21m has not been recovered, despite Mackenzie helping police to try to track the money. Mr Burns said the bank's "best case scenario" would be a loss of between £4m and £10m.He said Mackenzie had created the accounts over a period of five years due to "substantial pressure to satisfy loan requirements at the bank". In most cases the accounts were disguised as those belonging to law firms that would be expected to have high sums of money passing through. In some cases Mackenzie had actually made payments to the loans in order to avoid arousing suspicion.Mr Burns told the court: "His intention, albeit a misguided one, was to accommodate the loan requirements and he allowed that through this fraud. Mr Mackenzie accepts that he had obtained funds from the bank and accepts that this is a crime of a serious nature and a breach of trust." Lord Kinclaven said: "I have taken into account everything that has been said about your offences and your action, which was described as a misguided sense of service. However, I must also consider other factors including the serious nature of the offence." He said that if Mackenzie had not admitted to the fraud - which would have meant the possibility of an eight-week trial with 142 witnesses - his sentence would have been 15 years. Outside court, Detective Constable Mike Harris, of Lothian and Borders police, who was involved in the investigation, backed the judge's decision. He said: "I welcome the sentence, if for no other reason than people will realise that white collar crime is a serious offence, albeit this was restricted within the banking sector."