The charismatic former leader of one of Britain's largest church congregations was yesterday warned he faced jail after being found guilty of indecently assaulting one of his flock.Douglas Goodman, 47, had been accused of sexually assaulting four women at the Victory Christian centre, north London. But a jury at the Old Bailey found him guilty of two indecent assaults, one attempted indecent assault and of a count of attempting to pervert the course of justice. The jury cleared him or failed to reach verdicts on 10 other charges relating to incidents between 1997 and 2002. Goodman, from Northampton, is also under investigation by the Metropolitan police and the Charities Commission over allegations that £3m went missing from his church's funds. He is due to be sentenced today but the trial judge, Gerald Gordon, warned him to expect a custodial sentence. "I do not want anyone to be under any misapprehension," he said. A former bus driver who lives in a £1.5m home and drives Ferrari and Porsche sports cars, he now heads a new church. Prosecuting, John Coffey QC said that, before it was closed down in December 2002, Goodman led the Victory Christian centre in Kilburn. When Goodman took it over in 1996, following a trip to America, the church had fewer than 100 members. Under his leadership the congregation swelled to 3,000, with each member donating 10% of their income. But Mr Coffey told the court that while Goodman was preaching from the pulpit he was also preying on young women. "He acted in a predatory fashion, singling out those who were vulnerable," he said. "He targeted mainly younger members of the congregation, posing as a paternal figure, rendering them susceptible to his advances. He abused his position and their trust." Goodman's downfall came after four women aged 17 to 32 complained that he had made sexual advances to them when he was head of the church. The court heard that he would lavish attention on women, paying for holidays and showering them with gifts. But when the same women later complained to church elders that Goodman had assaulted them, they were asked to leave the church. Goodman was found guilty of twice indecently assaulting Miss B at a cinema in north London. After the first assault, the court heard, Goodman apologised and said they had to put themselves "in the path of temptation" again to prove they could beat it. The pastor was cleared of two indecent assaults against Miss A, with whom he had an affair, but, after almost 23 hours of deliberations, the jury could not agree on a rape charge. Miss C, 17, claimed Goodman had paid for a trip to Florida and bought her a Mercedes before he assaulted her in the back of his car. But the jury failed to reach a verdict on her allegations. The jury agreed that Goodman had attempted to assault Miss D, but could not reach a verdict on another incident in his office. Goodman's supporters claimed the allegations had been invented to discredit him. Defending, Courtenay Griffiths QC said: "He may be guilty of a moral failing, but this is not a court of morals." Goodman's church was once described as the fasting grow ing Christian church in Europe. But it was run on very different lines to other Christian churches. Members of his family were made church elders and, though he was never ordained himself, he would freely ordain others, including his daughter Sarah. In 2002 his church is reported to have made £7m. Its running costs were only £1.2m. But when the Charities Commission began an investigation in 2002, following an allegation that £3m was missing from church funds, they found a deficit of £200,000 and appointed a receiver. Yesterday a spokesman for the Charity Commission said: "We opened an investigation due to complaints about the misappropriation of funds and personal benefit to Pastor Goodman and his wife. "We have been liaising with police throughout the inquiry."