Hannah's desperate attempt to contact the police by furtively dialling 999 on her mobile phone while in her abductor's car has revealed a technological deficiency in calling the emergency services. She was unable to speak and, in line with a national procedure for silent calls, she was transferred to an automated system at Scotland Yard. A recorded voice asks the caller either to tap the handset or to dial "5" twice. With no response the system automatically disconnected her call after 50 seconds.Emergency operators, under a code of practice approved by the Association of Chief Police Officers, can override this process if they detect suspicious noises. But the quality of the background conversation between Hannah and the driver was too indistinct to raise concerns.However, the government is working on a texting solution for people with hearing and speech impediments. The technological solution has been identified and could be nationally available next year with the help of BT experts. But only those who register with their provider will be able to access it.Much of the impetus for the innovation has come from the Lib Dem MP for Torbay, Adrian Sanders, who was at first concerned how a person suffering a stroke could call an ambulance. "I got my office to do a little research and found that the government had actually given the matter some thought but hadn't progressed matters very far," he said.After contacting the four departments responsible for police, ambulance, fire and coastguard, he has been assured by the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, which is taking the lead role, that the work is rapidly progressing.It is being organised by the 999 liaison committee within the communities department.But Sanders' hope that people in danger might be able to text is not yet possible, he has been told. In a letter sent in September the department said there were significant drawbacks to such a scheme as it does not provide a real timer service."Text messaging is a store and forward medium and there is no guarantee of delivery. In most cases the sender will not know whether a message has been received. This means that texting is not suitable for emergency calls."Some police forces are already providing special numbers for texting but these are, of course, geographically limited to the individual constabularies. As a result, it is generally accepted that these provide too limited a service to be effective in an emergency and carry an enhanced level of risk." Among the forces which have emergency texting for deaf and speech-impaired people are Hampshire, Wiltshire, Avon and Somerset, and Devon and Cornwall.The letter adds that limiting the service to registered users will "keep the potential for abuse from malicious calls to an absolute minimum.Abuse or ignorance of the emergency system — or the European 112 which automatically switches to the UK's 999 — has long concerned police forces. "Out of 2.5m calls to the Metropolitan police through the 999 system last year, only about 20% required an emergency response".An emergency, the Met says, "is when a crime is happening, someone suspected of a crime is known to be nearby, or someone is injured, being threatened or in danger".Many accidental calls come from mobile phones, often when keypads get knocked or squashed while the phones are in pockets or bags. Others come from children playing or misdials. The Met says: "We are working with our communications contractors on ways to automatically detect and deal with this sort of call."Examples of misuse include the caller saying: "Do you know a good stain remover?"; "There's a rat in my kitchen …"; "I can't turn my tap off …"; or "I think my neighbour is a spy …"