Just sometimes something positive can grow from a sudden, terrible event. The tragic death of Stephen Lawrence was such an event for policing in this country. In his thorough-going inquiry into the murder of Zahid Mubarek at Feltham young offender institution, Mr Justice Keith and his team have shone a searing light on the darker side of imprisonment and the bleak places and people, prisoners and staff that most would chose to forget. Not least the two home secretaries who resisted the Mubarek family's dignified, determined call for a public inquiry until they were forced by the House of Lords to accede shamefully late in the day. It has taken six years for information about the circumstances of Zahid's death to come into public view. And the catalogue of gross mismanagement, incompetence and failed communication, together with the brutish reality of Feltham at that time, makes for very painful reading.The question now is what can be done to make as certain as possible that no other person suffers a vicious attack while in the care of the prison service. It is a huge task given, as the inquiry report notes, the ever-rising prison numbers, disastrously low staffing levels, shocking assault rates and the continual movement of prisoners from one overcrowded jail to another. Today a couple of tabloid newspapers have latched on to the report as further ammunition for their ill thought out campaign to build more prisons at an estimated cost of £70million each. They see this as the only possible response to the inquiry's central recommendation to end all enforced sharing of prison cells.There are however more humane and effective solutions that come out of thinking about how these young men, one a first-time petty offender caught up in the early stages of heroin addiction, and the other a seriously mentally ill, known racist with a string of convictions since the age of thirteen, came to be held together in the wrong place at the wrong time. It was ruled out of the remit of the inquiry to investigate the dubious sentencing practice that pitched Zahid Mubarek into a 90-day sentence which was to lead to his entirely preventable death. Murder is rare in prison, and I am not suggesting that this event could have been foreseen by the court, but continual bullying and self-harm in the violent, corrosive atmosphere of many young offender institutions is not.If enforced community work or residential drug rehabilitation were not available as options for the court then they should have been. As for Robert Stewart, a young man whose prison file was stacked high with warning signals and clear evidence of mental illness, it is impossible to understand why he was never properly assessed and diverted into the secure mental healthcare he so urgently needed.No one should be forced to share a prison cell with a dangerous, disturbed stranger. No family should suffer such loss. Nor should anyone have to endure needless imprisonment when decent, viable alternatives to custody exist and more could, and should, be developed.