Jailed farmer Tony Martin vowed yesterday to return to the house where he shot dead a teenage burglar, despite fears that his release could provoke revenge attacks and tension within his local community.The 58-year-old faces round-the-clock security when he walks out of Highpoint prison in Suffolk later this month. He will have served three years of his five-year sentence for the killing of gipsy teenager Fred Barras at his home in the tiny hamlet of Emneth Hungate, in the Norfolk fens. Martin, whose case has been seized upon by campaigners keen to give homeowners greater powers to protect their properties, has been warned that a £60,000 bounty has been placed on his head by members of Barras's travelling community. 'Eventually I want to return home,' Martin said last night. 'There is a lot of work to do on the farm at this time of year, and I want to get on with it.' Martin's case has provoked a national debate since he was originally sentenced to life for murder. It was later reduced to manslaughter on appeal. Martin received an unprecedented level of public support with a constant stream of letters in jail. The tabloids portrayed him as an innocent victim who had been cruelly turned into a murderer by an unjust legal system. It was in August 1999 that 16-year-old Barras and 30-year-old Brendon Fearon, who led the raid, travelled 60 miles from Newark to attempt a robbery on Martin's home, Bleak House. After hearing a sound outside, Martin came downstairs with an unlicensed loaded shotgun. When a light was shone in his face, he fired. Barras was shot as he ran away. Fearon was shot in the leg but escaped, leaving the dying Barras behind. Last December, Fearon served a writ on Martin, claiming £15,000 damages for lost income. Last month the Sun launched a campaign with a £5,000 donation to raise money to help Martin defend himself against the action by Fearon, who also alleges that his injuries ruined his sex life and martial arts hobbies. Martin himself has been described as 'dangerous'. He had fired an illegally held gun. He hit an unarmed boy in the back of his leg who was left to die in the grounds. In the past, police had confiscated firearms from Martin, who had been described as a 'reclusive' man who had it in for burglars. A local businessman, despite supporting Martin's case, said last week: 'Of all the people who said they would shoot people if they broke into their property, Martin was the only man I ever thought really would.' In May, the chairman of the Parole Board, David Hatch, 64, defended the decision six months ago to refuse parole for Martin, whom he described as a 'dangerous man'. Martin refused to show remorse and maintained his view that his home was his castle and he had the right to defend it. Hatch added: 'His gun had been taken away from him because the police knew he had used it inappropriately several times.' While local support for Martin has always been strong, the issue of his return to Bleak House has split the community, prompting fears of the revenge attacks it could bring to their doorstep. Feelings of anger over his imprisonment are rife in a town where people fear burglary and many say they would do the same thing. 'He is a hero,' said Karl Britten, 36, an engineer from Emneth. 'The consensus here is that Martin should do a lap of honour when he returns. I think if you go onto someone else's property you waive your right to civil liberties.' However, not all Martin's neighbours agree. 'I am very nervous about it,' said one local pensioner. 'The police are required to protect him but ...I would not be surprised if one or two years down the line, Martin meets with a mysterious accident.' David Barnard, 54, a supporter of Martin and a parish councillor, has been trying to calm local fears: 'People ... hear about gang wars and think they might get caught in the crossfire. But if the bounty is serious, I don't see why it would affect anyone else.' Martin's friend and supporter, Malcolm Starr, said: 'If he is going to worry, he might as well be dead. He will have more security. The police should have protected him before, then Martin's life would not be ruined and the boy would not be dead.' Martin was not alone in having lost faith in the police system in the Norfolk area. There was widespread local anger at response times. 'Two or three weeks before the incident I had been pressing for more to be done about crime,' said Barnard. 'I said that if they didn't do something about it someone was going to take the law into their own hands.' Bleak House is a dilapidated farmhouse that neighbours said was barely habitable. Today the isolated home is covered by a thick layer of ivy. Large steel boards have been bolted over the windows and doors. Huge pieces of rusting machinery scar the land outside. One tractor has had two wheels removed and appears to be sinking into the ground. The 'Keep Out' sign that swings from an iron gate blocking the way to Martin's home will do little to deter the media scrum that will descend on Bleak House in two weeks' time.