The New Cross fire in which 13 young black people died 23 years ago was probably started deliberately by one of the guests, a London coroner ruled yesterday.But his open verdict - the same as in the first inquest in 1981 - upset many of the relatives who have long believed that their children were unlawfully killed. As the deputy coroner, Gerald Butler QC, read out his findings at the end of the 10-week inquest, there were gasps of dismay from more than 100 relatives in the Southwark coroner's court. Many left immediately, some of them in tears. The fire had a traumatic effect on London's black community. They staged a 10,000-strong protest march on Downing Street, and their criticisms of the police inquiry - with early suggestions of a racist attack - are accepted as contributing to the tensions that caused the Brixton riots three months later. After the ruling, George Francis, the chairman of the New Cross Fire Parents' Committee, whose 17-year-old son Gerry was killed in the blaze, said his fight was not over. He said that although they had a long way to go, "we have not lost anything; we have gained. We now know what really happened on that fateful night, which we did not know at the 1981 inquest." He said the families' lawyers would consider whether there could be a review of the verdict, and raised the suggestion that some witnesses who were found to have lied should be re-interviewed by the police. Commander Steve Allen, head of the Metropolitan police's racial and violent crime taskforce, which carried out the new investigation, said the inquiry could never be regarded as "closed". He shared the coroner's view that on the balance of probabilities the blaze had been started deliberately. In his ruling Mr Butler said: "While I think it probable ... that this fire was begun by deliberate application of a flame to the armchair near to the television ... I cannot be sure of this. "The result is this, that in the case of each and every one of the deaths, I must return an open verdict." He said he was satisfied that the fire was not started by a petrol bomb or any other incendiary device, either thrown from outside or inside the house in New Cross Road. Forensic experts had also dismissed theories that the fire was started by an electrical fault, or a discarded cigarette. Mr Butler singled out for criticism two witnesses, Norman Higgins and Leslie Morris. Mr Higgins denied being at the party, despite evidence to the contrary from 21 witnesses. His brother Danny had had a relationship with both the tenant of the house, Armza Ruddock, and her daughter Dawn. Mr Butler said the evidence of Mr Higgins being at the party was "overwhelming". Mr Morris was the guest who discovered the fire. Mr Butler commented: "Mr Morris has not told me everything he knows." He pointed to a 1983 statement Mr Morris gave to the police in which he allegedly said: "I want to tell you the truth, but I'm afraid." The Labour MP for Lewisham Deptford, Joan Ruddock, who has campaigned with the families for a proper investigation, said the verdict was "extremely disappointing". The solicitor Imran Khan later read out a statement on behalf of his client, Mrs Ruddock, whose daughter Yvonne and son Paul died in the fire. It read: "For over 23 years I have lived with the loss of two precious and gifted children ... Despite this, I have had to endure a whole host of intrusive and hurtful suggestions. Today it is clear from the coroner's decision that these rumours and innuendoes are untrue and unjustified. "I'm very pleased that the coroner has finally put to rest any suggestion that I started the fire, or in any way knew who did."