Just before the election, I suggested on these pages that the outcome might lead to a Ukrainification of British politics – the drawing of a new fault line across the map, with economic and social liberals on one side, and social-authoritarians and economic egalitarians on the other. The concern was that, however good it might be for civil liberties, a pact between Labour and the Orange Book free-marketeers of the current Lib Dem leadership might further undermine the 20th century's most enduring progressive alliance: that between social libertarians and the poor.Little did I know. It was obvious from the start that the Lib-Con coalition planned to take possession of the civil libertarian agenda, and was praised for its pains by some of its most noted advocates. So Henry Porter insisted in the Observer that "we are fortunate that the election played out the way it did"; while fellow Convention on Modern Liberty organiser Anthony Barnett wrote in Open Democracy that the coalition "promises a distinctly more progressive government in the UK".If they have a point – and on some issues they do – it was Labour who conceded it. The really alarming development is the extent to which some senior Labour figures seem eager to wave civil liberties goodbye. This obviously started with the conviction that Labour had "failed to listen" to the voters on immigration (while, in fact, the people who were most dramatically ignored in the general election were the BNP). The theme has been addressed by leadership contenders, and taken up more robustly by the Labour commentariat. Recently, Prospect magazine's David Goodhart insisted that too much of the party's rhetoric had been "liberal universalist" and that "Labour must become the anti-immigration party".Long before Harriet Harman's questions to the prime minister yesterday, senior Labour figures had used Ken Clarke's sentencing speech to move on to crime. A week earlier, Jack Straw told the Daily Mail that David Cameron had been right to criticise Labour on the issue, but that he was now the prisoner of the Lib Dems' "weak penal policy". On BBC's Question Time, Alan Johnson was asked to choose between Ken Clarke and Michael Howard's approach to prison, and answered Howard.It's clear from Straw's article what constituency he is attempting to attract; the presumption is that only middle-class hand-wringers are bothered about civil liberties. Of course, you can argue about elements of that agenda: I live in a largely Muslim part of Birmingham, where CCTV cameras were welcome as part of a mid-90s campaign against kerb-crawlers, but are unwelcome now that they are directed at ordinary citizens driving in and out of the area (the cameras across the street from me gave the police an excellent view not just of my numberplate, but through my front door). Overall, the story during the New Labour years is of a fall in crime, while infringements on liberties increased.And although the New Model Conservatives have certainly trumped Labour on ID cards and DNA, in less immediately populist libertarian territory they are proving more circumspect. Boris Johnson may wave the pink stetson, but that hasn't stopped him ordering the Met to evict the Parliament Square peace camp. In the third prime-ministerial debate, Brown and Cameron ganged up on Nick Clegg over his amnesty plan for overstaying asylum seekers. On election Friday, Cameron insisted that immigration was one of the three red-line issues his party would not shift on (the other two were the impeccably libertarian policies of keeping Trident and opposing Brussels).True, the coalition has promised to end the detention of asylum-seeker children. However, in one week, the government announced plans to deport 100 unaccompanied children a year to a specially built "reintegration centre" in Afghanistan, ordered judges not to interfere with deportation charter flights to Iraq, and brought forward Labour plans to require foreign spouses of UK citizens to prove that they have a command of English before they leave their country of origin.The experience of most countries in which social and economic liberals oppose traditionalist proletarian parties is that the social liberalism ends up wearing pretty thin. If Labour hugs Howard now, it will find it hard to oppose the government on liberty issues later. Surely, none of the leadership candidates wants to renege on a progressive alliance which built the welfare state, challenged poverty and equalised pay at the same time that it legalised homosexuality and abortion, liberalised divorce and abolished the death penalty. Ironically enough, social liberals appear to have stuck with Labour in the election. The new leader needs to rebuild the crumbling covenant between social progress and social justice. 