A man was being questioned on suspicion of murder and sexual assault last night after the body of a two-year-old girl was found in her bedroom by her mother.Two-year-old Casey Leigh Mullen died from "compression of the neck", police said last night.Detectives have been granted further time to question the 21-year-old local man in connection with the toddler's killing in Gipton, Leeds, on Sunday. It is understood the man is her uncle, Michael Mullen.A West Yorkshire police spokesman said last night: "We can now confirm the identity of the deceased child as Casey Leigh Mullen, aged two, from Gipton in Leeds."A post mortem examination has revealed the cause of death to be compression of the neck."Police investigating the death have successfully gained a warrant of further detention from Leeds magistrates' court in relation to the man arrested in connection with the incident."Casey was discovered by her mother Samantha Canham, 21, at their home on the Gipton estate in Leeds, West Yorkshire, on Sunday night.The child lived in a rented house with her older brother Darren, aged three, her mother and her 20-year-old father, David Mullen. Her body was discovered at around 9.30pm on Sunday.Two other men who had been arrested in connection with the murder, aged 19 and 20, were released without charge yesterday.It is understood Casey's parents had moved into the house around eight months ago. Near neighbours of the family said they called Casey "Smiley" because she was such a friendly, happy child. They said the crescent where they lived was "the best street in Gipton".Residents said at around 8pm on Sunday, 90 minutes before Casey was found dead, there had been a commotion outside the house.Sarah Pringle, a friend and next-door neighbour of Miss Canham, heard the noise and went to the house to make sure everything was all right. She had a cup of tea with Samantha and other family members in the kitchen. It was not until Samantha went to check on Casey and her older son that she discovered her daughter's body.Keith Beaumont, 58, another neighbour, said: " The police and paramedics came and there was an ambulance. They brought the baby out and she was looking very ill."He said Sarah had tried to revive the child by giving her mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. "She was a lovely little girl," he added. "She was an angel and was always smiling and waving." Mr Beaumont said it was "absolutely horrendous" what had happened to Casey.His niece, Claire Beaumont, 14, used to babysit for the family."She was a nice little girl and got on well with her brother," she said. "I saw Sammy when they brought Casey out."Her uncle said Miss Pringle, who is the mother of a four-year-old child, was devastated.In an interview with the Sun, Miss Pringle said: "All of a sudden, Sammy was screaming 'She's dead, she's dead. Someone's killed Casey.'"I ran up to the bedroom and found Casey covered in blood. Sammy picked her up and cradled her while crying uncontrollably."It was horrible. Sammy was too shocked to give her mouth to mouth, so I did it while we waited for an ambulance. She just kept crying that someone had hurt her baby."Family members and friends left tributes yesterday. A card attached to a pink and white fluffy dog said: "To my dearest cousin Casey Leigh. We miss you so much, love you always."