A man was arrested yesterday on suspicion of perpetrating one of the most notorious and lethal hoaxes in British criminal history - the "I'm Jack" tape and letters which sabotaged the hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper.Twenty five years of stop-start police inquiries culminated with a knock on the door of a 49-year-old in Sunderland, who was taken by detectives to Leeds for questioning. Today he faces a battery of forensic evidence concerning three letters and a tape recording sent to the head of the Ripper inquiry, Superintendent George Oldfield.The false information, purporting to come from a killer, derailed a huge hunt for the sadistic murderer of 10 women, a murderer who killed a further three women in or after the 18-month period while resources were poured into the red herring of tracking down the non-existent murderer, identified as having a strong Wearside accent, two unusual speech defects, and a distinctive blood group traced from an envelope.The fatal shift of focus may have helped the true killer, Peter Sutcliffe, who was interviewed by police three times and released, before finally he was caught by chance in Sheffield in April 1981 while searching for a 14th victim.The Bradford lorry driver had had what were apparently firm alibis, but his local accent, quite unlike that heard on the tape, played a part in downgrading him as a realistic suspect.West Yorkshire police have several times officially announced they had abandoned their hunt for the hoax perpetrator. As recently as July, they said an audit had failed to turn up the original cassette and letters, thought to have handwriting carefully disguised.But copies exist, published and broadcast nationally in June 1979 when Mr Oldfield excitedly told a press conference of a major development in the Ripper hunt. The tape offered chilling taunts: "I'm Jack ... I see you are still having no luck in catching me ... You're no nearer catching me now than four years ago when I started."Police said last night: "Officers from West Yorkshire this afternoon travelled to the Sunderland area where they arrested a 49-year-old local man on suspicion of attempting to pervert the course of justice. This relates to the hoax letters and tape that was sent to police during the Yorkshire Ripper murder investigation."The hoaxer's disastrous success has infuriated police for years; in 1983 the West Yorkshire chief constable during the Ripper hunt, Ron Gregory, expressed his frustration in his memoirs. He said that 40,000 people had been interviewed in an attempt to identify the tape; speech experts from Glasgow University had detected a hidden stammer, and a mispronunciation of the letter 's', but were very surprised that no one recognised the voice and came forward.In 2002 the Sunderland Echo focused on a 46-year-old former soldier. Voice tests narrowed the hoaxer's likely home to the Castletown area of the city, and the Echo's suspect, said by then to be overseas, allegedly matched 10 of 12 features. A West Yorkshire investigation in 1987 found no evidence to support repeated allegations the hoaxer was a disgruntled police officer.Sutcliffe was jailed in 1981 after admitting to 13 murders and the attempted murder of seven other women between 1978 and 1980. He was later ruled criminally insane and committed to Broadmoor secure hospital.