More than 80 officers backed by search dogs and air support are looking for Tia Sharp, 12, who went missing last Friday, police said on Wednesday.Neil Basu, the Metropolitan police commander for south-east London, said that officers had viewed more than 120 hours of 800 hours of CCTV footage so far, adding: "It is incredibly time-consuming but it is a vital line of inquiry."More film is likely to be collected and officers are widening a search of woods, buildings, lock-ups and garages within 500m of Tia's grandmother's home in New Addington, south-east London, where she was last seen on Friday.Basu said: "At a very similar age to Tia, my eldest son went missing for two hours. It was, still is, the worst two hours of my life. I cannot imagine how it must feel for this family after more than five days."Tia seemingly vanished without trace on Friday after telling relatives she was going to the Whitgift Centre in Croydon town centre.It is thought the schoolgirl, from Mitcham in south-west London, was last seen at the house where her grandmother Christine Sharp, 46, lives with her partner Stuart Hazell, 37.Basu praised the generosity and commitment of local volunteers who have been helping look for Tia. He said he had redirected officers put aside for Olympics duty towards the search and there were currently 80 officers working on the case, half of them detectives, the others specialist search officers.He added that 300 calls had been made to the Met's incident room and 60 possible sightings reported. A witness has made a signed statement that they saw Tia leaving her grandmother's house at about midday on Friday.Basu said the police could not be absolutely sure who last saw Tia. Police have previously said the last person to see her, as far as they know, was Hazell.He said the investigation remained a missing persons inquiry, with no suspects, adding: "I am looking to find Tia safe and well. The family want Tia home, they miss her dreadfully."Earlier a police dog and handlers were seen entering her grandmother's home. The Sun newspaper has offered a £25,000 reward for information that leads to Tia being found.Volunteers are continuing to hand out missing posters to passing motorists.Candles and tealights have been left at a makeshift vigil set up at a bus stop near Tia's grandmother's house, along with hand-written messages asking for the schoolgirl to be brought home. Tia's biological father Steven Carter told the Evening Standard he believed she was still alive.The 30-year-old, who moved from New Addington to Northampton 10 years ago, said he had put out a candle for her at a vigil because he associated burning candles with death.He said: "At the candle lighting David Niles (Tia's stepfather) lit the candle for me."We're good friends, he was the one who told me this was happening. I don't like the idea – candles for me mean death – so I blew mine out."When she is home and safe, I'll relight mine."The Met's incident room can be contacted on 0208 721 4005.