The Home Office was accused of "opening the door to trial by tabloid" yesterday after it rejected the application of Maxine Carr, the former girlfriend of the Soham killer Ian Huntley, for early release.She will not be given a second chance to apply and will remain in Holloway prison until May at the earliest before being released to an address where she can be protected from vigilante attacks. Martin Narey, chief executive of the new National Offender Management Service, said he took the decision because of the risk to her safety if she returned to live in Grimsby. He said that, in view of "the huge adverse publicity" her possible release had already attracted, it would undermine public confidence in the early release scheme if she left prison so soon after the trial. Carr, 26, was sentenced in December to three and a half years for conspiring to pervert the course of justice after Huntley murdered Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. She has been in prison since August 2002, and became eligible for early release in January on the recommendation of her prison governor. But the prisons minister, Paul Goggins, announced that the rules were being changed so that high-profile cases could be referred to Mr Narey for a final decision. The governor of Holloway, Ed Willets, approved her request to be released with an electronic tag on the home detention curfew [HDC] scheme. Mr Narey overturned the decision yesterday. "Although not charged with murder, your offence was considered so closely related to the events surrounding the murder of the two girls and the police investigation that followed that you were tried jointly with Ian Huntley," he said in his letter to Carr. "Your conviction for conspiring with Ian Huntley to pervert the course of justice connects you indelibly with this case and with the public outcry that has accompanied it. "For this reason the possibility of your early release on HDC has attracted, and continues to attract, huge adverse publicity. "I have therefore concluded that for the above reasons your release on HDC, so soon after the trial has ended, would undermine public confidence in the HDC scheme." Carr's solicitors, Lewis James, said they were disappointed, adding: "We are in the process of considering the reasons for his decision before making any further announcement as to Miss Carr's future intentions." Canon Michael Hunter, rector of St James parish church in Grimsby, said it was a sad day for natural justice and added that her return to the town would have caused problems but she should have been allowed to do so. "We ought to be absolutely clear that Maxine Carr had nothing to do with the murder of Holly and Jessica and her only crime was to lie to the police and stand by her partner. "I think it would seem the lynch mob mentality within public opinion has prevailed and the Home Office has buckled under its weight." Juliet Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust said the decision created a dangerous precedent which made nonsense of the carefully conducted risk assessments involved in the scheme and opened the door to trial by tabloid. Harry Fletcher of Napo, the probation officers' union, said if Carr's risk assessment had been carried out in January there would have been no need to change the rules for political reasons, because clearly there were risks to her safety from vigilante attacks. "When she is released in May, there will have been time to put measures in place to protect her identity and maximise her safety." So far 3,500 offenders have been released up to 135 days early under HDC. Mr Goggins urged prison governors this week to make greater use of it, to ease prison overcrowding, and promised that ministers would back their judgment.