A schoolgirl aged under 10 was raped by a stranger as she slept in bed at home in Essex, police said today.Senior officers described the attack, which happened in Basildon between 9.30pm on Wednesday and 8am on Thursday, as "every parent's nightmare". They said the girl was being interviewed and cared for by specialist officers. Five other children, as well as the victim's mother, were in the house at the time of the attack, and police said they were also being interviewed and comforted.Scientists were examining examples of material taken from the home in the hope of discovering the attacker's DNA. The girl, whose exact age and identity cannot be disclosed for legal reasons, has also given police a description of the man who attacked her. "We are investigating a stranger rape of a schoolgirl under the age of 10 in her Basildon home," Chief Inspector Graham Carey told reporters. "It is an horrendous incident for the family and for the victim." Detectives said they could find no obvious signs of a forced entry to the house. They said the child told her mother about the attack early on Thursday, and were trying to establish how much time had elapsed between the attack and her mother being informed. They have not given specific details about where in the house the other children were sleeping, or whether the girl might have screamed. "During interviews over the last 24 hours with the girl, she has been able to provide us with a description that we are now issuing," Chief Inspector Carey said."She has described the man as black, aged about 18 to 20 with black hair, possibly Afro style. She says he had dirty teeth with possibly one distinctive clean tooth. "She has described him as being skinny and as wearing a grey top with lots of darker writing over it and loose fitting ripped trousers. On the trousers, she describes a belt with a metal loop of chain which hangs down to one side. We think the trousers are probably designer trousers."The attacker may also have been carrying a bag. She did not recognise her attacker. "This is such a serious incident that Essex police would happily deal with hundreds of wrong answers that can be eliminated as long as the one right answer comes to them."· Anyone who recognises the girl's description of her attacker is asked to contact 01268 532212.