Thirteen men, all of Somali origin, have been jailed after being convicted of the systematic sexual abuse of vulnerable girls in Bristol.The victims, some of whom were in local authority care, were groomed and passed around by their abusers – often for money – and assaulted in homes, parks and a hotel.Six of the men, most of whom are in their early 20s, were jailed in the summer for offences including rape, paying a child for sex and arranging or facilitating payments for sexual offences against a child.Another seven were convicted this week of offences including rape, causing or inciting child prostitution, sexual acts with children and trafficking.They were jailed for between two and 11 years on Friday.They included drug dealer Said Zakaria (also known by the street name Target), 22, who was sentenced to 11 years. He raped a 13-year-old girl twice at a Bristol hotel before handing her on to a second man to be raped again. On the same night he took her to a flat where she was sexually abused by a third man, a stranger.Mohamed Jumale, 24, who was jailed for 10 years, had groomed the 13-year-old rape victim since the age of 11. She lost her virginity with him under a bridge on a cycle way and he coerced her into having sex with other men, telling her it was his culture.Judge Julian Lambert told the men: “You have all brought deep shame on your families, along with all the damage you have done. You were all brought up to know what proper standards of behaviour are. As well as deep, deep concerns for the victims of your crimes, I also have some concern for your families, who are not responsible for your actions. You are.”Bristol crown court heard that many of the victims, including the 13-year-old, believed they were the girlfriends of their abusers. Lambert told Jumale: “Love flowed only one way and was reciprocated only with lust on your part.“You persuaded your girlfriend to have sex with three different men, including your brother. What you did was akin to causing a form of prostitution. To say you took advantage would be a significant understatement. You preyed on her affection for you in a highly cynical way.”Turning to Zakaria, the judge said: “While at the hotel you raped a 13-year-old girl twice, once in the bedroom and once in the bathroom. When you didn’t get the sex you hoped for you took it by force. That force was significant.“Your victim was injured as a consequence of your forceful lust. The repeated humiliation of a small 13-year-old girl was completed in a rough, callous and very nasty manner. You behaved without humanity and simply took what you wanted, leaving your victim totally humiliated and bleeding.”A serious case review will examine whether more should have been done to protect the girls. Ten girls made allegations about the men but Avon and Somerset police said they were actively pursuing nine other investigations, involving suspects from various communities and ethnic backgrounds. The Guardian has learned that 49 suspects and 48 victims are involved.Avon and Somerset police have said the case has similarities with large-scale child exploitation cases in places such as Oxford and Rochdale, where men of Asian heritage have been found guilty of abuse.This is the first time members of the Somali community have been convicted of such abuse.Police said they were alive to the possibility that the case, which has caused huge concern in Bristol, could prompt hate attacks.Teachers have been briefed and some teachers at inner-city schools have claimed that it is not uncommon for schoolgirls to boast about being paid for sex. The case has also sent shockwaves through the Somali community in Bristol.Children’s charity Barnardo’s continues to care for some of the victims. Hugh Sherriffe, the director for Barnardo’s in the south-west and Midlands, said the case was the “tip of the iceberg”, adding that such abuse was going on across the UK and more needed to be done to stop it.The case could only be reported this week after reporting restrictions were lifted.