A burly policeman caught on video as he apparently punched and kicked a defenceless man after a row faces dismissal if complaints by the victim are upheld.The officer and a colleague, who watches on the amateur film as unemployed joiner Chris Wilson reels back from the blows, have been confined to desk duties and face an independent inquiry. The astonishing video clip, covertly shot by a neighbour as he hid behind net curtains, is being studied by the police complaints authority. Reminiscent of the notorious Rodney King case in Los Angeles, it appears to show the West Yorkshire officer in a yellow jacket laying mercilessly into 5ft 7ins Mr Wilson, before handcuffing him and dragging him by his hair to a patrol car. The film was described as "amazing - unlike anything I've seen before" by solicitor Andrew Marsden, a specialist in complaints against the police, who is handling Mr Wilson's case. He said yesterday: "The footage is extremely damning and we want to see the officer disciplined. The video says it all - it is pretty graphic and seems to have captured everything on tape." Mr Wilson said the alleged attack followed his initial refusal to let the officers into his bedsit in Wakefield, West Yorkshire, after a 999 call about car windows being smashed in the street outside. The officers wanted to question friends drinking with Mr Wilson, but he went out to tell them the group had not been involved. "My friends and I were not to blame so I walked out to speak to the police and shut the door behind me. It was then that one got aggressive with me," he said. "He had no reason to attack me. I've never seen him before. I'd done nothing wrong and I wasn't under arrest. "I wasn't resisting arrest or showing any violence. I did nothing to provoke him. I did n't lash out or lunge at him or do anything at all. I'm not a violent person." Mr Wilson, who was treated for a bruised jaw after spending the night in a police cell, has five convictions for theft, burglary and taking a car without consent. But he said the most recent offence was five years ago and none had involved violence. Mark Goodwin, 21, a music student who rents a flat opposite Mr Wilson, said he grabbed his camera when he realised "something odd was happening over the road". He initially filmed from his upstairs window, but edged back when the alleged beating began. He said: "Suddenly it turned ugly. I saw the policeman lashing out. I couldn't quite believe it. I have never witnessed anything like it before. The officer kicked him and punched him three times. I was pretty shaken - in fact I remained pretty shaken all night. "I tried to keep back because they only had to glance up to see me, and I didn't know what might happen then - whether they'd try to confiscate the film or anything." The film shows little of what went on before the alleged attack, and nothing of the altercation between Mr Wilson and the officer. West Yorkshire police issued a brief statement yesterday confirming that a formal complaint had been received and voluntarily referred to the PCA. A spokesman said: "Neither officer has been suspended but both have been withdrawn from duties which might bring them into contact with the public." Mr Wilson was held overnight in a police cell and charged with being drunk and disorderly, but the charge was dropped a few days later. Mr Marsden said writs would be issued against West Yorkshire police alleging assault, false arrest, wrongful imprisonment and malicious prosecution. "No police officer is above the law. If someone handed out a beating like that in Wakefield city centre there is no doubt he would be prosecuted and that is what I want to see happen to this officer." Related articles19.07.2001: Police crime detection rates fall to new low18.07.2001: First the shooting, now the questions17.07.01: Mother denies shot son was threat17.07.01: Appeal for calm after police shoot man dead in BrixtonUseful linksVideo of alleged attack - Sky newsWest Yorkshire policeAssociation of Chief Police Officers