Home secretary David Blunkett, commenting on today's annual crime statistics, said that people would need to feel that crime had fallen before they believed that the government had made a difference. And he stressed the government's desire to nurture feelings of security by putting record numbers of high-visibility police on the streets backed up by community support officers.In part the idea is borrowed from United States criminologists George Kelling and James Wilson. They argued that making the police join the public on the pavements put them in proximity and at the same speed as local residents. This allowed the public to talk to them, pass on information and express what is bothering them. The public in turn felt that it was contributing to police work. "The essence of foot patrols is that they reinforce the informal control mechanism of the community itself," they wrote. However, if officers should be on foot then so should the public. If Mr Blunkett is to borrow the idea he must borrow the whole of it to deliver effective community policing. This will require him to lean on his colleagues in the Department of Transport to ensure that its policies favour pedestrians and encourage walking. People give a wide range of reasons for avoiding walking, among which are car ownership, distance involved, concerns over security, physical ability, time, state of the streets and the weather. It all depends upon whom you ask, when you ask them and where they live. In one DTLR study of major cities, one in three residents didn't feel safe walking alone in their area even during daylight. Personal safety is known particularly to influence the decisions of older people, women and members of minority ethnic communities. Their freedom to use the streets is increasingly becoming a product of either crime or the fear of crime. The 2001 British crime survey reveals that a significant minority avoid going out alone after dark, or avoid certain areas or types of people because of fears for their personal security. But as the streets have become more deserted and people walk them less, crime - including street crime - has increased. Between 1986 and 1998, the average number of walking trips fell from 328 to 288 per year. Between 1986 and 1995 there was an annual 3% increase in British crime survey recorded crime. The trends have prompted researchers to investigate the self-policing impact of people walking the streets. The results showed that pedestrians provide the eyes and ears of the street. They report crime, provide witnesses to crimes, support the police in building their prosecution cases, attend court to give evidence and thus enable the police to secure convictions. Pedestrians provide natural surveillance. Home Office-funded studies have confirmed that graffiti happens more on the top deck of buses, that telephone boxes are vandalised more when they are out of sight of passers-by, and that there are fewer thefts from short-stay than long-stay car parks. In one district of south London, researchers found that the risk of being mugged appeared not to be related to the number of people but the rate of flow of pedestrians along the streets. Muggers chose locations with enough of a flow of people to guarantee a victim but avoided places where the flow might produce someone who would intervene. More surprisingly, it has been shown that pedestrians can act to reduce crime by acting as "place managers" for their neighbourhoods. These place managers could be the postman, residents who walk to the local shops or even owners walking their dogs. These people interact with other residents and in doing so break down the anonymity of places that is attractive to criminals. When people withdraw from the life of the street, the space becomes available either to the criminal or anti-social elements or alternately the empty space increases the fear of crime for those still walking. When pedestrians use the space in sufficient numbers, other people report feeling more confident in going outdoors. In numerous neighbourhoods, attempts are now under way to take space back through active citizen groups patrolling their streets. Traditional policing has been focused upon the external threat. Planners, architects and developers have responded with gated estates surrounded by high walls. The objective is to exclude people or at least monitor their movement. This approach has had its successes; the concierge system in high-rise blocks of flats is one example, or the demarcation of public space from private space to signify oversight or ownership (using rumble strips or picket fences). The people living in such enclaves may feel safer, but eventually they will need to go out. There are more than 130,000 full-time police officers but they are required to deal with the 5.5 million crimes reported last year. Vast though this crime figure is, it still represents only about 60% of all crimes. The police on the beat are required to provide supervision of close to 60 million people, 24 million homes, 27 million vehicles and tens of millions of possessions. According to surveys, there are three factors which encourage people to walk on the street: the retention of post offices, chemists, food shops, etc, within a 15-minute walk; the provision of well connected streets with safe crossings; and the maintenance of unobstructed pavements that are well lit, wide enough to take a wheelchair and free from hazards. The DTLR could influence this self-policing by investing in enhanced street lighting, pavement maintenance and traffic reduction policies that encourage more walking. They could join these policies up in the forthcoming national walking strategy.  · Philip Connolly is London manager of Living Streets, whose conference Streets of Fear or Streets of Fun takes place in Manchester this Saturday. www.livingstreets.org.uk