This debate is about justice and the community. There are no more important issues in a democracy.I thank Joan Walmsley and all the members of the federal policy working party and our staff for their work, and formally move motion F27 on our conference agenda.I think it's fair to say that in the last 12 months, those of us dealing with home affairs have not had an entirely calm and quiet year - again! Who has the final control over the police? How much power should the courts have over our ministers? Who can transfer what information about us? And what rights should people in Britain have not to be detained without trial, or deported without a hearing? These are matters that should concern us all.  I'll tell you something from observation at close quarters. David Blunkett, like Jack Straw before him, is not "one of us".  After much careful consideration, I've reached a clear conclusion. Neither of them is a liberal. And we do not have a liberal government.  It's not that I don't like them personally. It's just so many of their policies which are so worrying.  The militant tendency may have disappeared. But the authoritarian tendency has certainly arrived.  Everybody ought to be worried. Off the back of proper concerns about national and international security, we are in danger of being led, pushed, bullied and frightened into a society where some fundamental rights are seriously under threat, and privacy is irredeemably forfeited, whether to a state motivated by power, or to private companies motivated by profit. We don't believe it is a sufficient defence to say that those who have nothing to hide, have nothing to fear.Liberal Democrats say that the family language of the kitchen table, the shopping habits of the parents, and the telephone conversations of the teenagers should not be the business of the state.It is worse when the government appears to make policy on the hoof.  We should not have policies drawn up in 6 hours, debated for 6 days, and lasting for 6 months.  We need policy which is principled, not populist. We need calm, considered and consistent legislation.  It is time we had a Ministry of Justice, not more proposals for injustice.  It is time we had a Home Office of order, not a Home Office in disorder.  Things were not like this when Roy Jenkins was home secretary.  It is time for a Home Office with liberal and social democratic ministers at the helm again.Policy paper 51 and today's motion set out our stall ahead of the big law and order debates of the coming year.  For Liberal Democrats, a core principle of criminal justice is that it should be rooted in the community, responding to the needs of the community, influenced by the priorities of the community.  If justice is not done locally and seen to be done locally, the public will become increasingly disaffected by the process altogether. From record levels, crime is at last going down. But violent crime is again going up. We set out in this paper, policies to deal with the underlying social causes of crime. I just want to highlight a couple.  If we have no good local youth work, we're asking for trouble from energetic young people with time on their hands.  If we have no effective strategies for preventing alcoholism and other drug abuse, we soon have more addiction, more crime and more social problems on our doorstep. But as well as being effective in dealing with the causes of crime, we must be effective in our community efforts against crime itself. Against anti-social behaviour - not the most serious crimes, but aggravating, wearing, diminishing people's quality of life, threatening their mental health, undermining people's sense of community. And we must be much more effective in dealing with crimes of violence. Serious assaults on other people are always unacceptable. Gratuitous violence against strangers is particularly abhorrent. It doesn't matter whether it comes from the street robber or the terrorist bomber. And alcohol or other drugs may be the reason but are never the excuse. We have a duty to the public to be very clear about our principles.  We have become an extremely impatient, intolerant, and violent society. It is time for Liberal Democrats to prioritise policies and campaigning against violence.  If offences are committed, the courts should ask this question first:  Is this a violent or a non-violent offence?  If serious and violent, the perpetrator should expect a custodial sentence.  If serious but non-violent, the courts should presume that this is best dealt with by alternatives to custody.  Cheque fraud may be wrong, but it is not in the same league as stabbing somebody. A custodial sentence should also be expected after conviction for causing death or serious injury by reckless driving, for those peddling hard drugs or child pornography, and for those who interfere with the course of justice, for example by threatening jurors or witnesses. Policing is never an objective in itself.  The object of any anti-crime policy must be to reduce the number of crimes, to reduce the number of victims, and to reduce the number of people who reoffend.  In doing these we will reduce the fear of crime as well.  One of the ways of doing this is through good policing.  Liberal Democrats believe that we should have more police, more visible police, and more effective police. Every job that can be done by civilians should be. Only by redirecting the efforts of officers can we achieve what many police forces are still singularly failing to achieve - a high level of clear-ups. There should also be no community without a police officer who is committed to them by contract for a minimum of three years and whose work is directed by them. And if we are to break out of the revolving door of a significant number of people committing offences over and over again, then we need to increase the effectiveness of prison and the effectiveness of alternatives to prison. We need to build up the probation service and the opportunity for effective work by the probation service. And we need to work on the presumption that with the exception of violent offenders, the best punishment is a punishment in the community, benefiting the community and the individual at the same time, and teaching individuals, in a managed way, how better to respect each other. The government would often have us believe that the objective of reforms to the criminal justice system should be to increase the number of convictions. Change the process here, reduce the rights of the defendant there, many more people who go to court will be convicted, and everybody will be happy. But the current failure is not that once people get into court they do not get convicted. Three out of four crimes across the country (seven out of eight in London) never result in anybody being convicted at all. If we haven't prevented the crime in the first place then the principal improvement needed is to detect and charge and deal with the person who committed it. We must increase people's confidence to give evidence and be witnesses too. A small change which reduces the rights of a person who is a defendant may seem quite insignificant against the background of the whole of the criminal justice system. Small in the national scheme of things maybe, but it could have devastating effects on the life of the individual adversely affected. The prime minister is fond of saying the greatest miscarriage of justice is when the guilty go free. But the greatest miscarriage of justice is not when the guilty go free but when the innocent are convicted. And that is why I urge you strongly to support amendment number three. The jury or magistrates must convict on the facts of the individual case, not on highly likely presumptions drawn from how someone behaved in the past. I hope Liberal Democrats will remain strongly opposed to any change in the rules that prohibit disclosure of previous convictions.  And we must decide whether to resist the superficial attractions of another change in the law - which would allow people acquitted once of a serious charge, even with safeguards, to be tried for that offence again.  At a stroke, this would mean a fundamental change in another principle of justice in this country.  Ministers' attitudes, policies and proposals are also in danger of undermining the independence of our courts.  Parliament decides maximum sentences. But it must be for independent judges, not party political ministers, to decide what particular punishment fits what particular crime. The independence of the judges, Mr Blunkett, is not the enemy of political progress.  The independence of the judges is the defence of people in this country who have no written constitution to defend them against the potential tyranny of the authorities and the abuse of power by the state. And if the criminal justice process is to be respected and valued to the full, it is imperative that it is rooted in the community.  That is why Liberal Democrats believe strongly in maximising the involvement of lay people in the criminal justice system. Local residents should serve on juries in the upper courts and as lay magistrates in the lower courts.  That is why Liberal Democrats defend strongly the continuation of the right to choose jury trial for serious offences - and I urge conference to reject amendment one which seeks to reduce this for complex fraud.  And that is why I urge you conference to retain our current progressive policy for giving victims and their families an equal opportunity to have a say in the criminal justice process after conviction, as well as allowing the defendant or their representative to explain their circumstances to the court. For us there is no contradiction between defending the rights of victims and upholding the rights of defendants.  This is important not least because many of the people who start life as victims go on to become the defendants. You or I, conference, or our neighbour or best friend, might be the victim one year and the defendant the next. We believe in the possibility of reformation and rehabilitation.  We do not believe that the mistakes of children must automatically be held against them throughout their adult life.  We do not accept that there is no possibility, with the right treatment, to cure or minimise much addiction to drink or drugs, or no possibility to cure or minimise many cases of sickness of the brain or the mind.  It must therefore be a fundamental principle of sentencing that as much if not more help and support is given to an offender when they return into the community as they received while they were inside.  We must end the nonsense of sending so many people to prison who should not be there at all, so many for less than 12 months when almost no rehabilitation can be done, and so many for more than 10 years, after which people become institutionalised. Otherwise we risk continuing to give many prison sentences which are of little use to the prisoner and even less use to society.  And unless we educate, and give training and work opportunities to those who have their liberty taken away, we are condemning ourselves to minimising the chances of them being productive and law abiding members of society after release. Every year Liberal Democrats are getting closer to being in government. Every year we are more ready for government. The Conservatives at the moment are by their own admission a policy-free zone.  Liberal Democrats are a policy-rich party.  Liberal Democrat policy is based on principle and evidence.  We don't come to the public with knee-jerk reactions and short term solutions. Conservatives are an old party, now stalled, and casting about for a new direction.  Liberal Democrats are a new party, but built on a hugely impressive liberal tradition. We know our direction. We are clear about our convictions. We will defend freedoms, and justice, and community. Defence of civil liberty and justice for all our community are not mutually exclusive but inseparable.  But we must be blunt with our warning. Those who perpetrate violence against fellow human beings are undermining our development as a civilised society.  We will always work for rehabilitation and reform. But we will never let either the thuggish individual or the tyrannical government abuse their power at the expense of others.  Liberal democracy must be compassionate, but it must also be strong. I ask you to support the motion.