There were no sightings of Shannon Matthews, no fingerprints to work on or images of suspects. In the end, it was the sound of small footsteps through a ceiling that led police to the missing nine-year-old girl, hidden in an upstairs flat overlooking the former textile mills of Batley Carr.At 12.30pm yesterday, four police vans converged on 26 Lidgate Gardens - less than a mile from Shannon's home - acting on a tip-off from a neighbour who had heard the shuffling above. Officers did not stop to ring or knock but battered in the blue door and ran upstairs.At first the flat appeared empty, but neighbours told police that the owner - believed to be the uncle of the girl's stepfather - never left the flat without his car. The car was still parked outside.Forcing their way into a bedroom they found Shannon hidden in the storage drawer of a divan bed. The man was reported to be in the bed's second drawer.Minutes later, the girl emerged from the flat. Witnesses said she looked upset but calm, and was clinging to the neck of one of the officers. Another shouted: "We've got her." With those words West Yorkshire police brought to a close what they have described as the largest investigation of its kind since the hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper, and ended an agonising 24-day wait for the girl's family and friends."We knew right off it was Shannon," said David Hughes, 46, who saw the police operation. "I asked the copper though and he said: 'Yes, it's her and she's all right.'"Moments later a thin, pasty-faced 39-year-old man was hustled from the house in handcuffs with officers half-dragging and half-carrying him. "He was refusing to walk - had his legs curled up behind him," Hughes said. "I started hurling abuse at him then, cos of all this time we've been waiting for Shannon."The man was "whingeing and complaining and telling police 'You're hurting me, you're hurting me'," Hughes said.Neighbours of the suspect, who was in custody last night and is thought to be connected to Shannon's extended family, said he appeared to live on his own and had been behaving normally recently.Hughes had bumped into him before his dramatic arrest. "Just this morning he got out of his car down here with his shopping and I said 'Morning' and he said 'Morning' back."Another neighbour, Ilyas Nurat, whose house looks across a slope towards the flat where Shannon was found, said the arrested man often behaved oddly.Other neighbours said the man had two daughters aged 10 and 12, but had lost custody of them after splitting with his wife two years ago.The father of an 11-year-old on the small estate, who gave his name as Sean, said: "My girl invited the two of them up to play out in our garden, but he wasn't having it. He used to keep a really strict eye on them - they'd go out to the shops and he'd be right behind them. They were always very well dressed and neat, and he was always with them."Ashraf Dadiwallah who runs the local newsagent's on Upper Road, said of the arrested man: "He came in here regular to buy his paper, and there'd never been any sign of anything funny going on." His son Ibrahim, who delivers a paper every day to No 28, next door, said: "No one ever saw a little girl or anything like that. It's a complete surprise."Until yesterday, Shannon had not been seen since 3.10pm on February 19, leaving school wearing pink furry boots. There had also been unconfirmed reports from schoolfriends that Shannon was seen elsewhere in the area. One suggested she had been sitting on a wall, in tears, clutching a plastic bag containing her swimming kit.Last night a West Yorkshire police spokesman said Shannon was in protective custody having been made subject of an emergency police protection order. "This may be a long process, but throughout this inquiry our main focus has been and continues to be Shannon's welfare," he said. "This will remain in place until we have had time to establish the full facts of what happened in the time since her disappearance."The search for Shannon was exhaustive; police scoured the council estate and surrounding moorland and combed through more than 2,000 homes.Half of the UK's victim recovery dog teams had been dispatched to West Yorkshire to search for traces of blood. Detectives have contacted more than 1,000 known sex offenders within a 25-mile radius, and, from the outset, were open to the possibility that somebody close to Shannon could be responsible for her disappearance.As hopes dwindled the spotlight turned on Shannon's family; the talk was of whether the girl's family - in particular her stepfather Craig Meehan - had any involvement in her disappearance.Less than 24 hours before Shannon was found, her mother, Karen Matthews, seemed despondent. Sitting on her sofa, she leafed through the morning papers looking for pictures of her daughter. It was a daily routine she had stuck to ever since Shannon disappeared.As she turned the page to pictures of her daughter's smiling face, she said: "It will be somebody who knows me really well. Otherwise she'd have been found by now."Last week Karen Matthews' brother, mother and father heightened speculation after they said they wanted to "put on the record" their concerns about Meehan, 22. They said Shannon may have wanted to escape from Meehan, who they suggested had a history of harming the children.Shannon's grandmother, June, 64, described an occasion when she found a grandchild crying at the top of the stairs. "I asked what had happened and the child said 'Craig, punch, punch, punch. He punched my belly'." Their comments put those close to her on the defensive. Karen Matthews said she was upset with her parents' intervention. Meehan, who was questioned by police, repeatedly denied harming his stepchildren and ruled out any involvement in Shannon's disappearance.He told the Guardian: "If they get told off, they normally get sent to their bedrooms to calm down, then they're fine. We don't hit them, not like that, no. It's like they were saying in the papers - that on the Monday morning there was supposed to be a row between me and Shannon, that Monday morning. I was at work at five o'clock in the morning, so I don't see how that's possible. So we knew that were a lie from start off. My friends and family have all backed me up, and they know all the allegations were rubbish."He added: "Basically I'm in the clear now - all my alibis were true. That Tuesday [when Shannon disappeared] I was in until the police officers came round. Then me, my brother-in law, my cousin and my mate went out searching. I live in this family - why would I want to do it for? I love Karen and I love the kids - everybody knows that. I know she's my stepdaughter. But I always treated her like my own flesh and blood."Under the strain, the couple had stopped speaking to some reporters - a move which their supporters feared would damage publicity for campaign.With little news from police, Karen Matthews and Meehan started pushing the theory that Shannon was abducted to get at them personally.They talked about the idea that they were victims of some kind of vendetta. "They are waiting for us to split up, and then they'll release her," Karen said.Meehan, his arm wrapped around her shoulder, agreed. "Seems that way: that somebody has took her to get back at us." But with a family feud erupting in public, it was the couple who appeared defensive. Shannon's uncle Neil, 36, who lived next door, said he was unsurprised the media tone had turned sour."It was like the sunshine before the storm: everybody was all sympathy and all that, at the start, and then it turns to finger wagging," he said.Their campaign looked to be falling apart. Outside their window, a row of flowers donated by well-wishers were rotting into the rubbish-strewn lawn.Neighbours, who stuck by the couple throughout the ordeal, had promised to replant the front garden with fresh flowers.Hours before Shannon was found, Julie Bushby, chair of the estate's tenants' association and de facto leader of the missing Shannon appeal, promised that the local community would not flinch in the face of accusatory stories in the press. "I call it 'Shannon versus Maddie [McCann]' - they've tried that angle - hasn't bothered us. They tried the angle 'Let's have a go at Craig' - hasn't bothered the community. At the end of the day, we know Craig better than you lot do, and if you want to slag us off - I mean they've even slagged the community off - go for it. We'll rise above it - simple as."There was a stoicism behind almost every door of the estate. The response to questions about the couple was almost always the same: this was, they said, not about the parents, but a missing little girl.Most of the Dewsbury Moor estate was celebrating last night; a huge drift of ripped-up posters and leaflets swamped the play area outside the community centre."It's the best thing in the world," said Steve Cheshire, sharing beers with two friends, Rachel Hoodless and Gary Install, who had spent days searching for the missing schoolgirl with other local volunteers."We've made thousands of these posters and raised thousands of pounds too, which isn't easy for a community like this. But there's nothing better than being able to rip them all up and say: we don't need you any more. We've got her back."TimelineFebruary 19 Shannon is seen leaving Westmoor Junior school in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, at 3.10pm after swimming lessons. She is later reported missing by her mother, Karen Matthews. Police launch an all-night search of the local area. February 20 Karen Matthews, issues appeal for her daughter to return home. Posters distributed and posted around the neighbourhood. 200 officers and scores of local people spend a second night scouring gardens, parks and buildings. Shannon's friends from school release a YouTube video appeal.February 21 More than 250 officers and 60 detectives join the hunt. Several unconfirmed sightings, one of which is described as "significant". More than 200 houses within a half mile radius are searched. School friends claim Shannon talked of running away, police reveal. She is described as vulnerable and certainly not "streetwise".February 22 CCTV footage is released and photos of pink and grey Bratz boots Shannon was wearing when last seen. Shannon's natural father, Leon Rose, says his daughter may have tried to get to his home in nearby Huddersfield.February 23 Police dredge a pond behind Dewsbury hospital and search Dewsbury Moor.February 24 Police focus on areas close to the family home.February 25 50 specialist officers scour bins between Shannon's school and the family home.February 26 2,000 houses searched, 1,500 motorists interviewed.March 1 Karen Matthews makes an emotional Mother's Day appeal for daughter's return.March 4 10% of Yorkshire police force is involved in the hunt - the biggest since the Yorkshire Ripper. A composite fingerprint and DNA profile of Shannon is built up from school books and items in her bedroom.Shannon's stepfather, Craig Meehan, denies any involvement in her disappearance.March 5 Police release a tape of Karen Matthews' 999 emergency call.March 11 Three weeks after her disappearance, police emphasise there will be no let-up in the operation. Half the UK's specialist search dogs are involved in the hunt.March 12 Shannon's mother says on radio that she believes someone she knows has snatched her daughter to hurt her.March 14 Shannon is found alive in flat in Batley Carr, a mile from the family home.