On the face of it, it seems only right to condemn the 999 switchboard for failing to help 17-year-old Hannah Foster when she was abducted in 2003. Hannah managed secretly to dial 999 when she was forced into a van, only to be cut off for not responding. She was later raped and murdered. At the trial of the accused, Maninder Pal Singh Kohli, the tape was played of Hannah's call, revealing a voice so small and nervous her own mother couldn't recognise her. However, before we all join the witch-hunt of blame and recrimination, maybe we should ask ourselves if we are lunging with our lit torches in entirely the wrong direction.Indeed, I can't have been the only one to read accounts of Hannah's plight, and feel mounting fury, not towards the emergency services but at mobile phone companies. To the extent that I wanted to frogmarch all the industry head honchos over to the court at Winchester to apologise personally to her parents. For, when you think about it, day in, day out, isn't this industry letting us all down? At the very least missing a golden opportunity? Certainly, it has been a week of extremes for communication technology. On the one hand, the news that, in order to combat crime and terrorism, the government plans to 'snoop' on our every phone call, email and text, followed by concerns about loss of privacy, and 'Big Brother watching'. Then along comes Hannah's case, which suggests Big Brother isn't watching half enough - that is, when you want it to.However, can anyone seriously condemn the 999 switchboard for having a time-limit policy? Most of us have received at least one of those annoying calls where the handset has been accidentally activated, and you have to listen to several muffled disembodied minutes of someone shuffling along a street, buying themselves a doughnut, or a newspaper, or whatever.Imagine how often it happens to the 999 switchboard? What are they supposed to do - listen to all of them all the way through? Imagine that public outcry. 'I'm sorry your house burned down with your children in it. All our operators were busy listening to people going home on the tube.'It is yet harder in this case, because poor Hannah was trying to remain calm and make conversation. Stunning courage, but the transcript ('You belong in this country?' 'That's my road ... that's where I live') eerily resembles a routine exchange with a cab driver. Indeed, what is becoming clear here is that Hannah was doing all she could, but so was the 999 operator. To my mind, the problem lay in the palm of that young girl's hand: it was the mobile phone industry that failed Hannah and, by extension, all our children.How many billions have mobile companies made out of phone-crazy teenage girls over the years? Not just in terms of actual phones (pink, silver, glittery - buy, buy, buy!), but all the other marketing-hooks - from phone cases and trinkets, through to texting, instant messaging, Bluetooth, music, video and the rest. Incredible then, that after all this time, all these technological advances, and all those lovely sales, mobile phone companies don't seem to have bothered to research, develop and market simple crucial safety features.Is it really in the realms of science fiction to make good use of the unbreakable, quasi-umbilical link the young have with their mobiles? Install, perhaps, a panic button that could be pressed down hard and continuously, thereby, without the need to speak, alerting the nearest police station to the fact that the caller is in trouble, and showing their exact location. I would buy that for my daughters. Christ, I would buy it for me. More to the point, I thought it up in five minutes - so why, in the five years since Hannah's abduction, haven't the mobile phone companies? Could it be that they have been so busy dreaming up new ways to sell to young girls, they haven't spared a few moments to realise the huge part they could play in protecting them? It might interest them to learn that the majority of parents buy their children phones primarily for safety reasons. Moreover, that, arguably, considering all the money they make out of our young, it is their moral duty to protect them.This is why it is unfair to condemn 999 for a young girl's plight - when a simple standard panic button was the real answer. Ultimately, it was a miracle that Hannah Foster was able to use her phone at all; unforgivable that it wasn't enough to save her.Strictly speaking, John Sergeant is the sexiest thing on legsSiberian dancer Kristina Rihanoff has expressed surprise that her Strictly Come Dancing partner turned out to be 64-year-old John Sergeant. 'I wasn't expecting to get someone old like him,' says the ungracious minx, though she adds that Sergeant is 'special', 'amazing', 'funny'. Careful there, Kristina. Even mild slagging of 'our John' these days might result in more injuries than having your feet mangled during a particularly enthusiastic tango.Interesting, though, that Sergeant has become Strictly's cuddly sex symbol. Like many, I vote for him every week - even though he dances like a squashed toad having its back licked. My theory is that his sanguine mediocrity comes as a relief after the 'professional dancers', whose obscenely wriggly hips serve to remind us that we might be extremely bad in bed. Talking about being bad in bed, some people are even worse out of it. Jack Nicholson, 71, was moaning only last week how he was starting to feel he looked silly, chatting up 20-something women. Just starting, Jack, really? Mind you, what a turn-up. When Sergeant was watching Easy Rider all these years ago, I bet he never dreamt he would end up masterfully squiring the beauteous Kristina, or indeed that one day he would qualify as 'sexier' (if not 'easier') than Jack.Opinion polls have just one draw back - the likes of meJohn McCain's devastating dip in the polls seems to have led to all sorts of speculation. Has Sarah Palin's hockey-mom pit-bull routine lost its lip-gloss lustre? Has America noticed that the Republican candidate in the flesh isn't, well, flesh-coloured? Would it be too ageist to suggest some mortician's rouge before he makes any more TV appearances? Alternatively, the polls could be inaccurate because self-proclaimed 'Obama supporters' vote differently in the privacy of their booths. Then again, maybe the polls are simply inaccurate. And I should know. It is with regret that I admit my own part in Neil Kinnock's downfall during his first election campaign. At the time I was working as a pollster for a market research agency, though I use the term 'working' loosely. In fact, I'm probably using the term 'market research' loosely too, unless it really is arriving two hours late for every shift, mainly drunk or mildly drugged, and lolling about in a booth to make paper planes and chat to bored hookers on sex-lines. However, for all the degeneracy that I was lured into by unscrupulous colleagues, who, by pure coincidence, also happened to be my friends, we were all of a leftish-leaning bent. So imagine the excitement when we got the job of gauging Kinnock's chances. Immediately a plan was hatched - whatever the people we phoned up said, we would fill out the forms to make it seem that Kinnock was the man of their political dreams, and Labour was heading for a landslide. Yeah, man, ran the somewhat woozy rationale, cheer Neil up a bit. In retrospect, we probably didn't think it through. Certainly we didn't realise that this sudden spike of Kinnock popularity would create a media furore. Or that Labour would go on to not one but two crushing defeats.Not that I am suggesting for one moment that the honest US pollsters are fabricating the Obama-surge. Perish that thought. Just that, for obvious reasons, I never take an awful lot of notice of polls. And , sadly, after reading this, probably you won't either.