A 58-year-old assistant at the Victoria and Albert Museum furnished his home with museum pieces over a period of 23 years, the West London magistrate (Mr J. L. Pratt) was told yesterday. The value of the articles was put at £3,500.Mr Pratt committed the assistant, John Andrew Nevin, of Nightingale Close, Chiswick, in custody to London Sessions for sentence, after Nevin pleaded guilty to 25 charges of theft of objets d'art. He asked for 1,935 other charges to be taken into consideration.His wife, Mary Florence Nevin, was also committed in custody for sentence on ten charges of receiving, on dates going back to 1930, property worth £164. Their son, Colin Allan Nevin, aged 23, who faced one charge only, of receiving a £2 ring, was discharged. The prosecution offered no evidence against him.Mr B. M. Stephenson, prosecuting, said two thousand articles belonging to the museum had been taken from Nevin's home by the police. During an interval between two police visits a great many things had been hidden."Inside the bag of a vacuum-cleaner, hidden in the dust, were 21 sword guards and a jade figure. Behind the lagging of the hot-water tank were gilt figures while a large number of very valuable and exclusive watches had been put in a bag inside the water cistern, with the result that they have been ruined."Nevin had furnished all his home with museum property, and when it was taken away there was very little left indeed."Mr Stephenson said that in a statement Nevin wrote: "Taking the things became an obsession as I was attracted by the beauty of them. I don't recollect selling any of them. My wife did not like me bringing them home, but I took no notice of her objections."As soon as the family entered the dock Mr Stephenson said the ring mentioned in the charge against the son had been given to him by his father and there was no evidence that the son knew it had been stolen.Part of the father's duties, said Mr Stephenson, consisted of moving articles in the museum and he worked in rooms from which collections were made up to be lent to other museums. It had been comparatively easy to extract articles without its being noticed. Some were quite big articles, such as a table; legs had been taken off and concealed, possibly down Nevin's trouser-leg, to get them out of the museum.Mr Claude Hornby, defending, said that having regard to certain medical evidence, he thought he would be able at the London Sessions to put the wife's position in a much more favourable light. The magistrate agreed that a medical report should be obtained.Mr Hornby said mitigation would be put forward on Nevins behalf and he might be able to satisfy the Judge that the period over which the articles were stolen was not nearly so long as suggested by the prosecution.