The police complaints authority has found Sussex police guilty of "systemic" failure over its handling of the investigation into the murder of a businessman, Richard Watson.The report will be one of the last from the PCA, which is due to be replaced by an independent police complaints body, and is one of the most critical it has made. One leading lawyer described it as "perhaps the most strongly worded PCA report I've ever seen". Watson was murdered by an unknown gunman outside his home at East Grinstead, Sussex, in December 1996. His wife Linda and stepdaughter Amanda were charged with his murder, but acquitted. The PCA described the prosecution as "ill-founded". Watson's wife, now known as Linda Henderson, said yesterday: "The energies I would have used to fight for my husband's killer to be brought to justice have had to be used to fight for my daughter and myself - two innocent victims who became victims all over again, this time at the hands of Sussex police." Mrs Henderson, a former beauty queen, and her daughter suffered not only the grief and shock of bereavement, but also the trauma of being immediately identified as key suspects. They were questioned for days and, over a period of months, every detail of their private lives was minutely scrutinised. Their house was bugged by police, they suffered the humiliation of unnecessarily public arrests, were thrown into Holloway prison for two weeks, and were vilified in sections of the media. When the case came up at the Old Bailey in June 1998 the prosecution offered no evidence against them. The judge said they left court without a stain on their character. After their acquittal the women contacted the PCA through their solicitor, Jeff Hide. On behalf of the women he itemised 32 areas of complaint, starting from when the original 999 call was made. The investigation was carried out on behalf of the PCA by a team from the Metropolitan police headed by Commander Peter Clarke and Det Ch Insp Ian Delbarre. The completed report has now been sent to Sussex police. Although they have so far refused to disclose it, Duncan Gear, the PCA member dealing with the case, has provided both women with a lengthy summary of its findings. The PCA investigation has concluded: "Sussex police failed to properly investigate the murder of Richard Watson and this arose from a systemic failure by Sussex police." The police case was that Watson had been shot from the balcony of the house, and that this implicated the women. The PCA, however, has found that: "Too much significance was placed upon the belief Richard Watson had been shot from the balcony - the evidence did not justify [this] scenario." Watson had some murky business dealings, and there were a number of very obvious motives for his murder. The PCA concluded that "other lines of inquiry were not adequately pursued and officers failed to keep an open mind". The catalogue of complaints against Sussex police began with the immediate response to the murder. At the time the two women were alone in the house. The police station was less than half a mile away. Yet for almost an hour after the 999 call the police refused to attend the crime scene, in case the gunman was still there. Nor would they allow emergency medical services through, even though, for all they knew, Watson's life could have been saved. In view of the wholesale failings which it identified, the PCA concluded that "it would not be appropriate to institute formal disciplinary proceedings against the junior officers. The main responsibility for the errors identified must rest with Det Supt Paul Westwood in his capacity as senior investigating officer". Mr Westwood, who declined to assist the PCA inquiry, has now retired from the police and is no longer subject to police discipline regulations. His deputy, and the man who took over the investigation after Westwood's retirement, was Det Insp Nicholas Siggs. The investigation found a complaint about his conduct to be "substantiated". It laid the blame for "many" of the errors with Mr Westwood and Mr Siggs. Mr Siggs has also retired from the police and so is similarly outside the scope of disciplinary proceedings. Sussex police said: "We accept that there were serious shortcomings in aspects of the original investigation. We are constantly reviewing our procedures. This kind of review is valuable in highlighting any areas that have been missed. "The investigation of murder is one of the most complex and difficult tasks that the police undertake. Ninety-five per cent of murders in Sussex are solved and the offenders brought to justice. We recognise that in this instance we have not brought whoever was responsible to account." Neither Mr Westwood nor Mr Siggs could be reached for comment. Mr Gear's letter to the dead man's widow concludes by saying: "The central recommendation arising from the investigation into your complaints is that the murder of Richard Watson should be reinvestigated." That is now being done. "We are amazed and saddened," said Mr Hide, "that a police force should have such serious faults in its murder investigation system. We are even more astounded that, having been shown its faults, the force will not even discuss redress, let alone offer a settlement, for the harm it has done." The women will need to bring civil proceedings against the police merely to obtain a copy of the full report. Related story 'To mentally damage people like they have done with Mandy and I - they shouldn't be allowed to do that'