Offenders could avoid being prosecuted if they agree to meet their victims face-to-face and witness the distress they have caused, under government plans announced today.The proposal for so-called "restorative justice", unveiled by the home secretary, David Blunkett, aims to save court time and cut costs. Mr Blunkett claimed the scheme could deliver "faster, more cost effective justice", although he admitted the idea was "radical". A pilot project will be set up to test whether the idea will reduce reoffending. Based on existing youth justice schemes, it will target adult offenders as well as bullying in schools and anti-social behaviour.The project may involve offenders paying compensation to their victims, offering an apology for their actions, undergoing rehabilitation or doing unpaid community work. Mr Blunkett said: "Restorative justice means victims can get an apology from their offender, but it is about more than 'saying sorry' - it provides the victim with an explanation of why the crime was committed. "This is something a prison sentence on its own can never do and can enable victims to move on and carry on with their lives. "It also means that for the first time offenders will be personally held to account for the crimes they have committed."Both the offender and the victim will need to consent to taking part in the scheme, with the perpetrator admitting to the crime. The crown prosecution service will decide if the offender should take part in restorative justice schemes rather than face magistrates. If the offender breaks the rules they could be taken to court in the normal way. The Home Office will publish details of the pilot scheme later this year. It will run for at least a year and examine reconviction rates over the subsequent 18 months. Victims can choose to meet the offender - or question them through a mediator. The home secretary also published the first restorative justice strategy designed to put victims of crime at the heart of the criminal justice system. And a new victims and witnesses strategy will see the creation of a commissioner to champion victims' rights.Mr Blunkett said: "For too long, the needs of victims and witnesses have been overlooked in the criminal justice system. It is time for that to change. "Part of this involves making wider use of restorative justice; an innovative and constructive community based response to crime. "More than 75% of victims who choose to take part in restorative justice are glad they did so."