One-to-one tuition for students who can't read. Compelling classes to teach young men about the challenges of parenthood. Vocational courses that involve hands-on experience running a local radio station.Is this a model school? Where can I apply? Am I in the right catchment area?Forget the questions - this isn't a school, it's Her Majesty's Prison, Wandsworth, where I spent a morning this week, banged up with 1,400 other prisoners.All too often prison comes bottom of politicians' priorities - and education in prison can be the ultimate Cinderella service.It shouldn't be. The facts are stark. Our prison population has reached record levels, with 76,000 inmates, compared to 61,500 in 1997. Almost 70% of prisoners are illiterate. And all the evidence shows that three elements do more than any other to prevent re-offending - secure relationships, employment and access to relevant skills and training.Put this way it is clear that prison education - including guidance about fatherhood, parenting and relationships - is absolutely vital.So, what should we do?Wandsworth is far from being a model prison. It has been harshly criticised by the prisons inspector, continues to face funding difficulties and the in-house prison service team, led by a new and energetic governor, is battling to get a grip.But even one morning inside gives some important pointers about the direction in which we need to go.First - and this may sound odd - we need to build more prisons. Overcrowded jails are the sworn enemy of constructive prison regimes in general, and prison education in particular. If prisoners are locked in their cells for 23 hours a day - and many of them are - they cannot learn and are far less likely to mend their ways.Second, market testing of prisons and involvement of the private sector has been a success. The jolt provided by competition to provide services and the fresh thinking from new operators has meant that everyone has had to raise their game. As a result, more constructive regimes are possible.Third, the prison service and the Home Office need to do all they can to access the expertise of the voluntary sector and social entrepreneurs.For me this was the real lesson from Wandsworth.The Shannon Trust, a small voluntary organisation turning over little more than £100,000, has pioneered a reading programme, called Toe-by-Toe, in which prisoners are trained to teach other prisoners to read.It costs just £70 per prisoner, has a remarkable success rate and deals with one of the most profound problems in our prisons. If you can't read at school, you can't learn. If you can't read in life, careers are blocked, jobs are barred and anger can, and frequently does, mount.Sitting in a room with 40 inmates, some of whom are now fully trained mentors and others well on their way to reading and writing properly, is an inspiring experience. There were no teachers there to explain how they had transformed anyone's life chances - it was prisoners themselves doing the talking about their work, with all the benefits for self esteem that follows.One young prisoner told me with pride how he had recently written his first letter home - a few months ago at a similar session he was sitting in a corner, refusing to participate and trying to harm himself instead.Another voluntary body, Safeguard, was running a parenting programme with similar success. Obviously it is a relief for prisoners to be out of their cells and doing something interesting, but you can tell the difference between taking advantage of some free time and really getting involved in what it means to be a responsible parent and do your duty. For these people it meant admitting that they had been selfish, bad parents - and that's a pretty tough thing to do.There is no simple answer to the most pressing social problems like drug abuse, poor parenting, illiteracy and family breakdown. But it is true to say that in almost every case there is a voluntary body somewhere in the UK, close to the ground, led by inspiring social entrepreneurs that is doing pioneering work and meeting with success.The role of the politician is to ask the right questions. In particular: How can we help you to grow? And what are the barriers to success?I would like to see a step change in the way that the government deals with the voluntary sector.There needs to be more trust - with long-term contracts and better cost recovery, rather than short-term, poorly funded pilot schemes.We need transparency so that government bodies bidding for contracts have to declare costs and staffing in the same way that voluntary bodies do.On occasions the government needs to get out of the way altogether, recognising that the state is failing where the voluntary sector could succeed. As part of this we need to be prepared for some failures from the voluntary sector itself. In business, part of the process of enterprise and innovation is that some projects fail. In the public sphere failure is almost always seen as some form of catastrophe, usually involving corruption. That is wrong.If this sounds anti-public sector, it is not meant to. The truth is that profound problems require politicians to accept that we need an approach of shared responsibility - combining the skills and resources of government, the voluntary sector and business. In the case of prison and crime, we all suffer from the consequences of failure, and so we should harness everyone's ability to achieve success.One business in Wandsworth is Radio For Development, which helps prisoners to operate their own radio station and runs Btec qualifications in production.The last lesson I learnt from my brief time inside is not to give interviews on prison radio. It wasn't the questions they asked me that caused the problem - it was the one I asked them. Who should be Tory leader? "That's obvious", came the reply "Derek from Big Brother."· David Cameron is the Conservative MP for Witney and shadow education secretary