On his position "I intend to serve until January next year. "Who has got the steel to see these things through? If I thought going could somehow draw a line under it, I wouldn't hesitate. I think it would lead to a polarisation, rather than a cathartic process." On his role in the Stephen Lawrence investigation  "Where I could intervene, I can honestly say I have tried to do my very best." "Commissioners do not, cannot, have never, monitored individual cases. Stephen's tragic murder was on a Thursday evening in south London, in my first few weeks as Commissioner.  "The following day, because of the media interest, I immediately realised it was a brutal racist murder. On the Saturday: Bishopsgate's bomb. A man dead. London under threat. So what was I doing at the time of Stephen's death? I was worrying about hundreds of Londoners being blown up by the IRA."  On his appearance at the Stephen Lawrence inquiry  "I wanted to be seen to be exposed to the atmosphere of that challenge. I believe in democracy. It was absolutely right I should experience the animosity and the tension."  On the legacy of the Stephen Lawrence case  "It added to the fears that we were acquiring a racist police force. If anyone says people commit crimes because they are black, then they are bigots, or racists, or both, or fools."  "There is a critical mass, a mood for change in society. For God's sake, good must come out of the tragedy of Stephen Lawrence's death. I passionately want the enduring legacy to be reform."  On racism in the Met  "I have never, never, denied that there was racism in the police service.  And I've spent most of my career trying to fight it. But this is not a debating society or a group of students having a moot. This will set the tone for policing for the next 20 years."  "I hope, pray, anticipate, that the judge will say something very significant around institutional racism. I will embrace that with zeal."  "We've not been indolent. The police service is in a privileged position. We have enormous power to ruin your life or your family's life. We must be a beacon of excellence. We must seek to lead."  On reforming the Met  "There's a management book called Teaching the Elephant to Dance.  "When young elephants are trained, their legs are shackled and they think they can just shuffle along. Then, aged 20, the shackles are taken off. They don't realise they can run or dance. I don't subscribe to the view that big organisations can only make slow progress."  On the Met's new rules  "If anyone says it's a racial incident, it is. Don't piss about."  On the Met after Condon  "I've campaigned for a lot of my autonomy to be taken away. The policing of London is too important to be left to the police." 