The owner of a rural post office was murdered after an armed robbery in which her husband was confronted by a gunman who told him: 'We've got your wife,' detectives revealed today.Shortly before the body of Diane Garbutt was discovered in the upstairs flat of the Village Store and Post Office in Melsonby, near Richmond, North Yorkshire, the gunman demanded cash from her husband, Robin.Police said 40-year-old Mrs Garbutt died from head injuries and her attacker escaped with a substantial amount of cash, thought to be around £10,000.Detective Superintendent Lewis Raw, of North Yorkshire police, who is leading the inquiry, said it was possible the incident was connected to an armed robbery at the same post office 12 months ago."This is a shocking crime which has left Mr Garbutt distraught and the residents of Melsonby very shocked and saddened. Police are determined to bring Mrs Garbutt's killer to justice, however we need the assistance of members of the public who were in the area at the time to come forward," he said.Mr Garbutt, 44, opened the shop at 4.30am yesterday, leaving his wife upstairs. When he opened the post office counter at 8.30am, a man wearing a black mask and carrying a gun came in to the shop from the upstairs flat and confronted him. The gun was in his right hand and down by his side, police said. It is not clear how he managed to enter the flat without her husband noticing."The man threatened Mr Garbutt saying: 'We've got your wife,' " said Raw. He said the robber escaped with the money in a shiny black holdall that also contained a black towel. Police believe the robber may have discarded his mask or clothing and urged anyone who finds such items to contact them. The robber is believed to be 5ft 11in to 6ft tall, wearing a black balaclava, a dark blue, long-sleeved T-shirt and dark blue or black jeans. People living and working around the post office said they did not notice anything unusual until an ambulance and armed police arrived.The store is at the heart of the small village, a few miles north of Richmond. In March last year two men, one armed with what appeared to be a handgun, threatened staff and escaped with stamps and a large amount of cash.Residents said the Garbutts considered leaving the village after the raid and had put the business up for sale before only recently deciding to stay. Linda Ling, who works one day a week in the shop and lives in a nearby cottage said: "A lovely couple, just very devoted, that's all I can say. I feel very sorry for Robin, I don't know how he'll go on without her."She also said she had not seen or heard anything to signal a disturbance: "I opened my curtains around 8.15am and saw the kids waiting for the bus, went to make my bed and then saw the ambulance."Another part-time worker at the shop, Linda Sharp, said: "You just can't believe something like this could happen again."She said the couple were "just lovely, lovely people". "I just don't know what he will do, he absolutely adored her," she said. "Part of her family are in America, it's just horrible."Bill Nixon, who owns the garage opposite the post office, said: "I had a contractor coming to see me. I told him to park his van across the road. Then I had another customer, and within a few minutes I heard the ambulance come. I thought: 'That's strange.' Then all hell broke loose."Villagers told how the couple were due to fly to the US next month for a holiday. At least 30 bunches of flowers were today left outside the post office, which was cordoned off with police tape. Two women, visibly upset as they brought their floral tributes, said the close-knit community was shocked at the death.