"Name and shame" league tables to highlight poorly performing criminal courts are to be announced today by the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer.The tables, to be launched in the autumn, will list a range of indicators, including the percentage of trials that fail to start on the date set, and the average time from arrest to trial. Lord Falconer will unveil the plan among a package of proposals at a criminal justice conference today. Formerly criminal justice minister in the Home Office, Lord Falconer pledged to work with the home secretary, David Blunkett, and the attorney general to overhaul the system, which sees 63,000 trials a year - one in three - fail to go ahead on the date set. He also promised to reform the way defence lawyers are paid, in order to provide financial incentives for those whose clients plead guilty early. At present, he said, those whose clients opt for a trial and then plead guilty at the last minute, wasting court time, are paid more than those who register an early plea. The tables of the 42 court areas in England and Wales will be published this October. Lord Falconer said: "First and foremost the public will see how each area compares with another, and we will seek to provide assistance and support in relation to improving these figures". The lord chancellor, who is said to have got on well with Mr Blunkett while at the Home Office, said: "There is an urgency in the Department for Constitutional Affairs about improving the criminal justice system. I, along with the home secretary and attorney general, am utterly determined to increase confidence in the criminal justice system. "We have to cooperate fully and intensively in making the criminal justice system much more effective. It is a public service and it has to be one the public see as being conspicuously good at what it does." Lord Falconer said the aim would be to get fixed dates for many more trials. By the end of the year, officials are aiming to have seven out of 10 trials in magistrates' and crown courts on a definite date, in seven pilot areas.