Civil liberties and homelessness campaigners last night sharply criticised plans to give the police powers to "shut and seal" all premises, including flats, pubs and clubs, generating yobbish behaviour.The home secretary, John Reid, announced at the Police Federation conference in Blackpool yesterday that the powers would form part of a criminal justice bill to be introduced in the next few weeks, before Tony Blair leaves Downing Street.Mr Reid said the criminal justice legislation - the 54th such bill since Mr Blair came to power - would also include violent offender orders restricting those released from jail. The curbs would affect where such people could live and with whom they could associate.Mr Reid also announced that more police officers would be issued with 50,000-volt Taser stun guns as part of a limited 12-month trial involving specially trained police not already working as authorised firearm officers. He said the trial would involve officers dealing with severe or threatened violence.Mr Reid was booed twice by delegates frustrated at their treatment over pay talks. Jan Berry, Police Federation chairman, warned that feelings were so strong the police might demand the right to take industrial action, and even strike for the first time in nearly 90 years. "Home secretary, the prospect of police picket lines is something I never thought was imaginable, let alone possible," she warned.Mr Reid had apologised for the way pay talks were conducted last year but said he now wanted to see negotiations which ensured police pay scales supported the changing nature of the job and the workforce. "There are no plans to cut pay in real terms," Mr Reid told 1,000 delegates, prompting some booing and a heckle.He said he wanted to extend police powers - rules allowing the temporary closure of crack houses, which have been used more than 500 times since their introduction in 2004 - to "all premises generating yobbish behaviour".An official regulatory impact assessment said these "last resort" powers would be used no more than 50 times a year.But Adam Sampson, of the charity Shelter, said evicting "nuisance neighbours" would simply pass the problem on to another neighbourhood; it would be better to tackle the root causes.Shami Chakrabarti, of Liberty, said: "Making kids homeless because their parents are noisy, and extending punishment for criminals indefinitely, will not only be a future home secretary's headache but yet another shadow on the rule of law.FAQ TasersWhat are they? Weapons that deliver a debilitating electrical charge - 50,000-volt pulses that momentarily paralyse. Range up to 4.5 metres.Why use them? Advocates say they can help in arrests of potentially dangerous people without harming them. Taser International, the Arizona-based manufacturer, claims they "save" hundreds of lives by subduing suspects who might otherwise be shot.How much are they used? Most UK police forces use them. Introduced in 2004, more than 3,000 were sent out to firearms officers. Fired more than 100 times by British police.Does it hurt? Yes. Amnesty International says Tasers cause "intolerable pain". Tom Smith, TI's president, likens it to being hit on the funny bone 20 times harder and all over the body.Are they safe? Opinion is split: 220 people died in the US and Canada after being hit, Amnesty says. A UK trial fired Tasers 58 times "without serious injuries".