Forty years ago the crooner Frankie Vaughan visited a post-war Glasgow housing scheme, Easterhouse, to try to broker a peace deal between the gangs. Next to his famous slurring of Give Me the Moonlight, it may be the thing he is best remembered for.You can watch the black-and-white newsreel on YouTube. There is Vaughan getting off the plane from London - a southern city then at peace; there he is talking to a bunch of young men gathered in a local hall who treat him deferentially, putting their hands up like a well-behaved sixth form when they want to make a point. The commentary declares that Glasgow is "the toughest city in Britain", that the names of the gangs "spell fear for thousands of law-abiding citizens" and that as a result of Vaughan's efforts eight gangs have surrendered their weapons to the police. Glasgow newspapers loved the story, but Glaswegians weren't so sure. Were Vaughan's visits merely a publicity stunt for a flagging career? A common resentment was that, by treating the Toy and the Tong gangs as though they were participating nations in the Treaty of Versailles, he was dignifying and glamorising criminal behaviour that had stained the city's reputation since the 1930s. On the streets of Glasgow you could still see middle-aged men - former "hard men" or "neds" - with long white scars down their cheeks, the result of a quick attack with an open razor. The housing scheme gangs were merely the pale nephews of a bloodier tradition, transferred to the outskirts by inner-city slum demolitions. It was possible to believe they represented the last of an old way of life rather than the beginning of a new. Nobody knew that deindustrialisation, heroin and crack cocaine were waiting at the gates and that Glasgow wasn't so much a social antique as a guide to the future.A similar mission would be laughable now. Vaughan was an early example of a small tradition - "role models getting down with the kids" - that became too obvious a product of PR management and vote-gathering. Also, Vaughan would be of the wrong sex. Our admiration now goes to sufferers and activists, rather than well-meaning moral tourists, and in the protests against stabbings and shootings most of them are women. Pat Regan, the Leeds woman who was stabbed to death six days ago ("ironically" as the papers had it), began her campaign against gun and knives after her son was shot dead six years ago. Her sincerity, bluntness and hard work made her remarkable. Politicians made as much use of her as she of them, and in all her interviews she could make the same kind of persuasive appeal that has elevated memoirs in the book charts: listen to me because it happened to me. Protest against violence, particularly the violence of young men, has become almost a maternal monopoly. When did it begin? In recent history, perhaps with Betty Williams and Mairead Corrigan, who founded Women for Peace in Northern Ireland and in 1976 won the Nobel peace prize. Williams had witnessed the three children of Corrigan's sister die when they were run over by car driven by an IRA man who'd just been shot by British troops. The emotion engendered by intimate involvement was important to their movement's temporary success: it made the two women sympathetic and the effects of death real.In Russia, the Committee of Soldiers' Mothers, founded in 1989, moderated the behaviour of the military more successfully than any other Soviet civil organisation had ever achieved. Motherhood brings with it old associations of the sacred and the unstoppable. In the English-speaking world there are now Mothers Against Guns, Mothers Against Murder and Aggression, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence, Mothers Against Munchausen By Proxy Allegations, and Mothers Against Circumcision. Behind the titles of all of them it is hard not to see the handiwork of personal grief - doctors in corridors shaking their heads - that at the time of Vaughan's visit to Easterhouse would have been left unexposed and voiced through him by a reference to "private tragedies". The most famous in Britain is Mothers Against Violence, the group Pat Regan joined. It sounds like a mass movement. In fact, it amounts to no more than a dozen people. For several years Regan was its only campaigner outside Manchester, where it was formed in 1999 after three young men, all black, were shot dead within the space of few days in August. One of them was Dorrie McKie. His mother, Patsy McKie, played a prominent role in setting up the group and this week I went to see her and her colleague, Angela Lawrence, in their small office in Hulme, just north of Moss Side. Regan's death, they both said, had been a great personal loss. Why just mothers? Why not "parents"? McKie said: 'I wanted to call it Parents Against Violence, but when I went along to the public meeting I was outnumbered. The rest were all single mothers, and they were very angry at the idea. 'These men, what have they ever done but get us pregnant and leave us? We don't know where they are.' That kind of thing. You have to realise that it's devastating for a woman to be abused and rejected. They become hardened. They feel nothing." To McKie, who came to Manchester from St Kitts at sixteen, this had been a surprise. "I didn't know what they call the [black] community until my son died. My community was the church. Bible study on Tuesday, choir on Wednesday, worship on Sunday - it could last the whole week."Perhaps this surprise as much as her grief turned McKie into such a formidable campaigner. So many people seemed so alienated and without hope. She understands why young men want guns and talks about it plainly. "When drugs came on the scene, people had to protect what they were selling and the money they were making. To them, it made sense."But the question of blame is more complicated. The unemployment of the Thatcher era, racism, poor police behaviour - all played a part, but there was something bigger and more volatile at work: a popular culture drenched in violence and the crudest ideas of individual success. "I really believe that children learn from what they see and hear," she said. "What you celebrate you elevate. What you ignore you destroy." For Lawrence one sadness was hearing young women in Manchester say "Oh, I'm only a mum" or "Oh, I only work at Asda". Too many people neither had pride in their personal circumstances nor the aspiration to improve them. What have they themselves achieved? Mothers Against Violence is poorly funded with no paid help. Its few members organise school outings to prisons, write to prisoners, speak in classrooms and at public meetings. They counsel the bereaved and engage, when they can, likely young recruits to gangs and the drug trade in discussions about wiser possibilities. It has an almost Victorian belief in salvation, in persuading young men to reject guns. The results can't be quantified, but the motive and hard work in themselves are good reasons to admire people such as Lawrence and Regan and their inspiration, McKie. But there may be another reason for our admiration: by stressing the duties of motherhood - "that thing that begins in here", McKie said, tapping her stomach - they remind us what a largely de-maternalised society has lost.