The Northern Ireland chief constable gave material to the province's policing board yesterday to back his claim that the IRA carried out last month's £26.5m bank robbery.Hugh Orde is thought to have a list of senior republicans suspected of plotting the biggest robbery in British history. He did not give names to the closed two-hour meeting of nationalist and unionist politicians, but sources at the meeting were surprised at the level of information he shared. Sammy Wilson, a Democratic Unionist board member, said: "The one thing that was clear from the briefing was that this would not have been done by people who were low-level operatives, nor indeed would they have taken the risk if it had not been sanctioned from higher up." Although the police raided the homes of prominent Belfast republicans after the raid, no arrests have been made. A source at the meting said Mr Orde gave an insight into the seniority of the alleged culprits. "He didn't actually name names but he might as well have, and it goes higher than any of those whose homes were searched." The nationalist SDLP assembly member for West Belfast, Alex Attwood, was confident that Mr Orde's assessment of IRA involvement was correct. "I believe that senior members of the republican movement, both those on the IRA side and those who position themselves as political representatives, the share of information was across that range of people ... The criminality of the IRA is a determined strategy that has to be approved at the highest levels." The BBC reported that a list of suspected IRA figures involved in the robbery was given in government security briefings. Sinn Féin and the IRA continue to deny the claim. Sinn Féin's North Belfast assembly member, Gerry Kelly, accused policing board members of "political opportunism". The Independent Monitoring Commission into paramilitary activity is to decide whether to bring forward the publication of its next report, which will examine the raid. London and Dublin are likely to consider the report before deciding whether to impose sanctions on Sinn Féin. The Northern Ireland Office cut £120,000 of Sinn Féin's Stormont allowances last April after the IMC reported continuing IRA violence. Sinn Féin is challenging the sanctions in the high court .