A series of blunders in the criminal ­justice system emerged today as two men were jailed for minimum terms of 40 and 35 years for the sadistic torture and ­murder of two French students.Mr Justice Saunders told Dano Sonnex, 23, and Nigel Farmer, 33, he anticipated that their life sentences for one of the most "truly horrific" murders in recent British criminal history "may well mean life".Their victims, Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez, both 23, were stabbed a total of 244 times after being tied up during the ­savage attack at their flat in New Cross, south-east London, last June.The justice secretary, Jack Straw, has personally apologised to the families of the students and secured the resignation of David Scott, the head of the London ­probation service, after a series of errors that meant Sonnex remained at large when he should have been in prison.Straw said he accepted full responsibility for the "very serious failures" across the criminal justice system. "Sonnex could and should have been in custody at the time he committed these murders," Straw said.Outside the Old Bailey, after sentence was passed, Guy Bonomo, father of ­Laurent, said: "This is not the trial of two human beings we have undergone, it is two animals – I don't know if there exists such animals that are as cruel as that."They were sentenced to 35 and 40 years. But I see them very healthy and we were hoping for a more severe sentence. I think that those people should never get out, they shouldn't get out." ­Francoise Villemont, the mother of Gabriel Ferez, said the murder of her son was a ­"barbaric act" that was "indescribable and inexcusable".The judge said the two had escaped "whole life" sentences because of their young age. The 40-year minimum term, which means that Sonnex will not be able to apply for parole until he is at least 63, is believed to be the longest criminal ­sentence passed since Ian Huntley was jailed for the Soham murders in 2003.Straw will face severe pressure in the Commons on Monday when he will be questioned over repeated failings by the London probation service only three years after a similar case saw two ex-prisoners, also out on licence, murder city financier John Monckton.The case is likely to have ­political ­repercussions similar to those that ­followed the Baby P case and the failings that it exposed in social services.It can now be disclosed Sonnex had previously been jailed for four robberies with an imitation firearm but was allowed out on licence six months before the ­murders and returned to his life of violent crime. Only two days after ­walking out of prison he tied up a pregnant woman and her partner and threatened them with a hammer and a saw but was not sent back to jail.Four separate investigations published todayidentified "errors of judgment, failures of communication and severe management failings" by probation, prison and police officers. They confirm that Sonnex's supervision was left to a newly qualified probation officer who was overwhelmed with a caseload of 127 other offenders. When it was finally decided to send Sonnex back to prison it took 33 days to secure the recall warrant and a further 16 days for the police to implement it – by which time the murders had happened.Scott, London's chief probation officer, who resigned over the case, said tonight that while London probation was "partly to blame for allowing the crimes to take place", ministers and other criminal justice agencies had lessons to learn as well.Guy Bonomo said he planned to take legal action against the UK government for its failings.Straw said he had not considered resigning as justice secretary over the case. He told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "I did not consider resigning. I don't think resigning would be an appropriate thing to do. I decided towards the end of last year, when I first became acquainted with the full horrific details not only of the murders – about which I already knew – but also what had gone wrong, that it was my duty to set about putting things right."Speaking later, Ferez's father Olivier said of his meeting with Straw: "The excuses of Mr Straw were authentic. They were sincere. And we have contact through our lawyers. Apologies will not suffice."The families are scheduled to have a further meeting with Straw. Ferez, who works in psychiatry, said of the systemic failures that led to Sonnex being on the street when he shouldn't have been: "I could express revolt, I could express anger, lots of feelings are still inside of me but unfortunately there we are. We know there have been serious errors and lots of mistakes but my son is here no longer."Of course there are lessons to be learned from this trauma. I await answers as well as reaction." They are problems that they probably have in France as well. It's a question that can be debated much further."