A builder who bludgeoned to death three generations of one family with an iron bar was last night beginning a life sentence after being found guilty of four counts of murder.David George Morris, 40, a divorced father-of-three with a history of violence, received four life sentences for murdering Mandy Power, 34, her 80-year-old mother Doris Dawson, and daughters, Katie, 10, and eight-year-old Emily, at their home in Clydach, in the Swansea valley, after Power spurned his sexual advances. Sentencing him at Swansea crown court three years after the murders, the judge, Mr Justice Butterfield, told Morris: "These were horrific murders committed with great savagery on four defenceless victims. "You have shown not a trace of compassion or sympathy for the terrible injuries you inflicted." Speaking after the verdict, Mandy Power's brother, Robert Dawson, said: "It has been three long and difficult years since mam, Mandy, Katie and Emily were so cruelly taken from us. "Today we know that the evil person responsible for this will spend the rest of his life behind bars." In a statement Michael Power, Mandy's former husband and the father of Katie and Emily, said: "Perhaps now I will be able to put my beloved children to rest in peace." Morris's supporters, who claim he is innocent, jeered as he was sentenced and shouted "the wrong one went in the van" as he was driven away to jail. During the 11-week trial, the jury heard that Morris, known as The Enforcer in his village of Craigcefnparc, near Swansea, and the Nonce Basher in Swansea prison where he spent five years, had convictions for violence, including one for striking someone over the head with a piece of a wood, and another - resulting in a four-year prison sentence - for flinging a woman over the bonnet of a car as he robbed her. After the trial they learned that two years before the Clydach massacre, Morris used an iron bar to beat a neighbour, Carl Wassell, so forcefully he suffered five separate wounds to his head, a depressed fracture of the skull, reduced vision in one eye, and needed five-hours of neurosurgery. Morris was cleared of assaulting Mr Wassell but only because, in a powerful illustration of the extent to which he was feared, the two prosecution witnesses contradicted their statements. This time, Morris made sure there were no witnesses. Morris knew Mandy Power because she was best friends with his partner of four years, Mandy Jewell. The two women had fallen out because Power had falsely claimed she had cervical cancer. Ms Jewell's mother had recently died of the disease and Morris now loathed Power - particularly since she had copied the dead woman's symptoms. But his feelings were more complex than this. Power was an attractive divorcee whom the prosecution described as "sexually adventurous". In the three years between the floundering of her marriage to Michael Power and her murder in June 1999, she had had four heterosexual relationships. Then, in November 1998, she embarked on a lesbian relationship with Alison Lewis, a married ex-policewoman martial arts champion and Welsh women's rugby international. For Morris, loathing mingled with desire, and it appears he fantasised about her, telling a cousin the day after the murder he had been "shagging" her for some time and the court that he had had sex with her seven times in the year running up to her death - the last time two days before the massacre. There is no evidence any sexual relationship occurred, though plenty to suggest Morris fabricated it to explain why his heavy gold chain was left at the scene of the murders. Sex and hate were on his mind when he stormed out of Clydach's New Inn pub, shortly after 11.15pm on Saturday June 26 1999, after rowing with his partner and denouncing Power as a "fucking evil bitch" and "lying cow". No one will ever know why she let him in, but with him pumped up with speed - he had injected one and a half grammes of the drug for three consecutive days - and seven pints of lager, the decision had tragic results. As soon as she rejected his sexual advances, Morris exploded with anger, trying to strangle her before picking up a four foot iron bar with which Katie and Emily had been playing earlier. The attack was frenzied. He struck the divorcee 38 times - 15 on her face and head - and the blows rained down as she fled from her bedroom to her children's and her mother's. Even once she had been knocked to the floor they continued. Her mother was next, and was struck so viciously her face was crushed and her jaw severed. Katie suffered 15 blows and Emily, at least eight. "Forensically aware", the builder, who at school was viewed as remedial, then scrubbed himself clean of blood in the shower, after placing a sock over his hand so as not to leave incriminating handprints, and lit six fires in an attempt to destroy all the evidence. He nearly succeeded, and only one clue remained: a heavy gold Figaro-link chain containing a fleck of paint used on his kitchen cabinets and found splattered with blood in Mrs Dawson's bedroom. If Morris, who has three daughters, appeared calm in dispatching an entire family, it was perhaps not surprising. He had a history of unremitting violence extending back to his teens. While many of his convictions were for relatively petty offences, including aggravated vehicle taking, burglary, theft, driving a vehicle while disqualified and dishonesty, he had three for actual bodily harm. In July 2000, he was fined for attacking someone in a pub after a funeral, while as a teenager growing up in Gendros, one of the toughest parts of Swansea, he was convicted for hitting someone over the head with a piece of wood. The clearest indication of his capacity for violence, however, was his assault on Mr Wassell, a welder, whom he struck as he knelt down tuning a video with his back to him in an unprovoked attack. It was only when the weapon slipped from Morris's grasp that Mr Wassell managed to stagger to the window and jump eight feet to escape him. Morris meanwhile boosted his reputation as the local hard man by shouting from the pavement that he had killed him. Yesterday, there were no such brags.