Former deputy headteacher Sion Jenkins told the Old Bailey today that he had never hit his foster daughter Billie-Jo, who he is accused of murdering.Mr Jenkins was giving evidence on the opening day of the case for his defence against charges that he bludgeoned the 13-year-old to death. The defendant gave evidence at his retrial after his counsel Christopher Sallon QC said that there were grave doubts over Mr Jenkins's guilt, and asked the jury to show "humanity and courage" in considering the evidence and not be swayed by factors which "demonised the accused". The court has heard evidence from Peter Gaimster, a Jenkins family friend, that he had seen Mr Jenkins kick Billie-Jo on the ankle she had twisted while the Gaimster and Jenkins families were on holiday in France. Mr Jenkins was asked by police after the teenager's death whether he had hit Billie-Jo. "You said no - was that true?" Mr Sallon asked Mr Jenkins today. "That was true," Mr Jenkins told the court. Mr Sallon asked: "Did you ever kick or attempt to kick Billie in the way Peter Gaimster described?" Mr Jenkins replied: "I have absolutely not ever done that." He said when he had seen Billie-Jo's ankle "it was terrible - very swollen and had already started to bruise badly". He had wanted to take her to hospital but the others felt she would be all right, Mr Jenkins told the court. Mr Jenkins, of Aberystwyth, Dyfed, denies murdering Billie-Jo at the family home in Hastings, East Sussex, on February 15 1997. The teenager was found lying face down in a pool of blood on a patio at the back of the house, where she had been painting doors. She had been bludgeoned with an 18-inch metal tent peg, and died from severe head injuries. Mr Jenkins, 47, was jailed for life for the murder in 1998, but the appeal court last year quashed his conviction as "unsafe" and he was freed on bail.Opening the defence case at the current retrial, Mr Sallon said: "We say that even at this stage of the trial, when the prosecution case should be at its strongest, grave doubts exist as to whether Sion Jenkins murdered Billie-Jo."Mr Sallon told the jury that they would see police video interviews with two of Mr Jenkins's four natural daughters, Annie and Lottie, when they first gave their accounts to officers. The first jury to try Mr Jenkins knew nothing of what they had said then, the court heard. "Those videos provide powerful support to reinforce the suggestion that, taken as a whole, the evidence suggests Sion Jenkins could not have killed Billie-Jo," Mr Sallon said. If what Annie told police was true, it provided "compelling evidence" that the time Mr Jenkins would have had to kill Billie-Jo was minimal and negligible, he said. Mr Sallon said the defence would also call expert scientific evidence on blood spattering. The prosecution claim that 154 small dots of blood on Mr Jenkins's trousers and fleece conclusively demonstrated he was the murderer. Mr Jenkins had described making two approaches when he discovered Billie-Jo's body. He crouched down, facing her face, and pushed her shoulder, causing blood to come out of her nose. "He put forward a suggestion which we suggest is consistent with the blood spatter evidence. If Billie-Jo was alive and capable of breathing, she was also capable of expirating blood," Mr Sallon said. A black plastic bin liner had been forced into Billie-Jo's nostril by her killer and Mr Sallon said the jury should also look closely at the evidence about Mr B, a man who suffered from mental illness who was near the house just before and after the killing. The man appeared to have an obsession with clearing his nose and plastic bags and was in the area at the time, the court heard.In the first part of his evidence today, Mr Jenkins gave details about his early life and academic record and said he regretted exaggerating his qualifications when he applied successfully for the post of deputy headmaster at William Parker boys' school in Hastings, East Sussex."I honestly regret it and am sorry that through my own weakness I did that. At the time we were struggling financially and I needed promotion and exaggerated so I could have a chance of getting an interview." He later kept the same falsifications when he applied for the head teacher's job in 1997. Mr Jenkins was asked to describe Billie-Jo, whom they had fostered in the same year. He said: "She was very compassionate. She was very sensitive. She was very loving. She was very practical - a tomboy sometimes. She liked climbing trees and drainpipes - and football." The trial continues.