The painful poignancy of the death of Damilola Taylor lie in the details. He was a keen pupil and such was his eagerness to learn that he stayed on at school on the evening he died for an extra computer course. But this young ambition was cut tragically short by his murder. He dragged himself 100 yards towards home before dying alone. We also hear that he and his family came to London four months ago after saving up money for treatment for his sister's epilepsy. It is hard to imagine the suffering now of the Taylor family having to deal with the health of their daughter gained at the price of her brother's death.The common impulse when faced with such a tragedy is to look for people to blame. Yesterday, David Blunkett and Jack Straw and commentators rushed in to do just that. It's a temptation to be resisted. At this stage, it is far from clear who killed Damilola and why. Attempts to pin the blame on the school for not acting on the mother's complaints of bullying seem inappropriate. There is no evidence that Damilola's murderers attended his school. Oliver Goldsmith is the kind of over-stretched inner-city school struggling to weld a hugely disparate and fluctuating set of children into a community. The school has made a point of stamping out bullying, and its hard to see how it could have extended its authority to protect Damilola beyond its gates. The north Peckham estate is being blamed, yet Damilola's death has come when regeneration is starting to dent high crime figures. Sadly, the £260m being ploughed into demolishing parts of the estate - such as the stairwells where Damilola died - will come too late for this 10-year-old boy.There are crimes that transfix the nation's attention: Sarah Payne's death was one, as was the attack on the Russells. Damilola Taylor has become another, and yesterday, his face with its shy, rueful grin was on every front page. All these children have become icons: we are haunted by the loss of their innocent lives and by our collective failure to protect them from random violence. In Damilola's case, this is heightened by his recent arrival in Britain from Nigeria, and the fact that he may have been killed by children only slightly older than he. It underlines the reality that the welcome which awaits immigrants to the developing world is no such thing; they arrive to a culture riven with racism with pockets of social disintegration as dangerous as anything they might have left behind.Related special report Policing crimeRelated stories 30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Boys murder should be wake-up call - Straw 29 November: Death of a school boyUseful links Metropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate