On one thing President Obama and Sarah Palin seemed to agree: the gunman who carried out last Saturday's massacre in Tucson, Arizona, was a crazy individual whose actions were beyond rational explanation. For Palin, Jared Lee Loughner was a "deranged, apparently apolitical criminal"; for Obama, he was "a violent man" whose inner thoughts were unknowable. While Palin was explicit in claiming that the heated political rhetoric of the Tea Party movement could not be blamed for the atrocity, the president was careful not to suggest it should be. In his speech on Wednesday at the commemoration in Arizona, he looked only to the future, calling for a new era of civility in political discourse. He may thus have implicitly condemned the rhetorical excesses of the past, but at the same time he did not suggest that they had influenced Loughner.But one thing we do know about Loughner is that he could not have committed his dreadful crime without the Glock 19 semi-automatic pistol and the high-capacity magazine that allowed him to fire off 33 bullets without reloading. Why should such an unbalanced person be allowed access to such weaponry? One wouldn't have expected the gun-toting, moose-shooting Palin to have addressed this question, but President Obama hasn't either. Whatever his private thoughts on the matter might be, it would have been political folly for him to have done so, for there is now a cross-party consensus against any steps to tighten America's uniquely lax gun laws. It doesn't matter how many mass killings take place; the constitutional right of all Americans, even mentally unstable ones, to bear arms is now generally accepted as inviolable.Only one piece of gun legislation is being proposed as a consequence of the Arizona shooting, and this is a very modest one – to ban the manufacture and sale of the kind of high-capacity magazine used by Loughner. It is being introduced to Congress by Democratic representative Carolyn McCarthy, whose husband was killed in 1993 when a gunman opened fire on a Long Island commuter train. Even so, it is given little chance of success.As Arizona has shown, the usual response to a shooting such as this one is for people to rush out and buy themselves guns. The more innocent people are killed by guns, the more determined Americans are to possess them. Legislators do not dare challenge this insanity and, indeed, have shown a tendency to allow further loosening of the gun laws. Arizona, for example, has recently passed laws permitting guns to be carried in bars, and to allow the carrying of concealed weapons without a permit. The trouble with America is that it is too democratic. In Britain, parliament is at least sometimes capable of acting out of principle against the popular will, as it did when it abolished capital punishment, but in the US this is impossible.Why pander to China's pandas?In another cunning move to demoralise the west, China has given two giant pandas to Edinburgh zoo. We have played into China's hands, of course. Such is our obsession with pandas that we have been pleading for years with the Chinese to let us have them, with members of the government and the royal family campaigning with almost as much energy as they used to court Fifa and the International Olympic Committee. The arrival of Tian-Tian and Yangguang will be heralded as another triumph for Britain, but they will inevitably be a source of huge expense, trouble and heartache.Pandas may look endearing, but they are very annoying animals that dislike each other, won't breed, hate being looked at by the public, and spend up to 14 hours a day eating insanely expensive bamboo shoots. Britain's first panda, Chi Chi, which was acquired by London Zoo in 1958, resolutely refused to produce offspring to the bitter disappointment of her millions of admirers.The same went for Hsing-Hsing, the panda given to President Nixon by Mao Zedong in 1972, which was eventually put down suffering from kidney failure and testicular cancer. Ching-Ching and Chia-Chia, the pandas given by Mao to Edward Heath when he was prime minister in 1974, proved similarly useless and uncooperative. We should have grown wise by now to the fact that giving giant pandas to other countries as gestures of goodwill is one of China's cruellest jokes.With friends like these . . . The French prime minister, François Fillon, arrived in London this week to a chorus of anger in the popular press that Obama had described France as America's greatest ally. He hadn't, of course. He had simply said that "we don't have a stronger friend and stronger ally than Nicolas Sarkozy and the French people", which is not the same thing at all. Obama's statement allowed that Britain could be just as strong a friend and ally of the US as France, and it didn't even rule out the possibility that the Anglo-American relationship was uniquely "special". However, some British people so yearn for their country to be America's very special friend that they cannot bear to hear the American president speak well of any other nation, particularly of Britain's traditional rival, France.Fillon did his best to comfort us by lavishing praise on Britain. In an interview with the Times, he said he preferred Emma Thompson to Catherine Deneuve and loved Wales so much that he was thinking of one day retiring there. He does happen to have a British wife, who is half Welsh. But that doesn't explain why he wishes France had British pubs, or why he even argues in defence of British cooking with Sarkozy. A friend indeed.