The family of murdered teenager Amar Aslam spoke yesterday of the popular and friendly boy whom they called "Moon" because he lit up their life.As police arrested three more British Asian youths in connection with the suspected gang killing in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, Amar's elder sister, Samreen, said: "Nothing can replace him. We still believe that he will come through the door." She is the latest in a procession of distraught relatives of young murder victims, including the families of London stabbing victims Rob Knox, who was murdered early on Saturday, and Jimmy Mizen. The Labour MP for Dewsbury, Shahid Malik, called for "a change in society" and warned that too many young people were adopting a culture where violence was an accepted part of life.West Yorkshire police appealed for more witnesses to running fights which took place between youths in Crow Nest park, where 16-year-old Amar's badly beaten body was found in the walled garden on Saturday evening. Dozens of people are thought to have seen the violence on the sunny bank holiday.Detectives have not confirmed whether a weapon was used in the attack, but an underwater search team spent yesterday trawling the park pond, while other police conducted a fingertip search of the garden and surrounding parts of the park.Two boys aged 12 and 13, three aged 15, and a 20-year-old man are being interviewed at separate police stations.Samreen Aslam said that Amar was a typical lively teenager, keen on music and films, and saving up for his main passion in life, a car. "He was the second brother and the baby of the family, very close to all of us especially our mum. He was well liked by others and always thinking of others. "He had a lot of time for the youngsters and always used to play with his nephews and nieces. The older generation in the community also got along with Amar, and he often spoke to people in the street. He was always respectful of his elders."Nothing can replace our brother, and we still believe he will come through the door. This has shattered our family and it won't be the same without him. There will always be a gap."A neighbour of the family who did not want to be named said: "They are really nice people. They came to Dewsbury from London about five years ago. Amar was a nice lad, very friendly. I used to see him playing football in the park."Malik, who lives near Crow Nest park, said harsher sentences for youth violence would give a clear message that it was not acceptable. "We often band together these terrible attacks as being racially motivated when the reality is that, ultimately, they are just about young people. "More often than not it is not about race, it is about young people who have got involved in a culture where they feel violence is acceptable, either as an offence or in defence."