Detectives today urged three motorists to come forward as they continued their hunt for a man who abducted a six-year-old girl from her bath.Detective Chief Inspector Jim Napier said he was determined to catch the man responsible for snatching the girl, assaulting her and dumping her naked in a freezing North Tyneside street shortly after Christmas. Northumbria police launched a major investigation after the girl's mother discovered her child was missing from the ground floor bathroom of their home in Willington Quay. She was found shivering and whimpering by a resident in nearby Armstrong Road as little as 15 minutes after her abduction on December 27. Mr Napier said he wanted the drivers of a Volkswagen, a BMW and a Ford Focus seen in the area on the day the girl was abducted to come forward.The red or burgundy VW, which could have been a Golf with an M or N registration, was seen driving slowly around the Willington Quay area. Mr Napier said witnesses had described seeing the car on back lanes in the surrounding area a few hours before the girl was taken.The second car was red and may have been an old-style BMW 3 series, which was seen driving away from the Bewicke Road area at speed at around the same time as the girl was dumped in Armstrong Road. The third motorist police want to speak to was driving a black Ford Focus, which was seen being driven quickly in the Station Road and Bewicke Road area at around 6.30pm, shortly before the incident. "I am asking for the drivers of these vehicles to come forward so I can eliminate them from the inquiries," the detective told reporters. "The drivers of those vehicles might have been there for perfectly legitimate reasons, but there is also the possibility that they were there in circumstances which they might find it difficult to come forward and talk to us about."Answering questions, Mr Napier said he was convinced the girl's account of the incident was accurate. "The behaviour of the crime is unusual and rare ... but that does not mean to say it did not happen," he said. "We have an account from the girl that we have explored, and we have examined the scene. I am satisfied that the account that the girl gave us is both feasible, credible and could have happened as she said." The girl told specially-trained officers that her abductor had taken her from her bath and put her in a car before driving around. She was then subjected to what police described as a "sexually-motivated assault" before being dumped naked in the street.