In August, Nikki Allan should have celebrated her 21st birthday. Instead, she lay beneath a gravestone adorned with the toys she loved to play with as a bright, sparky seven-year-old - the age she was when she was murdered. But her mother cannot yet believe she is resting in peace because, 14 years later, no one has been convicted of the crime.Now, Nikki's mother, Sharon Henderson, is hoping she will at last have a chance to help convict the killer. Having campaigned tirelessly for justice since her daughter's murder, Sharon recently made one final, desperate attempt to get the case reinvestigated. After hearing about advances in DNA testing, she asked the coroner to exhume Nikki's body and test for evidence which might prove beyond reasonable doubt who the killer is.Last month, police confirmed that the Nikki Allan murder is being reinvestigated by a pioneering "cold case" review team based at Northumbria police headquarters. But the case is steeped in controversy. The judge at the original trial ordered the jury to acquit the defendant after ruling that his confession was inadmissible, due to "heavy-handed" police tactics. However, recent changes in the law on double jeopardy, which mean an acquitted defendant can be tried a second time if new evidence emerges, might result in a fresh trial.On the night Nikki was murdered, she had gone with her mother to visit her grandfather. They all lived in the Wear Garth flats, a run-down housing estate overlooking the docks in Sunderland. At 8.30pm, Nikki decided to return home before her mother. She set out to walk the 150 yards down the stairwell and across the short corridor to their own flat. When her mother came home 10 minutes later, Nikki was nowhere to be seen.A search got under way within the hour, involving more than 100 police and local people. Nikki's shoes were found early the next morning by her aunt, who was part of the search team. They had been neatly placed outside the derelict Old Exchange building, 300 yards from Nikki's home. A neighbour discovered her mutilated body inside. Nikki had been battered over the head with a brick, and stabbed 37 times in the chest and abdomen. A passer-by later reported having heard what sounded like a child's screams coming from that building the night before.During the search for Nikki, Sharon was under sedation at home with her three other daughters. "I saw on the news that they'd found Nikki," she tells me, in her small council house which is full of pictures of the little girl. "The police came about an hour later, by which time I was hysterical."At the time, Sharon was a 26-year-old single mother bringing up four children, but with an active social life. After the murder, rumours began circulating that Nikki had been neglected and left to walk the streets alone the night she went missing. Some suggested that on the night she disappeared, Nikki was begging outside a pub in the area. This rumour, along with others about Sharon being a "good-time girl", proved groundless, but she says the slurs added to her "already unbearable" pain. "When the child of a single mother is murdered," she says, "it's as if they weren't looked after properly and that we let them run wild. But I would die for any of my bairns."In the meantime, police were conducting a thorough house-to-house inquiry, and a week after the murder brought a local man in for questioning. George Heron, then 24, lived on the same estate, having moved in only weeks earlier with his sister. At first Heron denied knowing Nikki, but he admitted he did after witnesses came forward to say they had seen him with her on several occasions.There was other evidence. The blade of a knife recovered from his lodgings matched the stab wounds. Blood splatters were found on Heron's shoe and other clothing. His sister told police that on returning home on the night of Nikki's murder, Heron had gone straight to the bathroom where, uncharacteristically, he spent "a good half hour" washing both himself and his clothes. Although Heron had at first denied going out that evening, four separate witnesses saw a man at the Boar's Head and Clarendon public houses fitting his description. The man was seen buying cheese-and-onion crisps - Nikki's favourite - which police believed the killer used to lure Nikki into the building where she died.After three days of police questioning, Heron confessed to killing Nikki. He had previously denied it 120 times. The bulk of the evidence against him was circumstantial, but police and prosecutors maintained that several of the details in Heron's confession were corroborated by evidence gathered during the course of the inquiry. Police were confident of a conviction.The trial opened in Leeds in October 1993. Community hatred towards Heron ran at fever pitch, making it difficult to guarantee a fair trial in Sunderland. The distance was no deterrent. Scores of local people, including Nikki's entire extended family, travelled daily to fill the public gallery and often had to be restrained from leaping into the dock to attack the defendant.The judge in the case immediately identified a problem with the taped confessions. After two weeks of legal argument, he ruled that seven of the 12 interview tapes - thought by the Crown Prosecution Service to be crucial in proving the case - were inadmissible because officers had used "oppressive methods" to obtain the confession. After a six-week trial, the judge directed the jury to deliver a verdict of not guilty. Fighting broke out in the courtroom, Sharon passed out and several jury members were sobbing.Heron was given a change of identity and moved out of Sunderland. Soon after the trial, his solicitor's office was firebombed. While Heron was in prison on remand, he was slashed across the face by an inmate and left badly scarred. Sharon was secretly invited into the prison to meet the inmate so she could thank him. "I was even sent letters from some of the jurors," says Sharon, "saying they would be haunted by Nikki's murder for the rest of their lives."In 1994 Sharon took out a civil action against Heron, suing him for damages for "battery of a child resulting in her death". Heron did not contest the case which Sharon won. The court awarded her £7,000, but she has never received any money. "I had to do something," she says. "After the trial the police never apologised or explained what went wrong. I felt abandoned."In the years that followed, Sharon struggled to get through each day. "The only point to my life became looking after my other bairns, and trying to get justice for Nikki, but I could not see how." In an attempt to reclaim a normal life she did remarry, but that also suffered from the strain of her grief and her continuing campaign for justice, and she and her husband recently split up.The police have always said that they are not looking for anyone else in relation to the murder. But the reform of the double jeopardy rule, which stated that a person could not be tried twice for the same offence once acquitted, came into force last year under the Criminal Justice Act 2003. Under the act, the court of appeal now has the power to quash an acquittal and order a retrial where there is new and compelling evidence.Sharon had campaigned to change the double jeopardy rule and she knew that if the blood found on Heron's shoes and clothes 14 years ago were to be re-examined, it might be possible to confirm whether or not the blood was Nikki's. In the light of the change in the law, and scientific advances, Sharon waited for the police to come and tell her they would reopen the case. "Because of the change in the law they suddenly had a chance to reinvestigate", she says, "but I heard nothing from them." By 2002, prompted by advances in DNA testing, Sharon was sending at least one letter a month to the police, the Home Office and even the Queen. She shows me a sympathetic letter from Cherie Booth, whom she wrote to "as one mother to another. That gave me a boost, but I was still in limbo."In June this year, Sharon became so desperate that she told the local press she would be pushing for her daughter's body to be exhumed so that DNA left on her body could be re-examined. In response, police said they would not support the request. Sharon then persuaded a high- profile lawyer to take on her case, which was reported in her local paper. Two days after the story appeared, police called at Sharon's home to tell her they were looking at the case as part of a "regular review". "It was news to me", she says, "that they had been looking at it at all since the trial. I had heard nothing until that day."I visited the cold-case team at its Newcastle headquarters. "Like any unsolved murder," says Jim Napier, a chief inspector with the team, "we periodically review the evidence. It has nothing to do with Mrs Henderson instructing a lawyer."Sharon believes that had she not used the media to publicise her plight over the years, "the police would have just forgotten about me and Nikki". The police deny this. It remains to be seen if the reassessment of the case will produce enough evidence for new charges to be laid.Sharon stopped walking the route Nikki took from her grandfather's to her death only recently. "When people saw me walking that route, they would all stop and bow their heads. Even the men working the boats," says Sharon. If whoever killed Nikki is finally convicted, Sharon believes she could start to grieve properly for her dead daughter. "But there will be no peace for me," she says, "because the day some bastard smashed a brick over my innocent child's head was the day I went to hell".