After a crime spree that spanned 20 years and swaths of southern England, netted around £80m and attracted the attention and efforts of five police forces, the gang behind the biggest single burglary in British history has been jailed. It seems unlikely that any of their victims or the detectives involved would have disagreed with the judge's observation as he passed sentence on five of its members: "You are," said Judge Christopher Critchlow, "a lawless group with no respect for people or the law."He did not need to add that they were also very good at what they did.Between 2003 and 2006 members of the 15-strong, "forensically aware" gang committed more than 100 separate crimes ranging from stealing antiques from stately homes to lifting thousands of pounds' worth of construction metals and knocking off cash machines.Their most lucrative haul, however, was taken from Ramsbury Manor, home of the reclusive property tycoon Harry Hyams, on February 1 2006. At 10.30 that night, the gang rolled through the grounds of the Wiltshire mansion in two stolen 4x4s. After tying metal poles to the front of a Subaru estate car and ramming their way through a window, they helped themselves to more than 300 museum-grade pieces including an 18th-century barometer and a 17th-century Dutch table clock valued at £500,000. By the time they drove off into the darkness after tripping the alarm on a silver cabinet, they were £30m better off.As a consequence of the robbery, Hyams, the man who built Centre Point, one of London's best-known landmarks, fell 49 places in that year's Sunday Times Rich List.While almost half the items were recovered a few weeks later in an underground shelter, many had been badly damaged.Although the gang burgled 12 stately homes and antique shops between April 2005 and April 2006, the story behind their audacious, five-county crime wave can be told only now after Judge Critchlow lifted the reporting restrictions that had been put in place for legal reasons. Five members of the Johnson family, from Cheltenham in Gloucestershire, were found guilty of conspiracy to burgle and jailed for up to 11 years at Reading crown court in February. Ricky Johnson, 54, was jailed for eight years while his two sons, Chad Johnson, 33, and Albi Johnson, 26, were sentenced to 11 years and nine years respectively. Ricky's nephews, Danny O'Loughlin, 32, and Michael Nicholls, 29, were jailed for 11 years and 10 years. "This must be one of the most serious cases of burglary ever to come before the court," said Judge Critchlow. "Aggravating features include the burglaries being staged at night. They were at isolated homes and people were often at home. They were well planned and executed. "They were sophisticated ... little has been recovered, no doubt hidden in the countryside or passed on for disposal." Last December Ricky Johnson, Chad Johnson and O'Loughlin were cleared of stealing snuff boxes worth £5m from Waddesdon Manor, home of the Rothschild family, after Judge Critchlow ruled that some prosecution evidence could not be included. But at a trial at Bristol crown court at the end of last year 12 members of the gang, including Chad Johnson and O'Loughlin, were jailed for a total of 38 years for conspiracy to burgle or steal metals. The order banning reporting of the case was lifted yesterday after O'Loughlin pleaded guilty to a burglary in which a cash dispenser containing nearly £55,000 was torn from the wall of a Co-op shop in Stanford in the Vale, Oxfordshire, on New Year's Day 2006. He was given a 66-month sentence for the burglary by Judge Critchlow sitting at Guildford crown court, to run concurrently with the jail term for the country house raids.Police had long suspected the involvement of the Irish-born travelling family, but the financial and geographical scale of the thefts was so immense that five forces - Gloucestershire, Wiltshire, Thames Valley, Warwickshire and West Mercia - came together to pursue them in an investigation known as Operation Haul.The gang all had previous convictions for offences including burglary, deception and handling stolen goods. Chad Johnson was jailed for marrying an heiress twice his age, stealing her £250,000 inheritance and leaving her bankrupt.In October 2006 more than 100 officers carried out dawn raids on the Johnson clan and arrested 14 people.Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick, from Thames Valley police, who led the joint investigation, said yesterday that the convictions and long sentences handed down spoke for themselves.He added: "Most importantly, members of the public in the five police areas are now able to live without the fear of crime inflicted on them by this organised criminal network. "In some cases the results of their gratuitous violence and threats inflicted on vulnerable people in their own homes has had an impact that the victims will never recover from. It is these people who have my utmost sympathy."News of the convictions will not represent the West Country family's first brush with the media. Three years ago the BBC broadcast a documentary called Summer with the Johnsons, which chronicled the clan's everyday life. The programme also offered the family a chance to defend itself against allegations it had been involved in the Waddesdon Manor burglary. In it Ricky Johnson admitted to "an awful lot of robbing" over the years, but denied burgling country homes and even offered to help the Rothschilds recover their stolen property.His words, though, contained more than a hint of defiance - and a caveat. "I would like to make it clear to the people out there, to the police and the rich people like Lord Rothschild: if I feel the need when I have got to rob a stately home, I will do so ... I feel I have got the fucking right to rob the lords out there."What they tookJune 10 2003  Waddesdon Manor, National Trust property and home of the Rothschild family near Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire. Snuff boxes worth £5mApril 9 2005 Woolley Park, home of former Lord Lieutenant of Berkshire, Sir Philip Wroughton, in BerkshireJuly 29 2005 Three shops in Worcestershire, with TVs, crystal, china and kitchenware worth £140,000 stolen.October 12 2005 Ombersley Court, Droitwich, Worcestershire, home of Lord and Lady Sandys - carriage clock worth £1,000October 21 2005 Ramsbury Hill House, Marlborough - goods worth £26,000 takenOctober 24 2005 Formula one tycoon Paddy McNally's home at Warneford Place in Sevenhampton, near Swindon - £750,000 haulOctober 2005 Gloucestershire, Thames Valley, Warwickshire and West Mercia police start Operation HaulNovember 8 2005 Library window smashed at Spetchley Park, Worcester. Thieves leave empty-handedNovember 10 2005 Royal Derby china stolen from caravan park in Tenby Wells, WorcestershireNovember 16 2005 Stanton Harcourt Manor, Witney, Oxfordshire - antiques, jewellery and porcelain worth £50,000. Albi Johnson breaks both legs jumping from windowFebruary 1 2006 Harry Hyams' mansion: Ramsbury Manor in Wiltshire. Antiques worth tens of millions of pounds stolen in Britain's most valuable domestic burglaryMarch 25 2006 Bunker with goods from Ramsbury Manor found in field near Stratford-upon-AvonApril 25 2006 Woolley Park raided again - £50,000 worth of silverware, trophies and clocksMay to June 2006 High-value metals worth £360,000 from six businesses in Berkshire, Warwickshire and GloucestershireJune 17 2006 Arrests during a burglary at Bamfurlong industrial park, Staverton, GloucestershireOctober 10-12 2006 Police make a series of arrests in a huge operation