A man who denies leading a transatlantic airline bomb plot admitted yesterday that he had planned to explode a device at Heathrow airport.Abdulla Ahmed Ali said earlier plans to attack the Houses of Parliament as part of a "publicity stunt" were dropped in favour of an airport because security was not as tight.Woolwich crown court heard that the 27-year-old was interested in Heathrow Terminal 3 because it was used by several American airlines.Ali said the explosion was to be part of a stunt designed to attract attention to an online documentary attacking British and US foreign policy. But he denied the gang planned to attack aircraft with bombs constructed using instructions from the internet. "That was never our intention. When we thought about the airport it was the terminal and more specific American offices. We were trying to create a disturbance, not kill anyone."We did not even think about boarding a plane; our aim was to set off a device at a terminal, cause a disturbance then release our video."Ali is accused with seven other men of a terrorist conspiracy to murder thousands in attacks on transatlantic airliners. Prosecutors claim they planned to smuggle improvised liquid bombs disguised as soft drinks aboard several planes before detonating them. All eight men deny two joint charges of conspiring to murder and to endanger aircraft.Jurors have been shown what appear to be "martyrdom" videos in which six of the men, including Ali, threaten attacks on the west.The videos were recorded on a camcorder at a flat in Forest Road, Walthamstow, east London, in the summer of 2006, the court heard. Prosecutors said the flat was used as a base for the terrorist mission, with conspirators meeting there to make the soft drink bottle bombs.But on the second day of his defence, Ali said the videos were part of the propaganda plan. "I wanted to try and make it as realistic as I could and make it as sensational as possible to get maximum publicity and make the threats as credible as possible," he told the jury. "The whole idea was to be aggressive, sensationalist, copying the rhetoric and styles seen in other videos ... This was just an experiment to get an idea of how we could do it."Ali said that by late July 2006 he suspected he was being watched by police and told another defendant. "I thought, wind it down, finish what we were doing, put the brakes on. I told him get whatever you need now, hide it somewhere, so in the future we could do something."Ali also admitted he had researched flight times and destinations to store on a memory stick. He maintained this had been part of the idea to target the airport, looking at which terminals were used by American carriers and the time that would cause "maximum disruption". He had discussed a plan to flee to Pakistan by "a road journey" in two vans following an explosion and release of the video. He put his passport in the washing machine, then applied for another. "A clean passport arouses less suspicion ... I'll be honest about that." Earlier the court heard he had travelled to Pakistan with his father between mid-May and June 24 2006 to visit his sick uncle. While in Pakistan Ali said he bought two packs of cheap batteries which could be used to build the drinks bottle device. Asked why he was so set on using volatile chemicals, he said: "It was quite ambitious what we planned to do." But he insisted the device was intended to get attention rather than hurt anyone.The trial continues.