The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, has criticised a Parole Board decision to release Harry Roberts, an armed robber jailed 45 years ago for murdering three police officers in a crime that shocked 1960s Britain, saying that in his case a life sentence “should have meant what it said”.The highly unusual intervention from Britain’s most senior police officer followed condemnation from the head of the Police Federation, who called the decision to imminently free the 78-year-old “a slap in the face” for the officers’ families.Roberts, a career criminal with a history of violence, was jailed for life in 1966 for the murder of three unarmed Metropolitan police officers who approached him and two fellow gang members as they sat in a van in west London. While the trial judge set a 30-year tariff he recommended Roberts should never be released.Hogan-Howe said: “My thoughts today are primarily with the families and friends of Harry Roberts’ three victims. Roberts pleaded guilty to two cold-blooded murders and was involved, with his accomplices, in a third. He was convicted of all three murders.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe. Photograph: David Fisher/DFS-David Fisher/Rex Features“The murdered officers were unarmed and in 1966 were doing their duty on behalf of society, just as officers do today. Officers of both yesterday and today deserve the full protection of the law when facing ruthless criminals and in this case ‘life’ should have meant what it said.”The daughter of one of the murdered police officers, PC Geoffrey Fox, told ITV News she was “sickened” to learn that her father’s killer, was to be released without any prior warning. Mandy Fox described the decision as an “utter disgrace”, asking, “what signal does this show our courageous serving police officers throughout the country, who put their lives on the line daily for our protection and safety?”While there has been some political support for keeping Roberts in jail – the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, said people in the city would be “absolutely sickened” by his release – the decision to free Roberts was made by the independent Parole Board and is unlikely to be challenged. David Cameron’s spokesman said the prime minister “very much understands the strength of feeling” but believed it was a decision for the Parole Board alone.However, the Metropolitan Police Federation, which represents officers in the capital, said the decision was “scandalous, hurtful and abhorrent”.Steve White, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said he was appalled by Roberts’s release. He said: “This decision by the Parole Board is a slap in the face for the families of the three police officers he brutally murdered who, once again, are forced to relive their pain and loss. It will spark fury among everyone in the police family who will feel badly let down.”It is not clear when Roberts will be freed, something that would take place under strict conditions. The Ministry of Justice said it could not comment on individual cases.  A police cordon where three unarmed CID officers were shot dead on Braybrook Street, Shepherds Bush, west London, in August 1966. Photograph: PARoberts, who had previously served time in jail for beating up and robbing an elderly widow, was convicted of murdering DC David Wombwell, 25, Sgt Christopher Head, 30, and PC Geoffrey Fox, 41, in August 1966. Roberts and his fellow gang members were in a van near Wormwood Scrubs jail in west London when the three officers, all in plainclothes, stopped to ask them questions, having been warned of a possible prison escape.Apparently fearful the police would find weapons in the van the men planned to use in a robbery, Roberts shot and killed Wombwell and Head in front of children playing. A fellow gang member, John Duddy, shot Fox.The murders shocked Britain and prompted concern about increased lawlessness and violence. Roberts went on the run for three months amid one of the biggest manhunts ever seen in Britain, using skills learned during national service in Malaysia where, he said, he had learned to kill, camp out and avoid capture.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Police officers attend the funeral of DC David Wombwell, Sgt Christopher Head and PC Geoffrey Fox in September 1966. Photograph: Terry Fincher/Getty ImagesRoberts received three life sentences, with a 30-year minimum tariff. The trial judge, Mr Justice Glyn-Jones, said: “I think it likely that no home secretary regarding the enormity of your crime will ever think fit to show mercy by releasing you on licence. This is one of those cases in which the sentence of imprisonment for life may well be treated as meaning exactly what it says.”Roberts narrowly avoided being hanged. Capital punishment had been abolished the year before and there were calls for it to be reinstated over the case.Duddy died in jail and the third gang member, the only one to not fire a shot, Jack Witney, was murdered after coming out of jail in 1999. Roberts has spent years battling for his release, applying repeatedly for parole. In 2002 he brought a high court action against the then home secretary David Blunkett for refusing his release.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A reward poster for Harry Roberts, John Duddy and John Witney. Photograph: Keystone-France/Gamma-Keystone via Getty ImagesAccording to reports Roberts, who has been in an open prison for several years, will be released within days.The Parole Board said: “We can confirm that a three-member panel of the board has directed the release of Harry Roberts. The decision to release is a matter for the board, which is independent – arrangements and the date of the release are a matter for the secretary of state for justice. We are unable to comment further on the details of this case.”White said the judge’s belief Roberts should never be released had “just been forgotten and thrown in the bin.”He added: “What kind of message is that sending? It is appalling. Custodial sentences are about the protection of the public, but also about punishment.“In terms of the threat Roberts poses, I can accept that changes. What doesn’t change is the history of what Roberts did. And what doesn’t change is the fact we have three police officers’ families who are without their loved one. This is a betrayal of the police officers who died.”  Harry Roberts, now 78, on his way to hospital with a prison guard in 2009. Photograph: Duncan Lamont/Geoff RobinsonAsked about the matter on his weekly LBC radio phone-in show, the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, said he supported such choices being made by an independent process: “A decision has been taken to release this character after 48 years in prison, it’s not about my feelings, it’s about how the justice system works. If you want to run the system according to the latest emotion you feel, fine, but that would be a disaster.”The home secretary, Theresa May, announced plans last year to change the law so that anyone convicted of murdering a police officer would never be freed from jail. Responding to the news Roberts was being released, she said: “Policemen and women go out to work every day knowing that they might face great danger and they carry out their duties with great courage.“I strongly believe that anyone who murders a police officer belongs behind bars – and behind bars for life. That is why I have made sure the government will change the law so life will mean life for anyone who murders a police officer.”