Two brothers summoned back to court for mocking a judge on Facebook after she decided not to send them to prison for dealing drugs have been jailed for two years.Forty minutes after Daniel Sledden, 27, received a suspended jail term from judge Beverley Lunt, he posted online: “Cannot believe my luck 2 year suspended sentance beats the 3 year jail yes pal! Beverly Lunt go suck my dick.”Soon afterwards, his brother Samuel, 22, wrote: “What a day it’s been Burnley crown court! Up ur arse aha nice 2 year suspended.”Brothers remanded after abusing judge on Facebook The defendants, from Accrington, Lancashire, were recalled for a sentence review when the remarks were brought to the attention of the judge, after she had previously heard their expressions of remorse for offending.On Friday, Lunt said: “The question I have to ask myself is this: if I had known their real feelings at being in court, would I have accepted their remorse and contrition, and suspended the sentence? And the answer is: of course not. “Each of the posts indicate they have not changed at all. They have not taken on board anything or learned any responsibility.”The Sleddens originally received two-year prison terms, suspended for two years, after they admitted being concerned in the supply of cannabis between May and September 2014. Both will now serve two years after the suspension was lifted by Lunt.Sitting at Preston crown court, Lunt said the posts contained “offensive and sexual content directed at me as a judge and also as a woman”. She added: “These were not private entries in a diary. They were placed on Facebook with the intention that others should and would read them and, if they wished, would share them. So it was a limitless audience.“Their content is clearly indicative of how they really felt about appearing in court for this particular offence. Their tenor was boastful and jeering, and the only reasonable inference was they thought they had somehow fooled and misled the court.” Daniel Sledden’s online post was later deleted but only because he had been advised to do so by his solicitors, said the judge. She said: “Neither defendant had thought there was anything regrettable in them or decided to delete them themselves.” Both brothers had since written letters of apology to the judge, the court heard. Lunt continued: “These are two grown men. They are not children showing off. They both knew exactly what they were doing. They did not care who saw what they had written. Now I have no doubt that they are sorry they were caught.” She said Daniel Sledden’s pre-sentence report had referred to his regret at being involved in the offence and him blaming links with his own family. His barrister told his sentencing hearing that his client had taken “positive steps” by gaining employment.Samuel Sledden was said in his pre-sentence report to have been remorseful for his actions and felt “stupid” for committing the offence. He too had since found work and had returned to college, the court heard. Lunt said such expressions of remorse were “vital criteria” when taking into account the appropriate sentence for a defendant. She said she had based her original sentence on the delay in the case being sentenced, and their lack of offending since, together with their guilty pleas and their apparent contrition. But the terms of the suspension were now revoked following her review.Both brothers were remanded in custody 10 days ago while the transcript of the mitigation and sentencing remarks was obtained. 