An official investigation has found that the Metropolitan police is breaking laws aimed at stamping out racism, the Guardian has learned, five years after the Macpherson report found that discrimination among its officers had allowed Stephen Lawrence's killers to escape justice.The Met heads a list of 14 forces found by the Commission for Racial Equality to have race equality plans so poor that they break equality laws.The report, released yesterday, revealed a catalogue of failures by forces from the top ranks to the bottom, five years after they vowed to crack down on discrimination. The CRE refused to name the offenders but the Guardian understands they include the Met, Britain's biggest force, as well as Greater Manchester, the third biggest, Leicestershire, North Wales and others in both urban and rural areas. Norfolk was one of the forces found to have complied with the law. The CRE said the law-break ing forces had 90 days to comply or face legal action which could lead to chief constables being jailed. The report criticised attempts by the police to tackle their own racism, five years after the Macpherson report damned the Met for "institutional racism". Ministers and police chiefs promised radical change then, but the CRE found enduring failings as well as some good practice. Sir David Calvert-Smith, chairman of the formal inquiry, said he suspected the law was being broken by most of the 43 forces in England and Wales. Five police authorities, which are supposed to supervise forces, have race equality programmes which are unlawful, with three having no plans at all. All public bodies were supposed to have drawn up schemes to end discrimination two years ago. Sir David said: "We believe that the race equality scheme is the absolutely key building block in integrating mainstream race equality in the work of any public body. We were surprised at the depth of ignorance about race equality schemes. Hardly anybody knew about the scheme at all or what was in it." Trevor Phillips, the CRE's chairman, said chief constables would be in contempt of court if they continued to flout the law, though it is expected that the failing forces will comply rather than face a humiliating legal showdown. Mr Phillips said: "The time for chat and discussion and understanding is over. We have a law and all people have to do is obey it. If you are a law enforcement agency, the best place to start is by obeying the law yourself." The CRE found official reports by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary detailing failings had been ignored or barely acted upon. The blame stretched from senior officers to constables, with reforms introduced after Macpherson either failing or being undermined by those supposed to implement them. Police race training faced hostility from some senior officers and even those giving the training. There was evidence of "stealth racism", with officers attending race training in order to find the right things to say to provide a cover for their racist behaviour. The report said: "One informant sug gested that the training was helping to create a new phenomenon, the 'stealth racist', who learned how to remain undetected by the emphasis on what terminology to use and not use." Some officers treated race and diversity training as a "joke", while others were resentful because they "felt they were being coerced into a 'politically correct' exercise of reprogramming following the Lawrence report finding that - as they saw it - they were collectively racist". The CRE began its investigation after BBC1's Secret Policeman programme, televised in October, showed incidents of overt racism at a training school in Cheshire. The report found other incidents of open racism, including a Muslim officer who had curry smeared on his door. The inquiry's second part will examine in more depth discipline procedures and tests for detecting racist officers. Both discipline and tests were found to target ethnic minorities more than whites. Alan Green, deputy chief constable of Greater Manchester police, one of 14 forces found to be breaking the law, said: "I don't think we have gone wrong. We accept that in the eyes of the CRE we are partially non-compliant." 