A Thai police detective yesterday confessed to murdering two British backpackers at a popular tourist destination last month. He said he shot the man after feeling unable to win a physical argument and then in rage killed the woman by mistake.Sergeant Somchai Visetsingha admitted shooting Adam Lloyd, 25, and Vanessa Arscott, 24, on September 9 near the River Kwai in Kanchanaburi. He surrendered to the authorities yesterday morning. He had been sheltering with ethnic Karen rebels since fleeing Kanchanaburi following the incident, Thai police said. During his emotional confession Mr Somchai apologised to Ms Arscott's parents, Joyce and Graham, from Ashburton, Devon, and asked for their forgiveness. The fatal incident followed a 2am row between Mr Somchai and Mr Lloyd at the detective's restaurant on the bank of the river 70 miles west of Bangkok. In the middle of the argument, Ms Arscott left the restaurant and started walking home. Mr Somchai said he offered Mr Lloyd a lift to his hotel, but the Briton beat him up. "That western man beat me up badly and spit on me, fractured my ribs, smashed my nose and brow," he said. While fleeing the scene in his car, the detective allegedly drove into Ms Arscott, who was trying to prevent his escape. She was dragged down the road for about 200 metres before Mr Somchai stopped, got out of the car and shot at her in his panic to get away. "I meant to kill the man, but hit her accidentally," he said. "I think I fired all five bullets in my pistol's chamber." Detectives said the suspect would be charged with murder, which carries a maximum penalty of death. The families of both victims yesterday expressed thanks to the Thai authorities. Police carried out a reconstruction of the crime at the scene with Mr Somchai yesterday afternoon, a standard practice in Thai investigations. Mr Lloyd and Ms Arscott were at the end of a holiday to Thailand and Cambodia when they were killed. Their parents said they had been due to fly home the previous weekend but could not get a flight.