A new audit of gangmasters supplying casual labour to the food and farming industry in Britain has found that 90% of them were breaking the law in some way.Confidential interviews with workers, the majority of them migrants, revealed 13 instances of bonded or forced labour, and 28 cases of illegal employment of children and young workers. During one audit a health and safety inspector narrowly escaped being mown down by a 14-year-old driving a fork-lift truck.The audit, conducted for the alliance of business and unions trying to improve standards in the industry, the Temporary Labour Working Group, is the most detailed study of employment practices among gangmasters to date. Just over 200 gangmasters were inspected and 164 reports have been processed so far.The vast majority of the gangmasters were supplying labour to processing and packaging factories. All of them had volunteered for the audit, yet the vast majority were failing to comply with the law in some way. Only 10% were found to be obeying all the rules. Of those in breach of regulations, 40% were breaking the law in six or more ways.As well as instances of bonded labour and breaches of rules on employment of minors, there were more than 200 infringements of health and safety rules, 40 cases of illegal deductions from pay, and 34 offences relating to immigration and foreign workers' rights to work. In addition to the findings of the audits, the auditors say they received large numbers of other reports from workers and whistle-blowers. These concerned allegations of bonded labour, unpaid wages, evasion of tax, concealed subcontracting, forced overtime, overcrowded and unhygienic conditions, intimidation, criminal activity including Russian mafia connections, and immigration offences.The Association of Labour Providers, which represents gangmasters, said that while the figures looked bad, in many cases they referred to breaches of regulations that were unenforceable.Mark Boleat, the chairman, said: "The majority of illegal deductions related to transport. In respect of children, anyone under school leaving age must have local education authority and parental consent to work - that's unenforceable. Obviously, there would have been some nasty non-compliances, but if you audit any other group of businesses you would find many similar issues."He added that he was concerned that when he did come across serious abuses and reported them, no enforcement action was taken.Legislation that will require gangmasters to be licensed was passed last year, but which sectors of the industry should come under the licensing scheme has still to be decided. The government is expected to make an announcement next month.