Sir Paul Condon, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan police, yesterday warned the killers of Stephen Lawrence that he still hoped to bring them to justice as he expressed the 'shame' of the Metropolitan police at their previous failure to do so. He said he had thought 'long and hard' about resignation but had decided to remain to push through a platform of reforms before he retires next January. Accepting that unwitting prejudice, ignorance and thoughtlessness had all played a part in the police investigation, Sir Paul said that the Met had been found guilty of incompetence. But he said he took comfort from the fact that Sir William had cleared the officers concerned of both corruption and overt racism. 'We feel a sense of shame for the quality of the investigation and in our dealings with the family,' said Sir Paul at a press conference in Scotland Yard. 'As the report has made clear, we failed and we could and should have done better.' He added: 'I hope that our renewed efforts to bring those racist thugs responsible for the murder of Stephen Lawrence to justice will bear fruit. I have never given up hope . . . I want them to feel hunted.' Asked how a prosecution could now succeed, Sir Paul said that he did not want to go into details in case it alerted the killers as to the police's next move. Sir Paul also announced a major package of reforms which include the random testing of officers to see if their behaviour is racist, the formation of rapid-response murder teams and a three-year research project in London to see how the police could best improve their relations with ethnic minority communities. He said that already a dozen such random tests had been carried out using black undercover officers and likened them to random dope tests on athletes. John Newing, the president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, also accepted that the police had much to learn from the report but he added: 'The report has emphasised that the issue of racism is one for society as a whole and other agencies such as housing and education. Police forces have 200,000 staff, all with roots in a wider society that is itself often racist.' For the Police Superintendents' Association, Chief Superintendent Peter Gammon, said the criminal justice system must be more effective in bringing racially motivated criminals to account. However, the association said it was unfair to brand the whole service as racist. The Police Federation chairman, Fred Broughton, welcomed the report as a 'watershed of opportunity". 'The report signals a defining moment in policing,' he said. 'For our part we must look to the future and address our own agenda, structure and culture if we are to police with everyone's support.'  But he added: 'Ordinary officers in London and across the country are feeling bruised, battered and bewildered by the blame that is being laid at their door, blame that is shared by all levels of society.' He said the police must now introduce a new training regime to rebuild the confidence of the police. While he accepted that the the failures of the investigation highlighted racism in the service, he also said that he believed that the majority of officers attempted to police without prejudice. Inspector Paul Wilson of the Black Police Association said that the issue of racism was not just for the police service. He suggested that the media should examine how it portrayed ethnic minorities and what role they had in their organisations. Sir Paul received public backing yesterday from two of his senior officers as the police service closed ranks behind his decision to stay. John Grieve, the head of the new racial and violent crime unit, and Denis O'Connor, who has the role of spearheading the Met's anti-racism measures, both supported his decision to stay.  Deputy Assistant Commissioner Grieve said: 'Sir Paul is a man who has made a crusade out of racism throughout his career right back into the eighties.' Assistant Commissioner O'Connor said that it would be a loss if Sir Paul were to go. He said that the Commissioner 'bore the scars' of the events and should be allowed to see his anti-racism programme put into effect.