A ruthless sexual predator who raped and assaulted at least eight children and women was jailed for life yesterday. Mr Justice Owen told Antoni Imiela, 49, that he had displayed chilling contempt for the victims of his rape campaign. "Most thought they would die at your hands," he said at Maidstone crown court in Kent.Imiela, a railway maintenance worker, raped seven girls and women aged between 10 and 52 across the south-east of England and kidnapped, indecently assaulted and attempted to rape a 10-year-old girl in Birmingham. He was jailed him for life on each of the seven rape counts and received concurrent sentences of 10, seven and 12 years for the Birmingham offences. The judge told him life was the only appropriate sentence given his premeditation and violence. He subjected victims to a "humiliating and degrading ordeal", trying to force them to say they enjoyed it in "a grotesque parody of a consensual relationship". "You are a ruthless sexual predator," the judge said, setting a minimum term of 20 years for the life sentences. Imiela could apply for parole in eight years and nine months. But Mr Justice Owen added: "You present a serious danger to women and girls and will continue to do so." Experts had told the court there was a billion to one chance that DNA material from the first victim belonged to anyone unrelated to Imiela. DNA and other evidence linked him to the other, strikingly similar, attacks. David Kelly, who led the investigation as then assistant chief constable of Kent police, said afterwards that a radical expansion of the national DNA database was needed to catch offenders early. He has previously suggested children could be tested at birth. A further charge of raping an 18-year-old woman twice will lie on file because the jury could not reach a verdict. She had showered before reporting the assault, leaving no trace of her attacker, who had told her: "I'm not going to hurt you physically. This will just leave you emotionally scarred." A charge of attacking a 12-year-old in Bracknell never reached court because the victim was too traumatised. Sadism Imiela's attacks sparked a six-force inquiry, the largest joint police investigation since the Yorkshire Ripper hunt. At its height, police warned women and girls across the south-east of England that they were at risk. Detective Inspector Colin Murray, senior investigating officer for the first rape, said Imiela had "the desire to inflict pain, humiliation and domination". Unable to control himself, he loved to control other people. His sadism was epitomised by his use of a victim's mobile phone to call her mother and calmly announce he had "just shagged" her daughter. Not only Imiela's victims but thousands of women were put in fear by the randomness and geographic spread of his attacks, and his willingness to strike in busy areas in daylight. Even in the dock, Imiela tried to dominate proceedings. He gave the court two fingers, tried to sack his lawyers, and shouted: "That person does not exist," when asked to confirm his name. His younger sister Jadwiga said he acted erratically at the best of times."He would flare up. He would be shouting his head off, then a moment later would be perfectly calm." His victims had said he switched between threatening to kill them and attempting small talk. Imiela was born to a Polish soldier and his German wife in west Germany in 1954. For his first seven years the family lived in "displaced persons" camps. Their move to County Durham brought little stability. They spoke no English and their father, also Antoni, was neglectful and bullying. The welder, who died six years ago, often beat his sons with a belt. "Dad had a violent temper, and a cold, cruel streak in him," Jadwiga said. "Perhaps it runs in the family." In 1968, Imiela's mother Elfriede, who died last year, walked out. "She could not cope with him. Toni was wild," said Jadwiga. "She went to Germany and did not come back. Maybe Antoni never had the attention he wanted from a woman." By 17, Imiela was in borstal for firearms offences. On his release he became a plasterer and had a son with his girlfriend Allyson Pletts, but notched up further convictions for burglary and assault. The loss of his job was perhaps the final straw. In February 1987 he burst into a Darlington post office with a sawn-off shotgun and threatened to "blow the heads off" staff, who handed over £10,000. He is thought to have fled to the continent, but returned in October to continue his robbery spree. In January 1988 he slipped through an armed police cordon, but handed himself in the next day, frightened he would be shot. He was later jailed for 14 years and Detective Inspector Arthur Proud described him as "mysterious, deep and dangerous". Det Insp Proud was certain the "arrogant, smug" offender would strike again. Imiela was released in 1996. He married Christine, now 53, and settled in Appledore, Kent, 15 miles from Ashford, where he attacked his first victim in November 2001. He abducted the 10-year-old outside a youth club, raping and abandoning her in nearby woodland. But he made one crucial mistake - not wearing a condom. Police recovered the DNA profile which would, eventually, trap him. For eight months he lay low, perhaps because of the publicity, perhaps because his new company collected workers near home, giving him little opportunity to offend. Then, in June 2002, he was promoted, and began driving to work. Within weeks, he attacked a 30-year-old woman in Surrey. Police were startled when DNA from saliva matched that of the Ashford attacker. It is rare for sex offenders to target children and women, just as it is rare for armed robbers to turn to premeditated rape. Imiela struck again in Surrey, Hertfordshire and London; on one occasion raping two women in the same day. The release of the offender's e-fit prompted almost 5,000 calls; one identified Imiela. When officers took his DNA swab on November 19, he was one of hundreds of suspects. Only Imiela knew his time was up. In an act of defiance he drove to Birmingham, where he subjected his final victim to a five-hour ordeal, warning her he had "nothing to lose". Days later the police learned his DNA matched the Ashford rapist's. Afraid that he might flee again, they forced him off the M20 in a dramatic late-night arrest. For Imiela it was over. For his victims, no end is in sight. Yesterday, their statements in court revealed his legacy: panic attacks, claustrophobia and symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. One girl still wakes up screaming because she can see his face. "I have lost all confidence in myself and my independence," wrote another victim. "The man who raped me killed the person I was."