Gary Dobson, one of the men suspected for 18 years of killing the black teenager Stephen Lawrence, admitted to an Old Bailey jury that he had lied to the police and used violent, racist language as a youth.Dobson, who was 17 when Lawrence was killed, gave evidence in his defence after the court was played video footage from police surveillance of his flat in 1994. Dobson told the jury in his evidence that he was "ashamed, disgusted and embarrassed" by the footage from the surveillance tape.Dobson, 36, and David Norris, 35, who both deny murder, craned their necks from the dock to watch the footage, which was played to the jury over 30 minutes on Tuesday. In the film both men and their friends Neil Acourt and Luke Knight are heard repeatedly calling African-Caribbean people "niggers" and threatening violence against them.At one point in the video, filmed by a secret camera hidden in the skirting board of the living room, Dobson describes how a "black cunt" at work annoyed him so much he threatened him with a Stanley knife, saying "I'm going to slice this down you seven times". In another extract Norris threatened to skin a black man alive.Asked by his barrister, Tim Roberts QC, whether he had anything to do with the events that led to the death of 17-year-old Stephen Lawrence in 1993, he replied: "No, I did not."Dobson admitted under cross-examination, however, that he had told a barefaced lie to the police when he said, while being questioned in 1993, that he did not know David Norris. The men were in fact close friends at the time.He told the jury that he had not worn the jacket which the Crown says carries a spot of Lawrence's blood on the collar, and said the cardigan which holds other crucial forensic evidence suggesting he was present at the murder was his father's and he had never used it.Under cross examination by Mark Ellison QC, for the prosecution, Dobson was repeatedly challenged about the views he displayed on the police surveillance footage. "The Dobson today is ashamed and disgusted at the Dobson in 1994, is that a fair summary?" asked Ellison."Yes", Dobson replied. "I think it speaks for itself if you look at it, the language and the terminology is disgusting.""Racist?""Yes," said Dobson."And it envelops violence with racism?" said Ellison."Yes," said Dobson.Ellison asked whether this was the "real" Dobson. "I can only say that was the way I was speaking around the time, I can't defend or justify it," he said."It was an idiotic young fellow talking like an idiot," said Dobson.The jury has been told Lawrence was set upon by a gang of white men, who shouted "what, what nigger" before attacking him in Well Hall Road, Eltham, south London, in April 1993.Ellison asked Dobson whether he might have used similar racist language to that he displayed in the video when he walked with his friends down Well Hall Road."No," Dobson replied."Were you accustomed to calling most black people niggers?" asked Ellison."I think so, to be honest," Dobson replied. He added: "It was probably just terminology. I didn't see it as such a bad word, to be honest. It's like when I used to banter with people outside school."Dobson said the words and actions in the police footage were banter, the "moronic" actions of a young "idiotic" man and a "horrible joke".But Ellison asked again: "However you try to excuse it now, back then you held racist views. Did you hold racist views?""I don't think there's no denying that with the words I am using," said Dobson."As for racist views the way that that seems I am using terrible words, as a terminology, but I have still got black, Asian and Chinese friends to this day."I don't dislike someone because of the colour of their skin contrary to how it looks and sounds."The jury was told by Mr Justice Treacy that the crown would say the video extracts showed racist behaviour. He warned the jury that they might consider the material "shocking", but they must set emotion aside and decide the case on the facts.The video was made by police in 1994 at a flat Dobson was renting with another youth, Charlie Martin, in Eltham.The video showed Dobson handling a knife, and others in the flat handling the weapon. One youth, who has not been charged, left the flat accompanied by Norris with the knife secreted on them.The trial continues.