I was told the story by an officer in one of our young offender institutions. It was, apparently, the latest initiation ritual in one of the gangs. Take your knife, go out and find an innocent passer by, and mutilate them with that knife. Then you can join the gang.Small wonder that the latest statistics on knife crime are so shocking. There were 38,000 serious offences last year involving knives. That's more than 100 every day. There have been rises in robbery with a knife in almost every region in the country.Knives are a youth problem – but they are also a problem for youth. The vast majority of young people in Britain are law-abiding citizens making important contributions to their communities. They are also the ones most likely to be victims of knife crime. It is to protect these young people that we need to get the knife crime problem sorted out.The real problem lies in the gang culture that exists in many areas. Whether it is kids carrying knives because they are in gangs or kids carrying knives because they are afraid of gangs, it is the gang culture that underpins the problem. The 2008 Mori Youth Survey indicated that 31% of 11-16 year olds in mainstream education and 61% of excluded young people had carried a weapon at some point in the preceding year. We have to break this culture if we are to deal with the problem of knife crime.The root causes of the gang culture lie right across the policy spectrum – but they can all be found in the same areas geographically: worklessness; family breakdown; educational failure and addiction. Put pins in a map and you will find a high level of correlation between social breakdown and the gang culture.The truth is that those who join gangs – more often than not they are young men in their later teens – often do come from the most difficult family backgrounds, from an environment where they feel neglected and unwanted. Gang membership can bring a perverse sense of belonging which they may not have ever got at home. And where gangs exist, so too do weapons. Research among gang members has shown that carrying a gun or knife was routine and injuries were common.The government's measures to tackle both gangs and knife crime just aren't working. Gang injunctions announced recently by ministers won't work for the under-16s; only one person who was convicted of knife possession received the new maximum sentence of four years; only one person has been jailed for selling knives to children and just one in six of those convicted of knife possession sent to jail.So, instead of the government's approach of too much legislation and not enough action we need some common sense measures backed up with good quality, visible policing.It will be impossible to tackle gang and knife crime while police officers up and down the country are stuck behind their desks filling in forms instead of patrolling the streets and chasing criminals.It will also be impossible if we do not properly deter people from carrying knives. The presumption should be that if you are caught carrying a knife, you will go to prison.But above all, it will be impossible if we do not get to grips with the root causes of social breakdown in our society. The current government has failed to do so for a decade. It is time for fresh ideas.