Senior civil servants have complained to Downing Street about the lack of consultation over the government's shambolic reshuffle, including plans to abolish the post of lord chancellor and merge parts of the Scotland Office and Wales Office into a new Department of Constitutional Affairs.Jonathan Baume, leader of the First Division Association, the union representing the most senior civil servants, said last night: "A reshuffle is clearly going to be a matter for the prime minister, but these reorganisations in Whitehall will make far better sense in the long run when ministers take time to consult and plan with those involved. "If government expects civil servants to do more to deliver services and produce results, then it is important for government to think through its reorganisations. A lot of time-consuming consequences will flow from these changes and need to be examined". He said that even the planned abolition of the post of lord chancellor would not be easy since there were references to it in more than 500 statutes. Mr Baume's complaint reflects unease at the Blair style of government among many permanent secretaries. Mr Blair will try to reimpose his authority with a big domestic speech tomorrow to the Fabian Society, arguing that choice and decentralisation must be at the heart of the government's reform programme. It was becoming increasingly clear that the presentation of the reshuffle was ham pered by a complex debate in which Lord Irvine resisted plans to abolish the post of lord chancellor, and the home secretary, David Blunkett, opposed a new ministry of justice taking over some of the functions of the Home Office Mr Blunkett won his battle and Lord Irvine lost his, prompting some reports that Mr Blair was forced to sack him when he asked to stay in office to consult over the future of the lord chancellor. Even last night some cabinet ministers were privately suggesting that Mr Blunkett had only won the battle, not the war to prevent parts of his department eventually being transferred to a ministry of justice. The constitutional implications of the reshuffle were still causing confusion yesterday with reports that the prime minister had failed to warn the Queen over his plans to scrap the 1,400-year-old post of lord chancellor. Downing Street and Buckingham Palace both sought to play down any row over the reshuffle, insisting the Queen's approval had been sought for the ministerial changes. In a belated attempt to explain the thinking behind the constitutional reforms announced as part of the reshuffle, Lord Williams, leader of the Lords, said Mr Blair, by abolishing the post of lord chancellor, was voluntarily giving away the prime ministers's powers in three vital areas of the law. The government was relinquishing the right to appoint the speaker in the Lords, as well as the most senior figure in the judiciary. Also, the government was abandoning the right of a member of the cabinet to sit in the highest court in the land.