The first prime minister's question time of the coalition era was a subdued affair. Partly that was because everyone from David Cameron down was still feeling their way into new roles. Mainly, though, it was because of the shocking news from the north. Out of a clear blue sky, a 52-year-old taxi driver in Whitehaven had started shooting to kill, murdering at least one colleague, then heading off on a trail of random shooting through the small towns of west Cumbria, ending in the village of Boot in Eskdale, where he fired his last bullet at himself. West Cumbria has suffered a lot in recent months, in the Cockermouth flood and last month's Braithwaite bus crash. And now this.Despite occasional flurries of tabloid-fanned fear and in defiance of domestic TV dramas in which multiple shootings have become routine entertainment, Britain is neither a gun-toting society nor one in which order and security are held ransom by a gun lobby like the one whose activities help to allow so much killing in the United States. Gun crime here is falling steadily, down by a remarkable 41% in England and Wales over the past five years, according to Home Office figures. Only 39 people in England and Wales died from firearm offences in the whole of 2008-09, the lowest total in 20 years. Crime rates in Cumbria are well below the average. To get a balanced measure of the issue, consider this: just seven people in the entirety of England and Wales were killed by a shotgun during the whole of the last 12 months. Yesterday Derrick Bird vastly exceeded that whole total in a single shotgun rampage.Such rampages are not unknown in Britain. But they are so rare that each is deeply etched in the national memory. Michael Ryan's killing of 16 people in Hungerford in 1987 is one. Thomas Hamilton's slaughter of 17 people, mostly children, in Dunblane in 1996 is another. Now Bird's murder of 12 people in west Cumbria must be added to the list of haunting infamy.Hungerford and Dunblane each led to official reports, the latter a full tribunal of inquiry. In each case the report was followed by legislation that tightened the gun laws: in 1988, the ownership of semi-automatics and the more powerful shotguns was banned; in 1997, two acts were passed which tightly restricted the ownership of most handguns. It is not yet clear if similar loopholes are exposed by the Cumbria shootings. But there must be a full inquiry and a published report into this massacre too. It should focus on what happened, whether the gun licensing system is properly enforced, not just in Cumbria but elsewhere, and whether more can be done to flush out illegal weapons. If loopholes can be plugged by new laws, so be it. Ours is a safe country. It must remain one.