Angela Quinn has something she wants to say to Tony Blair: "Stop putting people down, try to help people more, and put more money into where things can help people instead of wasting it."Quinn, a 36-year-old mother of two, is not a campaigner nor a politician, and has never met Blair. She is a single parent with a history of antisocial behaviour who was almost evicted from her council house earlier this year following a catalogue of complaints from neighbours to the police about her and her two children.What she wants is more people like her to be given support to work through their problems, rather than being evicted or landed with parenting orders or antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos), which can result in a prison sentence if breached.A new report from the children's charity NCH appears to give credence to Quinn's views. The report, Tackling Antisocial Behaviour: Have We Got It Right?, examines currently favoured punitive approaches to tackling the problem. These include Asbos - 600 of which were issued between May and December 2004 to young people aged 10-17. It concludes that a greater emphasis is needed on preventive measures aimed at addressing the causes of antisocial behaviour.NCH claims that the eviction of families for antisocial behaviour is counter-productive and merely "displaces" the problem. The charity recommends that "intensive and challenging family support programmes" be embraced as a more effective way of changing behaviour in the longer term. "The key to success," a spokesman for the charity says, "is preventing antisocial behaviour and not acting once someone has behaved in an antisocial manner."Quinn insists that the authorities need to understand people like her and not, as she sees it, judge and punish her. "Until they are in my situation, or know people in that situation, they don't understand what it's like," she argues.Quinn has just arrived at the Leceister offices of NCH. It is one of numerous visits she has made in the past seven months. Her eldest child, 16-year-old Brian, is by her side. They are here because in March they were referred to the NCH New Start families project, a scheme set up in Leicester to support families at risk of homelessness due to antisocial behaviour. The referral was from a housing resettlement officer appointed by the council to oversee their eviction. Positive responseBoth the eviction and legal action were averted, says NCH project worker Sue Raspall, because Quinn and her children responded positively to the assistance from NCH.Quinn says the NCH scheme has boosted her confidence, helped her be a better parent, and taught her how to handle stressful situations. It has also, she says, produced a marked improvement in Brian's behaviour. Brian, who has been excluded from school a number of times, is no longer a troublemaker on the estate, where he had been setting things on fire and been abusive to neighbours. And Quinn's own disputes with neighbours - which frequently ended in street fights and, on one occasion, in Quinn lashing out at a neighbour who threatened her with a hammer - have dissipated as she has learned to control her anger.The Leicester NCH scheme, which began in February this year, is working with 11 families, three of which are living in NCH houses after having been evicted and are given regular intensive coaching and assistance. The other eight families, including the Quinns, are given help in their own homes and at NCH's premises.The scheme is voluntary, but families have to agree to be helped and each is appointed a project worker to manage their progress.Quinn says the approach has turned her life around. Things are still far from perfect, she says, but for the first time in years she is considering going back to work."I feel a lot happier," she says. "It's been really good to sit down and talk about things. It was tough to speak to people before the project. I felt as if the police and social services weren't listening to things from our point of view. I'm not saying we were doing nought wrong - we were - but it felt like we were always being judged."Schemes such as the one used by Quinn are not a magic bullet, NCH emphasises. The charity, as with others in the field, acknowledges that antisocial behaviour is a complex problem and that not every family will respond to a supportive approach. But the charity believes that their preventive and support work goes some way toward addressing the root causes of antisocial behaviour. And Raspall says she would like more vocal support from government for this approach, rather than punitive measures.For Quinn, the message to ministers is straightforward: "You know, there's good and bad in all people. All people want at the end of the day is a little bit of help, a bit of support."· Some names have been changed.