A serial killer who knifed four people to death in random, drug-crazed attacks was yesterday convicted of murder after an Old Bailey jury rejected claims that he was driven to kill by mental illness.Daniel Gonzalez was described by the prosecution as a "callous, cold person" who wanted to emulate the slaughter inflicted by the evil figure of Freddy Krueger in the Hollywood horror film Nightmare on Elm Street.Over a three-day period in September 2004, Gonzalez killed two men and two women between the south coast of England and London. He also attempted to murder two others. His victims were often elderly, selected because they offered least resistance.Richard Horwell, prosecuting, said Gonzalez subsequently tried to manipulate psychiatrists into believing he heard voices commanding him to kill and was a "psychopath" whose "very personality led him to kill - disinhibited by a cocktail of drugs and alcohol". The defence claimed he was guilty of manslaughter not murder.After the verdict his mother, Lesley Savage, alleged the family had been denied proper medical help. "Every time we asked for help for Daniel ... we were told we would have to wait for a crisis to occur."Ms Savage revealed that at one stage she had written to social services asking: "Does my son have to commit murder to get help?" Only months before the killings, she said, Gonzalez wrote to his doctor begging for intervention: "Please, please, help me, this is very urgent."Gonzalez, 25, from Woking, Surrey, was remanded in custody until today when he is expected to be given a mandatory life sentence. He sat impassively between five officers while the jury returned its verdict.The victims who died were Derek Robinson, 76, and his wife, Jean, 68, from Highgate, north London; Kevin Molloy, 46, who was killed in Tottenham, north London, on September 17 2004; and Marie Harding, 73, who was murdered two days earlier near Worthing, West Sussex. The victims who escaped were Peter King, 61, of Portsmouth, and Koumis Constantino, 59, of Hornsey, north London.One of his most violent attacks was against Mr and Mrs Robinson.After his arrest, Gonzalez broke down in tears and gave a statement in which he said he was sorry for their deaths. "I saw this bloke," he explained, "I thought 'OK. Ready, steady go ...' Then I jumped up and stuck it all the way in. It was such a long knife. There was no chance for the poor guy, no chance."The prosecution accepted Gonzalez had a personality disorder but insisted he was not suffering from mental illness. Outside court, Detective Chief Inspector Dave Cobb said: "Gonzalez wants to be remembered as a famous serial killer, but I hope he is forgotten and we only remember his victims."What Gonzalez did was shocking and brutal and left families traumatised. He was clever and manipulative and did not want to accept responsibility for what he did."Later he confessed to killing all his victims, saying: "I am sorry. I just want to get locked up ... in fact I should go into the electric chair." At Broadmoor, the maximum-security psychiatric hospital where he was held, he told a psychiatrist: "I think I will be out in eight to 10 years."Gonzalez was considered one of the most dangerous men detained there. He tried, on one occasion, to bite himself to death. "I have never seen anyone bite himself with that ferocity. A number of staff described it as a clear attempt to die," said Dr Edward Petch, a consultant. "Given his history, he was genuinely trying to kill himself. He felt his was a job not complete."Surrey and Borders Partnership NHS trust said he had shown "no sign" of serious violence towards others, although he had threatened violence when younger."Everyone who was involved in his care was shocked and horrified to hear that he had been charged with these dreadful offences," a spokesman said."These incidents were not preceded by a history of violence and for that reason the trust does not believe his actions could have been predicted."The mental health charity Rethink alleged the case represented a failure by medical professionals to talk to each other or to involve his family.