In an exclusive interview on the first anniversary of the Macpherson report, Doreen Lawrence tells Vikram Dodd of the pain of living without her murdered son, Stephen, and of her anger with police and politicians.The healing qualities of time have failed Doreen Lawrence. One year on from the report into Stephen's death, seven years on from her son's murder, that tragedy and the fight for justice exact a toll that threatens to overwhelm her.Mrs Lawrence gave a candid insight into the turmoil she faces because of racism - the murderous racism of a white gang, and the institutional racism of those supposed to catch them. While racism for some may be hard to define, for Mrs Lawrence its effects are something she lives with every day, manifested by something as simple as watching television. "I think about Stephen all the time. If you're watching TV and you see a child at a certain age, you think about what Stephen was doing at that age. "With my emotions I can't watch anything to do with sadness. Seeing someone else's pain brings my own to the forefront." Mrs Lawrence is menaced by so much in the life she has found herself having to lead. The pain from the betrayal by the police, the knowledge that Stephen's killers are still free, and the implosion of her marriage under the strain - all these are pressures enough to fell anyone. But added to these are the pressures of unwanted fame, the pressure of ensuring her two other children are not suffocated by all going on around them and have room to flourish. And somewhere in that list of demands on her emotional energy, she has to deal with her own lingering pain from the loss of her firstborn child, and the cruelty of memory. In the past year, that pain has not got any better. "It's like a numbness that's there, and there's nothing you can do to make it any easier. When I think about Stephen, what more can I do to bring some justice for him? I have gone as far as I can go. I don't really know what else to do. Apart from going and arresting those people myself, what can I do? It's as if they're laughing all over again." Doreen and Neville Lawrence overcame so much to get the truth about their son officially recognised in the Macpherson report. Mrs Lawrence says the lessons were not learned. She dismisses a home office steering committee on race, on which she sits, as a "talking shop" and believes the police are waiting for the outrage to die down. "I was hoping they would recognise that they've made mistakes and say we live in a society that's multi-cultural and we should police everybody in the same way. "I don't see anything happening. The police are still very angry about the report and the fact they have to make changes. I feel under attack from the police." Some officers said Macpherson's findings caused a drop in stop and searches, which led to an increase in street robberies. "That's complete rubbish. They can't just stop and search a person because they're black or drive a flash car." She believes that Scotland Yard's patronising attitude towards her family has not changed and that it is demonstrated by their refusal to admit that they should pay compensation for their errors. "From Stephen's murder their whole attitude towards us as a family is that we should shut up and take whatever we're given. They don't think anybody should question their attitude or demand anything from them." A year ago today, everybody was full of promises for Mrs Lawrence. The day the report was released Tony Blair asked to see her and promised support for her family's cause and for racial justice. "For whatever reason they have fallen short of the promises. There's a funny balance. They want to implement changes but they want to please middle England as well. I don't believe they're getting the balance right." Mrs Lawrence is trying to perform her own balancing act, fighting for justice for Stephen while keeping life as normal as possible for herself and her children, Stuart and Georgina. "If you're not careful you get sucked into a life where you forget how to live. The fact is that I have two children and the focus is on their future even though the other side of me is still looking for something for Stephen." Like her lost son, Mrs Lawrence has become an icon. She has come to represent qualities of determination and courage. But she has to cope with an internal battle within herself. "If I feel something needs to be done and I need to do it then I'll do it. Then another day I'm so lost in my own thoughts that all I can do is manage to function for that day. Sometimes, once I come in on a Friday, I don't leave my home again until the weekend's over to go to work. "I haven't got the energy for it, I haven't got a sense that I want to go out and meet people, I just want to be in my own little world with my children." In fighting injustice Mrs Lawrence became a celebrity, a status she finds stressful. Refuge from its demands at times leaves her a recluse in her "own little world" in her house. "I don't have anybody coming up and saying 'Hello are you Mrs Lawrence?' or 'I'm really sorry about your son.' Everybody means well but it's just being reminded all the time. At home I don't have that, I have my own memories of Stephen which I can live with." Mrs Lawrence says her continued suffering is so severe that it sometimes leaves her in a near catatonic state. "My thing is just to go really quiet. I don't speak to anybody, just shut myself off." That includes from her children. "Then Georgina will have a go at me, 'You don't talk to me, you don't do this, you don't do that, I might as well not be here.' I can't break out of that, I just can't. What do you say? There's nothing I can say. The next day I'll say I'm sorry. "The fact that you want to moan and cry out, I can't do that to my children. You're trying to make sure they have some happiness in their lives. If I'm telling them about my own sadness that will make them sad and I don't want to do that to them." She stops for a split second and remembers why: "As a mother I don't want to do that." The toll of the struggle for justice was a major factor in her divorce from Neville. She felt "alone and unsupported" by him. "I don't think it was inevitable, I suppose I was hoping it would never happen. Stephen happened [his murder] and I felt that I couldn't continue like that. I was alone." There is an end point to her struggle. "I need to have an end. The end would be somebody being jailed for Stephen's murder." Until then she cannot give up. On top of all the roles she fulfils, Mrs Lawrence is a student welfare officer and is studying for an MSc in therapeutic counselling, having earned her first degree in humanities. The values she imparted to Stephen, the importance of education, God and family, are those that in her continuing darkness provide intellectual stimulation and comfort. "I have a great belief in God and I believe that he has kept me and carried me along. Without having that belief I don't think I could continue." But to lose a son, to suffer all she has suffered, that must have tested her faith? "Oh yeah, the fact that he allowed my son to be killed and he wasn't there for him." A second source of strength for her, and of solace amid the maelstrom, is her children. "They provide me with a will to live, a will to continue, a will to know that I have to keep strong for them." Her voice drops. "I have to keep strong for them."