Scotland Yard has launched an investigation after officers were videoed allegedly torturing and threatening a man as he lay on the ground after they had run him over.One constable, aged 42, has been suspended and four others are under investigation after the incident during which one officer was captured by a security camera apparently placing his foot on the man's stomach. The alleged victim, Colin May, is suing police over the incident in Erith, south-east London, in January 1999. The video suggests the officers mocked May after he begged for an ambulance. They left him on the ground with a broken leg for almost 40 minutes. One officer threatened to torture May, a DIY store worker, and to roll the car over his head. Mr May said he had left his home to help the police and was looking for vandals who had damaged his fence. He had a knife and says he was jumped by a man whom he later discovered was a police officer. Mr May ran down a street, where he was hit by an unmarked police car. As he lay on the ground one officer turned him on to his back and placed handcuffs on him so tightly that a bone in his right wrist was broken, Mr May alleges. He claims that when he asked police to call him an ambulance, one policeman replied: "You're an ambulance. You're a very naughty ambulance." The injured man is then said to have been told by another officer that he would "probably have to walk" if he wanted to go to hospital. The officers were unaware that a neighbour - disturbed by the noise - switched on a security camera, capturing their actions and comments. Mr May said: "They were kicking me and hitting me and the car had just run me over. "I was in complete agony, and when a man came towards me I thought it was someone from an ambulance to help me, but it was a policeman and he kicked me in the head. "Then the others joined in again, and after that someone started to video it. "This was not some gang of youths but police officers who should know better. "I think I deserve something back from them for the trouble and pain they have caused." Mr May is suing the Metropolitan police for £10,000. Metropolitan police deputy assistant commissioner Andy Hayman, who is head of the directorate of professional standards, said: "This incident happened nearly three years ago, and when we received the allegation we launched a full investigation which has resulted in one officer being suspended from duty. "A number of other PCs have been served with disciplinary notices informing them that they are also being investigated. "The Met is determined to establish the full facts and to act swiftly to ensure that the confidence of Londoners is maintained. "The Met will not tolerate behaviour which falls short of the standards which the community expects of our officers."