A murderer dubbed the Black Widow was jailed for life yesterday for poisoning her curry-loving husband.Dena Thompson, described by a judge at the Old Bailey as "utterly ruthless and without pity", had already conned a string of men out of thousands of pounds. She was found guilty of killing Julian Webb, a newspaper executive, on his 31st birthday in June 1994. A senior policeman said Thompson was "every man's nightmare" and declared that the "men of Britain can sleep safe knowing she has been taken off the streets". Thompson, 43, of Cullompton, Devon, had served time for defrauding her first husband, Lee Wyatt, and third husband, Richard Thompson, though she was previously cleared of trying to kill Mr Thompson with a baseball bat and knife, claiming she feared for her life during a bondage sex session. But it was the persistence of Mr Webb's mother, Rosemary Webb, which helped bring her to justice for the murder of her second spouse, exploiting his love of extra-hot curry to disguise the bitter taste of a fatal dose of anti-depressants. Mrs Webb, a teacher, from Hayling Island, Hants, was unwavering in her belief that her son had neither committed suicide nor suddenly become ill. The defendant showed no emotion as the judge, Michael Hyam, the recorder of London, said: "What you did was utterly ruthless and without pity. Nothing can excuse you for the wickedness of what you did." Mrs Webb attended every day of the month-long trial and gave evidence against Thompson. Mrs Webb was suspicious from the start, when her son got married after a whirlwind three-month romance in 1991. She spoke to Thompson on the phone three times on Webb's 31st birthday only to be told he was too ill to speak to her or to open his cards and presents. Mrs Webb was devastated when police informed her the next morning he was dead and was stunned at his wife's lack of reaction. Mrs Webb could not believe that her son, who discussed plans for a fishing trip last time they talked, would have taken his own life. He was excited about moving to Florida. But his mother's shock and grief turned to fury when Thompson turned up at her son's workplace, the Portsmouth News Group, asking for his £36,000 death benefit. Mrs Webb set about proving she was the legal next of kin and discovered Thompson was still married to her first husband when she married her son. She resisted Thompson's attempts to have Mr Webb cremated. Instead, he was buried near the family home on Hayling Island. His body was exhumed two years ago when a witness told police that Thompson had told him about the curry meal. Legal restrictions forbade references to her previous convictions during the trial. But during her marriage to Mr Webb, she stole £23,000 from the Woolwich building society, where she worked, and tried to blame it on Mr Wyatt. She was jailed for 18 months in 1995. In 2000, she was jailed again for three years and nine months after admitting conning Mr Thompson and two other men out of £12,000. She hoodwinked a string of partners, claiming she was terminally ill and promising them a new life in the US. Detective Chief Inspector Martyn Underhill, said outside court: "This woman is every man's nightmare. For a decade, she has targeted men sexually, financially, physically. The men of Britain can sleep safe tonight knowing she has been taken off the streets."