Only hours after the prime minister's confession on Tuesday that New Labour's past habit of courting the media was one of the problems in the relationship between politicians and journalists, one of his close colleagues was busily spinning. With the home secretary's encouragement, yesterday's press reported that paedophiles faced "chemical castration". The more mundane reality - that various voluntary drug treatments for offenders would continue to be developed - was reserved for parliament to hear yesterday. The castration story was a distraction put up to enable John Reid to back down quietly from another of his media-misinspired suggestions. Namely, that he would adopt a version of America's Megan's Law.That attempts to give Americans a right to know the identities of paedophiles living locally. It was an emotional response to the murder of a child, and one that has failed to bolster protection. Fearing the consequences of disclosure, as many as one paedophile in four goes underground in the US, putting them beyond the reach of treatment and surveillance. That dangerous position contrasts with registration compliance of over 95% in the UK.Megan's Law also encourages a focus on strangers with sexual convictions. The reality is that the overwhelming majority of children suffering sexual abuse do so at the hands of people who are known to them - frequently family members. It is thus welcome that Mr Reid's fig leaf yesterday, the policy that allowed him to claim that he has delivered on grand talk about removing officialdom's monopoly on data, was the idea that mothers should be able to check up on partners and others who have regular access to their children. The effects of this move will be limited, however, especially since there will, appropriately, be penalties to deter parents from passing on any information that they uncover.The other fruits of Mr Reid's year-long review of child protection were similarly modest. New administrative support to help the various agencies who manage sex offenders to coordinate their work is welcome, although the sums involved are small. Lie detectors may be useful to probation officers in specific contexts, but yesterday's heavy emphasis on them smacked of gimmickry. And when even draconian control orders have not enabled the authorities to keep tabs on a handful of terror suspects, Mr Reid's satellite tracking seems unlikely to keep many serious sex offenders at bay. Yesterday's package, however, should be welcomed more for what it did not include than what it did. Tabloid-driven presentation it may have been, but better that than tabloid-driven policy when it comes to tackling paedophilia.