The death in London of a corrupt Italian financier known as "God's banker" because of his ties to the Vatican remained more of a mystery than ever last night after the acquittal of five people accused of his murder.A court in Rome decided there was insufficient evidence to show that any of the five, some of whom have links to organised crime, had a role in the death of Roberto Calvi, who was found dangling by his neck under Blackfriars bridge in 1982. Defence lawyers argued it had not even been proved he was killed. But the questions Calvi's death raised were still thought sufficiently sensitive for the verdict to be read out in a maximum security courtroom inside a Rome prison.None of the accused, including Pippo Calo, the man alleged to have ordered the murder and the mafia's financial mastermind who has been in jail on unrelated charges since 1985, were present. It was not immediately clear whether the prosecution would appeal.Bricks and stones had been stuffed into Calvi's trousers and jacket and it was speculated that this was a symbolic allusion to his involvement with a subversive masonic lodge, P2, which included some of Italy's most powerful men. One of its members was Silvio Berlusconi, the current leader of the Italian opposition.As Calvi's corpse was being cut down, in Italy Banco Ambrosiano, of which he was the chairman, had collapsed, bringing to light the extent of his shady dealings, including alleged money laundering for the Sicilian mafia.A London coroner initially ruled Calvi had killed himself, but the case was reopened at the insistence of his family and an open verdict was returned. Calvi's family continued to press for further investigation in Italy and in 1998 a judge in Rome ordered an inquiry by forensic experts that concluded the banker had been murdered.At the request of the Italian authorities the City of London police renewed their inquiries and in 2003 prosecutors in Rome charged five people.They argued Calvi was killed for three reasons: he had mishandled cash entrusted to him by the Sicilian mafia; there was a risk he would disclose the secrets of his money laundering system; and the underworld bosses who ordered his death wanted to bank a favour with those Calvi was in a position to embarrass or ruin. The prosecution said these included the P2 lodge, unidentified politicians and senior public officials and, most controversially, the Vatican's bank, known as the Institute for the Works of Religion.The indictment claimed that Calvi's murder was ordered by Calo. But the details were left to others, particularly Flavio Carboni, a businessman who arranged Calvi's escape from Italy where he was on bail. Calvi arrived in London by private aircraft from Innsbruck, Austria, carrying a false passport and took a service flat in Chelsea Cloisters. The 150,000 pages of documents presented to the court included a detailed account of how the prosecution believed Calvi had been lured out of his refuge and strangled before being taken by boat to be hanged under Blackfriars bridge.The judges rejected that version. But, until they publish their reasoning, it will not be clear why. Mr Carboni's defence counsel, Renato Borzone, greeted yesterday's outcome with "great satisfaction". But he said his client had been under suspicion from the beginning and had "had to wait 25 years for justice".What remained, said Mr Borzone, was a question first posed by the renowned Sicilian author Leonardo Sciascia, not long after Calvi's body was found: "Why was a good mystery preferred to finding out the truth?"Jeff Katz, of the investigations agency Bishop International, which carried out an inquiry for the Calvi family from 1991 to 1993, said he was not surprised by the verdict."Most of the evidence against the defendants was circumstantial and it is difficult to convict people of conspiracy to murder with circumstantial evidence," he said.Key charactersRoberto Calvi Rose from a humble post in the Banco Ambrosiano to become chairman. Bank collapsed in 1981 after discovery of the conspiratorial P2 masonic lodge.Giuseppe 'Pippo' Calo So-called "cashier" of mob in Sicily. Cleared of ordering Calvi's murder.Flavio Carboni Sardinian businessman who accompanied Calvi when he fled after currency export conviction and released pending appeal.Ernesto Diotallevi Prosecution said he was link between Calo and Carboni.Silvano Vittor Flew with Calvi to London. Later jailed for aiding his flight.