A gang of abusers who subjected vulnerable girls in Oxford to years of rape, torture and extreme sexual violence has been convicted at the Old Bailey in one of the biggest child sexual exploitation trials in recent years.Seven men were found guilty of a total of 43 charges relating to six victims. The gang included two sets of brothers, Akhtar Dogar, 32, and Anjum Dogar, 31, and Bassam Karrar, 33, and Mohammed Karrar, 38. The other men were Kamar Jamil, 27, Zeeshan Ahmed, 27 and Assad Hussain, 32. All lived in Oxford.Mohammed Hussain, 25, who was cleared of three counts of sexual activity with a child, had insisted he thought the girl was over 16. A ninth defendant, who cannot be named, was cleared of a similar charge.Ahmed had to be removed from the dock by security staff after he punched one of the acquitted men.The jury of seven men and five women spent 17 hours and 46 minutes in deliberations spanning four days.Adjourning sentencing until 26 June, Judge Peter Rook QC told the defendants: "You all understand that you've been convicted by the jury of the most serious offences. Long custodial sentences are inevitable."The girls – all of whom came from backgrounds in care – were drugged, raped, sold as prostitutes and trafficked around the country while supposedly in the safekeeping of the local authority in the city.Years of failings by Thames Valley police and Oxford social services were exposed during the trial. Police were alerted at least six times by victims – who were aged between 11 and 15 – of the exploitation and horrors that were taking place within flats and guesthouses and in the parks and open spaces of the Cowley area of Oxford.Social workers spoke of knowing that some of the victims were being groomed. But no one acted to draw all the evidence together until one detective took the case on in late 2010.The case mirrors exploitation rings uncovered in Rochdale, Derby and Telford in that the perpetrators were from Asian backgrounds and the victims were young, vulnerable white girls.Police and social services have apologised to the victims – the number of whom police say could exceed 50.Joanna Simons, chief executive of Oxford county council, said: "We are incredibly sorry we were not able to stop it any sooner. We were up against a gang of devious criminals. The girls thought they were their friends."I would like to pay tribute to the courage of the girls in giving evidence. They have been so brave."We did not know the nature of what was happening – the devious nature of such depravity. We did not know we were dealing with a gang."Detective Chief Superintendent Rob Mason, of Thames Valley police, said the force deeply regretted that the abuse was not identified sooner. "We were too reliant on victims supporting criminal proceedings and … they suffered a terrible ordeal," he said.The gang of men – most of whom are of British Pakistani descent – subjected the girls to acts of sexual depravity of such extreme violence that police sources said it amounted to torture.The men – who included two sets of brothers – denied 47 charges relating to six girls aged between 11 and 15 over eight years in the Cowley area.In all they faced 66 counts, which included trafficking, forcing girls into prostitution, procuring an illegal abortion, rape and physical violence. The men plied the girls with drink and drugs such as crack and heroin, to which they became addicted.The six girls were forced to relive the horror of what happened to them in front of an Old Bailey jury during the three-and-a-half month trial.Each one broke down as they revealed what had taken place between 2004 and January 2012, when they were groomed, beaten, raped and sold into prostitution around the country.The men deliberately targeted young girls who were out of control, in care and extremely vulnerable.The Guardian has been told by one victim, known as Girl C, in an interview after she gave her evidence, that the men exclusively wanted white girls to abuse.Girl D described how she was branded by her abuser, Mohammed Karrar, and sold to other men for £600 an hour. Over five years she was repeatedly raped by groups of men in what she described as "torture sex".Another victim, known in court as Girl A, complained twice to police but no one was charged. She told how a care home manager refused to pay her taxi fare when she returned from her abusers in Oxford. Then 14, she was driven back to the city by the taxi driver, and back into the hands of the gang of men to be raped again.The member of staff at the private care home where the girls were placed by Oxfordshire county council was later sacked.A serious case review is being launched into the failures by social services to protect the girls. Simons said an extra £2m was being spent on more social workers and preventive measures to try to ensure nothing like this happened again.The ring was only exposed when a police officer proactively built evidence against the men in late 2010.Simon Morton, then detective chief inspector, put the men under surveillance, traced their phones, pulled every social services record of missing girls in Oxford who he thought were victims and built the case against the gang meticulously.He said: "All the girls are really pleased and proud that they have given evidence. What this was was an organised criminal gang who effectively owned these girls. They isolated them and turned them against everyone: adults, carers, loved ones, social services, the police. The girls were completely brainwashed."These men managed to hide their activities for a considerable time and it takes a different mindset to understand what was going on."This was happening in Oxford – the city of dreaming spires. If it was happening there, the ramifications for all cities are huge."