An international search is under way after the discovery of the bodies of a mother and her three young children at their family home.Greater Manchester police are seeking Rahan Arshad, a 36-year-old taxi driver, in connection with the deaths of a woman in her 30s and three children, two boys and a girl aged between six and 11, at their home in Cheshire.All police forces in England and Wales have been put on alert and police are in touch with forces abroad to try to find Mr Arshad.Police said they went to the house in Turves Road, Cheadle Hulme, on Sunday evening after someone called them expressing concern for the welfare of the family. Officers smashed down the door and found four bodies in different parts of the house. The bodies are believed to have been lying there for up to four weeks and were badly decomposed.Neighbours living on the busy road spoke of a stench coming from the house and reported seeing bluebottle flies buzzing around the letterbox.Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley confirmed that a multiple murder inquiry had been launched and urged Mr Arshad to come forward and help police. He said: "You can imagine in the hot weather we have been faced with a devastating scene. We are keen to trace Rahan Arshad, who we believe is the fifth occupant of the house on Turves Road."He said that Mr Arshad's car, a silver BMW, was also missing and appealed for information regarding his whereabouts."We want to speak to him in relation to the horrendous events in the house. We are concerned for his welfare. We don't know where he is. We are treating it as a murder inquiry, therefore we need to speak to him," he said."There are a number of strands to the inquiry, but the most immediate one is to trace the whereabouts of Mr Arshad."Police believe they know the identities of the murder victims but have not yet released their names. According to locals, the two boys were called Adam, 11, and Abbas, aged eight. The girl was called Henna, aged six, and their mother was Uzma. Records show that the couple were married in June 1993 in Manchester.Mr Bottomley said a cause of death had not been established and post-mortem examinations had yet to take place. The bodies would remain in the house until forensic officers completed a search.He said the family, who had lived in the house for less than a year, have relatives in Manchester, in other parts of the UK and in Pakistan. Police say Mr Arshad is originally from Pakistan and that they are keeping an open mind about whether he might have left the country.They confirmed that officers had been to the house two days before the bodies were discovered but did not go inside because there was no "immediate concern" for the safety of the family.Yesterday officers were keeping guard outside the house, which has been cordoned off, and black plastic sheeting covered the front door.Rafat Irshad, who works in a convenience store on a local parade of shops, was with her eight-year-old son Hassan, who said he was in the same class as Abbas Arshad at Bradshaw Primary school. Abbas liked to play football and ride his bike, Hassan said.Mrs Irshad said: "Hassan heard about the murder on the news and when he saw the house he said that's where my friend lives. He was very upset and crying, it's made me feel horrible. We were driving past the house a few weeks ago when we noticed the house was up for sale, but not with an estate agent. It was a private number on the advert. We thought perhaps the family had changed their mind about living in the area."One neighbour, a grandmother of four who did not want to be named, said: "They were a young family and the children were typical kids - making a noise and kicking footballs around, they all seemed very nice. I thought they had gone on holiday because the curtains were all drawn and there was no car there."A council worker who lives locally said a white taxi cab had been towed away from a car park at the back of the property shortly after police arrived yesterday.Winifred Lomax, 74, a retired shop worker who lives across the road, said: "They had not been seen for a few weeks and someone looked through their letterbox and there was a nasty smell."