The Duchess of York's former dresser, Jane Andrews, today lost her appeal against her conviction of murdering her lover.The court of appeal, in London, refused to take account of fresh evidence which, the defence claimed, showed that Andrews was suffering from a borderline personality disorder as a result of being sexually abused as a child. Lawyers for 36-year-old Andrews had urged the court to order a retrial so that a new jury could hear the fresh psychiatric evidence.They argued that the jury could then decide whether she had been in a state of diminished responsibility when she killed businessman Tommy Cressman and was therefore guilty of manslaughter, not murder. There was no reaction from Andrews as three judges dismissed her appeal after one and a half days of legal argument. She stood up, turned and walked through the door at the rear of the dock with a prison officer. Andrews, who was a dresser and assistant to the Duchess of York for nine years until 1997, was jailed for life in May 2001 after being found guilty of murdering Cressman, 39, at the house they shared in Fulham, west London. The Crown's case was that, when she struck him on the head with his cricket bat and then stabbed him in the chest with a kitchen knife, she was acting in revenge after he said that he would not marry her. Andrews, who was on the run for four days, claimed that it was an accident and said she had acted in self-defence when Cressman tried to rape her in the early hours of September 17, 2000. The main grounds of her appeal were based on evidence from psychiatrists, who "unlocked" her childhood experiences during long therapy sessions. She told them that she had been abused by her brother Mark between the ages of eight and 12. Mark Andrews, a theatre producer, has always vehemently denied his sister's allegations.As she left the court, Andrews' mother, June, told reporters: "I believe my daughter, and I always will believe my daughter."Detective chief inspector Jim Kickie, who led the murder investigation, was flanked by Cressman's parents, Harry and Barbara, outside the court.He said: "This has been a traumatic time for the family. It has taken three years for this process to be completed and today, finally, there is some closure for them. "Police have maintained from the very beginning that this was murder. The full facts of the case were aired at the central criminal court in front of 12 jurors who did not believe Jane Andrews. "And now, with this application to appeal against her conviction, the British judicial process has been exhausted."He said he hoped that Andrews would accept the decision of the appeal judges and criminal trial, and allow the Cressman family get on with their lives. Andrews's allegations of domestic violence and rape had been thoroughly investigated by police, with no evidence being found to support any of her claims, he added. "For her to make such allegations to try and absolve herself of the responsibility for murdering Tom is unforgivable," he said, adding that Cressman's reputation remained intact. "Nothing can bring Tom back, but this decision by the appeal court judges, which reflects the strength of the evidence, will, I hope, give the family some solace in their continuing grief." Cressman's father then read an emotional statement, saying: "Once again our faith in British justice has been fulfilled, thank God." Of Andrews, he said: "Anyone in prison and behind bars will try anything to get out of that position. Her attempt to ruin the reputation of Tom and her brother was totally despicable."Vera Baird QC, for Andrews, had told the court that her behaviour on the day of the killing had displayed seven of the nine classic internationally-recognised symptoms of borderline personality disorder. She threatened suicide, telephoning Cressman from her car to tell him she had taken an overdose and had attached a hose to the exhaust pipe. Later she made 18 "frantic" calls to him because she was fearful of being abandoned. During her "tempestuous" relationship with Cressman, she veered between deep love for him and deep dislike. There was abundant evidence of instability in her previous relationships and employment record, apart from her time with the Duchess of York, the court was told. Following a short adjournment, Lord Justice Kennedy, sitting with Mr Justice Forbes and Mr Justice Aikens, said: "We are not prepared to receive the fresh evidence." They also rejected the only other ground of appeal - that the trial judge failed adequately to direct the jury on the issue of diminished responsibility. Full reasons for the decision will be given at a later date.