British and South African police have smashed what they think was a major international smuggling ring responsible for stealing £17m worth of precious metals.More than 400 officers from the UK's National Crime Squad, South Africa's elite special investigations unit, the Scorpions, and South African police, were involved in simultaneous raids yesterday in South Africa and England.Detectives believe gold, silver, platinum, palladium and rhodium were hijacked from South African mines, illegally exported to the UK as scrap metal with bogus invoices, refined in a Cambridgeshire refinery and sold on to legitimate companies to manufacture jewellery and other goods. The proceeds were then allegedly laundered into off-shore accounts and channelled into funding crime in South Africa, including further theft of precious metals.The owner of the Cambridgeshire refinery, a British resident of South African descent who owns several UK businesses, was arrested in South Africa. The National Crime Squad, which also raided business premises in Radlett, Hertfordshire, Cin derford, Gloucestershire, and a storage facility at Heathrow airport, had been gathering details on UK metal imports for some time.Twelve other people were arrested in South Africa on suspicion of money laundering and racketeering. The latter offence carries a maximum sentence of 30 years there. Police think the syndicate had access to refineries and mines and bribed South African law and customs officials. Detective Inspector Paul Fulwood, of the National Crime Squad, said: "We're delighted to have assisted our South African colleagues in disrupting this sophisticated organised crime group." Gerhard Nel, head of the Scorpions in South Africa's Gauteng region, said the investigation, codenamed Operation Clown, had been a coup. "We think we have arrested some major players," he said. "We estimate this was worth 200m rand (£17m) but it could have been more." The platinum group metals, which occur together in nature, can be used in products from aircraft turbines to mobile phones, catalytic converters and fountain pens. South Africa is the world's leading platinum producer and the second-largest producer of palladium, after Russia.