Wilting bouquets of roses, tulips and chrysanthemums fill the ornamental railings outside the front of the family home of Gurmail Singh, the Huddersfield "open all hours" shopkeeper battered to death by young thugs in his corner shop for a handful of cigarettes and sweets.Flowers have become routine for every domestic tragedy, but the messages tied to these spoke in neat handwriting of a deeper community solidarity with the dead man's family: "Thinking of you at this tragic time," and "A lovely man who will be sadly missed."High on freezing Cowcliffe Hill overlooking the West Yorkshire town, the flowers and the palpable sorrow of one of Huddersfield's more affluent suburbs, are testimony to the shock caused by Singh's brutal, wasteful death. He was killed in the back of his shop 50 metres down the road from the home that he and his sons had rebuilt for his family.  Gurmail Singh. Photograph: PAPolice released details of a postmortem report which showed he had been beaten at least nine times around the head with a blunt instrument. The bruising on the back of his hands showed how he had tried to defend himself.The attack occurred the day after Singh's 63rd birthday, two days after he had tried to fight off earlier intruders – probably the same ones, though unarmed on that occasion – who were trying to steal cigarettes. On Saturday evening, a customer emerged from the Shepherd's Arms pub opposite and upon seeing two youths acting suspiciously, had raced across the road and barricaded the door to prevent two others inside from escaping. He was showered with glass from the shop door as they tried to hammer their way out. Other pub customers tried to tackle the youths but they wriggled free and ran off.At the bus shelter opposite the shop, where forensics specialists were still at work, and while police made house-to-house calls yesterday, four pensioners reflected on the murder in their quiet street."No names – just call us friendly neighbours – well, I'm David and this is Graham," said one, adding: "He were a lovely little man. He couldn't do enough for you. It's a tragedy, it really is. Four blokes on to one little man. It's a disgrace."They told stories of how in last month's snow – which still lingers on the pavements – Singh had produced a sledge and hauled it down the steep hill to fetch papers and groceries for local elderly residents who could not get out. "We relied on him for 10 days. He was at the heart of this community," said Graham. "There's no other shop within a mile of here."Cowcliffe is far from being a high-crime neighbourhood. Locals struggle to remember the last burglary. The town's golf course is just up the hill, residents take labradors for morning walks and the grey Victorian terraces and villas are well cared-for, with neat front gardens.It was here that, every day without fail, Singh got up early to deliver the papers before opening his shop at 6am at the start of a 15-hour day. He had been about to close at 8.30pm on Saturday when the intruders arrived.He arrived in Britain from the Punjab in 1963 and worked in a local factory for many years before buying the shop six years ago. His two brothers also own shops locally.Mehboob Khan, a local councillor and leader of Kirklees council, who knew Singh for 19 years, said yesterday: "When people die there's often a bit of poetic licence, but I can honestly say after all the years I've known him that he was the kind of guy who wouldn't hurt a fly. He was down-to-earth, always cheerful, a really intelligent, friendly person. He was no spring chicken but he worked extremely hard."There's always a lot of soul-searching about what could have prevented this happening, but I don't think anything could have been done: he had CCTV, a panic alarm and grilles on the doors and windows. The neighbourhood police had been round earlier in the week. Sometimes I just think we as a society don't have a proper regard for the work shopkeepers do."Outside the Shepherd's Arms, landlady Sharon Pickup, too used to speaking to the media, said resignedly: "What else can I say? He was a real gentleman. It was a lovely little shop."The police are looking for four youths, of apparently different ethnic origins, dressed in hoodies and dark trousers. They made off on foot and are likely to live locally.Back at the bus shelter, one elderly woman said: "They should know better, however they were brought up, whether they were on drugs or whatever. What are we going to do for our shop now."