A woman who alleges that a senior civil servant raped her in a government office told the Old Bailey yesterday how he had attacked her after a party, following a number of previous occasions when she had felt increasingly uncomfortable in his presence.Sitting behind a screen to give her evidence, the woman told the court of finding herself in a room alone with Michael Burrell after a party on September 29 last year."The first thing I remember, we were both standing but he had taken hold of my arm and was pushing me down to the ground ... he was using his body weight to push me down."I didn't hear anything. I couldn't. I couldn't even hear my own voice. It was almost like being in a swimming pool or something like that," she said."I can really remember how incredibly oddly silent it seemed, when I knew I was speaking but I couldn't hear anything."Mr Burrell, 36, of Crawley, West Sussex, has pleaded not guilty to rape and indecent assault, claiming that the woman instigated sex and fully consented.The crown prosecutor, Bobbie Cheema QC, asked the woman what she had said in the room. "Please stop!" she told the court."Did you have any physical reaction?" Ms Cheema asked."I don't think I did. I always thought I'd fight but I didn't. I didn't do anything ... I was shocked and ... it doesn't really make sense to me, I thought constantly I should've done more, fight or do something. But I was just really, really terrified."That's it really. I was just so scared."The woman, aged 38, also described other office functions when Mr Burrell, of the Department for Constitutional Affairs, would seem to appear wherever she was."He seemed on one occasion wanting to talk to me, and I didn't want to talk to him. So I think I mentioned for my other mates to come and talk to me, so I wouldn't get stuck talking to him."She deemed his behaviour inappropriate, and saw him as a "bit of a pest", she told the court, and she did not want to be alone with him.He would often hang around her when she was busy, she added.The trial continues today.