A victim of knife crime has condemned Nick Clegg's opposition to tougher sentences for offenders.On Thursday, the deputy prime minister vetoed a Conservative plan to automatically jail any offender twice caught in possession of a knife. He said he rejected "headline-grabbing solutions" in the aftermath of the fatal stabbing of the Leeds schoolteacher Ann Maguire.Alan Whitfield, 41, who was stabbed in the abdomen outside a Liverpool pub last year, said: "I'm disgusted with Nick Clegg. Knife crime is getting out of hand. Every night there is a stabbing. Unless it happens to you or someone close to you, it goes over people's heads."Nick Clegg is saying prison isn't the answer – what about people on the receiving end of the knife?"Whitfield, who was a scaffolder for 27 years, has undergone nine operations since the attack and says doctors have told him not to lift anything heavier than a part-filled kettle of water. He is unlikely to work again.His assailant had been out of prison for barely a month after serving a sentence for another knife attack. Whitfield said sentences for knife crimes were generally too lenient. "The bugger who stabbed me, I'm the fourth person he had stabbed," he said.Two teenagers have lost their lives to knife crime in the past week in London. Ashifa Sayani, whose 18-year-old son Jamil was killed in broad daylight in west London, apparently in a row over £20, appealed for witnesses to come forward.She said: "I've lost my son. The hurt that has been caused is unimaginable. All I ask is that you trust the police and come forward. How would you feel if this happened to your love one?"You have all shown great love, with the flowers and gifts left at the bench, please don't let him down. You were all there with him through life, be there through death, stand by him, your mate, help him rest in peace. Forget your street code, it is not grassing and it is not cool. Just tell the police what happened and who was involved."Last year, there were 16,031 cases of a person caught in possession of a knife, 28% of which resulted in a custodial sentence. More than 3,200 cases resulted in a caution or fine.