Rarely has a government hazarded so much of its credibility for so narrow a victory - and in such certainty that it will shortly crumble into pitiful defeat. It was horribly close. The prime minister arrived in the chamber actually chewing his nails, live on television.Then we saw the great lumbering figure of the old turtle, Ian Paisley, pad down the steps, pause, be nudged by his colleagues, and roll off with them into the "aye" lobby. So we knew that, in Austin Mitchell's words, Gordon Brown had been saved for the nation. But when the gossamer majority was announced, the Tories and Lib Dems erupted in an outburst of rage and hatred, swivelling round on the nine DUP members, waving and shaking their fingers, yelling "Shame!" "Traitors!" and "What were you paid?"The Speaker tried to get order. "You know full well that every hon member has his own vote, on his own conscience" he admonished. But many politicians put their consciences on eBay a long time ago.It had been a ferocious debate. To misquote Yeats, government supporters seemed to lack all conviction while the rest were full of passionate intensity. Gordon Brown started prime minister's questions with briefing sheets covered in great black scrawls, deletions and additions, as if an angry spider had managed to hurl an ink pot over them.He almost held his own against David Cameron, but what we noticed was the weird, dead silence from those behind him. He tried to mock the Tory leader's criticisms: "It cannot be draconian and absolutely useless at dealing with the problem," he said. The Tories jeered at that. But that was precisely what he had achieved, said Mr Cameron. It was "ineffective authoritarianism", and the Tories kept up that line all day. Labour members looked stunned, as if they had been thumped on the head by whips armed with rubber mallets.Nick Clegg, a little bit better with every question time, said the thing was a meaningless waste of time. "Everyone knows that the proposal will not become law - it will be blocked in the Lords, the Human Rights Commission will challenge it in court, and the European court of human rights will declare it illegal."Why is he playing politics with our liberties for a bill that no one thinks is necessary, no one thinks will work in practice and everyone knows will never reach the statute book?"Then the debate itself. David Davis said that we do not defend our liberties by sacrificing our liberties. Keith Vaz, the Labour MP who chairs the home affairs commitee, was almost literally twisting in the wind. His committee originally saw no need for longer detention. Now he had changed his mind. A Tory, Andrew Robathan, with lip-curling contempt, asked him to refute "a churlish and ridiculous rumour that there had been discussions of knighthoods ..." Mr Vaz denied it. But like all good slurs, it worked because it seemed to answer a genuine mystery.Chris Huhne, for the Lib Dems, said that the measure would give the terrorists "exactly what they want - clear evidence of an insensitive and oppressive state". Ming Campbell reminded us why his party once had him as leader. The government had offered compensation for miners and lifting the blockade on Cuba - "important issues, but what the devil do they have to do with this bill?"But the MP who dropped the electric fire into the bath was Diane Abbott. She is not, it must be said, the most popular MP, but this speech was a great cry of anguish. The measure was pure party politics, designed to wrongfoot the Tories, "playing ducks and drakes with our civil liberties". People who the prime minister had never spoken to had been ushered into his presence twice! She had become an MP, she said, her voice rising to angry shrillness, to defend the marginalised, the unpopular and those who were suspected. These were the very people parliament had to stand up for. It was an extraordinary performance, and the Tory who followed her said it was the best speech he had ever heard.