All pregnant women will be asked during routine antenatal appointments if they have been a victim of domestic violence, ministers announced yesterday at a conference on the issue.The crackdown on domestic violence was launched as research was published which showed that 30% of cases begin or intensify during pregnancy. Women will be asked discreet questions by their midwife or doctor during routine antenatal check-ups. The Department of Health acknowledged that medical staff would have to be careful not to ask sensitive questions in front of the woman's partner. Melanie Johnson, public health minister, said an advisory board had been formed to draw up plans to introduce the scheme. "The fact that domestic violence starts or escalates during pregnancy and is associated with increased risks of miscarriage, low birth weight, premature birth, foetal injury and foetal death makes for stark reading," she said. "By including routine inquiry when women go for antenatal appointments, health professionals may be able to establish whether women are at risk or have experienced any domestic violence during their pregnancy. "This is an effective means of ensuring that appropriate support and advice is offered at an early stage." One in four women will experience domestic violence. Victims tend to suffer repeated attacks (an average of 35) before they seek help. Many will go on to have mental health problems, such as anxiety and depression. A pilot project, funded by the Department of Health and carried out by the University of West England and the Bristol NHS Trust, found routine enquiries about domestic violence were well received by pregnant women and picked up cases of abuse. The advisory group will be headed by Gwyneth Lewis, a senior medical adviser at the Department of Health. Nicola Harwin, director of Women's Aid, said: "Health professionals are well positioned to identify women experiencing domestic violence and signpost them to appropriate support and information." A domestic violence, crime and victims bill is currently going through parliament. It includes measures to provide additional protection and support for people affected by domestic violence. The health minister Rosie Winterton said the government was looking at changing the situation where women experiencing domestic violence had come into contact with up to 10 agencies before their needs were recognised. Dame Karlene Davis, of the Royal College of Midwives, said: "Midwives and other healthcare professionals will now be better able to identify and help victims of domestic violence as long as the government follows through with the adequate resources."