"Racism killed my best friend Stephen. Racism also stopped officers from administering first aid whilst he was lying on the pavement. Racism also allowed the officers investigating this case to treat me like a suspect and not a witness. Racism also rubbished our chances of convicting those killers of the murder of Stephen Lawrence. Racism has also shattered my life. "But today I am pleased to say that the inquiry has found without any doubt whatsoever that the way I was treated by the Metropolitan Police during this whole investigation was down to me being black." Duwayne Brooks, Stephen Lawrence's friend and eyewitness to his murder  "Sir William himself has acknowledged that blanket criticism of police service is unhelpful and unfair. The report has also emphasised that the issue of racism is one for society as a whole and for other agencies. Society has to work together to find a solution to these problems and the public sector is going to be critical to that process. "Sir William's report is an opportunity not a threat. It's an opportunity we must grasp hold of if we want to ensure the murder of Stephen Lawrence is remembered as a turning point for the police service and the community at large." John Newing, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) "The whole thing was anticipated in my report on Brixton. It is comparable. I stand by what I said in that report." Lord Scarman, author of the landmark report into the 1981 Brixton riots  "This report tells a horrific story of widespread professional incompetence, bad management and ignorant racial stereotyping which together ensured that not only the perpetrators of this murder but also the perpetrators of other violent attacks escaped justice." Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman Alan Beith  On removing racism from society  "Leaders of the Black Community have been telling the Metropolitan Police for years that racism within the force has to be addressed and so I am not surprised at the Report's comment on the 'pernicious and institutional racism' found within the police service. No institution, including the Church, has so far done enough to combat racism. This must change." The Bishop of Southwark, the Rt Rev Tom Butler, whose Anglican diocese covers Eltham  "That's nothing I want to know about, when they stabbed that black guy it was nothing to do with people here. "If you mix people up, black and white, then they don't get on. That's why there ain't any here. We don't like them, they don't like us. It's simple."  "Paul", a teenager interviewed in Eltham  "The tragedy of Stephen Lawrence's death shows how much more needs to be done to promote social justice in our communities. This is about how we treat each other and, importantly, how we learn to respect ourselves and one another as citizens. That learning comes from within the home, at school and the wider community. That is why we are promoting the teaching of citizenship at school, to help children learn to grow up in a society that cares and to have real equality of opportunity for all." Education and Employment Secretary David Blunkett  "The current curriculum is the root of racism and intolerance in our society." Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, welcoming the inquiry's recommendation that the national curriculum should be changed to emphasise cultural diversity.  On Paul Condon  "For Jack Straw to say that Mr Condon should stay is totally wrong. I think Mr Condon should do the honourable thing and resign." Duwayne Brooks, Stephen Lawrence's friend and eyewitness to his murder  "Let's not bog ourselves down in apportioning blame. We wish to acknowledge and commend Doreen and Neville Lawrence for their tenacity and courage in their determined fight for justice and social change. The Metropolitan Black Police Association will continue to give then support wherever possible." The Black Police Association Inspector Paul Wilson  "Other police services have admitted institutionalised racial discrimination and it would be pointless and damaging to expect so many chief constables to resign. The police officers on duty or at fault should resign or be dismissed instead."  The British Sikh Federation  "Calls for the Commissioner's resignation are a distraction from the real issue. The question for Sir Paul Condon and other chief officers is whether they now have, in the words of the report, 'an unequivocal acceptance of the problem of institutional racism' and whether they will take decisive steps to deal with it." Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman Alan Beith  "We regard Sir Paul Condon's position as untenable. This is inevitable given the scale of the criticism of the Metropolitan Police. He no longer carries the trust and confidence of the Black community necessary to undertake the task in hand."  The Society of Black Lawyers and the Association of Black Probation Officers  "It's difficult to see that Paul Condon's position is sustainable. After all, he was better placed than anyone to find out what really happened about the investigation into Stephen Lawrence, he had seven years to do it, he preferred to cover for his officers, he fought tooth and nail against the Macpherson inquiry. It's hard to see he is the right person now to preside over the Metropolitan Police." Diane Abbott, Labour MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington  On the legal implications and the reform of the 'double jeopardy' rule  "Whatever the tragedy, it cannot be right on the basis of emotion to overturn a fundamental principle of our criminal justice system and allow the prosecution a second bite of the cherry when their first one has failed. That will not bring back Stephen Lawrence, it will not ease the pain of his family, and it may in truth just heap more injustice on a situation where there has been quite enough already." Mark Leech, Chairman of Unlock, the national association of ex-offenders  "We must not face a situation where the state can endlessly prosecute unpopular defendants until they get the 'right result'. Of course, we would welcome any change to the law which would allow for genuinely new evidence to be reconsidered by a court in its fullest possible context." The Bar Council  