The government's crackdown on street robbery last summer was a success, but failed to meet some of its secondary targets, including getting offenders into drug treatment, according to a report by eight inspectorates involved in the criminal justice system, published today.The report by the criminal justice watchdogs says that the street crime initiative, launched by Tony Blair, was a speedy and robust response to the problem. "The official figures speak for themselves, a reported 25% reduction in street robbery within six months and the predicted 17% annual reduction confirmed in the recently published national crime figures," said Sir Keith Povey, Her Majesty's chief inspector of constabulary. But the report also points to some parts of the system that did not work as well as they should have. In particular they say that the claims that drug addicted street robbers were receiving treatment within 24 hours was misleading. Although most adults were assessed within 24 hours of their arrest they were given second appointments for the treatment to start two to three months away which as many as 97% of those involved failed to turn up to. "Treatment professionals within the community were found to be resistant to allowing street crime offenders to queue-jump and the result was that the drop-out rate for attendance at the second appointment was as high as 97%." The inspectors say that too much "gloss" was put on results given to ministers leaving them potentially "partially informed" and unable to react to problems. The Downing Street street crime action group was being told that those released from custody were being given access to drug treatment in the community within 24 hours when that was not the case. The report says that drug treatment inside prisons was of better quality and more available with the result that some offenders were prepared to commit crime to gain access to treatment. The joint inspectors' report also says that the much trumpeted crown prosecution service "premium service" which was supposed to ensure that the police were given early advice on charging rarely occurred because the lawyers were not available out of hours or the police were reluctant to call on them. The report confirms that three of the 10 police forces involved in the initiative, South Yorkshire, Merseyside and Lancashire, felt they had higher local priorities, such as tackling house burglary, than street robberies. This resentment was exacerbated by the sheer number - between five and seven - of different short-term funding streams involved in the £67m programme, which the inspectors say proved a constant frustration to managers and practitioners. There was evidence in some forces that middle managers resented the shift in resources to street crime and there was a drift back to meeting targets on burglary and car crime "in advance of the end of the crime recording year". Sir Keith Povey yesterday dismissed claims that the "exponential rise" in street crime had been fuelled mainly by false insurance reports of stolen mobile phones by their owners. He said recent research showed that such false reports accounted for between 5% and 15% of reported phone thefts.