The double standards in the tactics recently used against rioters in London and those in Belfast, Ballyclare and Portadown – both Catholics and Protestants – make it clear there is a different attitude to the culture of policing in England and in the north of Ireland. Plastic bullets have claimed the lives of 17 people, nine of them children, with many hundreds more maimed and horribly injured. Plastic bullets did nothing to address the rioting in Ireland. They did not save lives or property. In many cases their use was the cause of civil disturbances.  Illustration:Gary KempstonHugh Orde, when chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, gave an assurance plastic bullets would never again be used in riot situations or as a form of crowd control. Last month they were once again the PSNI's weapon of first resort. In London (Report, 10 August) Orde said: "I do not think it would be sensible in any way, shape or form to deploy water cannons or baton rounds. Baton rounds are very serious bits of equipment." I agree. Plastic bullets are never a solution. They make finding long-term solutions more difficult and undermine the position of the police and their stated commitment to human rights policing.There are big problems facing the powers that be in Great Britain – fractured communities and racial discrimination need to be tackled – but let them learn from mistakes made of over 40 years in Ireland. Plastic bullets have never played a role in resolving difficult and dangerous situations. They have exacerbated them.Clara ReillyChairperson, United Campaign Against Plastic Bullets• As I saw for myself in Lewisham, the police failed to stop the riots. The prime minister says the answer is technology such as water cannons. Those with experience of these matters disagree. As Hugh Orde has said, "In stark terms, without extremely violent and static crowds, they [water cannons] are useless." These crowds showed a distinctly unsporting reluctance to be "static".The police I saw were concentrated in relatively large groups. Many formed cordons. Such tactics are designed for sealing off areas, containing demonstrations and protecting key buildings, not arresting opportunistic looters. The heavy equipment used was a handicap in catching up with fast-moving looters. As a result police were left standing around while the troublemakers were wreaking havoc a few hundred yards away.Where have these police tactics come from? They are the product of current police doctrine on public order. The focus of doctrine has changed from the traditional one of protecting the community against criminals to a political one that is more concerned with containing dissent. All the equipment and mode of deployment we see today was designed to contain demonstrations and defeat strike pickets, not chase down fleeing criminals.George Hallam Leader, Lewisham People Before Profit• David Cameron noted in his speech on Monday that "there is an obsession with health and safety that has eroded people's willingness to act according to common sense. As we urgently review the work we are doing on the broken society, judging whether it's ambitious enough, I want to make it clear that there will be no holds barred – and that most definitely includes the health and safety culture." This really is an Orwellian world that we now find ourselves in.So, can we now look forward to tougher "policing" by government of bankers and financiers who caused infinitely more economic damage to the UK than the rioters and wrecked far more lives? Can we expect tougher "policing" of those who kill, injure and make ill so many workers in the UK to follow? Or is Cameron really in favour of increased lawlessness through soft – or no – regulation of the big offenders?It's the lack of a safety culture, as espoused by failing unfettered market principles, that does so much damage, year after year, to public health in the UK, not health and safety. This is particularly disturbing as evidence rolls in week by week about the health and safety failures of deregulated workplaces and the successes of regulated ones.Professor Andrew WattersonOccupational and Environmental Health Research Group, University of Stirling• The UK government's reaction to the riots (Magistrates told to disregard normal rules on sentencing, 16 August) stands in stark contrast to the Norwegian government's response to last month's mass murder. Norway's response to a horrific crime was to reaffirm its commitment to justice and human rights, while our government apparently sees the riots as justification for attacking human rights and imprisoning the poor for petty crimes.Not too long ago, Ken Clarke argued that long custodial sentences for minor offences were counterproductive. He was right then and he is still right today. This government's spiteful, short-sighted reaction could well end up doing more damage to our society than the riots themselves.Jim GleesonLondon