The press is usually not much exercised by rape. Over the few months I have been monitoring rape trials; only one I sat through was reported. Cases where the complainant knows the accused, and consent is the defence, do not interest the public.Editors and their readers only take notice of strangers roaming the country in masks, or celebrities - such as the current case involving eight footballers. Tabloids affect shock and horror, but they focus less on the alleged crime than on the saucy details. Headlines in two newspapers yesterday suggested that the alleged victim had sold her story, feeding public perceptions that a woman who alleges rape against a famous person has to be making it up. It is so much worse for the complainant in celebrity cases. Let's imagine that a woman really is raped by someone in the public eye. The system is already stacked against her (in England and Wales there is a conviction rate of 6%), her reputation and credibility will be questioned and, in consent cases, it will be suggested that she is lying for malicious reasons. In a case involving a celebrity the court will be packed with journalists, there will be daily television reports, and it will be the talk of bus stops and pubs. When she arrives at court and leaves, a frenzy of photographers will greet her, and her pixelated picture will appear in various tabloids. At some stage the judge will be forced to confront the issue of prejudicial reporting and may decide that the case be discontinued on the grounds that the defendant will not receive a fair trial. The accuser of a celebrity is less likely to be believed than other women. There will be an assumption that she has a motive for lying, such as the chance of 15 minutes of fame, or to sell her story. She will be portrayed as a groupie who hangs around rich and famous men, looking to get into bed with them. Vera Baird QC, the MP and author of Rape in Court, thinks that the problem with public attitudes towards celebrities accused of rape is the myth that rich, good-looking men can have all the sex they want without having to force anyone. "If the victim is not conventionally attractive and the accused is a famous name, doubt will automatically be cast on her, because he has probably been out with a number of glamorous women and can get all the sex he wants." If the men in this case are named, and whether or not any police action is forthcoming, the issue of anonymity for those accused of sex crimes will rear its head again. Many people believe that celebrities suffer more than Joe Bloggs when accused of such crimes because the publicity surrounding the allegations may be enough to ruin a reputation or a career, as happened, it is claimed, to John Leslie. The careers of Paul Weller, Mick Hucknall, Craig Charles and Matthew Kelly, all subjects of huge publicity when sexual allegations were made against them, do not seem to have suffered. We cannot argue that no news should be published about a celebrity who has been interviewed by the police. Non-celebrity men also have reputations, within their family, workplace and community. To single out celebrities for "special treatment" is surely wrong. However, news of someone in the public eye accused of rape will travel far and wide, with unidentified sources spilling often unsubstantiated dirt about the individual. This is never good for justice, or for the complainant, as she is so much less likely to see the allegations result in a conviction than if the accused was treated in the same way as a non-celebrity. It is not as if the reports show genuine concern for the accuser. The mix of scandal, sex and fame makes for salacious gossip - nothing more. Wild speculation regarding the sordid details of the alleged crime mainly occurs before police have even interviewed the accused. Initial investigations into alleged sex crimes are hugely complicated and time-consuming. Officers should be able to go about their business unimpeded by press speculation. Police in the footballers' case are apparently being "urged to tread cautiously" after the collapse of the prosecution of John Leslie, and the case of Neil and Christine Hamilton. I worry that this means the complainant will be given a particularly hard time. On the other hand, it is well known that police are eager to be seen to go all out in an investigation of a crime involving a famous complainant or defendant. It can often appear that many more police hours are spent on cases that will achieve wide coverage. Shouldn't all crimes be given the same attention, irrespective of who is involved? There is a noticeable reluctance to take newspapers to court for irresponsible decisions in reporting these cases. The Press Complaints Commission is largely a toothless body. If there is a serious risk of substantial prejudice arising from media coverage at the early stages of investigation, then newspapers should be gagged before the charges are laid. Police have a hard enough job investigating these cases without being hindered by editors bent on boosting circulation. The coverage of and public response to celebrity rape accusations bring allure to what is a heinous but everyday crime. The British Crime Survey for 2000 estimated that 61,000 women were victims of rape, and yet we the public seem to be interested only in those cases involving weird or famous folk.The trials that I sat through were horrible, with no glamour, just degradation, humiliation, violence and heartache. The reporting of celebrity cases adds to public perceptions of rape being a good bit of juicy gossip. For the thousands of genuine victims reading such rubbish, it can only add to their pain. · Julie Bindel is a researcher at London Metropolitan University j.bindel@londonmet.ac.uk