Vincent Tabak claims he killed his next-door neighbour Joanna Yeates by holding his hand around her throat for about 20 seconds, his trial was told on Monday.Tabak's case is that Yeates screamed after he put his arm around her back. He put a hand over her mouth and the screaming stopped. The defendant says he then removed his hand from Yeates' mouth and she screamed again. He then put a hand around her throat and held it for about 20 seconds.Tabak claims he used no more than "moderate force" and did not intend to cause death or serious injury.The "mechanism of death" was given in a defence statement read out by Nigel Lickley QC. It was signed by Tabak, a 33-year-old Dutch engineer, on 22 September. Tabak admits manslaughter but denies murdering 25-year-old Yeates. The prosecution has alleged he strangled Yeates at her flat in Clifton, Bristol.The statement began: "The mechanism of death as best the defendant can recalls was as follows: The two were facing each other. He put one arm around her back with his hand in the middle of her back and she screamed."He put the other hand over her mouth, which caused the noise of the scream to cease. He removed the hand from the mouth and the screaming continued. He put the hand around the throat. He believes it was the one from behind her back. He held if for about 20 seconds. He applied no more than moderate force. He did not intend death or serious injury."According to the statement, Tabak accepts his actions were "unlawful".Lickley asked pathologist Russell Delaney about Tabak's statement that he held Yeates' throat "for about 20 seconds". Delaney replied: "That period of time would be long enough to result in her death."Tabak's QC, William Clegg, has suggested to Delaney that his client used just one hand to strangle her. Delaney said he "cannot exclude the use of one hand" being used.Yeates was reported missing on 19 December last year after her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, returned to the flat they shared following a weekend away. Yeates' best friend, Rebecca Scott, told the jury at Bristol crown court that Yeates and Reardon were the "perfect couple" and "in it for the long term".Scott said she and Yeates had been planning to meet up in their home town of Romsey in Hampshire on Christmas Eve. Yeates and Reardon had been looking forward to spending New Year in Edinburgh.Scott, who is studying for a PhD, said she was pleased her friend had fallen in love. She told the jury at Bristol crown court: "I was just happy for her. When she said she was getting a new cat I knew it was the real deal with her and Greg. They were in it for the long term."The trial continues.