A chef who was arrested along with his wife on suspicion of murdering five elderly patients at a care home managed by the couple has been released by police.Leigh Baker, 48, left Yeovil police station this morning on police bail pending further inquiries, said Avon and Somerset police. His wife, Rachel Baker, 45, who was arrested along with Leigh Baker four days ago over the same allegation, was released, also on police bail, late last night.They had been suspected of murdering four women and a man at the Parkfields residential care home in Butleigh, Somerset.Avon and Somerset police also questioned them on suspicion of theft, unlawful possession of controlled prescribed drugs and attempting to pervert the course of justice. Yesterday police were granted an extra 12 hours to question Mrs Baker and an additional 31 hours to question Mr Baker but were told that they would be unable to seek any further extensions. The care home was closed earlier this year after an inspection by the Commission for Social Care Inspection, who had alerted police. The couple were initially questioned after the death of Lucy Cox, 97, at Parkfields, on New Year's Day. Rachel Baker was first arrested on suspicion of administering a noxious substance on January 5, four days after the death of Cox. Her husband was arrested two days later in connection with the same alleged offence.Police later exhumed the bodies of three former residents of the home in June and July. The remains of Nellie Pickford, 89, were removed from Glastonbury cemetery on June 5. The body of Marion Alder, 79, a grandmother of four, was exhumed from the graveyard of St Leonard's church, Butleigh, a week later.The remains of Fred Green, 81, were removed from a graveyard in the village of Kingweston, near Somerton, on July 11. The grandfather died on January 6 last year, while he was a resident at Parkfields. Three other residents, whose deaths were being treated as suspicious by officers, had been cremated.Mr and Mrs Baker were were arrested again on Monday as they arrived separately to answer bail at Yeovil police station.The home was owned by Mr Baker's parents, June and Malcolm, but it has been managed by Rachel Baker since 1988. The couple live in Glastonbury and have a five-year-old daughter. They were originally bailed until September.