There is an obvious role for freedom of expression at the Hay festival, which is in its own words – about "May, blossom and ideas". A less obvious place for a heavy security presence, then. This smaller and far less welcome crowd is also relying on the right to free speech, not to share ideas, but to give orders.Private security guards, deployed at Hay as well as in thousands of other private venues across the country, rely on the right to say what they like as one of a collection of opaque and nebulous powers to tell people refrain from particular behaviour. They could ask you to leave. Or to talk more quietly. Or not to eat any more organic sheep's ice-cream. Of course anyone could ask you to do any of these things at Hay but the chances are, if the order is coming from a uniformed, handcuff-clad beefeater, you are more likely to listen.The reason private security officers need to invoke this right so counter–intuitively is that they lack the clearly legally defined powers the police have. Despite their appearance of authority, they rely entirely on private law rights – such as the power to remove trespassers from private property, or powers accrued under contract, and the ordinary powers of citizen's arrest. But as you would expect, we all have these ordinary citizens' powers of arrest, and there are strict criteria that have to be met before they can be invoked.First, it has to be necessary to prevent someone from causing harm to themselves or others, suffering physical injury, causing a loss or damage to property, or making off before a police officer could conduct the arrest themselves. "Necessary" is a strong concept in law. It means these private security officers can only arrest someone if they have solid and reasonable grounds for showing they believed one of those things could happen. And second, the security officer would have to be able to explain why it would not have been more practical to allow a police officer to make the arrest instead.Bearing this in mind, it's far from obvious why there were so many of these hand-cuffed armed men at the Hay festival. I'm no expert but it certainly didn't seem likely that any of the book-loving, idea-sharing visitors willing to make their way into the depths of Welsh borderland were on the brink of committing offences of the kind necessary to justify a citizen's arrest. And if they were, anyone could have apprehended them. The private security officer is simply a person paid to do what, in the instance of a serious offence being committed, a responsible citizen would do anyway. If I'm being naive, and there is an imminent risk of offences being committed at Hay, you'd have thought the police would be the appropriate port of call, and that they would deal with the situation in the way they are trained to do and are accountable for.In the past, some private venues have cited concerns about "putting visitors off" by a police presence, explaining why they prefer the more "soft-edged" private security option instead. This is as may be – the last thing I'd argue for is an influx of police at the Hay festival – but the visible handcuffs on the belts of these guys put paid to any notions of cuddliness. People noticed, and complained – it seemed simply unnecessary.It's also worth pointing out that whilst the police have a standardised level of training and an ethos (at least in theory) of public service, research shows that private security officers are often poorly trained, and let's not forget that their obligations are towards their private (profit–oriented) employers, not the public at large.Academics such as James Mehigan have said that there is a growing reliance on the private security industry to fill the gap between what the state can provide and the "insatiable level of demand for policing services". If even the Hay festival is displaying that appetite, then expect to see more handcuff-clad employees at a private venue near you.