A man caught up in a multimillion-pound drug sting run by the Serious Organised Crime Agency, Soca, claims he has been abandoned in a Spanish prison despite evidence that he is innocent.Trevor Wade, 65, who has had two heart attacks while in prison in Spain, has been held without trial for more than two years and could face at least another 12 months behind bars before he is put on trial.He was arrested in 2007 after an operation by Soca to target one of his associates, who was allegedly involved in a multimillion drug deal for an organised crime gang in the UK. Wade's wife Anne, of Boston, Lincolnshire, believes he has been abandoned by Soca despite evidence that he was not involved in the crime.Documents submitted to a Spanish court by the British agency admit that Wade was never their target, and was merely a "travelling companion", and Soca further communicated to the Spanish that there was no intelligence that Wade was involved in the drugs deal.Wade was arrested with his friend Karl Hayes as they drove towards Valencia in September 2007. He says he had been asked by his friend to accompany him on what he said was a four-day trip to collect money owed to his haulage firm. But Soca was targeting Hayes because they believed he was working for Robert Dawes, of Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire, who is suspected of involvement in the large scale import and export of drugs. Dawes was named in a British court two years ago as one of three drug "generals" responsible for the multimillion-pound importation of class A and B drugs.Communications from Soca, which have been revealed in court documents, detail how they were tracking the car driven by Hayes when it left England. One communication stated: "Our information indicates that Hayes is travelling to Spain to supervise the delivery of a quantity of cocaine. We suspect that given the distance of travel that Hayes has a travel companion. We suspect that the last time Hayes did this journey he collected the drugs and passed them on."When Spanish police arrested Hayes and Wade at a filling station outside Madrid they found five packages in the boot, containing 200kg (440lb) of cocaine with a street value £22m. Wade, Hayes and two others were charged with conspiring to distribute cocaine. Soca said the case was now outside UK jurisdiction and the agency had made available to the Spanish all documents that would help Wade's defence. Soca was restricted in what it could do because the proceedings lay firmly within the jurisdiction of the Spanish authorities.Anne Wade fears her husband's failing health means he will die in a Spanish jail. She claimed Soca officers had visited Wade's associate Hayes several times in prison and were discussing a deal with him in exchange for information but they were not interested in talking to her husband because he was innocent and had nothing to offer them."There is no way that Trevor would have agreed to accompany Karl Hayes if he thought there was anything dodgy about it," she said. "I just can't believe this has happened. I keep thinking I will wake up and it will all have been a bad dream, but this has been going on for two years now. Now Trevor has been told it will be another year in prison before a trial starts. He is just being left to rot in prison while the guilty ones are being offered cuts in their sentences."Wafa Shah, of Fair Trials International, which has taken up Wade's case, said: "Mr Wade has already spent nearly two and a half years in a Spanish jail. Given the permitted length of pretrial detention in Spain, he could face another year and a half in prison. Being held in a foreign prison is a horrendous ordeal for anyone. It is much worse when, like Mr Wade, you have not had an opportunity to clear your name in court and where you have serious health concerns."Dawes is currently held in Dubai on an international arrest warrant issued by the Spanish in connection with drug charges.