The distraught parents of a 25-year-old woman, missing for almost one week, said today they believed she had been abducted and begged anyone holding her to "let her come back".Landscape architect Joanna Yeates has been missing since she went for a Christmas drink in Bristol with colleagues after work on Friday. Her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, 27, who was visiting family in Sheffield at the weekend, raised the alarm after returning late on Sunday to the Clifton flat they shared only to discover her gone, even though possessions including her phone, keys, coat and purse were in the flat. He had been unable to contact her by phone over the weekend.Today her tearful parents, David, 63, and Theresa, 58, from Hampshire, made a second emotional appeal in as many days. Breaking down, her father said: "I think she was abducted after getting home to her flat."Appealing to anyone who may be holding her, he said: "I've got to believe she's alive. She had so much life in her. If it turns out she isn't, I still want her back. I still want to hold her at least one last time. I  just want her back".He added: "If she is dead, please tell somebody where she is. We want her back, whatever."Her mother implored: "My little Jo, come back – whoever's got her, don't keep her – give her back."Describing her as a "sensible girl", the couple said their daughter had plans for the weekend, which included Christmas shopping and baking mince pies to take to their home where she and her boyfriend of two years, also an architect, were due to spend Christmas. She was also planning a party at the flat in Bristol on Tuesday.Jo visited the Ram pub in Park Street, Bristol for a drink on Friday, leaving at 8pm. She then stopped in Waitrose and then carried on to the Tesco Express on Regent Street at about 8.40pm. Police know she got home because receipts for the shopping were found in the flat.They are examining private CCTV footage of Canynge Road, Bristol, where the couple live, and appealing for witnesses who may have seen something, however insignificant it might seem.Detective Chief Inspector Gareth Bevan, from Avon and Somerset police, said: "We believe Jo reached her home address shortly after 8.30pm on Friday evening."From CCTV, we know she bought a pizza at Tesco Express in Clifton Village and there is no evidence of the pizza, the wrappings or the box in the flat."It's a Tesco Finest mozzarella, tomato and basil pesto pizza. Does anyone know where this is?"Anyone with information is asked to call CrimeStoppers on 0800 555 111.