It is five o'clock on a wet winter morning on the edge of King's Lynn in Norfolk and Simon, a local gangmaster, is in no mood to apologise for what he does for a living.'I'm not forcing anyone to work for me,' he says. 'I don't hold a knife to someone's back. These people come to me. They need to work. What they get is worth a fortune where they're from.' The comments from Simon - not his real name - came as gangmasters face scrutiny as never before. Following the deaths of 19 Chinese cockle pickers in Morecambe Bay in Lancashire, an Observer investigation can reveal the true scale of Britain's black economy. Working with gangs of violent people-smugglers, the gangmasters pay slave wages while lining their pockets. The use of gangmasters and their illegal labourers is growing rapidly. Migrants now account for almost half the workforce in many key industries, and tales of violence, exploitation and lack of concern for health and safety are increasingly common. Three Kurdish workers were killed last July when their van collided with a train on a level crossing in Worcestershire, where they had been employed by gangmasters to pick spring onions. The previous month 18 Chinese labourers narrowly escaped death when the three-bedroom house they had been living in caught fire. Last week 54 Greek migrant workers employed to plant bulbs in Cornwall complained that they had been starved and threatened with sticks. Not all gangmasters are illegal. In Norfolk more than a dozen are listed in Yellow Pages. Simon used to be fully legitimate but has let things slip in recent years. 'You hear a lot about exploitation and poor living conditions, but it's not all down to the gangmasters. A lot of these workers want to live 30 in a house because it cuts their rent and means they have more to send back to their families. 'I had one place I was renting out and they came in and built bunk beds in every room, right up to the ceiling so you could get three or four people in them. A group would spend eight hours sleeping, then they'd get up and another lot would come in and go to bed. But it was down to them, not me.' Many of those who have worked for gangmasters dispute such explanations. A TUC study reported dozens of illegal migrant workers sharing a single plate of rice and chicken, 'the only meal they would receive after a day of back-breaking labour'. Others were warned that without legal papers they would be beaten or imprisoned if they tried to escape. The Home Office estimates there are at least 1,000 illegal gangmasters who cost the Treasury £100 million a year in lost tax and National Insurance contributions. They operate in food packing plants, building sites, catering, educational estab lishments, hospitals, fish and chicken processing factories, textile workshops and contract cleaning. However, agriculture remains the biggest employer of illegal migrants, with an estimated total of between 60,000 and 100,000. They work all over Britain, but particularly in the Fens, Sussex and the Vale of Evesham. 'The farmers know but they don't care,' says Simon. 'They make a contract with one company and know it's going to be subcontracted to someone like me. As long as the price is right, they're happy to turn a blind eye. 'The worst gangmasters will deduct money for all sorts of things like accommodation, transport and "administrative charges", and sometimes for equipment.' All this is illegal without the written permission of the worker. There are many cases in which workers are told they are having tax and National Insurance deducted, though the monies are never passed on to the Treasury. 'It's all about supply and demand,' says Simon. 'If the demand is there, I'm in the business of providing what is needed. English people don't want to do these jobs. Not because of the money - they just don't want the work. 'But the jobs need to be done. If I have to undercut someone else to get a contract, I'm not going to take it out of my earnings. The people who need investigating are the big supermarkets, who drive prices down and put all the gangmasters at each others throats.' This view has widespread support. In a damning report last year, a House of Commons committee warned that the supermarkets' dominance over their suppliers created 'great pressure' that cut the time needed to check on casual workers'. The committee cited the case of one group of Portuguese people paid £3 pounds each for cutting 1,000 daffodils after deductions for accommodation and travel. 'You always take a risk,' says Simon. 'They call it unskilled labour, but some of the stuff they get up to you need experience to do. If you get the wrong crowd, it's a false economy. If you get it right, it's a good earner. Simon will say nothing about his earnings, but in Morecambe Bay, scene of the cockle tragedy, gangmasters were seen driving £70,000 Mercedes. Yet Simon claims that gangmasters can also be victims. 'You get people who turn up with a load of workers, none of whom can speak a word of English, none of whom have any experience, but they virtually force you to take them on because they're so intimidating.' Labour MP Jim Sheridan tabled a Bill last week to control rogue gangmasters. It was 'modern-day slavery',' he said. 'It is unacceptable in modern Britain to have people working for something like £1 a day.' His Bill is due for a second reading on 27 February. Legal gangmaster Zad Paddel, who backs Sheridan, says there are a growing number of criminals in the trade. 'When my father started in this business 20 years ago people looked after their workers. Now they have very little regard for human life.'