Many of us followed the case through half-closed eyes, shutting out the bleak facts - two little girls killed and dumped in a ditch - and resisting the mob sentiment of the tabloids. Murders compel when they seem to tell us something about ourselves, or where we have got to as a nation: the Yorkshire Ripper exposed the depths of our culture's misogyny, Stephen Lawrence our institutionalised racism, Thompson and Venables our demonisation of other people's children, Harold Shipman our gullibility with doctors, the Wests (Fred and Rosemary) how easily we allow our young to disappear from the map. But what was the story of Soham, other than the oldest story of all - evil violating innocence?When the trial opened, and it became clear that Ian Huntley had admitted killing Jessica albeit (so his contemptible self-defence ran) unintentionally, as Holly drowned in his bath, there seemed even less reason to see Soham as a landmark case. Psychopath or paedophile, he was always going to be found guilty and put away. The jury might have to consider the damage done to his bath, but why should the rest of us go there? The hours between 6.30pm and midnight on August 4 2002 seemed a black hole it was too prurient and distressing to inhabit. So I told myself. A decade ago I sat through the Bulger trial. One child-murder case is enough for a lifetime. Yet Soham has haunted the nation no less than the other notorious postwar murders - more so, if newspaper sales (which were high even on slack days at the trial) are anything to go by. There are several reasons why. The tender age of the victims. The fact that they went missing in summer, when news is thin. The poignancy of the photograph taken the day they disappeared - the smiles, the necklaces, the matching Manchester United shirts. The intimacy of Soham, a town of 9,000, where people like to think they look after each other and know the neighbours. The mythic, fairytale subtext - Beauty preyed on and lured to death by a Beast in disguise. Above all, though, it was the suspicion that there were two guilty parties involved, not just one, that came to dominate the case. Maxine Carr was never charged with murder. But the lies she told on behalf of Huntley initially made her a suspect, since they put her in Soham, with him, on the day of the murder. And when she later confessed that in reality she had been in Grimsby, her seeming culpability only increased, since it was plain that in some way she must have "helped" him. At an early court appearance, angry crowds stoned the police van escorting her. The Daily Express - quoting a placard - ran the headline Rot in Hell. Comparisons were made with Myra Hindley. In Holloway, female prisoners called her a '"nonce". And when the trial opened, far from the grief of the Wells and Chapman families, the focus of dinner table discussion wasn't on Huntley but Carr - what had she known and what hadn't she known? The accusation "She must have known" often lurks, however unfairly, at the edge of murder cases. It was there with Susan Venables in 1993: didn't she connect the blue paint she saw on her son's jacket with reports that James Bulger's body had been found with blue paint splashes on it? It was made against Sonia Sutcliffe, too: weren't there clues in her husband's clothes, car, itinerary and body language that he was a serial killer of women? In Carr's case, suspicion rested on a handful of a details, which the Crown took as damning evidence and for which her defence said there was a perfectly innocent explanation. She was seen standing next to the boot of Huntley's car, crying. To the Crown that suggested she already knew what we later found out, that Huntley had stowed Holly and Jessica's bodies in the boot, bending their legs to fit them in; Carr said her distress was less localised - she had just seen a news bulletin about the girls and it had upset her. The police also noticed that she used the past tense about Jessica and Holly at a time when the hunt for them was still on and hopes remained that they would be found alive - didn't the past tense usage suggest she knew they were already dead? The defence said this was how any classroom assistant might speak of former pupils. Then came the witness who saw Carr scrubbing tiles in the kitchen - didn't that suggest she had actively helped Huntley to cover his tracks? Well, it could have done. But she was an obsessive cleaner - always had been - and since losing her job at the school considered it her main work. Besides, there was nothing to connect the girls with the kitchen - it was in the bedroom, the bathroom or the dining room that whatever happened seems to have happened. The charge that she must have known was inconclusive. But a lesser charge - that Carr, being a relatively intelligent women, ought at the very least to have felt suspicious - also arose from the domestic set-up. Huntley was clearly a slob who dropped clothes in his wake and expected her to clear up for him. Yet when she returned from Grimsby, she found he had used the washing machine - a first. Not only that, but the wash contained a duvet. And there were signs of disturbance - and impromptu clean-ups - about the house. What did she make of that, she was asked? Her first thought was that he had had a woman in the house, she said. But she didn't think of Jessica and Holly, who were 10-year-old girls, not women. Though Huntley had come under suspicion in the past, for alleged rape and sex with a minor, she believed he was innocent - and she loved him. Complicity is a troubling notion. It touches on the fate of races and nations (how much did ordinary Germans know about what Hitler was doing to the Jews?), but also strikes close to home. How culpable are we not to speak up, when we know, or merely suspect, that a terrible wrong has been done under our noses by someone we love? Brave souls will admit that, in certain circumstances, they can imagine themselves capable of murder. But it is far easier to imagine being Carr than Huntley. The instinct to protect those we love - whether spouse, child or parent - runs deep. What wouldn't we do to help them out? And how far are we to blame when they deceive or bully us into bailing them out? Which is why, though a minor player in the Soham case, guilty, at worst, of obstructing the police investigation, Carr has commanded so much attention. Speculating why she failed to get his measure is a way of asking how, despite a series of alleged sexual offences, everyone else failed to rumble him too - the education authority, neighbours, police. Her defence counsel argued that her only crime was old-fashioned loyalty: standing by her man. And EM Forster might approve of her - better to betray your country (and its justice system) than those you love. The invitation to see her as a martyr to love is one she made herself, during the trial, when she pointed at Huntley - "that thing" - and finally, conclusively, dissociated herself from him: "I've a mind of my own now." There seems little doubt that he controlled and manipulated her from the moment they met in 1999 - and that one of her reasons for giving him an alibi was fear of what he would do to her if he didn't. She has a history of anorexia and self-harming, and the wary, childish look of a victim of abuse. That Holly and Jessica were fond of her, and she of them, seems beyond dispute. She said that if she had children she would want daughters like Holly. To her defence counsel, this was a crucial point: how, he asked, could she bear for Huntley's hands to "wander" over her body, knowing those hands had killed Holly and Jessica? How could she use that bath? How could she sleep in the same bed? But this is too simple. To victims of abuse, as Carr seems to have been, the abuser, however resented, can be sexually charismatic - and the violence he metes out addictive. As Sylvia Plath famously put it: Every woman adores a Fascist,The boot in the face, the bruteBrute heart of a brute like you. Towards the end of his summing up, the judge, Mr Justice Moses, rightly said that this was not a trial of the Huntley-Carr relationship. Yet it has been hard to set the relationship aside completely. That is because the rigid role divisions it adhered to - Huntley the strong, male, beer-drinking breadwinner, and Carr his domestic drudge - did, however indirectly, contribute to the murder of Holly and Jessica. Huntley felt he "owned" Carr. At 6.15pm on August 4, when she told him over the phone that she intended going out to a Grimsby night club, he was so angry that he hung up on her. At 6.31pm she text-messaged him to ask him not to make her feel so guilty about it. He did not respond. Then the girls arrived. At 6.46pm Jessica's phone was switched off. By then or soon after, we assume, with horrible suddenness, he killed them. How exactly they died, and whether sex was involved, no one but Huntley knows. But what is certain is that he was angry with Carr and that murdering the girls - in rage or vengeance, or as a punishment for their femaleness - followed his argument with her. From the confused details Huntley gave about that day - his dog, Sadie, being "on heat" and "running off"; her "mess" and "muckiness" when she returned; Holly sitting on the bed with a nosebleed; Jessica's screams; him putting his arms round Sadie in the bath - one can discern a pattern of disturbing impulses and a ghost-image of actual events. But Huntley still won't disclose, or can't bear to take responsibility for, what actually happened. On the penultimate day of the trial, I went to the Old Bailey, unable to push certain images away - the crack in the bath, the snipped-up clothes, the plastic bag Huntley used to cover his shoeprints. My naive hope was that by being there I would understand a little better. It was no good. Huntley sat careful and composed - but the care and composure with which he disposed of the bodies surely belongs to a different moral universe. (I thought of Xan Meo, in Martin Amis's recent novel Yellow Dog, a model modern man who becomes a violent brute after a sustaining a head injury; but Huntley had no head injury.) As for Carr, journalists who had followed the case from start to finish could not agree how culpable she was, how knowingly she lied. There was nothing in her appearance - more tense and less withdrawn than Huntley's - to indicate the degree of her complicity. Yesterday the jury decided that Carr perverted the course of justice by telling lies on Huntley's behalf but that she didn't know he had murdered Holly and Jessica. What the verdict ought to mean is that Carr, when released in a few months' time, is left alone. But this is Britain, and it will take a court order to guarantee her safety and privacy. I hope she gets one. Murder trials make us voyeurs. Thinking about Carr has been the least uncomfortable aspect of the case, less ugly than thinking about Huntley, and less intrusive than presuming to understand how Jessica and Holly's parents must feel. But the trial is over now. And Maxine Carr should be allowed closure, too.