On the day that changed his life, Geoff Hyde, who ran his own haulage business, had been at home with flu. Then, at 6.30pm, he received a call on his mobile. He was asked if it would be OK for a lorry that had developed brake problems to stop at the yard so that a mechanic could repair them.As a result of taking that call, on 27 February 2006, Hyde is in prison, serving a 22-year sentence. Campaigners frequently argue that the criminal justice system is capricious, but it has never been more capricious than in this case.Hyde, a born-and-bred Londoner, started his business in 1974. Thirty years later, he employed 13 men, a small but loyal workforce, and was able to pay himself a six-figure salary. He rented space for the business at the Tamchester yard in Chertsey.When he was called about the lorry he said it would be fine, so long as it left enough room for the other vehicles that would be parking up for the night. "But don't worry," he said helpfully, "I'm just going to the yard; I'll find out and let you know."It was highly unusual for Hyde not to be at the yard and, despite his illness, he felt he needed to check there were no problems. On the way to the yard, the man phoned again, so Hyde simply told him he hadn't got there yet.When he arrived, he saw that there was room and gave the caller the go-ahead to bring the lorry in. He moved one of the "artics" (articulated lorries), to create more space for his own lorries, and played around with the computer tracking programme that would allow him, once he understood how to work it, to check the whereabouts of all his vehicles.After less than 30 minutes he left again to get an early night. As he was leaving, he noticed a Spanish lorry arriving and, just behind, a white van, presumably the mechanics. He got some medicine and drove home.At around 9.40pm one of his drivers phoned to tell him that pandemonium had broken out at the yard: there had been a police raid. The Spanish lorry had a bona fide cargo of bagged lettuce leaves for UK supermarkets and, hidden underneath, another one: 77kg of cocaine. The yard had been under surveillance by police and customs. They waited for the lorry driver and the "mechanic" to unload it all from the lorry to the white van and then, as they were driving off, swooped and arrested both.At about 10.15pm Hyde was phoned again. A colleague told him that the police needed him to go to the yard in order to open the office. Hyde decided that, in view of all that was going on, he'd better go back. It was 11.10pm when he arrived. He let the police into the office and sat down while they went through some paperwork.He was arrested 20 minutes later. They took him back to his house, made an initial search and were interested to find a boarding pass from a flight to Spain. This was hardly surprising. He and Gillian, his wife, owned a small apartment on the Costa Blanca. Indeed, Gillian was there at the time.Hyde was taken to Charing Cross police station and held overnight. In the morning, he declined several opportunities to call a solicitor – what on earth did he need one of those for? – and was then interviewed.He quickly realised that it was all much more serious than he'd imagined and began to panic. Fatally, he denied having received the critical phone call at 6.30pm – and also said that he had spoken to the van driver as he drove in. Both were untrue, as the police well knew. They had CCTV surveillance and had already spoken to some men at the yard.After a mere 27 minutes, the interview was ended. Hyde was charged with conspiracy to supply cocaine. So were the lorry driver and the van driver. The latter pleaded guilty so, in October 2006, Hyde stood trial alongside the lorry driver. Hyde was shocked to find himself described as the mastermind of the drug-runners.The trial process was cumbersome, partly because, for the benefit of the lorry driver, the proceedings needed translating into Spanish. The jurors were told about the van driver's guilty plea, so it was hardly a great surprise when they returned guilty verdicts on the others. The van driver was sentenced to 12 years, the lorry driver to 18 years, and Hyde received a heart-stopping 22 years.But where was the evidence? After Hyde was arrested, his house, office and car were all searched. There was no documentary or scientific evidence. The police had full computer and mobile phone records. From all that, not one shred of evidence emerged.There is no dispute about who called whom, when, or where they were when they did so. Apart from the few brief calls about the lorry (which lasted, in total, less than eight minutes) there was nothing to link Hyde to anyone engaged in drugs running. The fact that the drugs runners had Hyde's mobile number is not significant. As it was Hyde's solitary mobile, which he'd had for some time, hauliers throughout the British and continental industries would have had the contact number. He used it for business and personal calls. It was registered to him. The others involved in this operation (not unsurprisingly) used untraceable pay-as-you-go phones.After the convictions, the Metropolitan police press office issued a statement, claiming the operation had demonstrated "our determination to combat the criminal networks responsible for bringing large amounts of cocaine into London".Hyde's friends and family begged to differ. They believed the case proved the exact opposite: the failure of the police to apprehend the real criminals. The ringleaders who had planned and organised all this had got away scot-free.In this drugs operation, there were two key traffickers. Because the police were monitoring the telephone traffic we have a good idea of what happened. At 6.22pm, the first drugs runner phoned the second, no doubt to tell him that the lorry was getting close. As a result, the second man called Hyde to win his confidence with the bogus dodgy brakes story.However, their plans immediately went awry. Naturally, the second man would have assumed that Hyde would be at the yard and would straightaway be able to give the go-ahead for the lorry to have its brakes fixed. But Hyde was not there: he was at home with flu. Frustratingly, the gang had to wait while Hyde drove to the yard and could check that there was space available. While he did so, for 48 long minutes, from 7.07pm until 7.55pm, the lorry had to wait in a lay-by. Not surprisingly, the drugs runner became impatient, and called Hyde again to check his progress.Police and customs had received inside information that led to them mounting an expensive surveillance operation, which included the use of a police helicopter. But in this instance they displayed no interest in netting the larger fish. The men who had set up the drugs run evaded capture without difficulty.In key respects, the telephone evidence which was used to incriminate Hyde actually exculpated him. Firstly, there is a clear inference to be drawn from the fact that the police did not have his contact number, and so had to ask a colleague to phone him for them. Hyde could not have been a suspected gang member under surveillance.Secondly, Hyde's illness, and consequent absence from the yard, appeared to have surprised and created unanticipated difficulties for the criminals.Thirdly, what did Hyde do in response to his colleague's call telling him of the police raid? Did he urgently start ringing round criminal contacts to tell them the game was up? No, he did nothing at all. When he received another call 30 minutes later, asking him to help the police in their investigation, he did so. He took with him his mobile phone, which would provide the key strand of evidence against him. Then, having been arrested and advised of his legal rights, he waived his right to a solicitor.Were these really the actions of a drugs baron? And why would someone who was financially secure, and had no criminal background, suddenly become involved in drugs running at the age of 59?Small wonder that Hyde's family and friends believe this is one case in which justice has not merely miscarried; it has lost all sense of reason.• The headline on this story was amended 9 July 2009. The original heading implied that it was the sentence of 22 years that was being questioned, rather than the conviction itself. This has been corrected.