Jack Straw's announcement this week of a review of police cautions and on-the-spot fines should be welcomed, but only with two cheers. The practice of the police dealing with many cases through warnings, rather than by charging, is as old as modern policing, and has been the subject of perennial controversy.But the variety and extent of use of such "out-of-court disposals" have expanded considerably in recent years. This trend has attracted much critical attention from researchers on the criminal justice process, who have pointed out many worrying issues for those concerned about due process of law and fairness. (Authoritative accounts of these developments can be found in Prof Richard Young's Street Policing After PACE in a 2008 collection of essays, Regulating Policing, and in a 2008 Centre for Crime and Justice Studies report, Summary Justice: Fast – But Fair? by Prof Rod Morgan.)Until now the running on this issue has been made mainly by critics exercised by perceived threats to civil liberties and social justice, although also by the possibility that some serious offenders may escape adequate sanction.The current review, however, has been prompted solely by the fear that grave crimes were going unpunished. Concerns raised by the director of public prosecutions, magistrates and some police started the ball rolling, but the issue rapidly gained traction from public indignation about yet another supposed New Labour failure to get tough on crime as it had pledged to do some 16 years ago.The airwaves and blogosphere have crackled with indignation about horrific stories of rapes and serious assaults responded to with cautions. The Guardian's own report on Straw's announcement highlighted it as a review of the use of police cautions for violent offences, although it will cover the whole panoply of out-of-court dispositions.As with much of current political debate about criminal justice matters, there have been opportunistic attacks on Labour for developing policies initiated originally under the Conservatives. A decade ago, for instance, Paddy Hillyard and David Gordon documented "the drift to informal justice" in the Tory years in the Journal of Law and Society. Between 1981 and 1997, the proportion of arrests dealt with by out-of-court disposals by the police rose from 25% to 58%. This preceded the introduction under Labour of new summary sanctions, notably "penalty notices for disorder" (PNDs), which originated in the 2001 Criminal Justice and Police Act.The growth of PNDs and cautions has been the major means by which the government can claim to have made inroads on what they identified some years ago as "the justice gap". Thus the number of "offences brought to justice" in England and Wales rose from 1,103,000 in 1999 to 1,446,000 in 2008. But the number of convictions fell in this period, from 737,000 to 724,000. The closing of the "justice gap" was due to a rise in cautions (from 260,000 to 375,000), PNDs (from zero to 137,000) and formal warnings for cannabis possession (from zero to 103,000).Out-of-court disposals have covered an expanding range of more serious criminal offences. Thus PNDs were originally introduced for a number of alcohol, public safety and minor disorder offences, but in 2004 shoplifting and criminal damage were added. As the current furore highlights, there has also been a growing use of cautions for violent cases.A review of this is overdue, in part because of the possibility of inadequate sanctioning of serious cases. But there are also many reasons for concern about unjust treatment of alleged offenders. In their standard text on criminal justice professors Andrew Sanders and Richard Young assemble much research evidence indicating that the drift to summary justice criminalises many people without the legal protections that attend court convictions, as a result of pressure in negotiations with police investigators who stand to gain by achieving targets they would not be able to attain through more formal proceedings. As with other high-discretion exercises of police power, there are also issues about the discriminatory way these processes are likely to operate, although statistics on this are not routinely collected as they are for stop-and-search or arrest.The way that the issue of the drift to summary justice has reached the political agenda speaks volumes about the domination of criminal justice policy by a law and order framework, for all New Labour's early talk of evidence-led approaches. Concern about serious offenders escaping justice is justified, but it must also be balanced by exploration of questions of unjustified, premature and discriminatory criminalisation, especially of young people. This isn't just a matter of civil liberties or fairness, but protecting potential future victims of offenders who are hardened rather than deterred by the expanding reach of out-of-court disposals. .