The Macpherson report into the murder of Stephen Lawrence did have an impact on morale in the Metropolitan police force, Home Office minister Charles Clarke said today.The Home Office was publishing the latest figures on the numbers of police in forces across England and Wales today. While numbers have stabilised in many of the regions, the number of officers in Metropolitan force has continued to drop dramatically.In the past six months, the number of officers in the Metropolitan Police fell by 1,241 - nearly 5%. But there are just seven fewer officers across all of England and Wales than there were six months ago - while there was also an increase in the number of constables. Recruitment of ethnic minority officers was also up - most significantly in the Metropolitan Police, which was responsible for half of the 11% increase in ethnic recruitment. However, a leaked internal report by Sir Herman Ouseley, advisor to the Metropolitan Police, suggests that racism is still rife in the force. One of the Home Office's own studies, also published today, found that people from ethnic minority communities were put off joining the police because they anticipated that they would be isolated and subjected to racism. Many also expected to face a level of hostility from their own communities if they joined the police. Members of black and Asian groups sometimes themselves had negative attitudes towards ethnic minority officers, the study found. Mr Clarke said pragmatic action was needed - which was also recommended by Sir Herman's report. The minister said: "There is a 10-year programme for making changes, like in the number of black police officers, and we are making progress." Scotland Yard said Sir Herman's report had been welcomed and was "balanced". Mr Clarke said both he and the home secretary, Jack Straw, acknowledged that the Macpherson report had had an impact on morale. But he dismissed as "scurrilous political tactics" claims by the Conservative leader, William Hague, and the shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, that a decline in stop-and-searches following the Macpherson report had led to a rise in street crime. Home Office research had shown there was no link between the two, he said. "I think there is no doubt there were issues of self-questioning about how the police was operating following the report. But throughout Sir Paul Condon, then Metropolitan commissioner, the home secretary and I in my humble way have reaffirmed the message that stop-and-search is an appropriate tactic for police to use and should be used to inhibit crime."Talk about it What do you think?Related special reports The Stephen Lawrence report Race in Britain Tories in opppositionRelated stories What Hague said when the report was published 14 December: Hague to attack Macpherson report 12 December: Paul Foot - the Met is guilty 11 December: inquiry into 'racist' unlawful arrests' 9 December: Sikh policeman's record payout in 'hate mail' case Stephen Lawrence murder: chronologyChannel 4 video 24 February 1999: the Macpherson reportUseful links Full text of Hague's speechMacpherson report: summary Macpherson report: full text Macpherson report: the 70 recommendations in full Macpherson report: search Home Office response to Macpherson report Met response to Macpherson report Stephen Lawrence family campaign Commission for Racial Equality Met report on recruiting ethnic minoritiesCentre for Policy Studies