Police were tonight questioning a 36-year-old man over the murder of the French student Amelie Delagrange, who died after being attacked near Twickenham Green in August.The man was arrested at a house in West Drayton, near Heathrow airport, at around 8.30am. He was also being questioned over the attempted murder and robbery of a woman near the same green, in south-west London, in November 2002. He was being held at a west London police station and officers were searching a number of addresses in that part of the capital, Scotland Yard said.The man is the fifth to have been arrested in connection with the murder of the 22-year-old on August 19. Two of the four previously detained were re-bailed until December. The other two were also re-bailed but were detained under the Mental Health Act for assessment. No one has been charged with the murder of Ms Delagrange, who was found on the green with serious head injuries. She was walking home after getting off a bus following a night out when she was attacked. Police believe her killer could be a serial attacker, and had previously linked the murder to a number of other attacks in south-west London, including the murder of the 19-year-old gap year student Marsha McDonnell in Hampton in February last year. In both cases, the attacker pounced from behind on women with blonde or light brown shoulder-length hair who were walking alone in the evening. Police said the attacks were linked for the purposes of investigation, but added that it was possible there could have been more than one assailant. It is understood that the November 2002 incident that the man was also being questioned about had not previously been linked to Ms Delagrange's killing.At a Scotland Yard press conference, officers appealed for information about a white Ford Courier van, registration P610 XCN.Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy said it was linked to the inquiry and may now be owned legitimately by a member of the public. He urged anyone who owns it or knows where it is to contact police. Mr Murphy said that the van had previously been legitimately registered to a air cargo services firm in Stanwell, a village near Heathrow. Police last week confirmed that one of four witnesses filmed on CCTV close to the murder scene had come forward. The man, who was filmed on a bus in Twickenham Green, gave officers a statement.Ms Delagrange moved to London in June to improve her English. Last month, her friends and family planted a tree in her memory near the spot where she died.