Strange as it may seem, one of the more vivid memories of my childhood is being scared rigid by law and order debates at the Tory conference. While other children got the willies from ghost stories, what put the frighteners up me was the sight of fading blue-rinses and decrepit Alf Garnetts being stirred back to the full vigour of youth by their sheer bloodlust for revenge. Edwina waved handcuffs around as the mob took it in turns to take to the stage and demand hangings, floggings and castrations. And the coarsest among them demanded such punishment not merely for criminals, but also for the home secretary Douglas Hurd, whom they regarded as an incurable liberal.So, two decades on, it was with some trepidation that I wandered on to the floor here in Manchester for a law and order debate, although I need not have worried. There was, it is true, a brief chill in the air, as the Grant Mitchell-style home affairs spokesman, Chris Grayling, took to the stage. He looked set to play hard cop to the soft cop of Dominic Grieve, the mild-mannered lawyer who speaks for the Tories on justice.It soon transpired, though, that this odd couple were not going to hector or still less interrogate us, but instead walk us through pressing social affairs in the manner of Richard and Judy. They perched on soft seats, and welcomed community workers and general good eggs to shed light on the causes of crime. They discussed how drugs were a symptom of deeper problems, and heard impassioned calls for youth centres to keep kids off the street. Then they welcomed a former gang member, Junior Smart, who had once served several years for drug dealing. He made a case for cutting the numbers stuck inside costly jails, and then investing the savings in keeping troubled young men on the straight and narrow. Far from being lynched, Smart won applause from the crowd for this enlightened suggestion.So far, so liberal. The position, however, transforms immediately when one looks at the specific pledges, which the frontbenchers dropped in – almost in passing – in between putting the world to rights with their community activist friends. While the talk of rehabilitation is warm and fuzzy, the specific proposals are both hard and cold. David Cameron set several out in his hit parade of 10 top Tory priorities, which he published in the Sun last week. He promised there would be a presumption of prison for every knife crime offender – even though many are young kids, with no past convictions, who are driven by fear to carry a knife that they will never wield. Even worse is a plan to double the sentencing power of magistrates' courts, which is where the great bulk of petty criminals are brought to book. It is hard to think of a policy better designed to stir up a round of sentence inflation, which will soon work its way right through the criminal justice system.Then there are drugs, where – despite the understanding chat about addicts needing to be helped – the specific policy is to step up the war. Grieve let slip that he would discontinue experiments Jack Straw is encouraging in prescribing heroin in favour of abstinence programmes. In this he defies the lessons of the 38 straight years that have passed since the Misuse of Drugs Act, during which time this hardline approach has been continuously tried and has continually failed.As with the Human Rights Act, so too with criminal justice as a whole. Liberal language is being used as the cover for reactionary policy. It does indeed show that the Tories have changed that they are now prepared to welcome the former gang member Junior Smart to their stage. But when it comes to practical policies, they remain stuck with an approach that would end up with such men being banged up for longer. For so long, in fact, that they never get the chance to mend their ways and then be redeemed in the bosom of the Conservative conference.