Three weeks ago, Alexander Peschkoff was shocked to discover that every penny of the £3,000 in his children’s savings accounts had apparently vanished without trace, with no warning or explanation. A few days later, after he threatened to contact the media and regulators, the money suddenly reappeared.But this week his bank, Barclays, told Peschkoff it was closing the accounts of his six-year-old son and four-year-old daughter, and also his main current account – again with no explanation.So what’s going on? Barclays is saying little. However, the most likely explanation involves lifting the lid on the secretive world of “suspicious activity reports”, and the behind-the-scenes role played by organisations such as the UK Financial Intelligence Unit (UKFIU).Peschkoff, 47, lives in London’s South Kensington and runs a start-up company. He says his children are lucky to have “a full set of grandpas and grannies” who have spoiled them with financial gifts on their birthdays and at Christmas.But when he checked his Barclays mobile banking app on 28 November, he was shocked by what he saw. The previous night, the balance on his son’s account was £1,715 – but now it was showing as “£0.00”. It was the same with his daughter’s account, which a few hours earlier had £1,350 in it, but was now showing a balance of zero. Then Peschkoff’s wife spotted that the £305 she had in a Barclays account seemed to have disappeared, too.Various thoughts went through his mind: had the money been stolen by fraudsters, or was it simply a technical fault? Peschkoff, who has been with Barclays for 25 years, went straight to his local branch to find out. It was the start of what he has dubbed a “bizarre and somewhat scary saga”.Staff didn’t seem to have a clue as to what had happened. He then spoke to the bank’s “specialist complaints head office,” which reassured him the funds were “somewhere within the bank” and that the problem had occurred due to some sort of “technical glitch”.On 1 December Peschkoff’s wife’s money reappeared – then disappeared again. On 3 December, with his children’s money still missing, Peschkoff contacted Guardian Money. He told us he had dug around on the internet and came across several similar cases involving Barclays account holders. The common thread, he said, was that the customer’s money appeared to have suddenly disappeared, but then, a few days later, it “miraculously came back”.Sure enough, on 4 December all of the Peschkoff money reappeared in their accounts. In an email, a bank representative said: “Regrettably, despite extensive and exhaustive inquiries, I have not been able to identify why this problem occurred.”However, Peschkoff says one of the suggestions offered by someone “familiar with the matter” is that it is all linked to the bank’s internal security procedures relating to complying with money laundering regulations and legislation such as the Proceeds of Crime Act.A suspicious activity report, or Sar, is information designed to tip off law enforcement agencies if a bank or another financial organisation suspects a transaction may be linked to money laundering, the proceeds of crime, or “terrorist financing”. The official guidance suggests a bank employee might make a Sar if a customer has tried to make a very large and out-of-character deposit or withdrawal, has started transferring lots of money into an overseas account, or is simply behaving oddly. I find it extremely scary that our children’s accounts have been affected – these have not seen large payments The UKFIU is part of the National Crime Agency and handles more than 350,000 Sars a year. It is not known what proportion of these end up being false alarms resulting from staff being over-cautious, but it is presumably a sizeable number.The banks insist they don’t make such reports lightly, though you can see why they might take a cautious stance – the regulators have been imposing big fines on banks whose anti-money-laundering systems aren’t up to scratch. Two years ago HSBC had to pay the US authorities $1.9bn in a settlement over money laundering.When a Sar is reported to the UKFIU, it will respond within seven working days – either by giving the all-clear or taking action. During those few days it will appear to the customer that their money has been withdrawn or somehow made inaccessible to them, and the bank won’t tell the customer what is happening. You could argue the banks are in effect required to lie to customers or be economical with the truth, as it is an offence to disclose to someone that a Sar has been made if this is likely to prejudice any investigation that might be carried out.As far back as 2010, the Consumer Action Group website was saying it had come across several cases like this. “Barclays have always been very shady about what has happened,” it claimed. “A case may be identified or selected at random. Funds are then frozen and disappear from the account. A few days later the bank says there’s no problem or give some excuse, and you find the money is back in the account and accessible to you again.”Peschkoff told us he understood the law might require Barclays to take action in certain situations. But, he adds: “I find it extremely scary that in this case our children’s savings accounts have been affected”. These are not accounts that have seen large payments in or out, he says. Instead, small chunks of money have been paid in over several years and then left untouched.A strange business, to be sure, but at least the family had all their money back. But then this week came the bombshell news that Barclays has decided to close the two children’s accounts, plus Peschkoff’s main account, with no explanation. “The letter said: ‘We regret to inform you that we will not be able to continue to act as your banker’,” he told us.They are not alone. In September, someone calling themselves “campeanu19bis” told the Consumer Action Group website that all the money in his/her Barclays current and savings accounts “disappeared overnight”, then reappeared. But, a few days after that, “they asked me to move to another bank, as ‘after careful consideration … [they] couldn’t act as [my] bankers any longer’ – although absolutely nothing wrong has been discovered”.Peschkoff says he has no idea why Barclays has treated his family this way. Had there been an allegation of fraud? Is the bank punishing him for contacting the media and kicking up a fuss? (At one point while the cash was missing, he warned the bank he would arrange for his children to stand outside Barclays’ Canary Wharf base in their pyjamas with posters saying “Barclays lost our money” and “All of it!”). Is it to do with where he comes from? Peschkoff was born in an area of the Soviet Union that is now part of the Ukraine, where his parents still live, and he came to the UK in 1989. His wife and children are British. Asked by Money how he felt, Peschkoff replied: “I’m extremely puzzled … that after 25 years of being a loyal and profitable customer this should happen.”We asked Barclays for a full explanation. After the money had reappeared in the accounts of Peschkoff’s wife and children, the bank told us: “It is extremely unusual for us to experience an operational issue of this kind. We worked hard to rectify the matter as quickly as possible and can confirm the funds in the accounts are now available. We have apologised for the distress this matter has caused our customer.”When asked later about the decision to close the three accounts, Barclays said: “Due to customer confidentiality, we do not discuss individual customer accounts.“Barclays has the right to close any account; when this happens, these decisions are not taken lightly and are considered on a case by case basis.”In 2012 the Financial Services Consumer Panel told the BBC that the way banks close customer accounts without explanation if, for example, there had been an allegation of fraud, “goes against the rules of natural justice”.