A woman and an eight-year-old girl found dead in a house in Leeds on Saturday have been named locally as Sarah Laycock, 31, and her daughter Abigail. A four-year-old girl also found at the house with minor injuries was treated at Leeds General Infirmary and later discharged. Police are questioning a 36-year-old man on suspicion of murder and attempted murder. A police spokeswoman said that officers had gone to the family's home in Garforth, on the outskirts of Leeds, following reports of an assault a few miles away near the Fairburn Ings nature reserve at about 4pm on Saturday.The 36-year-old man was reported to have been arrested at the reserve by police who were called following an altercation with paramedics who were trying to treat him for injuries.The road in Garforth remained sealed off on Sunday morning amid much police activity. Officers could be seen standing outside the house and a large police van was parked at the front of the bungalow. Forensic officers wearing protective white suits could be seen at the side and rear of the house.Neighbours said they had been shocked to hear what had happened. "They just seemed a normal family," said Janet Hutchinson."They had a dog and we had a dog and we used to pass in the street and say hello. We are all shocked. You just don't know what is going on in other houses, do you?"Another neighbour, Audrey Bottomley, said: "My friend lives next door to them and when I have gone across the man has been at his van. I think he is a self-employed plasterer, and he would always say hello or good morning.""He was out with his children on Christmas Day, they had some new bikes, he loved the children."I can't understand it. I was quite shocked when I heard. The lady who lived there seemed quite shy and didn't seem to mix with anyone on the street."At Fairburn Ings, an RSPB nature reserve, a small piece of cordon tape could be seen tied to a gate leading to a track. Further along the track, a police van was parked and two police officers stood guard on one of the reserve's public trails.A worker in the shop at the reserve said he believed emergency services had been called on Saturday afternoon after reports that somebody was injured.