A colourful businessman accused of masterminding one of Britain's largest ever Ponzi frauds masked the alleged £80m scam behind a thin facade of token investments, lavish displays of personal wealth and generous - but illusory - "returns" paid out to victims.City of London Police, who have conducted a series of raids and arrested three individuals, believe more than 600 investors have been taken in by the pyramid deception. Masterminding the scheme are thought to be Chelsea-based Indian entrepreneur Nandan Pruthi and his business partners Kenneth Peacock and John Anderson.Victims are said to include former England cricketer Darren Gough, Rising Damp actress Francis de la Tour and singer Jerome Flynn. A 1960s pop singer, as yet unnamed, is also among the victims while England cricketer Kevin Pietersen has confirmed that he was approached by the suspected fraudsters but decided not to hand over any of his money.Behind the facade of token investments, Pruthi and his business partners are believed to have recycled millions of pounds from new investors on to existing ones in order to maintain the illusion of a successful investment strategy generating huge returns. Much of the cash is thought to have been churned through accounts with HSBC.Monthly payback rates of between 8% and 13% were said to be available to those making "loan" investments with the trio. Marketing material for Pruthi's Business Consulting International suggested money was invested as venture capital in small or struggling businesses. Some victims said they believed their "investments" were deployed in overseas bond trades or in highly lucrative vulture fund operations - all of it on the promise of get-rich-quick returns.However, as police get a clearer picture of the money trail, they are convinced the vast majority of cash was churned between Pruthi's victims in the manner of a classic Ponzi scheme - named after US fraudster Charles Ponzi. Just enough was extracted from the circulating cash to give the impression of investment activity, and to enable Pruthi to present himself as a vastly wealthy man.Scores of seasoned entrepreneurs and City professionals were among those duped by Pruthi, Peacock and Anderson. Many of them were groomed through entrepreneurial networking groups and sporting clubs frequented by the men who all worked out of the same three-room headquarters on Relton Mews in Knightsbridge. Some victims have been made bankrupt, lost homes or even attempted suicide, according to police. "Astonished", "gobsmacked" and "completely shocked" are among the reactions of several of Pruthi's legitimate business associates contacted by the Observer, one of whom did not know he was at the centre of a major fraud investigation, his assets frozen by the Financial Services Authority.One such associate, Jacob Hessellund, managing director of Danish marketing software firm Encode, said he could not believe Pruthi was anything other than a shrewd investor. "Of course, I am surprised. And look forward to seeing where this story ends - to see if this really is a scam or not," he said.Pruthi is a minority shareholder and board member at Encode, though the company is now looking to replace him as a director.Others' dealings with Pruthi have been less happy. Private jet and helicopter charter consultancy CCS, where Pruthi had made a small investment, went bust last month after the suspected fraudster failed to pay bills for numerous helicopter transfers and trips to France. The unpaid bills far exceeded the sum Pruthi had invested in the business.Elsewhere, other businessmen who had dealings with Pruthi described how he was presented as a potential source of venture capital backing only to discover he wanted an up-front fee for finding investors during tours of the Middle East or the US. "He was extremely aloof. He made us feel like we were almost wasting his time... He talked the talk, though. He would certainly be capable of running a serious business. He was very credible." As well as his lofty manner, Pruthi's appearance was striking - the neatly trimmed beard and wild head of hair bursting from eccentric suits. "I nearly fell off my chair when he turned up," said one entrepreneur who received an investment of about £4,000. The firm had already paid out thousands to Pruthi to find the venture capital backers it needed, but none had been found.Another businessperson who declined to pay for Pruthi's venture capital introductions was also struck by the alleged fraudster's appearance. "He arrived in a white Rolls-Royce, chauffeur-driven, and he had a Ferrari and Harley [Davidson] parked in the garage."Sports cars, jewellery and £250,000 in cash are among assets police and the FSA have managed to recover from Pruthi and his colleagues, though their value is thought to be less than £2m. There has been some speculation that money may have been salted away in Dubai, the Cayman Islands or Thailand, but it is becoming clear to police that the bulk of the cash appears to have been churned between the scheme's unwitting targets.Many victims remain convinced their money remains tied up in genuine high-yield investments, which the FSA has wrongly frozen - a theory Pruthi has encouraged. Several are pursuing civil claims against Pruthi for the return of their money. The Chelsea businessman has filed a defence claiming he has instructed his bank to make payments to investors but they have been blocked by the freezing order. Police believe his protestations are unsustainable. The money simply is not there.Other victims are re-examining paperwork in relation to their dealings with him as they begin to see the glaring questions they should have asked. Despite an impressive website, the small print on documents produced under the Business Consulting International name reveals it to be little more than a trading name for Pruthi. As such, it files no records with Companies House. Pruthi was not registered as a regulated individual as required by the FSA.One source described the bogus investment documentation used by Pruthi as "not at all slick, not well presented". But with the benefit of hindsight, these things often appear more obvious.