As I told the police officer, I am infused with the spirit of Tony Martin. I intend to get out my shotgun, load it, and lie in wait for the next intruder at my home in Northamptonshire. "I can quite understand how you feel," said the sympathetic officer. He was sitting across from me at the kitchen table, taking down a statement after the second break-in of the holiday period. It wasn't actually my house that the burglars had twice broken into but one about 50 yards away across a lawn that is normally occupied by my 84-year-old uncle Robin.He is away in Thailand for the winter, claiming that it is cheaper to stay in Chiang Mai in a five-star hotel than to pay Powergen to keep his home warm - for, having no central heating system, he relies on electric radiators.His home is one of two 17th-century pavilions, attributed to Inigo Jones, that he bought in 1954 for £3,500 and eventually passed on to me. The pavilion he lives in was originally built as a chapel, attached to a country house that was destroyed by fire in the 1880s, but it has since been converted into a dwelling with a big sitting-room and four little bedrooms above it, reached by a metal spiral staircase that once served as a fire escape in Birmingham. (The other pavilion, built as a library, remains one enormous room, unsuitable for human habitation; and together, separated by a large Victorian ornamental pond, they form a romantic ensemble, described by Simon Jenkins in his England's Thousand Best Houses as "a place of ghosts, terraces, choked ponds and empty colonnades", which correctly implies that my maintenance of it could be better.)Three days before Christmas, burglars broke in through a window in uncle Robin's basement dining-room, ransacked every drawer and cupboard in the house, and made off with various ornaments, pieces of furniture, and bits of silver and porcelain. There wasn't all that much of value to steal, for burglars had been there two years ago and taken the best of his stuff; but even so they weren't satisfied. Although I had the dining-room window boarded up, they returned on the day before New Year's Eve and broke in again at the same place, taking away all the dining-room chairs and three little tables.Although the Northamptonshire police force lies at the bottom of the national county league table for catching criminals, I must say that police officers turned up very promptly each time I telephoned to report a break-in. On the first occasion, the officer was a young woman whose task it was to take a statement. She was followed soon afterwards by another young woman carrying kit for taking fingerprints, though all she found was a glove mark. The two officers that arrived after the second break-in were both men, and it was to a man that I confessed my Tony Martin-like temptation, for I felt he was less likely to be shocked. In-between, I was visited by a crime prevention officer who talked darkly about a clan of "travellers" who are rumoured to target country houses across the south of England and advised me to get a burglar alarm.So what do the police actually do in these situations? The main thing they do is to take a statement from the victim of the crime, which is obviously a good idea insofar as this records what actually happened, but less so in some of its other aspects. Why, for example, do the police need to know how tall I am? Or how old I am? Or how I earn my living? Or whether I am retired? Or where I was born? These are among the questions they are required to ask of all crime victims, though it is of the criminals that one yearns to know the answers.One will probably never know, however, for the rigid bureaucratic rituals imposed on the police seem to stifle all initiative for catching burglars. High on their list of priorities is to offer "counselling" to victims of crime, whereas in most circumstances there could be nothing as comforting to them as bringing their persecutors to justice.The police left me a telephone number and urged me to ring if I had any further information related to the break-in, but for two days I have tried in vain to contact an officer willing to listen to me. I think I have discovered how the burglars arrived at this isolated spot, driving from a main road across open parkland, and I have wanted to suggest to the police that they inspect the tyre marks. I have also wanted to tell them about new items I have found missing. But this has proved impossible, and it is for this frustration more than any break-in that I feel in need of counselling.During my second interrogation, the police officer asked me if I would be willing to give evidence in court, and also whether I thought I would be a satisfactory witness. Would I be a "vulnerable" witness, he asked, or an "intimidating" one? I told him that I would not only be willing to give evidence, but that I would be an excellent witness - neither "vulnerable" nor "intimidating". But I felt compelled to add that the question was academic. Without arrests, there would be no court to give evidence to.Meanwhile, I emailed uncle Robin in Thailand to tell him the sad news. I was worried how he might react to the violation of his home, but he was splendidly philosophical: "I find that advanced age makes one much more fatalistic about losing possessions." But he admitted it was unpleasant to know "that some ruthless men have been ransacking everything" and added, poignantly: "Oh dear, I don't look forward to returning home."· This week Alexander read the first of James Hamilton-Patterson's two comic novels about Tuscany, Cooking With Fernet Branca: "Brilliantly written and highly entertaining in a slightly camp way." He watched a TV repeat of a documentary of Leonard Bernstein recording West Side Story with Kiri te Kanawa and Jose Carreras: "If not the greatest composer, Bernstein was a conductor of genius."