The end of the "whole life" tariff for prisoners convicted of the most heinous murders was signalled by the lord chief justice yesterday.Judges should instead recommend "no minimum term" in cases of exceptional gravity where they feel no definite period can properly be set, said Lord Woolf. The recommendation follows advice from the independent sentencing advisory panel set up to advise the appeal court when it issues guidance to judges in the lower courts. The panel argued that "whole life" could not be proportionate to the seriousness of the crime, since the offender's life span was unknown. Some 22 of Britain's most notorious murderers are on whole life tariffs imposed by successive home secretaries. A House of Lords case due to be heard later this year is expected to deprive the home secretary of the power to fix tariffs for murderers. That will open the way for new tariffs to be set for the 22 by the lord chief justice. Some might be reclassified no minimum term, while others may be given defined tariffs, opening the way for them to be released by the parole board. The moors murderer Myra Hindley, who was classified as low risk by the board in 1997 and recommended for a move to an open prison, could be an early beneficiary. She has served 37 years in prison. Even those given no minimum term would have the right to have their tariffs reconsidered from time to time. If they were reclassified with a definite term, their cases could then go to the parole board. Lord Woolf was issuing new guidance, effective from yesterday, to trial judges on how to determine the minimum term they should recommend when sentencing a killer to life imprisonment. Current guidelines recommending a starting point of 14 years for murder -with adjustments up or down for aggravating or mitigating factors - were replaced with 16 years for more serious cases and 12 years for lesser crimes such as mercy killings or those where there was no intention to kill. Lord Woolf said: "In suitable cases, the result might even be a minimum term of 30 years which would offer little or no hope of the offender's eventual release. "In cases of exceptional gravity, the judge, rather than setting a whole life minimum term, can state that there is no minimum period which could properly be set in that particular case." He added that in certain "especially grave" categories of offences a term of 20 years and upwards could be appropriate. "These include cases in which the victim was performing his duties as a prison officer at the time of the crime, or the offence was a terrorist or sexual or sadistic murder or involved a young child." Lord Woolf said the higher starting point of 16 years would apply to cases "where the offender's culpability was exceptionally high or the victim was in a particularly vulnerable position", such as when the killing was racially motivated or a contract killing. Cases falling within the normal starting point of 12 years "will normally involve the killing of an adult victim, arising from a quarrel or loss of temper between two people known to each other". That could be reduced to eight or nine years if the murder was one in which the offender's culpability was significantly reduced, including when the offender was suffering a mental disorder. In the case of young offenders, the sentencing judge should always start from 12 years and reduce this to take into account maturity and age. The sliding scale is also intended to recognise that young offenders are likely to have the greatest capacity for change.