Last month, the London borough in which I live and work was the scene of some of the most violent public disorder we have witnessed in the last 30 years. The borough of Lewisham is a diverse and diffuse area of south-east London. It is, at the same time, both a troubled and beautiful place. Lewisham is ranked as one of the most deprived areas in Britain in terms of income, employment, disability, access to housing, crime and environmental factors. I wanted to get an understanding of why people, particularly young people, might get involved in the disturbances in the borough.My initial plan was to talk to young people about their motivation for involvement in the disturbances. What came out of the discussions was a rather nuanced discussion about the tactics they employed to avoid the police while looting. When it came to talking about their motivations for this, they were clear – "it was all about money", as one young man succinctly expressed it. With disturbances across the capital, these young people knew they had the opportunity to take advantage of overstretched police resources to go out and take what they wanted. This could be interpreted both as a poorly articulated critique of capitalism and as an indictment of an immoral instant gratification culture.Questions of morality have been at the forefront of the public debate during the last few weeks. But the further away you are from the problem the easier it is to consider the morality of others' behaviour. For the young people I spoke to, who were close to the centre of events in Lewisham, morality was not an issue and financial gain superseded any ethical concerns.Saul Alinsky, the famous American radical community organiser, stated that the only power the "have-nots" have is the power of numbers. Over a couple of nights the young people had control of the streets. They talked about deploying their numbers tactically – "Lewisham was a distraction, Catford and Woolwich, that's where the real action was." Alinsky goes further to state that tactics for taking power work best when the people involved enjoy it. Clearly, the young people I spoke to could identify with being giddy, almost drunk, on the power they felt from rioting and looting.I doubt if any of the young people I spoke to have read Rules for Radicals, Alinsky's 1971 text much cited by Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, but it did seem that what these young people were experimenting with, for the first time, was the ability to organise themselves, to go out and get what they wanted, to empower themselves, and to take control. The question, therefore, for the establishment and civil society is how this newly forged ability to organise and empower can be either harnessed as a force for good or neutralised.• Tom Henri is a lecturer in social work and a sociology PhD student at Goldsmiths, University of London. He lives and works in the London borough of Lewisham. His employment history includes spells as  both a youth worker and a social worker. His blog can be found at tomhenri.blogspot.com and you can follow him on twitter.com/tomhenri