When Banaz Mahmod met her boyfriend, she called him "my Prince, my shining one".The 20-year-old had earlier found the courage to defy her parents and walk out on an arranged marriage to a man she claimed beat and raped her. Rhamat Sulemani, however, was different. She described him as open-minded and respectful, and the pair hoped to marry.They met in secret because Iranian-born Mr Sulemani was not a strict Muslim nor was he "Mirawdaly" - a member of the paternalistic tribe in Kurdistan she came from. But in the close-knit Kurdish community in Morden, where she lived, nothing was secret for long.Ms Mahmod, who was born in Iraq, had moved to London with her family at the age of 10 after their successful asylum application.A few months into her relationship with Mr Sulemani, which began in autumn 2005, the lovers were spotted together. They were followed by a group of men in a car, watching and waiting. When they kissed, those watching captured it on a mobile phone.In the eyes of Ms Mahmod's family, such a public display of love was a step too far. For that kiss - a hint at the freedom she longed for but never had - Ms Mahmod was to pay with her life.Within weeks, she had vanished. Her body was finally discovered, crammed into a suitcase and buried in a pit, on April 28 2006. She was half-naked, the shoelace used to kill her still around her neck.Today's guilty verdicts for her father and uncle marked the final chapter in a story of the betrayal of so-called family honour. Ms Mahmod was murdered in a plot organised by her father, Mahmod Mahmod, 52, and her uncle, Ari Mahmod, 51, in revenge for bringing disgrace to them. An associate of Ari Mahmod's, Mohamad Hama, 30, pleaded guilty to the murder. Two other suspects in the plot have since fled to Iraq.To the father and uncle, the family name was everything. Should they be "shamed" or dishonoured by one of their number, that person would be dealt with swiftly and without mercy. This was especially true of women, who were not treated as equals. They had already suffered the so-called shame of one of Ms Mahmod's four sisters moving out of the family home when she was 16. The additional embarrassment of having Ms Mahmod divorce and remarry an unsuitable man was too much.Evidence of Ms Mahmod's betrayal, the filmed kiss, was passed to her uncle, a wealthy businessman with influence in the community and who made it his business to know such things.He called a meeting on December 2 2005. It was decided that Ms Mahmod had to pay the ultimate price - she and Mr Suleimani were to be killed.Two days later Ms Mahmod went to Mitcham police station. She told them her mother had received a phone call from her uncle, in which he told her that he and other family members were going to kill Ms Mahmod and her boyfriend. She told them about the filmed kiss. She told them she didn't want any action to be taken, but for the details to be recorded.That day, a police officer called at her home, where her parents lived. She turned them away.Over the next seven weeks, she went to police four times. Unbeknown to the jury, she even handed in a letter with the names of some of the suspects, including that of Hama and two others, who fled to Iraq.But the police failed to do anything to save her. In fact, by tipping off her parents about her allegations, as they did on at least one occasion, the police may have made matters worse.The jury was in no doubt today about the violent nature of the Mahmod brothers. Ms Mahmod's sister, Bekhal, gave a powerful testimony in court, in which she described how her father repeatedly beat her for having her head uncovered, or for smoking. When she moved out, she was battered over the head with a training weight in what she claimed was a murder attempt ordered by him.Years later, on December 31 2005, the Old Bailey heard, Ms Mahmod was taken to her grandmother's house in Wimbledon, where a similar fate was planned for her.In what became a key piece of evidence in the case against her killers, Ms Mahmod told her own story of that night.In dramatic mobile phone footage, taken by Mr Sulemani and played to the jury after her death, she described how her father forced her to drag a suitcase to the house. Her voice still slurred from the alcohol, she described how he made her drink most of a bottle of brandy, against her Islamic beliefs, which made her sleepy and dizzy."It was just me and my dad in the living room," she said. "The curtains were shut and it was dark. He said: 'Turn your back to me'. I turned around every now and again because I didn't trust him."She escaped out of the back door, cutting her wrists in a frantic attempt to raise the alarm by smashing a neighbour's window. When an ambulance was called, she kept repeating to the crew that her father and uncle had tried to kill her.But, in what the prosecution described as a "terrible mistake", police did not take her allegations seriously. Called to the scene, constable Angela Cornes labelled her melodramatic and manipulative and failed to report the alleged crime.Police then interviewed her parents, ensuring they were in no doubt about their daughter's allegations.That night, she stayed at Mr Sulemani's house. But, in a demonstration of how strong her family's influence was, she was told she would not be hurt and was persuaded back home.On January 22 2006 it was Mr Sulemani's turn. A group of Kurdish men tried to abduct him from a street in Hounslow. He escaped, but was told: "We're going to kill you and Banaz because we're Muslim and Kurdish. We're not like the English where you can be boyfriend and girlfriend. We're going to leave but we'll be back again."It was the last straw for Ms Mahmod. The next day, she went back to Mitcham police station, and Mr Sulemani went to Kennington station, to report further threats against them. She was ready, she said, to help officers in any way she could. Officers tried to persuade her to go to a hostel, but she refused and was allowed to return home.It was the last time she was seen alive.The prosecution said she was killed in her home the next morning, before her body was driven 150 miles north and buried in a garden in Birmingham.Her father left home with his wife and youngest daughter that morning, leaving Ms Mahmod to her fate, the court was told. He then spoke to his brother on the phone. Further telephone evidence showed the plotters, including Hama and two other men, known as Omar and Ali, were all kept informed as to when it was safe to approach the house.When police called at her parent's house, after Mr Sulemani reported her missing, they appeared unconcerned.On his arrest, on January 28, Ms Mahmod's father handed a short statement to police denying any involvement in his daughter's murder and then refused to answer questions. Her uncle said nothing.Detectives found Ms Mahmod's body after examination of a tracking system fitted to Hama's car.In what one senior police officer described as the final indignity to a young woman whose only crime was to love the wrong man, there is no gravestone on Ms Mahmod's grave.