A former refuse collector admitted killing twin sisters and an elderly couple who died last summer in separate incidents in North Yorkshire, a court was told yesterday.Mark Hobson, 35, sat with his head bowed during the 20-minute hearing at Teesside crown court as his barrister, Jeremy Richardson, told the judge that his client admitted responsibility for the deaths. Two security officers were present with him in the glass-fronted dock. He has admitted he is responsible for the death of his girlfriend, Claire Sanderson, 27, in July last year and that of her sister Diane later that month in the village of Camblesforth, North Yorkshire, the barrister said. Mr Hobson also admits to killing James Britton, 80, and his wife, Joan, 82, in their large detached home in Strensall, near York, 25 miles away from Camblesforth, in July. But Mr Hobson has yet to enter formal pleas in relation to the four alleged murders. No other information given in court yesterday can be reported, as the judge, Mr Justice Grigson, made an order under section 11 of the Contempt of Court Act 1981. Mr Richardson told the judge: "The defendant admits responsibility for the killing of all four individuals; that is to say Claire and Diane Sanderson and Mr and Mrs Britton. "It is important that this is in the public domain at this stage. There is no doubt who was responsible for the killings. It is important that everyone - particularly the families of the deceased - should understand how the case is proceeding in relation to the defence." Mr Britton was a former second world war Spitfire pilot and he and his wife had been married for 58 years and had two daughters. He was a former chairman of the local Neighbourhood Watch group. Mr Hobson was arrested after a nationwide manhunt which lasted eight days. He was found close to a petrol station in a field six miles from York after detectives received a tip-off from a member of the public who had spotted him. The women's bodies had been discovered by their father, George Sanderson, in a flat in Camblesforth, just off the M62 in North Yorkshire, where the giant cooling towers of Drax power station dominate the landscape. Claire Sanderson worked at a paper factory. Her sister Diane lived with her parents in East Cowick, near Selby, and she worked as an assistant manager at Rosebys home furnishing shop in Selby. The twins' father and his wife, Jacqueline Sanderson, and one of the Brittons' daughters were in court yesterday to hear Mr Hobson's admission. The prosecuting barrister, Paul Worsley, said: "The families of the victims are in court and will be comforted as far as they can be in what my learned friend has had to say. There can be no dispute that Hobson was responsible for the deaths." Mr Hobson, wearing a dark suit and blue tie, did not speak during the 15-minute hearing. Mr Justice Grigson agreed with the defence that Mr Hobson's admission to the killings could be made public. The next hearing will take place on April 18 at Leeds crown court, when Mr Hobson is expected to enter a plea in relation to the allegations. He was remanded in custody. The bodies of the two women were found at the flat just three hours before Mr and Mrs Britton were found dead at their home by officers. A large-scale manhunt was launched by North Yorkshire police and detectives named Mr Hobson as the man they wanted to interview. They also issued a photograph of him to media organisations.