The home secretary, David Blunkett, today announced plans to ban the sale of knives to under-18s in a bid to curb violent crime.Mr Blunkett said the government was seriously considering the proposal, which would boost police powers to search people for weapons. Pubs and clubs could also be forced to install metal detectors or frisk customers to make sure they are not carrying a banned weapon. Under the measures outlined today, Mr Blunkett said new categories of knives would be added to the list of banned offensive weapons. These could include implements identified by police as being used in street fights, such as potato peelers or Swiss army knives. The announcement came two days after the families of stabbing victims delivered a petition to Downing Street calling on the government to make carrying a knife as serious an offence as carrying a gun. The group, which included Damilola Taylor's father, demanded that ministers introduce a five-year minimum jail term for carrying an object with a blade longer than three inches, which would equalise the penalties for knives and guns. Mr Blunkett's proposals today did not include guidance on jail terms. Mr Blunkett is expected to consult widely on his proposal to extend the ban on the sale of knives from under-16s to under-18s. Retailers and police will be asked the best way to make sure the ban is watertight. The government has already said headteachers should be given new powers to search pupils for knives and call in the police for spot checks if it is believed knives are on school premises. In a statement Mr Blunkett said: "While the number of incidents involving knives remains low, I share the concern of the public about this issue. I am determined to tackle knife-related violence to help ensure the safety of our communities. "Bringing in a ban on under-18s buying knives, as at present with alcohol and fireworks, will play a key part in this, as will action by the education secretary, Charles Clarke, on tackling knives in schools. "The proposals would boost the powers police already have, and are already using, to search people for weapons," he added. Education minister, Stephen Twigg, supported moves to allow headteachers to search pupils for knives. "Headteachers face many tough challenges and we want to ensure that every head has the means to tackle bad behaviour and raise standards in our schools." Under the measures, which will be considered by ministers, licensed premises could be required to search customers before letting them in, or install airport-style security arches. That move could be made if the premises gained a reputation for being a troublespot. Home Office sources said the government's proposals would build on the success of Operation Blunt, carried out by the Metropolitan police, where passengers were scanned at Hammersmith bus station. Police had identified the station as a troublespot for thugs carrying knives. Commander Simon Foy, in overall charge of Operation Blunt, said the Met would now be focusing on educating teenagers on the dangers of carrying knives. "The Met is saying enough is enough. There is an unacceptable level of knife-related violence taking place on our streets. In London, we are rolling out a range of tactics that are designed not just to arrest and convict offenders but to deter young people from it and to educate them about the potentially lethal dangers of carrying knives," he said. Mr Blunkett announced his plans ahead of the fifth meeting of his gun crime round table, which will bring together the police and others in the fight against gun crime.