"It's hard growing up here," said 15-year-old Spencer Seed. "You don't know when people are going to come up behind you. Peckham's got so bad."Spencer and his 13-year-old sister, Cheryl, had just been to see the stairwell in which Damilola Taylor died - a place that has become a shrine of flowers, cards and soft toys.The pair lived "just over there", they said, pointing across concrete gallerys and landings, past the bulldozers that are tearing apart some of the old buildings. They did not like the new part of the estate much either and now the murder had made things worse. Spencer was robbed in February by children his own age as he came out of a chip shop."I had just spent £10 and they stole all my food," he said. "There was three of them and I was on my own." The pair said children regularly carried weapons in Peckham. Spencer said: "I've had a knife put on me three times here. I know lots of people round here who carry knives."Cheryl felt scared unless she is with one of her brothers. Fingering a chunky gold necklace, she said: "If I went out on my own my jewellery would get nicked off of me and so would my mobile phone." Spencer said it was easier for Cheryl because she had her brothers for protection. He did not have anybody and he was keen to stress that he did not carry a knife. "If they can't fight with their own hands they shouldn't carry weapons." Like most other children on the estate, Cheryl and Spencer have been talking about the murder and picking up rumours. Spencer said: "I heard two boys talking about it and how they know the person who killed the boy." In the window of the heavily-shuttered shop just one landing above where Damilola died, a sign reads: "Only two children/youths at a time." The shopkeeper said he could not cope with more. "They are just nasty kids. They come and steal things and pinch things from the till and shoplift." Damilola must have passed here in the seconds before his death, he must have turned the corners in this rat-run of almost 20 miles of deck landings. He would have run past the workers using heavy machinery to remove concrete amid clouds of dust, he may have glimpsed the piles of rubbish. He could have caught the strong smell of urine in these corridors. Downstairs are yellow signs appealing for witnesses to the murder but in spite of all the talk very few people have anything to say. Sade Bikini passes the signs as she comes up the rank stairs that lead to the scene of the child's death. A 16-year-old pupil at Alwyn girls' school, she was sure that those of her friends fuelling the rumour mill knew nothing about what really happened. She was also adamant that North Peckham estate was getting a bad press. She did not fear its dark corners, she said. The estate was not as bad as everyone made out. "Some of this gang stuff people are coming out with is rubbish," she said. "The Peckham Boys don't hang around here. It's not that violent and I don't feel threatened." Dressed in school uniform and in high spirits, six girls waited for a bus on Rye Lane. Latita, 16, said she did not like to go out alone. Her mother laughed at her when she asked to be accompanied from her home to the bus stop. "The only way to feel safe is to go out with my friends. We won't get touched if we stick together." Further up the road, outside Warwick Park school two boys watched children pour out of the building. Both had been excluded from their Camberwell secondary schools. Rashshi, 14, said a project for pupils who had been in trouble at school, the Boyhood to Manhood Foundation, had helped him cope with his anger. "It's racism that has made me angry, especially from the teachers. If a teacher sees me scuffling with a white kid, then I'm always the bad guy." His 15-year-old friend said Damilola's murder had stirred up fears about gangs. "Black kids get accused of being in gangs, but often all we're doing is playing in a group. If it's black kids, we're a gang. If it's white kids, they're just playing football," he explains. "Gangs have existed for a long time. But that's because groups of people from the same area hang out. There's no parks, no community centre to keep us off the streets."