One in three police officers opposes the government's community support officers scheme, with many comparing the officers to "problem children", according to research published today.A survey of rank and file police officers found that 33% disapproved of CSOs, with only 39% in favour of them, the survey - carried out for the Police Federation - revealed. Officers claimed they were aware of CSOs with criminal records, a CSO who took class A drugs, another "suffering from mental health problems", and one who was recruited without an interview, according to the survey. Some said CSOs "escalated situations", putting themselves and police officers at unnecessary risk by becoming involved in scenarios for which they had insufficient training. In one example, a CSO in the West Midlands rugby-tackled a woman suspected of having stolen goods. In another, a CSO in London apparently dragged a suspect off a bus. The former home secretary David Blunkett introduced CSOs in 2002, intending them to act as the "eyes and ears" of the police service. As civilian wardens, they are meant to patrol streets and deal with low-level antisocial behaviour. However, some police officers have described them as "Blunkett's bouncers" and "yellow-clad numpties". The new research, conducted by academic researchers, found a "recurring description" of CSOs was that they were like "problem children". A large majority of the officers surveyed were against CSOs being given more powers, with 83% saying they should have no power of arrest. All 116 frontline officers who took part in the research believed the government's intention in introducing CSOs had been to get "policing on the cheap". Given the choice, they said they would rather the money used for CSOs was spent recruiting a smaller number of police officers. Last year, Mr Blunkett announced plans to extend the number of CSOs from the current 4,000 to 25,000, at a cost of £50m. "Police officers can see the value of community support officers used in non-confrontational roles," Jan Berry, the chair of the Police Federation, said. "However, CSOs have neither the skills, training, equipment or accountability to deal with confrontational situations, and this is reflected in the research. "Officers also believe that CSOs should wear a distinctive uniform from that of a police officer, which clarifies their role and prevents any confusion among the public. In the absence of a role profile for community support officers, the Police Federation are now proposing their own and believe training should be provided to support that." A Home Office spokesman said the report was "not a conclusive look at the part that CSOs are playing in reassuring communities and dealing with anti-social behaviour". "It is based on the views of a limited sample of Police Federation members, and does not cover the reactions of the public to CSOs or incorporate the views of senior police officers," the spokesman added.