I received my first taste of custody in 1957, aged 14: three months in a detention centre. They were new on the scene, planned to administer a “short, sharp shock” to us young miscreants and deter us from the criminal path we had set out on. It didn’t work, of course. During my subsequent criminal/penal journey I bumped into virtually every single member of that class of ’57. And I made it my business to understand the system that prosecuted and occasionally imprisoned me. I knew my enemy well.What can save our prisons from chaos? The governors | John Podmore The penal system in England and Wales is in meltdown, in a far worse state now than at any time I have known. It is overcrowded, understaffed and rife with drugs, mental health problems, violence, soaring self-harm and record suicide rates. And, to top it off, very expensive. The annual average cost per prisoner is £36,000, rising to £170,000 for young offenders in secure training centres. And 70% of young offenders released from custody reoffend within 12 months.Last week the prisons and courts bill was published, wherein justice secretary Liz Truss outlined her plans to “make prisons places of discipline, hard work and self-improvement”. Those are good intentions, but the bill is devoid of a plan or the resources to take these aims forward. Truss will give prison governors control over their budgets for education, health and employment, but will not give them the extra resources needed. The prison system is a gaping wound in our social fabric that clearly needs major surgery. The justice secretary is trying to apply a sticking plaster.If we want change we must start by scrapping all child prisons and immediately raise the age of criminal responsibility from 10 (among the lowest in Europe) to 18, the age at which, according to the United Nations, a child becomes an adult. For the small number of children who are a danger to themselves and others, we can replace prisons with small units, holding four or five at most.These can be based on the secure children’s homes model, only smaller and better staffed, with the focus firmly on welfare and education. They would be in the areas the children come from and I would bring the communities into the units. No more out of sight, out of mind. For children who are not a danger, but still need help and perhaps a move from an unsafe environment, intensive fostering is the answer. Placing vulnerable children in safe, caring homes, managed by qualified and well-paid adults, with a passion for their work is expensive, yes, but compared with the cost of reoffending it’s cheap as chips.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Women’s prisons would be consigned to the scrapheap. The few women who present a danger could be housed in smaller units within their communities. Photograph: Andrew Aitchison/Corbis via Getty ImagesI would consign all women’s prisons, as we know them, to the scrapheap as well. Only a small minority of women prisoners are a danger. I would house them in small units, dispersed around the regions the women originated from, with a maximum capacity of 100. The rest could be placed in less-secure residential units where women could be offered help with drug and alcohol dependency, domestic abuse and mental health problems. By involving their local communities, the public has a stake in the recovery of the women and the women a stake in the society they will be returning to. A utopian dream? It’s merely a precis of plans currently under way in Scotland’s women’s penal estate.Adult male prisoners form the biggest part of the penal population and cause the most problems. According to a 2015 National Audit Office report, reoffending by ex-prisoners costs between £9.5bn and £13bn a year – the same price as holding the Olympic Games annually, but much less fun. And reoffending by ex-short-term prisoners accounts for between half and two-thirds of this. We would not tolerate an NHS system that resulted in two-thirds of its patients becoming more ill after treatment. Yet we continue to pour money down the, clearly burst, penal pipeline.So scrap all sentences of 12 months or under. They serve no purpose other than to clog up the system. Community service, on the other hand, has been proved to be more effective at reducing reoffending. Put the resources into this successful scheme.Many thousands of prisoners, male and female, suffer mental health problems. To quote Howard League director Frances Crook: “We are recreating Bedlam in our jails.” It is a national disgrace. I would transfer them all to psychiatric care, as in- or out-patients, depending on their security categories.Implementing those two measures would, at a stroke, reduce the adult prison population by more than 50%, savings enough to finance reforms.At the other end of the scale, I would scrap life sentences and review those currently being served. The rest of Europe seems to get along without jailing people indeterminately and en masse. We should revoke all whole-life tariff sentences. While it may be the case that some offenders are too dangerous to release decades down the line, you cannot say that now, unless your name is God. To do so takes away the possibility of redemption, even for those who have committed the most heinous of crimes. That denies them their very humanity and should have no place in a civilised society.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   HMP Grendon operates a unique therapeutic care and treatment programme for offenders. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianSo where would that leave those remaining, fixed-term, prisoners? They can be split into two groups – the dangerous and those considered nuisances – albeit sometimes on an unacceptable scale. The latter can be put in units similar to those planned for female prisoners in Scotland. And for the many prisoners who have offended because of their inability to cope with normal society, mentors would be provided on release, full-time and paid.Those whom society need protection from would remain behind bars – and the solution for rehabilitating them already exists in the current system: a prison that “works”. It is HMP Grendon.Opened in 1962, Grendon operates a “therapeutic community” regime that, according to the Ministry of Justice, provides “group therapy and a structure where members are encouraged to have shared responsibility for day-to-day decision-making and problem-solving”. Grendon houses some of the worst violent offenders in the system, including sex offenders. It can be seen to be working because it has significantly lower violence and self-harm levels than mainstream prisons, and has reduced reoffending rates. It has been one of the most researched penal establishments in the world and all the evidence gathered points towards its efficacy. Back in 2009, the then chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, said its latest inspection report: “reaffirmed Grendon’s remarkable achievements with some of the system’s most dangerous and difficult prisoners”.As a prison doctor I’ve seen the crisis in jails – half the inmates shouldn’t be there | Gordon Cameron Grendon is the only prison of its kind in the system. Why has it not been replicated after over half a century of documented success? Cost may come in to it, running at about 10% to 15% dearer than normal jails – still, it’s cheap when factoring in the lower reoffending rates. And Grendon is unfashionably small, with fewer than 300 inmates, in an age where our political masters, ignoring all the evidence, press on with insane plans for Titan jails.Every closed adult male jail should be the size of Grendon and operate the same regime. The building costs would be easily financed by selling off all the old inner-city Victorian piles that, so clearly, fail their many thousands of occupants and society. Cloud cuckoo land or plain common sense?