Scotland Yard moved yesterday to limit the damage from revelations that the head of the Stephen Lawrence murder team is caught up in a corruption inquiry by replacing him with the force's most trusted troubleshooter, deputy assistant commissioner John Grieve. Mr Grieve, head of the racial and violent crimes taskforce, will take overall charge of the ongoing investigation into the racist murder of the black teenager in 1993. He replaces Detective Superintendent Albert Patrick, who is being investigated by officers looking into alleged corruption within the Flying Squad, based at Rigg Approach, east London, where detectives face criminal and disciplinary charges. The development is a blow to the efforts of the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, to prove his force treats racial violence seriously after a string of damaging revelations about the competence of the first Lawrence murder investigation before a public inquiry. Last night it appeared likely that the final report by Sir William Macpherson may not personally criticise Sir Paul, according to police sources, reducing the likelihood he will resign when it is published next month. Yesterday Neville Lawrence said the revelation about Det Supt Patrick showed that Sir Paul was still not taking the murder of his son seriously. Scotland Yard had known about the allegations for at least five months, but made the announcement yesterday after a letter last week from the Lawrence family lawyers calling for Det Supt Patrick's removal. Det Supt Patrick's first disciplinary notice relates to his alleged lack of supervision of officers who are now under investigation for corruption while he was head of the Flying Squad. The second concerns allegations that £4,000 worth of proceeds from a post office robbery went missing, and were used to fund the 1997 Flying Squad Christmas party at the Appollo restaurant in Stratford, east London. Neville Lawrence reacted with shock: "For me, it's just further proof that they do not and have not taken Stephen's murder seriously." "They [Scotland Yard] didn't even bother to tell us that they had removed Superintendent Patrick from the inquiry, we only found out through the media."  Announcing Det Supt Patrick's replacement, Deputy Commissioner John Stevens said the decision was taken in December: "We decided yesterday that now would be an appropriate, sensitive and sensible time to make that move." Det Supt Patrick vowed to not to leave the force before clearing his name: "I am a big man, I will bounce back. I have done nothing wrong," he declared. At the public inquiry, lawyers for the Lawrences claimed that police failings were partly through corruption or collusion. But it also emerged last night that Sir William's report will not blame corruption for police bungling in the Lawrence investigation, according to police sources. Sir William Macpherson is believed to have concluded that institutional racism played a part in police incompetence. He is likely to find that individual officers were not necessarily racist, but that there was a collective failure of the will of the institution. When Sir Paul appeared before the inquiry he exasperated the panel by refusing to accept the Met was "institutionally racist". Sir William said: "It is the collective failure that has to be addressed and not one individual here or there who has to be hauled over the coals." 