The Bulgarian minister of justice says he wants to interrogate the Liverpool man who has admitted attacking a bartender in Varna, near Istanbul, a crime for which another man has been jailed for 15 years.The Bulgarian newspaper Trud today reports that officials say Graham Sankey, 19, who has signed a confession in the presence of his lawyer, should either travel to Bulgaria or make himself available on a videolink from Britain.Last week the district court in Varna convicted Michael Shields, 18, who had travelled to Istanbul to watch Liverpool's European Cup victory over AC Milan in May, of attempted murder after 25-year-old Martin Georgiev was hit over the head with a paving stone. Mr Georgiev now has brain damage.The Shields family has waged a high-profile campaign to free him and criticised the Bulgarian justice system for what they describe as a miscarriage of justice. Shields has repeatedly protested his innocence.Anton Stankov, the minister of justice, told Trud that his ministry had sent a formal request to Liverpool crown court last month. He said the court had not replied nor had there been a response from the British embassy in Sofia."An extra-trial guilty plea by another person has no legal value," he added. "Media and fans' attitudes cannot influence the Bulgarian court."But he said the Varna district court, where Shields was tried, would wait until November to question Mr Sankey.Shields' lawyer, Oleg Atanasov, told the paper that Mr Sankey's evidence could be crucial in a ruling on an appeal against the verdict due to be launched this week. The appeal court has the right to collect new evidence.Anton Gerginov, a prosecutor with Bulgaria's supreme prosecution office, added: "The man should come forward to be further interrogated in Bulgaria, because there are discrepancies between his confession and the other evidence on the case."But last night Mr Sankey's solicitor, David Kirwan, told the Guardian that he had not received any formal request from the Bulgarian authorities. "This is the first I've heard of this," he said, adding that the English legal system had no authority to compel his client to return or be interviewed.He declined to say whether Mr Sankey was willing to travel to Bulgaria.Meanwhile, a group of Bulgarian judges described the criticism of the trial as an insult to their country. The Bulgarian Union of Judges sent a letter to British consul Hilary Arthur, saying the reaction of the British media was "an interference in a court's work" and "an insult to the dignity of the Bulgarian nation".The union leader, Neli Kutskova, said: "Shields was given a fast and just trial before an independent and unbiased court, in conformity with all international standards of human rights protection."The Shields family today remained unrepentant about criticising the court. Shields' uncle Joey Graney said: "People make mistakes, even judges make mistakes and in this case the judge got it wrong."A spokesman for the Foreign Office maintained its standard response that would not intervene in a foreign trial. "A consular officer was present at each hearing. We are unable to interfere in the judicial process of another country."