The Metropolitan police faces its greatest challenge since the Stephen Lawrence inquiry next week with the opening of the inquest into the killing of an innocent man during the July 2005 terrorist attacks.Relatives of Jean Charles de Menezes, 27, who was shot seven times, will be able to question the firearms officers for the first time at a hearing which is expected to put the operational efficiency and leadership of the force under scrutiny.The Met commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, already under pressure from a race row and questions over the award of a contract to a friend, could be forced to quit early if the result is considered too damaging for him to see out his five-year term. On the eve of the inquest the Met's Black Police Association increased the pressure by announcing it was severing links with managers following the suspension from duty of its national leader, Commander Ali Dizaei. They believe he is the victim of a witch-hunt.Privately few senior figures in the force believe the Met will escape serious criticism following the 12-week inquest at the Oval cricket ground in London. Opening on Monday the hearing will examine all the evidence relating to the events of July 22 2005 when de Menezes was shot by firearms officers who believed he was a suicide bomber. He had just boarded a train at Stockwell tube station when he was pinned down and shot seven times in the head at point blank range.The two firearms officers who shot de Menezes will give evidence behind screens erected to protect their identity from the press and public. However, members of de Menezes's family will be able to see them as they answer questions from their barrister Michael Mansfield QC.Known as C2 and C12, they are among 47 police officers out of a total of 65 who will give evidence from behind screens and remain anonymous. Surveillance officers who followed de Menezes from his flat to the tube station will also be questioned.For the first time members of the public who were on the train carriage at Stockwell and witnessed the shooting will give a public account of what they saw when the surveillance and firearms officers boarded the train and de Menezes was shot. A key witness on the family's side is expected to be Brian Paddick, the former deputy assistant commissioner in the Met, who disputed the commissioner's version of events in the aftermath of the shooting. He subsequently left the force. He is thought to be preparing to tell the inquest of his reservations about the force's shoot to kill policy - Operation Kratos - which allows officers to shoot without warning by firing into the head at point blank range.The most senior officer running the operation on the day, Cressida Dick, who was cleared of any direct blame by the crown court jury, will be closely questioned over her role. Since the shooting she has been promoted to deputy assistant commissioner.De Menezes' mother, Jean, and his brother are travelling from Brazil to be at the hearing, which will be the first full public examination of the events. It will bring the estimated cost of the various inquiries into the shooting to around £2m.The Independent Police Complaints Commission has carried out two inquiries and the Met was found guilty of breaching health and safety laws in a crown court trial last year. The case highlighted a string of errors that resulted in unwarranted risk to the public and de Menezes' death. But no police officer has faced a criminal charge over the killing, something the family has expressed anger about.Relatives still want a public inquiry. In a statement the family said: "Whilst hopeful about what the inquest may bring, deep-seated concerns remain over how much evidence will be heard in public and what attempts the Metropolitan police will make to keep what happened on 22nd July 2005 secret." It added that the police had been granted public interest immunity to keep key documents secret, which was something their lawyers would be challenging. They also questioned why some 50 officers would be giving evidence from behind screens."It is very hard to believe that all of these officers need such a high level of protection. Rather it seems the Metropolitan police continue to promote tactics which would ensure that named individuals evade responsibility for the deliberate killing of an innocent man," the statement said.Key playersCressida Dick Deputy assistant commissioner. Ran the operations room at Scotland Yard. Likely to face questions as to why senior officers in the control room decided that de Menezes was Hussein Osman, one of the four suicide bombers on the run, although no officer on the street had established it as fact.Frank Surveillance Officer outside Scotia Road, Lambeth, south London. He was relieving himself when de Menezes left the flat and failed to identify him as a suspect.James Surveillance officer. Spotted de Menezes at a bus stop and said he was "possibly identical" to Osman.Ivor Surveillance officer. Sat next to de Menezes in the tube carriage. Forced him back into his seat as firearms officers boarded carriage and shot him. Ivor was dragged on to the platform and a gun levelled at his chest.C2 and C12 Two firearms officers who shot de Menezes in the carriage. Questions likely as to why they failed to satisfy themselves that a positive ID of de Menezes as the suspect had been made by surveillance officers.Trojan 80 Firearms commander at Scotland Yard. Shouted down the phone to his officers to get to the scene in time to stop de Menezes going into the underground.