The Lord Chief Justice chooses his words with great care. Having referred in his Cambridge speech 10 days ago to Lord Falconer as an 'engaging friendly cheeky chappie', he was quick to explain that he was describing the Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs 'as seen by the man on the Clapham omnibus', not the High Court of Justice. And when, during our conversation, I referred to 'you and your judges', he replied with such an emphasis - 'myself and other judges' - that I had no doubt that his correction was also a reproof. Lord Woolf always sounds as if he means exactly what he says.Yet, asked for his reaction to the weekend detention of the British citizens who had returned from Guantanamo Bay, he replied: 'I can only hope and assume that the Government is acting lawfully.' If the implication of doubt was a slip, it still - perhaps subconsciously - reflected the Lord Chief Justice's bewilderment about Ministers' attitude towards the rule of law and the administration of justice.In the House of Lords last week, he repeated his view that it is impossible 'to turn back the clock', reprieve the office of Lord Chancellor and maintain the Law Lords' status as the final court of appeal. And he later told me, 'I am actively doing all I can' to bridge the gap between the 'reforms' and its most stubborn critics. That is because he is instinctively opposed to conflict between the Government and the Judiciary - not because he is an enthusiast for the new order. 'The last thing I would want,' he says, 'is a collision with the Government.' The case for 'separating the powers' (ending the judicial role of the second legislative chamber) is overwhelming. But Lord Woolf's comments about the origins of the plan to create a 'second-class supreme court' are an astonishing commentary on how - at least in this instance - policy was made. 'The way in which it happened indicated to me that the significance, the constitutional importance, was not understood. It worries me that the Government should not understand the constitutional niceties.' The Government is led by a barrister and the proposals were presented, if not conceived, by Lord Falconer, an eminent Queen's Counsel. Surely it would be more accurate to say that they know but did not care? The Lord Chief Justice remained convinced that the problem was ignorance rather than malice. 'I really do believe that, to some extent, they did not understand... I do not believe that anyone who appreciated the significance of getting rid of the Lord Chancellor would have attempted to deal with the matter in the way that occurred.' To me, that Ministers thought that the constitutional changes were of little significance seemed incredible. Lord Woolf endorsed my adverb, adding: 'It may be astonishing, but that is what really happened.' He clearly believes that the single-page press release was the sum total of the Government's thought on judicial reform. The future of the Lord Chancellor and the creation of a supreme court are only parts of the complicated controversy which divides most of the Judiciary from the Government. In Lord Woolf's judgment, all the areas of conflict have a common foundation. Ministers imagine that changes in policy are 'absolutely matters for the Government and the Government alone to decide'. Of course he accepts the supremacy of Parliament. He does not want the creation of a supreme court which could, acting against the background of a written constitution, over-rule the House of Commons and whatever eventually replaces the House of Lords. Under the British system, all that Parliament approves is lawful. But that does not mean it is necessarily consistent with the rule of law - hence the Lord Chief Justice's implacable opposition to Clause 11 of the Asylum and Immigration Bill. That clause, intended to speed up the processing of asylum applications, explicitly excludes the courts from adjudicating on asylum applications. An applicant - required to return home - can appeal to a specially created tribunal. But the tribunal's decision cannot be tested in court. Lord Woolf insists that the Judiciary had worked out a scheme which, while avoiding unnecessary delay, protected the asylum applicant's legal rights. But Ministers defended their original proposals with arguments which he describes as 'specious'. So they put to Parliament proposals which 'should not be contemplated by any government if it had respect for the rule of law'. Last week David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, implied he was ready to give ground. If somebody proposed a scheme which both satisfied the judges and avoided unnecessary delay, he was prepared to examine it. That seemed to confirm the Lord Chief Justice's view that Blunkett is 'not much more sensitive to the essential role of judges in a free society' than earlier. But over Clause 11 Lord Woolf is unyielding. Asked if the Judiciary had an obligation to meet the Home Secretary halfway, he was categoric: 'I do not think we have any such duty,' confirming his earlier insistence that his opposition to Clause 11 was not negotiable. When I suggested that he sounded as if he had decided that, if the Government did not yield it must be defeated, he replied simply: 'Yes. That is exactly right.' The Government's defence - typified by David Blunkett's invitation for judges to 'live in the real world' - is that, whatever the legal niceties, the desire to exclude asylum-seekers without fuss, expense or delay represents the overwhelming popular will. Lord Woolf's response is the classic - and incontrovertible - defence of minorities against the tyranny of superior numbers. 'We would all be adrift if Ministers, because of a strong feeling of support for a particular policy, felt that they could disregard the law or the rule of law. We would live in a country in which individuals could not be certain that they enjoyed the law's protection.' No Lord Chancellor in living memory has voiced such criticisms (sometimes direct, sometimes implied) of the Government. Lord Woolf's willingness to denounce what he calls a 'serious intrusion into the rule of law' - the exclusion of the Judiciary from adjudicating on asylum applications - is made more extraordinary by his obvious determination to avoid conflict with Ministers. Last week in the House of Lords he urged peers to improve rather than wreck the Constitutional Reform Bill. He believes that 'judicial review', the process by which the courts examine the legality of Ministers' conduct and make sure they respect the will of Parliament, must 'take into account the needs of government'. Even consideration of the European Convention of Human Rights - which offers much scope for creative judgments - must, he insists, conform to the established principle that judges should interpret not invent. He regards the emergency powers (by which terrorist suspects are held in Belmarsh) 'unsatisfactory' but justified in times of emergency. Yet over Clause 11 of the Asylum and Immigration Act he is unyielding. However, that is clearly not the extent of an unease which extends to much of the tabloid-inspired legislation which has characterised the last three years of criminal justice policy. At first he minimised his differences with the Home Secretary over the notion that 'life should mean life' - an amendment to the law introduced after Ministers reluctantly accepted that judges, not Ministers, should set the length of a murder sentence. 'It only applies,' said Lord Woolf, 'to a very small percentage of cases' and, as he advocates, 'very long periods of detention which may (in practice) amount to life, there may be little difference between us'. Then he says what he truly thinks: 'I do not believe that you should anticipate... saying, come what may, "life is going to be life..." At a certain stage, some objective body should look at the circumstances, take into account how the individual has behaved and give him the opportunity to show that he has improved...' Who would have thought, 10 years ago, it would be the Lord Chief Justice who spoke of redemption and rehabilitation and a Labour government wanting the prison doors to slam shut for ever? Lord Woolf rejects the suggestion that he is a 'radical'. He insists his respect for the law makes him a 'traditionalist'. He will not even answer to 'progressive' and dislikes being called a 'libertarian'. He simply has absolute faith in the judicial system's duty to protect the weak and restrain the powerful. His is an essentially civilised view of society. That is why he falls foul of Ministers who are careless about the rule of law.