With a metallic tinkle, a discarded can of Irn Bru is rolled by the wind along the pockmarked road outside the Arran community centre. Sheet metal is stapled over the windows of derelict flats nearby.Corby in Northamptonshire has been branded the yob capital of an increasingly yobbish country. Nearly 49% of those living in the former steel town say antisocial behaviour is a big or fairly big problem, according to figures released by the National Audit Office this week.Until this spring, the community centre hosted a youth club, offering snooker, art classes and counselling for teenagers. Then the county council cut its funding and the club closed."We used to have 40 people in here every Tuesday and Wednesday," says Dez Algacs, the chairman, cleaner and caretaker of the centre. "Now they hang around the shops."The previous night, a gang of kids - the same ones who used to come to the club - were kicking gas repair barriers all over the street. Too afraid to challenge them, Mr Algacs called a special hotline for the local community police officer. The officer wasn't on duty so no one came to stop them.It is eight years since the government's introduction of antisocial behaviour orders. But ordinary towns appear to be living ever more uneasily with youths they fear are flouting Asbos and terrorising neighbourhoods. The National Audit Office this week found more than 55% of those given an Asbo breached its conditions.StatisticsAn aspiring film-maker has uploaded an amateur documentary onto YouTube called Corby: Welcome to Hell. It is five minutes of relentless shots of upturned shopping trolleys and boarded up shops. Since its new town sheen faded and the loss of steelworks jobs brought an unemployment rate of over 30% in the 80s, Corby's 54,000 residents, many of Scottish descent, have laboured under equally unfavourable impressions and statistics. One of the "most malformed places in Britain", according to Country Life editor-at-large Clive Aslet, Corby is also one of the largest towns in Europe without a railway station. Astonishingly, it has no cinema. And no bowling alley. It has the lowest proportion (8.5%) of working-age population with a degree-level qualification of any area in England and Wales. Inside the police station is a cabinet offering for sale wide-angled door viewers (£3.50) and shed alarms (£10). The cabinet is locked."It's Corby isn't it? There's nothing to do," says Jordan Middleton, 17, hunkered inside his hoodie, wheeling his baby sister through "the Arran". He reckons he has "calmed down quite a bit". He used to be in court pretty much every week for fighting: "I was on the verge of getting an Asbo."Like other teenagers hanging outside Pytchley Court shops, he believes antisocial behaviour - and perceptions of it - come from two things: a lack of anything to do, and adult prejudice against the young."They've closed all the youth clubs because there's no money," he says. "Because people our age hang about in gangs you get discriminated against. They try to say it's us that are loud and when they are coming out of the pub they'll sing songs, and that's the old ones." Year 11 pupils outside the shops say adults exaggerate yobbery. When they go out on the town, they are frightened of being stereotyped, not falling victim to crime. "There is a problem but everyone gets labelled," says Conner O'Connor, 16. "You can't go out into the streets at night without being accused of things."But some residents see petty vandalism spiralling into social breakdown. The solution, says Alun Evans, who lives near Arran community centre, is not more youth clubs.Despite an Alsatian and two signs - "beware of the dog" and "sod the dog, beware of the kids" - Mr Evans had his car windows smashed twice this year, his garden furniture and kids' bikes stolen and his wing mirrors twisted off too many times to mention. Youths routinely jump around on car bonnets or hurl abuse."It has got worse," he says. "You go to the shops and there's dozens of kids around at 9.30pm. I've got a 13-year-old and I don't let her out so late."He has stopped shouting at them "because they just gob off even more" and "it just brings trouble on the house". A lad he remonstrated with recently threatened to bite off his nose.If anywhere needed a good dose of Asbos, it would seem to be Corby. But this town, long regarded as a bellweather constituency that has always returned an MP of the government of the day since its creation in 1979, has rejected the cornerstone of Labour's respect agenda - and it might just be working.Those leading Corby's much-vaunted regeneration - "remodelling" disastrous 70s estates with their vandal-friendly walkways, and promising tantalising new facilities such as an Olympic-standard swimming pool - naturally want to talk up the town. It is telling, however, that even those traditionally inclined to bemoan Britain's descent into yob rule, such as taxi drivers, admit that Corby has improved its record in tackling antisocial behaviour.VandalisedOne driver moving to Spain because he is so fed up of things "going down the chute" also admits that a few years ago he used to see three or four cars burned out on Saturday nights. Now there are none. On one street he once counted 13 vandalised vehicles. "You don't see so much of that these days," he says.Simon Blatchly started out as a constable in the town 17 years ago and returned this spring as a superintendent. "My perception is that antisocial behaviour has reduced. There is not the same level of violence as there used to be," he says. Real crime is down in Corby this year. In the six months to November, compared with the same period last year, robberies fell by 42%, house burglaries dropped 25%, vehicle theft was down 10% and criminal damage - perhaps the best indicator of antisocial behaviour - down 12%. Only thefts from cars rose, up 25%.There are plenty of people who testify to Corby's community spirit but, from hoodies to local councillors, no one has a good word to say about Asbos. The council and police seem to tacitly agree that interventions through Asbos have failed to curb yobbish behaviour. "The best results we've had are not necessarily through your Asbos, it's through 'acceptable behaviour orders'," says council leader Pat Fawcett.These are less stigmatising contracts, agreed between offenders, parents, the council and the police, without going to court. "That has proved more successful because you're catching it when it's more low-key than waiting until it's a mega-issue." In the last 18 months, 38 such orders have been issued. Only two recipients have gone on to incur full Asbos. There are currently just 16 Corby residents with Asbos, alongside one dispersal order to stop youths gathering on a problem estate. As well as acceptable behaviour orders, Supt Blatchly and the council emphasise the role of new "safer community teams", which provide each estate with designated constables, police community support officers and special constables, who undertake training with neighbourhood watch wardens to tackle antisocial behaviour.Corby's strong voluntary sector has also stepped in. While county council budget cuts have closed more than just the youth club at Arran, some youth activities have increased. Adrenalin Alley, an indoor skate and bike park, has recently opened and Corby recently hosted "pimp my town", an arts event for young people."The town has taken a battering but we're seeing the light at the end of the tunnel," says Mags Maguire, manager of Corby voluntary and community services. Many ordinary townsfolk believe Corby is beginning to beat the yobs. But they feel powerless against broader, nationwide trends towards antisocial behaviour. Several point out the role the media play in awakening exaggerated fears of being knifed or mugged.MisunderstandingA gulf of misunderstanding and distrust appears to have opened up between adults and teenagers. "Everybody forgets that young people are part of the community," says May Barclay, who has helped youth projects for 20 years. "People forget to involve young people in decision-making and make them feel part of the future."Back at the Arran community centre, Mr Algacs, who brought up five children in the town, is not the first person in Corby to point the finger at parenting. "It's through the parents that these behaviours are created. You can't blame the schools. I don't think Corby is any different from any other town. It's not just Corby. It's everywhere."