Support groups reacted angrily today to reports that the number of rapists being cautioned rather than jailed has more than doubled over the past decade.The revelation that 40 rapists had been cautioned in 2004 compared with 19 in 1994 left one group "shocked", while another women's organisation described cautioning offenders as a "slap on the wrist".The figures come at a time when the conviction rate for rape has fallen sharply.Crown Prosecution Service guidelines say a cautioned individual must admit the offence and there must be a realistic prospect of conviction. The advice adds that indictable offences such as rape can only result in a caution in "rare circumstances".The head of Rape Crisis, Nicole Westmarland, said rape was a crime that had a serious impact on its victims for years or even decades."It is completely unacceptable that rapists are able to continue living their day-to-day lives or even be free to rape again," she said."Rape is an offence that carries a maximum of life imprisonment and we shouldn't be cautioning for these types of offences," said Sandra Horley, the chief executive of the national domestic violence charity Refuge."Rape is one of the most serious offences in the land and Refuge has real concerns that cautioning is dangerous and in cases where consent is clearly never given introducing cautioning places women in grave danger. "We need to send out a strong public message that rape and domestic violence are serious crimes and should be treated as such."Ruth Hall of Women Against Rape told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme that most men would take a caution as "a slap on the wrist"."Most men who rape don't do it just once, they are serial offenders and women have tried and tried to get the criminal justice system to take it seriously. "Women have been coming forward in record numbers only to have the door slammed in our faces," she said.The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said there were circumstances in which cautions were appropriate, such as when rape victims did not want to go through a trial.But he added: "We really do need to know more. I think public confidence in the way in which we deal with rape cases is already under serious strain. "Now this disclosure that cautions are being issued in circumstances which we don't know about seems to me doesn't help rebuild that confidence."The CPS today gave two examples of cautions for rape being given. In one case last year a pensioner accepted a caution for raping his sister when they were both children, 50 years ago. In another case a 13-year-old boy was given the equivalent of a caution for raping a young child. A youth offending team, including police and social services, worked with him to show him that his behaviour was wrong. It said cautions were only used in "very extreme" circumstances."There would need to be evidence and a clear admission of guilt, whilst age, welfare and mental well-being of the victim would also be factors," said the deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police, John Yates, who speaks for the Association of Chief Police Officers on rape issues.He said those cautioned would have to comply with the provisions of the sex offenders register. A Home Office spokesman said the government was committed to bringing more rapists to justice and increasing the poor conviction rate. On Saturday, the department published a consultation paper intended to address the current low conviction rate. Fewer than 6% of rape cases reported to the police result in a conviction. Although the number of rape convictions has remained stable, the number of cases reported to police is increasing year on year, meaning the proportion ending in conviction has declined from around one in three in 1977 to one in 20 in 2004. "Rape is an appalling crime - it devastates the lives of victims and their families. However, rape will always be a difficult offence to prosecute," he said. "The use of cautions in individual cases is a matter for the police and the CPS, who will only use such sanctions under the most exceptional circumstances." The Times reported that in 2004, cautions for rape had been given to nine boys aged between 12 and 15, 11 boys aged between 15 and 18, 19 men aged 18 and over and one female who admitted raping another woman. In the same year, a further 751 people were convicted of rape - only 5.29% of the rapes reported to police.There were 190,000 incidents of serious sexual assault against women aged between 16 and 59 in England and Wales in 2001. The offences included an estimated 80,000 incidents of rape or attempted rape.