Nottinghamshire police have found a shotgun hidden in the home of Chanel Taylor, whose father is on the run after being named as the suspect for her murder.Experts are expected to say soon whether gun is the one used to shoot Mrs Taylor, 23, in the head seven weeks after her wedding. Detectives said it was found during a room by room search of Mrs Taylor's rented terrace house in Huthwaite village, near Mansfield. An earlier search had failed to find it. Local people had been warned that Mrs Taylor's father Terry Rodgers, 55, might be in hiding with a shotgun he is known to have owned illegally. Detective Chief Inspector Paul Cottee, who is leading the murder inquiry, said the house had been sealed since Lee Taylor, 22, found his wife's body at lunchtime on Friday last week. He said: "Every inch of every room has subject to a thorough forensic examination: the house is a crime scene and rooms must be searched consecutively. This is done to ensure we can gather as much forensic evidence as possible so that nothing is missed. "As the shotgun was not found in a visible position, scenes of crime officers were not alerted to its presence until its precise location was examined yesterday." The police published 500 wanted posters with a picture of Mr Rodgers, the former owner of a security business, warning people not to approach him. He had recently moved in with his daughter and son-in-law, leaving the caravan where he had lived after the breakdown his marriage and the sale of his company. Friends said that he had tried to kill himself after these events with a cocktail of pills and drink, but was found by Mrs Taylor at an embankment near her home. Detectives are checking 50 unconfirmed sightings of Mr Rodgers, who is believed to be on the run to the east of the M1 between Mansfield and Hucknall. In the same area the police are seeking a former miner, Robert Boyer, who is wanted for questioning about the killing of Keith Frogson, 62, in the village of Annesley Woodhouse, possibly related to a bitter quarrel over the 1984-5 coal strike. He is thought to be living rough.