The new commissioner of the Metropolitan police yesterday vowed to continue "intrusive" stop and search operations against young people indefinitely if required, as the Guardian learned that his force had carried out more than 200,000 in the past eight months.The force started to increase the use of one of the most controversial police tactics last May to try to curb the knife attacks that have led to more teenage deaths. Many of the 209,269 stops and searches on young people between May last year and this month are under Section 60 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 - a power intended to be used as a short term measure in specific areas.A disproportionate amount of stops affect black and Asian youths, a fact causing community concern. Recent figures show a black man under 18 is 5.3 times more likely to be stopped than a white youth, and an Asian youth is 1.6 times more likely to be the subject of a "section 60" than a white youth of a similar age. As he took over as commissioner yesterday, Sir Paul Stephenson said tackling the issue of "kids killing kids" was one of his priorities. He acknowledged the tactics used were "pretty intrusive" but they were reducing knife crimes, down 13.1% between April and November last year. Figures obtained by the Guardian yesterday show that in the past eight months officers working on the anti-knife crime strategy, Operation Blunt 2, made 7,355 arrests and recovered 4,223 knives from 209,269 stop and searches predominantly aimed at teenagers and young men. One community representative said yesterday that the police remit to continue such tactics would only last as long as allowed by the communities. The Brixton riots in 1980 erupted after intensive use of stop and search powers.Nims Obunge, a street pastor who works with young men in east London, said: "It is important that we don't see the death of a young person, but the police need to continue to justify the use of stop and search as a crime reduction tool and as one that saves lives. It must be an ongoing dialogue. They have to be accountable." Obunge said there had been several complaints made to borough commanders about inappropriate use of stops and the behaviour of some officers; these issues were being investigated.Stephenson was asked by the Guardian yesterday whether the rate of stop and searches could go on forever without a backlash. He replied: "If it is the right tactic to keep people safe that's exactly what we have got to do. We cannot be complacent and say someone else should solve this problem, it is our job to make sure we do everything we can to reduce violence, and that is a long-term issue."Stephenson said he believed the police were carrying the communities with them but he acknowledged that they had to continue working to keep that support and continue to hold a mandate to carry out the operation. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is aware of the controversy surrounding stop and searches particularly under section 60. An investigation by the IPCC into alleged misuse of the power by West Midlands police found in 2007 that the force's use of the searches was "off the scale" and the power misused.Mike Franklin, from the complaints body, said there was an investigation into the powers used by police forces and the way complaints were handled: "We will be addressing the issues it raises around three key areas - fairness, effectiveness and public confidence."Marian Fitzgerald, a criminologist and former adviser to the Home Office on knife crime, has questioned the use of the searches on such a large scale, and queried the legality of the Met's use of them "on an almost permanent basis".