It sounds almost too good to be true. "Before, yeah, I'd love to have met them down a dark alley, but now you've spoke about it, you feel totally different." The speaker is a victim of crime, talking after a face-to-face meeting with the perpetrator. "You thought they were animals to start off with, but you find they're actually normal people same as anyone else." Since 1998, Thames Valley police has been carrying out the largest pilot programme of its kind in Britain, testing whether so-called "restorative" justice works in cases of minor offences. In almost 2,000 cases in the first three years, the traditional police caution was replaced by a meeting of everyone affected by an offence, principally the criminal and the victim. A small-scale evaluation of the project has proved encouraging. Fifty-six young offenders were monitored and found to be half as likely to be convicted or cautioned for further offences in the following 12 months, compared to a group in a previous study of the effects of traditional cautioning. For most victims in the study, the meeting was found to have been a positive experience. The majority received an apology, and one in three offenders entered a written agreement to make some kind of reparation. Richard Young, assistant director of the centre for criminological research at Oxford University, which carried out the evaluation, says: "By the standards of most initiatives in criminal justice, it was a remarkable success. The police didn't set any arbitrary limits. They didn't say they wouldn't deal with shoplifting or burglary or assault. This is restorative justice entering the mainstream." So what of the wider use of restorative justice? Can the apparent success of the high-profile Thames Valley pilot with minor offenders be replicated with more serious ones? A new, government-funded scheme is under way for offenders, both pre- and post-sentence, who have committed violent crimes such as armed robbery, assault and aggravated burglary. Never before in Britain has restorative justice formally been applied to offences as severe as this. Five selected crown courts in London, along with some magistrate and crown courts in the Thames Valley region and in Northumbria, are the first testing grounds. When offenders plead guilty to certain serious offences, they are screened to see if they are suitable for a meeting with their victim. The conclusion is included in a report, which the judge reads before deciding the final sentence. "It's a very charged meeting," says Sir Charles Pollard, chairman of the Justice Research Consortium, the body overseeing the scheme. "People always think that if there are violent offenders involved, there will be a punch-up. But you'd be staggered how it's not like that." Pollard, chief constable of Thames Valley, is in no doubt of the positive effect for the protagonists. But what is unclear, he admits, is how the judiciary will respond. "We don't know what judges will do," he says. "It's up to them whether they will be influenced. Judges these days have to take into account a whole range of factors." In London alone, more than 50 experimental meetings between serious offenders and their victims have taken place since January; 70% of them have been held in prisons because most of the criminals are held on remand. Metropolitan police inspector Brian Dowling is the operational project manager in London. He says he gets frustrated at the assumption that a reasonable meeting is a bargaining tool for a lighter sentence. "We make a point of saying this will not necessarily affect your sentence in any way," Dowling says. "But the worst part is where lawyers assume they're entitled to a sentence reduction. Solicitors can use it constructively, but others will use it cynically. If I can get a crime reduction, then I'm not too worried by the motives." Re-offending is the central issue. The Home Office is funding the research project as part of its crime reduction programme and re- conviction rates will be measured after one year. In Canberra, Australia, studies have shown a 38% reduction in re-offending where violent offenders meet their victims. Tears, even from the most hardened criminals, have been a regular feature of the conferences. So, too, have been promises from the offenders that they will change their behaviour, which frequently means sorting out a drugs problem. Dowling has plenty of anecdotal evidence of unexpected displays of remorse, but he knows it is the results which matter. "If the research shows it doesn't work, then we'll try something else," he says. There is concern that in the drive to cut crime, the victim must not be forgotten. So the research will also be gauging victim satisfaction. Advocates of restorative justice point to a 90% satisfaction rate in most initiatives. The Victim Support charity welcomes the initiative, but its head of research and development, Peter Dunn, warns against an over-emphasis on crime statistics. "If the primary motive is to cut re-offending, that is dangerous because that's likely to result in short-cuts being taken which could make the victim feel like they're being re-victimised," Dunn says. "And if the victim feels their needs haven't been met, they've been through a stressful, unpleasant process for nothing as far as they're concerned." But the experiment is not dealing only with violent criminals before sentencing. At Bullingdon prison, in Oxfordshire, sentenced prisoners are being brought together with their victims. Typical candidates are offenders serving four to six years for serious crimes such as assault, robbery with aggravation and violent burglary. To participate, they must have shown they take responsibility for their actions. So far, at least 50 meetings of this kind have taken place. For many victims, it will be the first time they have heard the offender give a full account of their crime. For the offender, it could help indirectly their chances of parole. But Tim Newell, a former prison governor who is on the steering group at Bullingdon, is adamant this is not a soft option - despite it being a common public perception. "This is for the hard men as well," he says. "Although some may be rather casual in their approach, most realise what they've done has been damaging. "Being given the opportunity to face that, and perhaps even be forgiven, has a remarkable impact on many men. But we mustn't forget it's very demanding on the offender." When it comes to re-conviction rates, Newell is not expecting miracles. Until other rehabilitation problems are addressed, such as housing and employment, he warns that a dramatic improvement in re-offending is unrealistic. In the Bullingdon prison experiment, Victim Support provides follow-up support for all victims who have met an attacker. The verdict of Peter Patrick, chairman of the charity's Oxfordshire management committee, is that the project so far is a qualified success. "I'm a bit sceptical about making grand claims that victims somehow found the solution to all their problems in a single meeting," Patrick says. "But one has to be extremely encouraged that restorative justice is being taken seriously by the criminal justice system as a better way of providing some kind of satisfaction for the victims." To err on the side of cautionPolice officers interviewed for the evaluation of the Thames Valley experiment admitted that the usual aim of the traditional caution was to give young offenders a "bollocking" and make them cry. By contrast, the idea of the restorative caution is to encourage offenders to face up to the harm they have done and stop them doing it again. For the victim, the hope is that they will feel more involved in the criminal justice process and that the experience will help them get over the effects of the crime. The evaluation, funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, took place in Aylesbury in Buckinghamshire, Banbury in Oxfordshire and Reading. Participants in the restorative caution meetings were interviewed just after the event, a few months later and, finally, after a year had elapsed. Although the study is based on 56 young offenders, a further 23 were involved in an interim assessment. Although the Oxford University team concluded that Thames Valley police had been "largely successful" in transforming its cautioning practice, there were some reservations. In the first year of the scheme in particular, police facilitators tended to dominate the meetings and reduce other participants to the role of passive observers. Revision of the script used in the meetings was found to have eased this problem, but not to have overcome it entirely. The evaluation report, Proceed with Caution, says there remains considerable room for improvement in the handling of the meetings. Nevertheless, it asserts that even those that were less well handled were a "substantial improvement" on the traditional cautioning model. · Proceed with Caution is available at £14.95 plus £2 p&p from 01904 430033. A summary is at: www.jrf.org.uk