Victor Nealon, the former postman who was wrongly imprisoned for nearly 17 years, spent his first night of freedom on the streets after being discharged from Wakefield prison on Friday with £46 and nowhere to stay.Nealon was given a discretionary life sentence in January 1997 for the attempted rape of a woman leaving a nightclub. But when DNA evidence was finally examined on the urging of appeal lawyers, it pointed to another unknown man as the perpetrator.Nealon, 53, originally from Dublin and living in Redditch in the West Midlands when he was jailed, told the Guardian he hoped the police would reopen inquiries into the sexual assault for which he was wrongly convicted.He said: "I've been destitute and emotionally topsy turvy. Coming out of prison after 17 years isn't an easy experience."His conviction was quashed by three judges in a short hearing on Friday. Nealon, who watched his appeal hearing via a video link from Wakefield prison, said: "I wasn't expecting them to rule so quickly on my case – even my QC was expecting a three to four hour conference. The Crown only offered token resistance, the case must have been very strong."Within a few hours of the verdict, at around 3.30pm, Nealon left Wakefield for the first time since 1997. He made his way on Saturday from Yorkshire to Worcester, near his former home, where he received assistance from people who had campaigned for his release.He will give a first broadcast interview with the BBC on Monday morning, from the studios of BBC Hereford and Worcester. Nealon said he wanted to speak out to appeal for the original case, the assault in Redditch on a 22-year-old woman, to be reopened: "I want to show my support towards the victim. I want to make clear that the police should reopen this case. I think they owe her an explanation and justice as well."He said the DNA evidence from traces on the victim's clothing from an unknown male were consistent with her account of the attack, so reopening investigations would be logical. No matches for the DNA samples have been found. The Criminal Cases Review Commission referred the case – highlighted since 2010 by the Guardian as a potential miscarriage of justice – to the court of appeal earlier this year.Nealon will consult with solicitor Mark Newby, who spent five years trying to secure his release, over a potential bid for compensation. They hope for at least an interim payment to support him. "Obviously being thrown on the street with £46 in your pocket after 17 years isn't the ideal way forward," said Nealon.Meanwhile John Hemming MP is planning to table an early day motion on issues raised by Nealon's case, including the denial of parole for prisoners who refuse to admit guilt.Nealon was helped by well-wishers to stay in a B&B on Saturday and Sunday night, but long-term accommodation is still being sought.