Police last night arrested a man in connection with the discovery of two women's dismembered bodies in bin bags in an alleyway in Liverpool.Officers were questioning Mark Corner, 26, from the Everton area of Liverpool. He was being held at a Merseyside police station. A spokesman for Merseyside police said: "A 26-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of the murders of two women whose bodies were found in the St Domingo Vale area of Liverpool." Police said one of the women was believed to be Pauleen Stephen, 25, who worked as a prostitute in the area. Officers increased patrols in the city's red-light areas and were liaising with Linx, a support group for prostitutes, to give advice and reassurance and hand out personal safety alarms. Officers wanted to talk to anyone who had recently seen or spoken to Ms Stephen, who had an eight-year-old son. She was reported missing on July 14 from her home in Skelmersdale, Lancashire, and was last seen there driving her white Ford Escort estate car. The car was found in Everton's St Domingo Vale area on Friday July 18, two days before the women's bodies were found there. Forensics officers confirmed there were human remains at the scene on Sunday night. Neither woman has yet been formally identified and Merseyside police only confirmed yesterday afternoon that there were two bodies after post-mortem examinations. Stanley Park, not far from where the bodies were found, was closed for forensic searches, and officers have been making house-to-house inquiries around Everton. Chief Superintendent Mike Langdon, who is area commander for the city centre, advised prostitutes not to use the St Domingo Vale area while the investigation was being conducted. He also issued a general warning for people to stay on main roads and avoid unlit or dark areas, especially secluded footpaths, or shortcuts and not to walk alone at night if possible. However Mr Langdon said the force did not want people to be "unduly alarmed" and insisted it was an "unusual case ... we have only seen two women murdered by strang-ers in Liverpool in the past 15 years".