The trial of Ian Huntley, who is accused of murdering Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, began yesterday with the process of selecting a jury.Mr Huntley and his co-accused, Maxine Carr, who is charged with conspiring to pervert the course of justice, watched from the dock as a pool of potential jurors was whittled down from 100 to 25. The final 12 will be selected and sworn in today and the prosecution is expected to open the case against Huntley and Carr tomorrow. Mr Justice Moses, the trial judge, warned the potential jurors that they had to try the pair on the evidence put be fore them and should disregard anything they had read about the case. He told them serving on a jury was "probably the most important obligation any citizen can undertake". Outside the Old Bailey well-wishers had left bouquets and messages of tribute to the 10-year-olds, who went missing on August 4 last year. An arrangement of lilies and pink daisies bore the card "From Manchester United supporters and players". Both girls were devoted fans of the football club. A teddy bear was placed on the pavement with a Manchester United scarf around its neck. A message on it read: "Holly and Jessica - rest in peace." The girls' parents arrived at court flanked by police liaison officers. They sat in courtroom one as the proceedings began shortly after 11am when the 100 potential jurors were ushered in. Mr Justice Moses apologised for the cramped conditions. He took the relatively unusual step of telling the potential jurors a little of the case they would be trying. He told them it involved the deaths of Holly and Jessica and mentioned Soham. The judge asked anyone who had relatives or friends in the Soham area, or knew anyone who had been involved in the "widespread police investigation" which followed the disappearance of the two girls, to make themselves known so that they would be excluded from the jury. Mr Justice Moses went on to explain that the case was likely to continue until January and would involve being away from home for one night next week and possibly when the jury is considering its verdict. He said those who could not commit themselves for such a long period - or be away from home - might be excused. The judge said that after the 25 had been picked, they would be sent home and given a night to consider if they could hear the case. He said it would be "disastrous" if the trial began and one had to drop out later. The court clerk began calling out the names of those waiting. Some approached the judge and explained why they needed to be excused. Of the 25 left there were 17 women and eight men. Before sending the 25 away for the night Mr Justice Moses said many of them would have heard about the case but urged them not to discuss what they thought they knew about it at home. He said: "When you decide this case you will not decide it on the basis of what others say about it or on the basis of what you may have heard or read but on the basis of the evidence you hear in this court." The disappearance of the girls from Soham in Cambridgeshire triggered one of the biggest manhunts ever seen in Britain. Their bodies were found in Lakenheath, Suffolk, 13 days later. Mr Huntley, 29, a former caretaker at Soham Village College, denies two counts of murder. His ex-girlfriend Ms Carr, 26, a former classroom assistant at the girls' primary school, denies one charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. Richard Latham QC is prosecuting counsel. Stephen Coward QC represents Mr Huntley while Michael Hubbard QC will defend Ms Carr.