If you want a hoot of derision from a Blair aide, try reciting the following list: town hall, district nurse, parish council, youth club, vicar, playing field, neighbourhood school, women's institute, cottage hospital, trades council, police house, Billy Elliot, Cider with Rosie. Hey grandad, the aide will jeer into his latte, get a life. Get with with the new contestability, diversity, global partnership, choose-and-book. Get with the fear agenda. Wow our new Respect plan, with new added initiative-based action and new cross-departmental strategic coordination. Feel the newness. Sense the respect oozing from the editorials and dripping down the thinktank walls. Institutions are just trouble. They are for wimps. Real men do abstract nouns.Listening to Tony Blair talk about his "respect agenda" yesterday, I wondered if he was losing his marbles. What is "investing in good behaviour"? When was "spitting at old ladies always a crime"? We have had this drivel for eight years. Bored with slapping about the state sector, the prime minister now craves command of the streets we walk on and the homes we call our own. Like many men long in power, he longs to be "father of the nation".Blair derided the "self-reinforcing bonds of traditional community life" as a 19th-century concept. He did not ask why they seem so much stronger in American communities, or France, Sweden, Germany or Italy, countries that record less fear of crime and tens of thousands fewer people in jail. The bonds have snapped here not because they are out of date, but because Blair and his predecessors snapped them. They encouraged schools to sell playing fields. They curbed youth work and closed churches with their health and safety. They stripped parish and municipal leadership of power.Instead we have a blizzard of jerky, usually abortive, headline-grabbing measures. We have had "cashpoint fines" for hooligans, alcohol bans on buses, night courts, curfews, parenting orders and Asbos. We have had national storytimes, national bedtimes and now a National Parenting Academy. The latest plan variously proposes boarding-up orders, community-payback fluorescent jackets, anti-spitting initiatives and "baby Asbos" for the under-10s. While some antisocial restraint short of court action may be needed in collapsed communities, such is the chaos of the Asbos that it is impossible to pick out the worthwhile from the counterproductive. The cynicism of these measures is beyond satire. Orwell would hang up his pen and retire.The entire essence of yesterday's plan was punitive. It was aimed at increasing police powers. In the struggle between liberty and authority, Blair is explicitly for authority. He admits to putting "safety from fear" before personal liberty. Yet in the lesser struggle between different forms of authority, he cannot see that centralising it - Charles Clarke's euphemism of "nationalising best practice" - fails to deliver. If all the Home Office needed was power, then yesterday was unnecessary.The institutions I listed at the start would once have underpinned social discipline in the communities I know best. In my London neighbourhood, the playground is terrorised by youths who also steal from local stores. There is no policeman who knows the gang, as would once have been the case, nor a supervisor or youth leader, or institutional support for any citizen who might take action. The only antisocial behaviour against which Blair has deployed an army of monitors is a wrongly parked car. There is not even a local councillor exclusive to the neighbourhood. Its families, and its young, are increasingly segregated between two primary schools, one practising faith-based selection.The other community, a village in north Wales, is equally leaderless. It has lost its police house and constable, and the nearby town has lost its police station. One community hospital has closed. Another is threatened with closure and a 30-mile drive to the nearest emergency bed. The communities have lost all their self-government. Even the county is disbanded. "Authority" is exercised from Caernarvon, two hours away. Control of the police force is to disappear to Cardiff.Under Blair, articulate citizens no longer take civic responsibility and the social obligations that go with it. They are not trusted to do so. Instead they are reduced to complaining and whingeing when things go wrong. But these communities are not historical abstractions. Blair's speechwriter quoted Hobbes, Tawney and Richard Sennett in implausible defence of his centralism. He should read De Tocqueville, who described a similarly atomised democracy in postrevolutionary France as one in which "each citizen stands apart, like a stranger to the destiny of others. His children and personal friends form for him the entire human race ... while above them rises an immense and tutelary power, that of the state".The message of the government's latest fusillade of initiatives is that local leadership is "too cumbersome, too remote from reality". It means variant standards and a loss of central command. Blair murmurs occasionally about setting up "urban parishes" and "giving people control of their communities", but he cannot mean it because he never does it. While crime plans tumble from his office two-a-penny, devolution is just words. The government has shelved for the second time a review of local finance, central to such devolution.Blair claims that Britain's problem neighbourhoods now need "a measure of summary power, with right of appeal". This means summary discretion for the police. In a context of growing urban drunkenness and drug abuse - both of which this government indulges - the added burden on the police can only mean arbitrary and unfair justice. No police force in the world can counter this sort of antisocial behaviour.It is near unbelievable that the government wants to make independent of these communities the very institutions whose leadership is crucial to their discipline: the schools. It wants small, local hospitals closed in favour of big, distant ones. It wants local shops to give way to out-of-town supermarkets. Nothing here is joined up.Blair may have despaired of local democracy. But he needs it. Withdraw responsibility from communities and you withdraw authority. Withdraw authority and you do not get placid submission to Blair's "summary power". You get anarchy. You get Basra. Does Downing Street never learn?simon.jenkins@theguardian.com