David Cameron took a calculated risk. He made his "wake up, Britain" speech on Monday about troubled young people and how he plans to stop them rioting to an audience in his Witney constituency that included a fair proportion of young people with time on their hands. As well as fidgeting furiously, they were troubled by some of what he said.The hastily arranged event went off quite smoothly and, apart from the graffiti-style faces of hoodies (unhugged) painted on the wall behind him, the TV pictures looked fine. So it could have been a lot worse for the prime minister in his own backyard. Witney is a lovely Cotswold town west of Oxford, a bit of Britain which doesn't look very broken on a bright summer's morning – or in the winter either.But what the local MP was calling the "slow-motion moral collapse" of parts of Britain touches even rural West Oxfordshire. It is awash with voluntary "big society" projects and has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the country, around 1.5%. Yet youth centres are closing to save money, there is petty crime and substance abuse, too few buses.The posher villages north of Witney – the Camerons live in one of them – include some shady citizens, investment bankers, peers of the realm, former News of the World executives. The kids say there was speculation last weekend that shops on the town's picture postcard high street might be looted too. There are enough expensive ones from which to choose.Ed Miliband was speaking head-to-head with the PM, but chose a less hazardous venue, his old school, Haverstock comprehensive in Hampstead – not quite the Eton of the state sector – during the holidays. Instead the Labour leader's audience consisted of party activists, business and community activists and a teen posse brought in from Peckham to ask questions. They asked plenty – and he answered at length, another contrast.In fact both leaders' speeches included more common ground than either of them would readily admit. They spoke of the responsibilities of wider society for conditions and attitudes shown by the looters – voters ask "what gives politicians the right to lecture us?" about morality after the expenses scandal, said Cameron – and promised a tough response to lawlessness as their immediate concern.Yet Miliband seemed wiser and more measured, both to eschew "kneejerk gimmicks" and populist solutions like water cannon and imported US police chiefs as well as to strike a more inclusive tone. He called for "a genuine national conversation" about the week's dreadful scenes, one which would provide a platform for disaffected youth to contribute too.The Labour leader has the luxury of being recently out of office and, though proud of Labour's efforts to help the poorest, in a contrite mood. His task is to sound sensible and not to make mistakes. Most eyes are on Cameron. This is his opportunity to rise to his deadliest challenge since the last one, the economic crisis which he can now hand over – lucky George – to his chancellor. Failure to measure up to events may doom his premiership. "Never let a crisis go to waste," as they say in Chicago.At the award-winning Base 33 youth club (one of Cameron's favourite big society projects) in an ecumenical centre off the high street, the PM's 30-minute speech showed signs of hasty repackaging of familiar themes, plus a few new targets – 120,000 problem families to be rescued by 2015 – in response to the quickening pace of events.Its delivery went the same way. Around 50 people were packed into the small-but-cosy upstairs room, party activists like council leader, Barry Norton (also Cameron's admiring agent), the media and 25 young Base 33 club members – the figures "33" were on the painted hoodies on the wall – rounded up by early-morning mobile phone call from the boss, Methodist minister, Richard Donoghue. Aged 10 to 19, they gave him affectionately ironical wolf whistles when he introduced the morning's VIP guest. "He's a friend," whispered one.Piercings, lashings of mascara, tattoos, baseball caps and a couple of menacing woolly hats, the older kids sported all the trapping of teen rebelliousness to which they feel obliged to conform. Base 33 (Cameron himself had to help rescue it from a short-term funding crisis this spring) focuses on troubled youngsters. "I'm 16 and I've never been arrested," one kept proudly emphasising to reporters.It took about a minute for the younger ones to start fidgeting. "This is Britain, a good country, great people," Cameron was saying. Miliband made similar points about the spirited public response to the riots."These riots were not about poverty; that insults millions of people who, whatever the hardship, would not do this," the PM continued. He was in shirt sleeves. It was suddenly very hot.As he got in to the shortcomings of the Human Rights Act and health and safety legislation (Miliband was quoting early, more liberal Cameron speeches back at him by this stage) there was a discreet but distinct teenage giggle 10 feet away. Sensing he might be losing his audience, the PM spoke faster. He did not want a riot of his own and tried – as teachers always do – to command his audience's attention. As he went on the agenda became more Tory in tone; no mention here of the crude, relentless pressure of commercial advertising on poor families which the PM sometimes deplores.Young they may be, but the kids sus adults. "He never even made eye contact, he was looking at the cameras and people like you," one complained later; a little unfair, but there was no doubt No 10's primary audience was not in Base 33. The audience reciprocated. A woolly hat was knocked off a head, a drink can turned into a musical instrument by its owner, barely larger than the can. Towards the end waving at cameras began. Cameron took questions, initially from the press, then from sharp young people who asked about the rising cost of an education and "top schools" they can't afford and the importance of self-esteem. He called them "the guy with the reflecting shades" and "let's have the lady next door". After 10 interactive minutes he left.What did they make of it? It seems unfair to quote them by name, they have troubles enough, some kicked out of school, others from broken families, all uncertain about the world of work. "I thought it was shit and he's a knobhead," said one as they lit their roll-up cigarettes in the sunshine. "I don't have a dad and I've never been arrested."And "he says your community is a big part of your world, but you can't get a job in your own community. The Polish people get them". And "I'd love to go to university, but can I afford it?" The lad with the woolly hat, kicked out of sixth-form college, wants to join the army ("since I was four years old"), but knows it also faces cuts.Nice kids for the most part, as confused and uncertain in idyllic Witney as they are in Tottenham or Cheetham Hill. David Cameron, his security men the only police in sight, sped off to the day job. What will the youngsters do for the rest of the day? "Dunno."Probably they watched themselves on TV, but it's not a career.