A mother who killed herself and her disabled daughter in a car fire had faced constant abuse and threats from a gang of youths, an inquest heard today.Fiona Pilkington, 38, set light to her car with her 18-year-old disabled daughter Francecca Hardwick and herself inside. The burning car was found in a layby on the A47 near Earl Shilton, Leicestershire on 23 October 2007, an inquest at Loughborough town hall heard today.Pilkington, a single mother and full-time carer to her daughter, had apparently carried out the act of murder-suicide after suffering years of abuse, a jury was told. Pilkington's son, Anthony Hardwick, now 19, who is severely dyslexic, was also abused.Giving evidence, Pilkington's mother, Pam Cassell, 72, said her daughter had taped up her letterbox the week before she died because she feared fireworks would be put through it.Cassell said: "It was Halloween and firework night coming up and Fiona was dreading them because she knew that the children would start throwing things at the house and start putting fireworks through the letterbox."They would start on Fiona and throw things and then go round the back and do things in the garden. It was always the same group of youths. Sometimes they would go round the side of the house and urinate. They used to ring on the doorbell and say that she had been hitting her kids. They were petty things like that. They used to throw stones at the house and then they threw acorns and flour and eggs."She said her granddaughter, known as Frankie, could not go into the garden without being tormented or teased. "We used to take her to the park and take her out in the rain because she used to love jumping in puddles."Frankie could be genuinely loveable but when she was frustrated she used to pull hair and bite and punch because she couldn't do what she wanted to do."Cassell said the gang, which often numbered up to 16 youths, would torment Frankie and her brother before they went to bed. They would throw stones at the window and try and get her to lift up her nightdress.The inquest continues.