The mother of Alice Pyne, the teenager who created an online bucket list before she died, has slammed the sentencing of the “vile and manipulative” woman who defrauded a charity set up in her daughter’s name. Having pleaded guilty to two counts of fraud by false representation and the theft of $300 (£210), Haley McTaggart, 33, was sentenced on Monday to 10 months’ prison suspended for two years.McTaggart sold raffle tickets to raise money for Alice’s Escapes, the charity that Alice set up before she died in 2013, aged 17, of Hodgkin’s lymphoma. However, it was found that no prizes existed for any draw, nor was any cash handed over.The Ulverston-based charity provides holidays in Cumbria for seriously ill children and their families. Alice’s mother, Vicky Pyne, told the News & Star newspaper on Wednesday that not giving McTaggart a custodial sentence “sends out a signal that crime pays”.She said: “She has caused two years of hell and stress. She is scum.”McTaggart also admitted telling charity bosses she was unable to pay back money she owed from a trip to Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. She persuaded the charity to pay about £2,000 so she could go, but did not repay it after the trip.The trip’s purpose was not only for fundraising – some of Alice’s ashes were spread by her sister, Milly, on the mountain’s peak. Sentencing McTaggart at Carlisle crown court, Recorder John Corless said she had committed an “unpleasant and serious” offence.Describing the day in court as horrific, Pyne posted a picture on her daughter’s public Facebook page of two champagne flutes after the sentencing. The caption read: “This photo sums up my feelings about today’s sentence for Haley McTaggart.”Cathy Broomfield, a trustee of Alice’s Escapes, told the Mirror: “It is almost impossible to get the words together.“We have had, as a charity, over two years of stress and police interviews. Vicky has been personally affected,” she said. “The reason we have pushed this through, legally, is that we wanted to protect the name of the charity.“Reflecting on what the defendant has put us through, personally and as a charity, we would have expected a custodial sentence.” The top item on Alice’s bucket list was the hope that everyone in the UK would sign up as a bone marrow donor. It is estimated that about 40,000 people signed up as donors as a direct result of her appeal.On Wednesday, the family announced that Alice’s schoolfriend, who attended the last donor drive that Alice organised, had recently donated stem cells after being found to be a match for someone in need. Pyne said: “In a week of high emotions, I was delighted to hear from Jemima this morning who messaged to tell me that she was recently found to be a match and has just donated her stem cells. What amazingly good news – this is how a good citizen behaves. Well done Jemima for giving someone the chance of life.”