A man who was punched to the ground at a music festival has died in hospital.Robert Hart, 26, was attacked at the Parklife Weekender event in Heaton Park, Manchester, on Saturday night, after an altercation thought to have been triggered by an inflatable doll striking his girlfriend.The pair were at the front of the festival's main stage when the incident took place at about 9.15pm. Hart was knocked unconscious and was treated at the scene by two off-duty medical personnel, said Greater Manchester police. He died in hospital on Wednesday.Police have issued an efit of his assailant, who is described as a mixed-race male, in his late 20s and about 1.85m (6ft 1in) tall. He has a muscular build and short, dark hair, which was shaved at the sides. He was wearing shorts and a blue, bomber-style jacket with the letter "A" in white on the front.DI Richard Eales said: "Our immediate thoughts go out to Robert's family and loved ones. We currently have specially trained officers with them to help through this terrible time."We are still in the early stages of this investigation. However, several witnesses have assisted us with vital information concerning the description of the offender. We believe a confrontation took place following an inflatable doll hitting Robert's girlfriend."We are aware other assaults took place in the park that evening but I am specifically appealing for witnesses who recall seeing the inflatable doll and the attack on Robert immediately thereafter. I am keen for those witnesses to come forward and other persons nearby who may have mobile-phone footage of the attack or have captured an image of the person responsible."Finally, if you are the man responsible or were with him that evening, please come forward."Anyone with information should contact the incident room direct on 0161 85 69283 or email the incident room on mit.syndicate8@gmp.police.uk with any relevant footage. Alternatively, call police on 101 or the independent charity Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.