Frank Johnson spent more than a third of his life in prison for a murder he did not commit. He was 40 when he was convicted of dousing his mentor and employer in petrol and setting him ablaze. He was 66 before his protestations of innocence were finally heard.During the 26 years he fought for justice, Johnson lost his partner, his children and all contact with his past life. When his conviction was abruptly quashed midway through an appeal hearing last Wednesday, he was left on the pavement outside Swaleside prison on the Isle of Sheppey with nothing but three large sacks of evidence and a small bag of clothes. 'I don't have anything, not even an identity,' he told The Observer. 'I don't have a birth certificate, National Insurance number or passport: I have no way of proving who I am. After 26 years of being a prison number, I am now not even that.' But instead of railing at the injustices, Johnson has managed to forgive those who conspired, both deliberately and through complacency, to tear his life apart. 'I don't hold any bitterness, I just feel sadness,' he said from the east London house of Billy Power, one of the Birmingham Six, who, along with Mojo, the Miscarriage of Justice Organisation, has fought tirelessly for Johnson's release. 'Sometimes understanding is more important than knowledge. I understand why Mary, my partner, left me; the kids were very young,' he said, leaning forward in his chair with an almost Zen-like calmness and confidence. 'There is nothing I can do about the past. That time has gone; it's finished. I know it's a sin, but you have a very short life on this planet. Sometimes you just have to go along with it and I have to look ahead now. 'I have plenty of time to think in here - I mean I had plenty of time when I was in prison,' he corrected himself. 'The war in Afghanistan, the twin towers, the floods in Bangladesh that flush away entire villages year after year. Society is fundamentally unfair and I was just dealt a bum hand.' Johnson was convicted of murdering Jack Sheridan, a shop owner who provided a home and became a father-figure to him and his young family in the early Seventies, by setting him ablaze in the store where they both worked in Whitechapel, east London. Although it was Johnson who put out the flames and called the police, he was arrested 10 months later after two co-defendants, Jack Tierney and David Smart, fingered him as ringleader. Johnson could have been freed years ago, alongside Tierney and Smart, if he had admitted guilt to a parole board but, determined not to leave prison with a conviction against his name, he refused to give up. His struggle ended when Lord Justice Longmore ruled it was 'impossible' for his conviction to be classed as safe after evidence that he was suffering from a mental disorder at the time of his trial. 'I am furious that I was let off after all this time on a technicality,' Johnson said. 'But I got angry with the system for a long time and it didn't hear me. Now I have learnt not to worry about things I have no control over. If you are fighting to swim against the tide on your own, you are going to lose.' Johnson, who twice sacked his legal team before his trial began in September 1976, represented himself in court. Although he lost the case, he maintains it is not only why he is free but is also the only reason he is still sane. 'It was only decades later I found out that Tierney was a police informer and agent provocateur, and that Smart was a former soldier,' he said. 'In the anti-Irish climate of the time, I was going to be found guilty in that court no matter what.' Johnson lost the case but he kept his papers. 'And I knew, somewhere in their depths, was proof of my innocence,' he said. For Johnson, that knowledge was enough to cling to. 'The Birmingham Six had each other for support, but I only had me. When you are alone in the prison system, you are absolutely slaughtered, but because I had proof of my innocence with me every day I was never hopeless. It was just a matter of getting the right person to read it. ' Johnson needed to wait until the Birmingham Six won their freedom 15 years later before he could find that person. In 1991, Power asked Gareth Pierce, his solicitor, to take on Johnson's case. 'One of the reasons I am so calm now is because I had a goal that, no matter how far away it was, I always knew was there,' he said. Paddy Hill, another member of the Birmingham Six, the founder of Mojo and a close friend, maintained that Johnson, who has not been offered counselling, support or other form of help to reintegrate into society, is still in a state of deep shock and denial at the world into which he has been released. 'The problems suffered by people like Frank Johnson are not realised by the people themselves until at least a year after their release,' he said. 'It is once the limelight disappears and they have to get back into modern society that they realise their loss and what they have suffered. Their problems have been compared with Vietnam veterans and those who have lost limbs through motor accidents.' His concern is shared by Power. 'I would be amazed if he was genuinely as well-adjusted as he appears to be at the moment,' he said. 'I don't want to say it, but I do think the anger, upset and disorientation will come.' mailto:amelia.hill@observer.co.uk