The bullet holes were filled in months ago, the barber's shop no longer exists, but the painful legacy of a New Year's night celebration that ended in a hail of gunfire and death has left its mark on the entire community.Tonight Beverley Thomas and Marcia Shakespeare will lead a candelight vigil in the dark alleyway behind the former hair salon where their teenage daughters were shot dead outside a party exactly a year ago. Charlene Ellis, 18, and Letisha Shakespeare, 17, had stepped out for some fresh air in the early hours of January 2 with their friend Cheryl Shaw and Charlene's twin sister Sophie when they were gunned down. The girls were not the first young people in Aston, Birmingham, to have died by the gun and they have not been the last. But their killing provoked a national outcry, bringing the thorny issue of firearms and gangs into sharp focus and acting as a much-needed spur to change both inside and outside the community. On the eve of the anniversary of their death the rise in gun crime is once again dominating the agenda. The Boxing Day murder of a police officer on duty in Leeds has revived the debate on how to deal with a problem which many fear could spin out of control. Amid the calls this week for tougher sentencing and more armed officers on the streets, the need to empower local communities to tackle the issue themselves has also been highlighted. A year down the line, on the streets of Aston this is a policy which is beginning to bear fruit. The shooting of the teenage girls last January brought a new urgency to the development of the government's strategy of community action which the home secretary, David Blunkett, has called a major ingredient in tackling gun culture. They also prompted him to appoint the former American police chief Paul Evans, who successfully pioneered the "ceasefire programme" which reduced violent crime in Boston to a 31-year low, to head the police standards unit. He starts work this month. Mr Evans's Boston project was the inspiration for the Home Office move towards the use of community-based initiatives to fight serious gang-related violence - a strategy which was first introduced in south Manchester and parts of north London. Key elements of the approach include streamlining the funding to small local groups, engaging directly with gang members, enhancing community relations, and promoting coordinated action by agencies. In Aston there may still be a mountain to climb before gangs and guns are eradicated, but there have certainly been moves in the right direction. Along with the wreaths and the prayers tonight there will be a renewed resolve by the community to build on these efforts slowly but surely. Wayne Hamilton, chairman of the Holy Trinity community project, based within metres of the alley where the girls lost their lives, says the shooting opened a lot of people's eyes to what was happening in their midst, and galvanised people stand up and do something about it. "It just hit home. The difference was that it was two girls who were not gang members. If it had been two black boys being shot would it have got such a response? Maybe not." Like many in the community, Hamilton believes there has been a notable shift towards a more coordinated approach to tackling gun-related crime in the area since the girls died. But he emphasises that the problem is so entrenched that a long-term strategy is crucial. "Gun crime is still happening. This kind of change can't be achieved overnight." Reports of groups of youths hanging around on street corners firing off rounds of live ammunition in broad daylight, and several gang-related shootings in the past few months, are proof enough that real change is a long way off. The latest victim was shot dead at point-blank range on Saturday, in a cafe less than a mile away from the scene of the shooting last New Year. As the cycle of violence continues the need to engage with the disaffected young people who are pulling the trigger is seen by many of those working on the ground as the key to tackling the problem. One of those on the frontline is Mark Edwards, director of a group that works directly with gang members. He set up Young Disciples three years ago when a friend died in his arms after being shot. "We are talking about a culture which is not confined to an ethnicity. It is about youth. The essence of it is re-education - values, ethics and morals which a lot of these young people have kind of missed out on." Mr Edwards, 30, spends a lot of time on the streets talking to young men, usually in their teens, who have been excluded from school and are involved to varying degrees with some of the area's most notorious gangs. Attacked He and his colleagues, many of whom are ex-gang members themselves, have been violently attacked on many occasions during the course of their work. They believe that offering realistic and sustainable alternatives - through work and education - is fundamental in the fight to divert young people away from crime. "I think it is going to evolve out of control if there isn't more intervention. The agencies are starting to say OK, let's do something about it: but they are moving very, very snailish; very, very slow," he said. After the New Year shooting the government ordered a gun amnesty which resulted in more than 25,000 weapons being handed in to the police. But Mr Edwards said: "They failed to listen to the community when they set up the amnesty. Many of these people do not trust the police and won't go to a police station, because they have been involved in crime and they think they will get arrested." He believes it is a question of having the right approach by translating the initiatives to street level. For instance, naming a crime prevention workshop Bank Robbery so that it is more appealing and does not sound as if it is linked to the police. "We have made an impact. We have got young people off the streets and trained up so that they can go back and try to help. I have turned around a nucleus of people, many of whom are now at college and university." His efforts are recognised by Lin Homer, chief executive of Birmingham city council, who has expressed her commitment to helping groups such as the Young Disciples. "There are a lot of people doing active work in this community who are putting themselves out on quite a personal limb. The community tells us, rightly, that there need to be community mentors to help these youngsters move on. There have to be people who understand their lifestyle and the context." Ms Homer emphasises that there have been positive changes in the past year. The council is providing support to groups who are mentoring young people in gangs and helping them to maintain their presence, and it is hoped that by April a single, seamless way to go about getting funding will be in place to replace existing stop-gap measures. But for Mark Edwards the help is coming far too late.After three years on the frontline he says he is walking away. "The risk for me will stop as of January 1 2004. My heart is extended out but I can't extend no more. I have lost members of staff over this, people have had to move out of their houses, others have been hospitalised. It will take a little while for the danger to leave but at least we won't be putting ourselves out in the firing line. "The window of opportunity I had with the young people and the trust and everything is gone. I wasn't able to keep my promises to them." Mr Edwards feels let down. "Just imagine, I had the leaders of rival gangs in my hands, ready to have a truce, and then the system never even jumped on it. Now the police are coming to me and saying, can you get a conflict resolution package organised, and I am saying, it is too late. "I would hate to even imagine what the next type of scenario is going to be like. At the end of the day you have got thousands of youngsters out there with arms. "No matter what else anybody does, if you are not actually working with the geezers who are squeezing the triggers nothing is going to get done. "You could do prevention strategies, intervention strategies, you could lock up the two main gangs and every other gang member what you have on the database and it is still going to be here, because it is a culture. You can't arrest a culture, you can't lock up a mindset. You need to get rid of that mindset from society."