Two Chinese students found beaten to death in Newcastle last year could have been murdered for illegal internet betting money, Newcastle crown court heard today.Zhen Xing Yang and Xi Zhou, both 25 and also known as Kevin and Cici, had an official joint income of only £17,000 but more than £233,000 passed through their bank account.The ferocity of the murders in August last year was described by Robert Smith QC, prosecuting, as "not even remotely necessary" to enable the theft of a laptop and three mobile phones, which were all that were taken from the couple's flat.A motive of minor theft also conflicts with elaborate arrangements made by the man accused of the killings, 30-year-old Guang Hui Cao of Morpeth, Northumberland, to win the couple's confidence by pretending to want to rent their spare room. Cao, who had lived illegally in Britain for five years, denies two charges of murder.Wearing spectacles, a white sports shirt and grey trousers, he listened intently to a Chinese interpreter as Smith opened the prosecution. The QC told a jury of seven women and five men that Yang and Cici had been dealing in "very substantial sums of money", including a £45,000 transfer to Yang's parents in Dalian, China, not long before the murders.Computer and phone data will be part of the case, although Smith accepted that the financial dealings involved remained murky. He said: "Whether they afford an explanation for the action of the person or persons responsible [for the killings], it is certainly a realistic possibility, particularly if those facts became known to them."Cao's money affairs were also shrouded in secrecy. Police checks with the Revenue and Customs showed him earning only just over £3,500 in 2006-7, falling to £1,842 the falling year, when his last details were recorded four months before the murders.The court heard that details of the couple's flat had appeared on a website used by Chinese students in Newcastle, where both Yang and Cici had studied before he set up the scams and betting while she worked in a noodle bar. Using the internet name Godlike, they had advertised their spare room, showing the flat's layout online. Cao replied under the nickname Tanktank, before contacting them using the surname of a friend who had returned to China.Evidence that the couple suffered a prolonged ordeal before their deaths led detectives to believe that they were tortured to reveal details of their finances. Smith said Cici had been bound and gagged but not suffocated for some 90 minutes. Her skull had also been fractured with a hammer."The death of Kevin was more brutal still," the court heard. He was tied up before being battered with the hammer or a similar weapon. His died after his throat was finally cut.Cao was linked with the murders after police found trousers stained with Yang's blood at his home, along with the victim's watch and spectacles. The court heard that the former student, who had come to Britain in 2001 supposedly to learn English, had changed his clothes after the killing and had taken the couple's mobiles and laptop.Phone records showed that he had arranged to see the spare room and he was caught on CCTV at the end of the road where the couple's bodies were found.The case continues.