Olive, an energetic, independent woman in her mid-80s, disappeared two-and-a-half years ago from the home she had lived in since she was seven. She was eventually tracked down to the house of Maria, a local "good samaritan". After a brief hospital stay following a fall, Olive had been discharged to Maria's home. Maria went to extravagant lengths to try to ensure that neighbours should not see Olive - though Olive wanted to see them - and that social services should not be involved. Olive did not return to her own home, and her movements were restricted by Maria.Last year, I wrote in Society Guardian (House arrest, May 2007) about this distressing situation, and it was later discovered that Maria was the owner of two other houses - apart from her own - that had formerly belonged to elderly women, both of whom named Maria as beneficiary in their wills. One of the women had been staying in Maria's house and had made a new will shortly before her death. We already knew that, as we suspected, Maria had been asking Olive about the whereabouts of her will and the deeds to her house. Different outcomeIt was hard not to conclude that Olive had been, in effect, kidnapped, and that Maria had designs on her house. Perhaps if the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) policy on crimes against older people, launched earlier this month, had been in place, the outcome might have been different.Sir Ken Macdonald, the director of public prosecutions, said at the launch of the policy that the CPS "understands the serious implications of crimes against older people". The CPS, it seems, is determined to take a more practical and coherent approach to such offences - defined as being committed against people aged 60 or over, and ranging from abuse, neglect and assault to the "grooming" of older people by family members who want "their inheritance" in advance.It suggests that the government is taking notice of elder abuse, a problem that has been growing as more people live for longer. The 2007 study of abuse and neglect in the UK, conducted by the National Centre for Social Research and King's College London, found that 342,000 people had been affected in the previous year; 2.6% of people over 65 living at home reported mistreatment involving a family member, close friend or care worker. When incidents involving neighbours and acquaintances were included, this increased to 4%.Would this have made any difference to Olive? She would not have figured in the UK study, as she herself - anxious not to be dependent on social services - did not initiate a complaint. It still remains difficult for statutory services to intervene, even where they know of, or suspect, mistreatment is taking place. Social services tried to get a guardian appointed to look after Olive's affairs, but the bid failed because Olive - who initially had been profoundly suspicious of Maria's intentions - had given Maria power of attorney the month she was discharged from hospital into her care. The CPS policy document lists, among relevant crimes, misuse of power of attorney, but does not consider the ease of obtaining it from vulnerable people. Nor does the CPS policy address the underlying problems relating to policing, such as the deployment of community support officers who may not have the training or wit to deal with a case. Macdonald said at the launch that crimes against older people are under-reported. More needs to be done in raising awareness and training of the police before that situation changes.In Olive's case, social services had involved the police at an early stage, but the investigation, such as it was, was by community support officers who were not experienced or subtle enough to be effective. They accepted Maria's story that neighbours were merely jealous because she owned three houses, and later even questioned a couple of them about "harassment" - meaning their attempts to visit Olive. What could be helpful, however, is wider publicising of the crimes that affect older people, as listed by the CPS in an appendix to its policy document. The extensive list of offences is very specific - from assault and ill-treatment to theft and fraud, as well as deprivation of contact and harassment - and is annotated with the relevant legislation. Were this made more widely available, it could help older people and concerned family and friends to identify the danger signs and enable effective action to be taken more quickly. The CPS policy stresses the multi-agency context of crimes against older people, recognising the need to work closely with social services and other bodies, not only in matters of investigation and charge, but also in supporting older people who are victims and witnesses. A promising course of action highlighted is that the witness may be able to give evidence with the help of "special measures" - such as by video link from home, or behind screens in court - introduced by the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act of 1999, but this relies on the victim bringing a complaint, which often the older person is too intimidated to do.The CPS policy brings no new sanctions: the policy document draws together and clarifies what should already be good practice. However, the perception among professionals I have spoken to is that had this policy been in place in Olive's case, then social services might well have been able to do more to help her. Its stress on public interest - "the more serious the offence ... the more likely we are to prosecute in the public interest, even if the victim says they do not wish us to do so" - could also have influenced the outcome.Effective monitoringThe impact of this policy will depend on effective monitoring. But just as important is raising public awareness, and much more needs to be done on that front. During the three-month public consultation period, for example, there were only 41 responses, with just seven from individuals. Wider promotion of this policy document is needed.Early this year, social services discovered Olive was no longer in Maria's house. Where she was, Maria refused to say. The police were contacted again. A missing person's inquiry was set up immediately and completed within the week.The investigating officer met Olive, accompanied by the solicitor who acted as joint executor with Maria in a previous will. The place chosen for the rendezvous was a supermarket in an outer suburb. Apparently, Olive appeared well, but said she wanted no one to know her whereabouts. The police, although they had been informed of the circumstances and background, closed the case.Somehow, Maria has managed to offload the responsibility for her, and it appears Olive is now living far away from her roots. It is impossible to know if she is happy. Her beloved home, meanwhile, resembles Miss Havisham's. For Olive, it seems this policy has come too late.Names have been changed. · A CPS prosecution policy on crimes against older people is available as a PDF 