A man who converted replica submachine guns into lethal weapons that were later linked to some of Britain's most notorious murders was convicted of a string of firearms offences today. Grant Wilkinson paid £55,000 in cash for 90 blank-firing Mac-10 guns, telling the dealer they would be used on the set of a new James Bond film. But he was operating a gun factory from two garden sheds near Reading, Berkshire "on a commercial scale" unprecedented in Britain, said police. Once converted to fire live rounds, Wilkinson sold them to members of London's criminal underworld for up to £2,500 each. One weapon he converted was linked to the murder of Pc Sharon Beshenivsky, who was shot at the scene of a robbery in Bradford in 2005. Gangsters used another to kill 15-year-old Michael Dosunmu in Peckham, south London, who was shot in his bed after being mistaken for his brother. Wilkinson, 34, of no fixed abode, was convicted by a jury at Reading crown court today. His co-defendant Gary Lewis, 38, of Bourne End, Buckinghamshire, was cleared of all charges. Lewis had told the court he was merely Wilkinson's "odd job man" and was ignorant of the gun racket.Police said guns converted by Wilkinson were linked to 52 of the 59 Mac-related incidents in the UK since 2003, including nine murders. "In 2004 we started having shootings with Mac-10s, whereas we had not had them before. There was a sea change," said Detective Chief Superintendent Gary Richardson, of Scotland Yard's Trident gun crime unit.Denis Burke, of the Crown Prosecution Service's complex case unit, said: "Wilkinson established a firearms factory in a small suburb of Reading that was able to meet the demand nationally of the criminal fraternity. The firearms have since been used in all of our big cities, especially London." Police have recovered 50 of the guns and today offered a reward of up to £10,000 for information leading to the recovery of the 40 that remain unaccounted for, or the arrest of anyone involved in incidents related to them. For three years, Wilkinson ran a sophisticated gun conversion operation from two tatty sheds in Three Mile Cross behind a derelict house called the Briars, which he rented out. One shed was a workshop and the other a sound-proofed testing house with a firing range. Police found costly industrial equipment used to smelt and cut metals and 27,700 spent cartridges that could be converted back into live ammunition. The factory was discovered by one of Wilkinson's tenants. Calling himself Grant Wilson, Wilkinson had bought the blank-firing guns from Guy Savage of Sabre Defence Industries, a registered gun dealer in Northolt, west London, who had previously supplied Bond films. His "desperately disorganised" behaviour aroused such suspicion that Savage secretly photographed him on his mobile phone, but police were unable to identify him. In his defence, Wilkinson said he was working for someone else, a man called Kevin Danaher, who was stabbed to death by an associate in May 2006. First produced in 1970, Mac-10s are US military weapons designed for close combat. They are popular in gangland circles for their "bling" value and high firing rate. Their low accuracy has earned them the nickname "spray and pray". Even trained firearms officers have struggled to control them. "These are attractive items for those connected to organised criminal networks. If you have one of these readily available, you will be targeted by other criminals who want to take it off you," said Richardson."One of the integral problems with these weapons is they do not necessarily hit your intended target. They also have difficulty stopping and starting them. They go off and they are difficult to keep in single fire." Claudia Webbe, who chairs the Trident independent advisory group, said: "We can see very clearly the devastating impact of this heinous crime, particularly and disproportionately, although not exclusively, on black communities. "Here we have an armoury factory in the suburbs of Berkshire creating deadly weapons that are clearly ending up in the hands of 17-, 18-, 19-year-olds, in inner city urban London."Wilkinson was convicted of seven offences: conspiracy to convert imitation firearms; conspiracy to sell or transfer firearms; conspiracy to sell or transfer ammunition; two counts of possession of firearms with intent to endanger life; and two counts of possession of ammunition with intent to endanger life. He will be sentenced tomorrow.