Yesterday's Daily Telegraph headline - "Melting pot boils over in fight for respect" - got it wrong. One reason the weekend riot between blacks and Asians in the Lozells area of Birmingham broke out was too little melting in the pot. Indeed, some close observers argue that there has been no melting at all. All are agreed that the spark was a rumour - still unsubstantiated - that a 14-year-old Afro-Caribbean girl had been raped by between three and 25 Asian men. As Derek Bishton, author of a book on the Handsworth riot 20 years ago, noted: "What's surprising is not that the rumour was started, but that people so willingly believed it. That shows how far the state of affairs between the two communities has deteriorated."The deeper background - economic deprivation, high unemployment, commercial decline - are the same as they were 20 years ago. This time, though, the conflict was confined between ethnic-minority groups. Young Afro-Caribbean men say they are angry at the degree to which both legitimate businesses (grocery and beauty products) and illegitimate ones (drugs) have moved from the black community to the Asian. The weekend attack by young black men on Asian shopkeepers is not the first such conflict, though it is the most dramatic: two men stabbed, one of them dead, 35 injured including three with gunshot wounds, burnt-out cars, smashed shop windows, 300 police in riot gear needed to end the conflict.Multiculturalism has moved on. Where 30 years ago "black" often sufficed to cover both black and Asian communities - each seeking to resist white racism - now multiple identities and communities have emerged: Africans have separated from Afro-Caribbeans; Somalis from Yemenis; Yemenis themselves into three groups; Asians into even more - Muslim, Hindu, Sikh, with a succession of subgroups. Intergenerational attitudes make the scene even more complex. As the CRE's Trevor Phillips noted last month, one shortcoming of multiculturalism was that it concentrated too much on emphasising the differences between groups and too little on the values they shared.This proliferation is not in itself a problem providing that there are sturdy, well-made bridges between the groups. Ironically, one of the best reports for improving the government's community-cohesion strategy was produced by Race Equality West Midlands, a small voluntary charity. It called for smarter strategic goals - specific, measurable, agreed, realistic, targeted ethnically and reciprocal. That is the approach that is again needed now.