Only one in 10 people think prison turns young offenders into law-abiding citizens according to a unique, UK-wide ICM survey (pdf) published on Friday. Two in three people, of over 1,000 polled, think that prisons are universities of crime - and believe that they are not effective in reducing young people's offending. Instead, the vast majority (eight out of 10 people) back mental healthcare and drug or alcohol treatment. Nearly all (nine out of 10) want better support for young people by parents and more constructive activities for children to stop them getting into trouble in the first place.This is the first time the public have been asked how to reduce non-violent crime committed by young people. This opinion poll reveals that, despite screaming headlines and vote-grabbing political rhetoric, most people are thoughtful and informed about how to cut youth crime. Populist does not always mean popular. People are less interested in vengeance and more interested in community solutions to crime and how best to prevent the next victim. Many are concerned that, far from acting as a deterrent, prison may only succeed in getting children and young people, already at risk, into further trouble. It seems that people are still waiting for the government to fulfil its promise and be tough on the causes of crime.The poll, published in the Mirror, was commissioned by SmartJustice to launch the Prison Reform Trust's strategy to reduce child and youth imprisonment: SmartJustice report. Based on the results, the Mirror's leader challenged government in these terms:"Ministers should seize this chance to champion community service over sending young offenders to jail. Today's poll shows 84% of people back compulsory work over prison - and though violent thugs should, of course, be locked up, this poll could herald major changes to our struggling justice system. Jailing the most young people in Europe is not a claim we can be proud of, particularly when the policy is failing."The Prison Reform Trust's major five-year programme to reduce child and youth imprisonment is supported by the Diana Princess of Wales Memorial Fund as part of its work to create a lasting legacy of positive social change. Fund trustees are particularly concerned about levels of unmet mental health need among young people in custody and how to prevent so many children making the depressing journey from local authority care to imprisonment.The number of under-18s in prison has more than doubled since 1989, and over eight out of 10 boys under 18 who are released from prison are reconvicted within two years. Two thirds of under-21s are in prison for non-violent offences. It costs £50,800 to lock up each young offender for a year.Commenting on the poll, Bob Reitemeier, chief executive of the Children's Society, said:"We hope that MPs listen to the public's rational perception of what changes are needed and act now to revolutionise the youth justice system, replacing expensive custody with community-based sentences that will rehabilitate these young people and reduce re-offending. The criminal justice and immigration bill currently before Parliament offers a rare opportunity to do just that."Far too often, locking up young people in trouble sets them on the road to becoming long-term prisoners. This public opinion poll offers a clear message to government - prison acts as a counter-productive punishment for most young people who offend. There are better ways of dealing with teenagers who commit non-violent crimes. Investing in treatment for young addicts and binge drinkers, support for struggling parents, mental healthcare, intensive supervision and enforced community service would all do more to cut youth crime than wasting public money on yet more prison places.