Barrister Mark Saunders was shouting: "I can't hear" in the final minute of his life, an inquest heard today. The 32-year-old lawyer's last words were recorded in a contemporaneous "armed incident log" before he died one minute later in a hail of police bullets at the end of a five-hour siege at his Chelsea home.Westminster coroner's court has heard that firearms officers stationed at nearby properties shot the Oxford graduate, who was drunk and armed with a 12-bore shotgun, after screaming at him to "put the gun down" and believing he was taking aim at them as a helicopter hovered.He suffered "catastrophic" injuries from five bullets fired as he waved his shotgun from his kitchen window in Markham Square at 9.32pm on 6 May 2008.Georgia Wilson, from the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), said the log showed at 21.26 the lawyer was hanging out of the window "groaning and swaying".Patrick Gibbs QC, for Saunders's widow, Elizabeth, asked: "At 21.31, this is very shortly before shots were fired, he is leaning out the window and has a telephone in his left hand which he then puts down, blood is seen on his right arm, and he is saying either: 'I want to hear you' or 'I can't hear you', is that right?""That's right," Wilson replied."In the final minute of his life he is hanging out of the window pointing a shotgun upwards saying: "Hang on, I can't hear,'" said Gibbs.Earlier logs showed Saunders, who had previously been talking to police negotiators by mobile phone, was seen waving his landline phone in his window and shaking it. He also held up a mobile and had held up notes to the window.The barrister had 203 live rounds of shotgun ammunition, with 14 live rounds found scattered in the kitchen, one in the living room, and 53 in the lounge.He had fired eight shots during the siege, with six used cartridges found in the kitchen and two in the dining room passageway, the inquest heard.Blood stains found on the inside of the barrel of his shotgun, on the kitchen window and sash key, a wine bottle, stereo remote, chair, sofa and curtain suggested he had suffered a "relatively minor injury" prior to the fatal shooting, possibly caused by glass. Traces of saliva were found on the muzzle of his Beretta gun.Jurors were told that throughout the five-hour siege a terrified mother was trapped in her bathroom with her two small daughters in the house next door despite ringing 999 seven times pleading for help.Each time Karen Richard was assured her message would be passed onto police, but the Metropolitan police never rang back, did not evacuate her, and in the two years since have failed to apologise.She first rang at 16.51pm to report hearing shots, and again at 17.22pm to say she had seen police "aiming guns at our house" and "what's going on?", Wilson told the inquest. She was advised to stay away from the windows and move towards the back of her house. She dialled 999 again at 17.49pm and 18.34pm saying she was locked in her bathroom and begging for someone to tell her what to do. At 19.39pm she rang to say she had seen a neighbour being evacuated and "should she have been evacuated?".At 21.23 she dialled 999 again, said Wilson. With the sound of a baby crying in the background, she told the operator: "This is Karen Richard in 45 Markham Square. I am next door to Mark, I guess. I am hearing his name, the guy doing the shooting, and I'm hearing banging now like he's banging his wall onto my wall or something."I don't know if he was banging against the wall. I'm locked in the bathroom and don't want to come out. I'm scared."At 22.03, more than half-an-hour after Saunders was shot, she rang again to say she could no longer hear the helicopter. Shortly after she was taken from her premises.Coroner Dr Paul Knapman expressed surprise that, though she had made no formal complaint to police, she had received no apology. "She's on the phone, she's rung 999 seven times, many times asking somebody to ring her back. She says she was never rung back. There's been no communication."It appears she was very frightened. She had two small children and nobody was telling her what to do."Wilson replied the police did not think it "appropriate" to take any action before the conclusion of the inquest.The hearing continues.