By the time Michael O'Brien was found guilty of murder last month, his mother and stepfather had already fled their home city of Nottingham. A group of men visited Joan and John Stirland late at night last year and told them they had 24 hours to get out or face the consequences.The couple hoped to start a new life 80 miles away in the Lincolnshire seaside village of Trusthorpe. But, as police last night hunted the two dark-clothed killers who entered their bungalow and shot them dead on Sunday evening, friends said they "did not run far enough". It appears that a chance meeting on a beach, their return to Nottingham for a family wedding and a series of intemperate outbursts could have led professional hitmen, bent on revenge, to their door. Mr Stirland, 55, a textile worker, and Mrs Stirland, 53, a children's cancer nurse, enjoyed gardening and bingo. But the couple, described as "caring people" by a former neighbour, were dragged into an altogether more murky world by the actions of O'Brien, 23, a petty criminal who killed a man outside the Sporting Chance pub in Nottingham in August 2003. His victim, Marvyn Bradshaw, was not known to the police, but officers in the Stirland murder case confirmed last night that they were investigating links between the double-murder and the death of Bradshaw. It was also revealed yesterday that Jamie Gunn, a bouncer who was in the car with Bradshaw, could have been the intended target of the shooting after the doorman clashed with O'Brien at the pub. Gunn, 19, never fully recovered from the trauma according to friends, and died of pneumonia earlier this month. When O'Brien was arrested, he blamed the murder on a friend - Gary Salmon, a keen clubber and car dealer known to police. Mr Salmon, 32, who has "associates" across the country and a string of nicknames and aliases, including Fish, Lol, and G, has now been on the run for nearly a year. "Wanted" posters are plastered across Nottingham, offering a £10,000 reward for information leading to his arrest. Detective Chief Inspector Phil Walker of Nottinghamshire police said: "We are still looking for Gary Salmon and I would appeal to anyone who has any information about his whereabouts to contact police. We don't need any more evidence on him. We just need to find him." Last month, despite claiming at Nottingham crown court that Mr Salmon had committed the murder, O'Brien was found guilty. As he was sentenced to life in prison, he hurled a glass of water at the public gallery and shouted at his victim's grieving family: "I'm not bothered, I'm a bad boy. It meant nothing to me. Your son looked like a doughnut with a big hole in his head. I know where you live." With O'Brien confined to the high-security Whitemoor prison in Cambridgeshire, his mother and stepfather, who married seven years ago, tried to escape his criminal legacy. They were not on a formal witness protection scheme so they fled Nottingham, arriving in Trusthorpe with no possessions. They were described as "perfect tenants" by their landlord. Mr Stirland even changed his name, claiming housing benefit in the name of "Johan Steirland". But two weeks ago a family friend from Nottingham, holidaying on the bleak Lincolnshire coast, bumped into Mr Stirland on the beach. Back in Nottingham, their new life became the talk of the pubs on the notorious St Annes housing estate, where the couple once lived. Former neighbours, who were too frightened to reveal their identity for fear of reprisals, claimed that Mrs Stirland had not calmed the situation after her son was arrested for shooting Bradshaw. "Joan was a nuisance," one said. "She was always shouting her mouth off about Michael. She would stick up for Michael, saying he would come out and shoot the others. It was drunken pub talk. "I heard that people paid them a visit and told them they had two choices: either to stay there and have constant trouble or leave within 24 hours. They have not been seen around here since." While old friends recalled a mother devoted to her three children, who bought O'Brien new furniture when he moved into a flat 18 months ago, her new neighbours in Trusthorpe said she had been thrown out of a local bingo contest days before her death for insulting other participants. Another theory being investigated by police is that the couple's family unwittingly led the killers to the hideaway. Mrs Stirland, the daughter of a Royal Navy sailor, remained close to her other two children, while Mr Stirland was on good terms with his daughter and son. Last month the couple came out of hiding, returning to Nottingham for the wedding of Mr Stirland's son. A close friend of the couple met them there. While they danced and celebrated, the friend said: "Joan was frightened, she was nervous, but she didn't show it as much as John, who was visibly shaken." Neighbours in Trusthorpe said the couple had been frequently visited by Mrs Stirland's daughter and three grandchildren, who only returned home after their latest trip a day before the shooting. As the concern grows and the theories multiply on the estates of Nottingham, former neighbours worry that they could become victims of what they fear is an escalating gangland conflict. Other friends are mourning the death of a "decent guy" and his fiery but loving wife, who were caught up in the violent world of their son. "John was a normal bloke," one old friend said. "He went to work, went to the pub. He wasn't a fighter. He didn't get into trouble. "It seems that whatever happened and for whatever reason, they did not run far enough."