There will be no staring eyes, no furtive glances, no spotlights. There will be no drawn faces, no howling mob, no hurled missiles hammering on the sides of a prison van. Instead, one morning in July, two young men, pasty-faced and slightly overweight, will walk out of two nondescript, institutional-looking buildings in the North of England and each get into a car. Then they will disappear. Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, who eight years ago abducted, tortured and killed two-year-old James Bulger, will be free men. This week, two separate parole hearings are expected to give their assent to the release of the pair 'on licence'. The boards, which are being held at secret locations and comprise a judge, a psychiatrist and a magistrate or senior probation officer, are expected to decide that the pair do not pose sufficient risk to the public to justify their continued detention. The letters informing the pair of the decision will arrive after a few days; the paperwork will take a few weeks. Then the men - two of the most infamous criminals ever known in Britain - will be released. They will have new names, new homes, new jobs, new passports, new National Insurance and DSS documents, and a thoroughly researched, impeccably detailed, finely crafted new past. They will be starting new lives. The question is: will they ever get to finish them? There is a picture being passed around Merseyside. It is a grainy, snatched image but is sharp enough to be used to identify its subject. It is from CCTV footage, possibly taken in one of the shopping malls that care workers have been visiting with the two killers to 'socialise' them, to prepare them for release. It shows two people. One is Thompson. The Observer has seen the picture but can give no further details because of the injunction - which will last for the pair's entire lives - that the High Court passed in January to prevent identification of the Bulger killers. But its very existence threatens to destroy all the carefully laid plans that have been made by the special Home Office unit set up to deal with the two killers' release. It reveals the ease with which the elaborate - and hugely expensive operation - to hide the two men can be compromised. Last week there was talk in the rough working-class Liverpool suburb of Kirkby, where the parents of the murdered boy now live, of posting the picture on the internet and of raising a bounty to reward anyone who tracked either killer down. If done carefully there would be little risk of prosecution. There are other pictures too. Last week Merseyside police launched an internal inquiry into how photofits of the pair - taken in 1993 - were also leaked. Until recently those responsible for keeping the Bulger killers, who are now 18, safe after their release were confident that their plans would succeed. The example of Mary Bell, who killed two children in the Sixties, was released from prison and effectively disappeared, was used to prove it could be done. That was 20 years ago. Since then dozens of police supergrasses and witnesses in high-profile trials have been successfully given new identities. The operation has certainly been comprehensive. It started the moment the two boys left the specially raised dock in Preston Crown Court. They went straight into the first of a series of secure homes. Their files were already huge - packed with reports by social services, child psychiatrists, medical experts, rehabilitation specialists. The aim, in the words of one expert, was to 'repair them as human beings'. Few details are known about the men who these two boys from deeply troubled homes have become. Much cannot be published. In 1993 they were capable of taking a two-year-old and dropping him on his head, abusing him, throwing paint in his eyes, throwing bricks at him, hitting him with metal bars and finally placing his body on railway tracks in the hope that a train might cut it in half. Now, according to Lord Chief Justice Woolf who reviewed their sentences last year, they are changed. He quoted the report of a consultant adolescent forensic psychiatrist who said that Venables 'has made exceptional development, [with] acknowledgment of the enormity of his offence and understanding of his actions as a child'. Thompson, who yawned in court as the murder was described, has also made 'exceptional progress in his current placement with regard to maturity, education and insight gained in therapy', the report said. He now 'accepts responsibility for the grave acts he committed and shows great remorse for the pain and suffering he caused,' the psychiatrist concluded. Crucially the report stated that 'neither [boy] has shown any aggression or propensity for violence during his detention'. It may be that the intensive rehabilitation undergone by the boys - involving therapy, one-to-one education and continuous supervision and monitoring - has worked. Care workers have felt sufficiently confident to take Thompson on a series of trips to see Manchester United play at Old Trafford, to the Royal Shakespeare Company in Stratford upon Avon and to shopping malls such as the Trafford Centre in Manchester and Sheffield's Meadowhall. Ironically it was on one of these trips that the CCTV pictures were taken. Thompson has also progressed well in his education. He now has five GCSEs, A-levels and a special interest in design and use of textiles. Amazingly, for a special assignment he made a wedding dress. Much of the progress may be due to his mother, Ann, who was vilified as a failure and a drunkard at the time of the murder. Despite having five other children, she has followed her son around the country as he has moved from home to home. As she cannot drive she has found homes close to him and is usually there to meet him after lessons end at 3pm, often with food he likes. Venables too has apparently done well. He has six GCSEs, with good grades, A-levels, and he reads and writes well. Though once he was overweight from boredom eating he is now fitter. Part of the preparation for life outside the homes includes physical conditioning. His parents have visited him regularly and he has been taken on 'socialising' trips: to pubs, to play five-a-side football and to go on outdoor activities days such as abseiling and white water rafting. On one occasion when he was identified by a member of the public while out shopping he was terrified and moved quickly to another unit. After years in care the two boys have lost their strong Liverpool accents. They have been called by new names for several months. They have been introduced to the probation officers, all very experienced and senior people, who will be dealing with them on an almost daily basis after their release. They have been intensively briefed on their new identities and hard decisions will have been made on the number of people who will know their true history. As a condition of their release, legal sources close to the case say, they have been banned from associating with each other and from returning to Liverpool. Their new names will have been flagged on police computers. If they are stopped by police for any reason, the local chief constable - if not the Home Secretary - will be informed. Darren Nicholls knows exactly how hard it will be. He vanished off the face of the earth in May 1996. The stocky electrician from Braintree had been arrested as part of a customs operation against a cannabis-smuggling gang operating between Belgium and the Essex coastline. It soon emerged that Nicholls had been the unwitting getaway driver for a murder that took place the previous December. The bodies of Patrick Tate, Tony Tucker and Craig Rolfe, each blasted in the head with a shotgun at point-blank range, had been found in a Range Rover in a quiet country lane. When Nicholls agreed to testify, the police-run witness protection programme swung into action. 'Basically, they erase your entire life,' he told The Observer last week. 'You're given a whole new life and anything that could lead to someone working out who you used to be is got rid of. They destroy your birth and wedding certificates, invalidate your national insurance number. Your passport, tax details, driving licence, bank accounts - even your criminal record - everything is closed down and you start over. 'It's the hardest thing I have ever had to do. You can't have any contact with your family or your old friends. You can never go back to the places where you grew up in case someone recognises you. You never feel safe. You spend your life waiting for someone to tap you on the shoulder and say, "Hey, don't I know you from somewhere?"' For the first few years of his new life, Nicholls was told that if he were to be 'compromised' he would be moved and have to start all over again. In some cases, people have been moved three or four times. But even for Nicholls there were problems. 'My wife moved into the safe house while I was still in prison,' Nichols said. 'The police told her to tell the neighbours that I was working abroad. That was fine, but then I turned up. No tan and no money. It was ridiculous.' Probation sources say that Thompson and Venables will be released to some kind of 'halfway house', probably a hostel where they can be supervised closely. They will of, course, be free to come and go as they like. They will, for the first time in their adult lives, be interacting with scores of people every day. If they are indeed at all 'normalised' they will make friends, want company, want sex. And everything that is normal is going to put them at risk. Security experts this weekend said that the chances of the two men staying unidentified for the course of their natural lives are slim. 'It'll be like trying to run an undercover operative in hostile territory for 60 years,' said Mike Bluestone, of Berkeley Security Bureau. 'There are so many things that can go wrong. Those closest to them will be the greatest threat. Just one slip and everything can go wrong.' According to sources on Merseyside there have already been problems with indiscretions by some who know the killers and their families. The locations of their homes were supposed to be a carefully guarded secret but are now known to many. One particular incident in a pub around Christmas caused grave concern. Security operatives say that, even more than their families, the greatest risk to the pair's security will be themselves. 'What happens if they fall in love? They are going to want to come clean, to tell the person they love the truth. But then what happens? And what happens 20 years down the line?' Bluestone said. Probation experts point out that recidivism rates are very high - up to 80 per cent offending in some parts of Britain - among those released from the sort of unit that Venables and Thompson have been held in. 'The whole thing is a minefield,' said Harry Fletcher, of the National Association of Probation Officers. 'The most likely scenario is they get into a scuffle or smash something up after a few beers. There are all sorts of things that can go wrong.' Even if security within the family is tight and reoffending is not a problem there will be many who are tempted to disclose confidential information. Leaks have been frequent throughout the Bulger saga, spurred partly by outrage at the killings and partly by the huge media interest in the story, both in Britain and abroad. Stories, some true and some false, based on correspondence, on local authority information, even just interviews with careworkers, have appeared in newspapers over the past few years. No one is beyond suspicion. 'The police have been leaking on this since the beginning,' said one legal source close to the case last week. Investigators believe the CCTV picture was leaked by someone linked to Thompson's secure care home who tipped off security staff at a venue visited by the boy on a day trip. It is unlikely that this leak will be the last. The Bulger case has forced the debate between rehabilitation and punishment, between supposed leniency and harsh sentencing, to a new intensity. The boys were handed an eight-year sentence but then were told by Michael Howard, the Conservative Home Secretary, that they would be detained for 15 years. Further court actions forced the term back down. Now European legislation protects the killers' right to privacy and ensures protection by the state. The power of politicians to detain child criminals has been restricted. But legal challenges to the tariffs awarded to Venables and Thompson - from the sophisticated and effective Justice for James campaign set up by his parents - were under way until a few months ago. In Kirkby, a vast, sprawling, working-class suburb with a reputation for crime and violence, feelings are running high. Robin Makin, lawyer for James's father, Ralph Bulger, who has threatened to hunt down the pair if they are freed, said that the eventual exposure of Venables and Thompson was 'inevitable'. 'It is only going to be a matter of time. If society doesn't have sufficient punishment there is a risk of people taking the law into their own hands,' Makin said. 'Where is the punishment?' said one supporter of the Justice for James Campaign. 'I grew up in a broken home too but look what they got. They killed someone and they get all that education. I got nothing. If I think about it I just get angry enough to want to kill them.' 'For us it's like the shooting of JFK. Everyone remembers where they were when they heard about it,' said one former schoolfriend of Ralph Bulger. Paul Kelly, a 43-year-old labourer, was more forthright: 'They are going to be running all their lives. No matter where they are, they will get found.' Additional reporting by Tony Thompson