It was at about five past nine on a Monday morning 25 years ago that Alec Jeffreys took out a sheet of film from a developing tank that had been left slowly processing over the weekend - and noticed something that would change the face of police investigation.Standing at the lab bench along the wall of what is today his office on the University of Leicester campus, he saw something blindingly obvious.Tests on blood samples provided by a lab technician and her parents showed both similarities and differences in the family's DNA. Within about half an hour, he realised the possible scope of DNA fingerprinting, which uses variations in the genetic code to identify individuals."When I first told an informal lunchtime seminar that it could be used to identify rapists, a considerable number of people in the audience thought it was a dotty idea and burst out laughing," he said. "This was such a bizarre concept that you could take DNA and apply it to real life." That September 1984 discovery was, Jeffreys stresses, an accidental result of "blue skies research". The first results were a mess, he said, and led to two concerns. Could the technology be improved to the point where it was of practical use? And "would anyone take a blind bit of notice?" Both concerns were answered within months. A report in Nature was picked up in the press and Jeffreys was contacted by a lawyer with a tricky immigration case in spring 1985.The dispute involved a family of UK citizens originally from Ghana. When the youngest son returned to the UK it was alleged that his passport had been tampered with. Immigration officials claimed the boy was not a member of the immediate family, and as a result he was not granted residency. However, the DNA was conclusive: the boy had the correct profile of familial DNA that matched with the other children of that nuclear family. The Home Office dropped the case.The publicity led to a storm of immigration casework and an invitation from the Home Office to continue research. Jeffreys was approached for help in paternity suits. "We were responding to demand. We had not realised that there were so many people desperate for fairly definitive identifying DNA tests. If you have a new technology and are asked to apply it to a kid where there is a real threat of deportation, I think you are morally obliged to do it."The technology grabbed headlines following the rapes and murders in Narborough, Leicestershire, of schoolgirls Lynda Mann, in 1983, and Dawn Ashworth, in 1986. A local man, Richard Buckland, confessed to killing Dawn. "Prove he murdered Lynda as well," the police asked Jeffreys, who took semen samples from the girls' bodies and blood from Buckland. The results showed Dawn and Linda had been raped by the same man but not Buckland. Colin Pitchfork was eventually caught trying to avoid taking the test after police asked all local men to give a sample. He admitted his guilt - later confirmed by DNA fingerprinting - and was sentenced to life imprisonment.DNA swabs taken in minor crimes have pinpointed murderers. Steven Wright, who murdered five women in Ipswich in 2006, was caught because his DNA profile was added to the national database after he was convicted of stealing £80 years earlier.