The national DNA database is on the verge of loading its 2 millionth profile, the home secretary, David Blunkett, was due to announce today.On what would, coincidentally, have been the 100th birthday of George Orwell, the creator of the totalitarian Big Brother state in his novel 1984, Mr Blunkett was saying police have also gathered 5.5 million sets of fingerprints. In a keynote speech on the importance of technology to 21st century policing, Mr Blunkett is expected to insist it is vital to stay one step ahead of the criminals. "The DNA and fingerprint databases have become vital weapons in law enforcement, making our communities safer by helping to put thousands of repeat criminals behind bars," Mr Blunkett will say in the annual Police Foundation speech in London tonight."Every week our national DNA database matches over 1,000 DNA profiles taken from crime scenes with names on the database. Around 42% of those matches are turned into detections within an average of 14 days."He is also expected to highlight new powers in the controversial criminal justice bill that will allow officers to take DNA and fingerprint samples at the point of arrest, rather than the point of charge. "This sends the strong message that the victims of crime are being put first, and that those who commit crime will be caught, convicted and punished," he is expected to claim. Civil liberties groups have been critical of the database, particularly of a court ruling that allowed the DNA of people who have been cleared of any involvement in crime to be retained on it.A spokesman for Liberty, Gareth Crossman, explained: "The government is hell bent on creating a national DNA database by stealth. It claims that only criminals will be listed, yet is passing legislation through parliament so that DNA samples will be retained indefinitely for anyone who is ever arrested, whether guilty or innocent. "We are led to believe that DNA evidence is foolproof, yet Professor Sir Alec Jeffreys, the inventor of the DNA database, has warned that it is unsafe to use it to secure a conviction," he said.In the financial year 2002-2003 there were 49,913 matches and 21,098 detections from DNA, compared with 21,329 and 6,151 respectively in 1998-1999. The proportion of crimes solved by police where DNA is loaded into the database is 38%, compared with the overall figure of 24%. In burglary cases, 48% of incidents are solved by police when DNA is loaded into the database, compared with just 14% overall.