Cards landing on the mat over the past few weeks remind us of the message of the angels in the Christmas story: 'Peace on Earth and goodwill to all people.' This is undoubtedly one of the themes of Christmas to which people, religious or not, can relate. And in general, there is peace in the world this millennium, this Christmas 2000, but it is, as a then-lucid Boris Yeltsin warned of at the end of the Cold War, a cold peace.Christmas is cancelled in Bethlehem. The Balkans may not be so much in the headlines but there are a lot of cold homes there at this time of year - and a lot of cold hearts after all that has been lived through. In our own country the fragile peace in Northern Ireland seems to stand on a knife edge, whilst in Peckham, South London, a 10-year-old boy, Damilola Taylor, has died in a pool of blood, in the stairwell of one of the soulless tower blocks which, until the recent demolitions, have disfigured so many of our cities.Public reaction to Damilola's death has been akin to the shock that was felt on reading the Macpherson Report on the death of Stephen Lawrence. Following that report, there has been a cold peace between the Metropolitan Police and the black communities in London. The danger now is that the gains made will be set back. The basic fact of policing urban areas is that there must be adequate numbers of officers, policing with the support of the local community. Since Macpherson several things have happened. There has been a drop in police numbers, although this is now being reversed. It may well be that levels of pay and the cost of housing in London provide one explanation for the drop in numbers. But another element might well have been a certain loss of morale. The term 'Institutionalised Racism' took some getting used to. There was, certainly, a backing-off from stop and search, but it had been the widespread use of stop and search which had most alienated black youth from the police, making them and their elders reluctant to provide vital intelligence and information. The Metropolitan Police have made a real effort to take on board the lessons of Macpherson and relationships with the black community have improved. This bore fruit in the days following the Brixton bomb. The police gathered a group of local community leaders together and trusted them with confidential information. From that moment the mood was one of police and community working together. It has been in this climate of a growing mutual confidence that a more targeted stop and search has been developing. If this process of co-operation is set back it is the black communities on the housing estates which will suffer, not politicians. During the summer there was a great deal of loose talk, some of it racist in character, about bogus asylum seekers. As bishops we became worried that such talk might be extremely damaging to the fabric of our society, particularly with a general election on the horizon. With leaders from other churches we visited each of the party leaders and asked them to pledge that if any of their candidates or supporters was tempted to play 'the race card' during the election then they would condemn it. Each of the three party leaders gave us this assurance. I took detailed notes during the two meetings I attended - those meetings with William Hague and the Prime Minister - and in each case we made it clear that what was said was on public record. In both meetings the MacPherson Report was referred to and assurances were given. I have no doubt that the three party leaders were, and are, sincere in not wishing to see 'the race card' used, but in our situation of a post-MacPherson 'cold peace' it does not take much to inflame old suspicions. When the parents of both Stephen and Damilola have reacted angrily this week to statements from William Hague, it is clear that we are all treading on sensitive ground. Human-friendly housing will shortly replace the tower-block where Damilola died. In these days of 'cold peace' the people of Peckham have a new determination to work together following the trauma of his death. We would do well to follow their example. The Rt. Rev. Tom Butler is Bishop of SouthwarkMore about the Damilola Taylor caseGallery: the CCTV shots