Gordon Brown last night moved to tackle growing public fears over knife crime by ordering police to prosecute, rather than caution, anyone caught carrying knives. Backing zero-tolerance policing in a dozen knife-crime "hot spots" across the country, the prime minister said more knife carriers should be prosecuted in an effort to rebuild public confidence and reclaim the streets from violent gangs."Society cannot cope with people carrying guns and knives and threatening to use them. There are boundaries you cannot cross - and one is this country's zero tolerance on knives. Where police have previously been cautioning people, there now has to be a presumption of prosecution," he told the Sun newspaper."It's neither cool, nor does it make you safer, to carry a knife. We must ease people's fears. They deserve freedom from fear about their safety on the streets."The hard line will apply to urban areas where knife crime is most prevalent, including London, Manchester, Birmingham and Liverpool. It is understood that officers will be told to prosecute people of any age carrying knives. The prime minister is also looking at a total ban on the most lethal hunting knives.Brown's intervention comes after a spate of high-profile attacks last year, including a string of fatal stabbings across the country over the Christmas period, and after the murder on Saturday of a 24-year-old medical student in south London.Khalil Nasseri was stabbed in the heart after a row at his cousin's Brixton greengrocers, allegedly after the pair confronted a man who had tried to steal an orange two days earlier.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, will unveil the government's Violent Crime Action Plan next month, a major policy initiative to curb violent crime, which is expected to include recommendations to increase the number of searches conducted by police and an increased reliance on evidence from CCTV cameras.Extending the scope of his attack on knife culture, Brown said that the makers and sellers of violent video and computer games must shoulder some responsibility. "No one wants censorship or an interfering state, but the industry has a responsibility to society and needs to exercise that."Under the plan, there will also be greater protection for witnesses afraid to give evidence, and tougher action on deactivated guns which are then converted by criminals into working weapons. There will also be initiatives to divert young people from joining gangs.Twenty seven teenagers were killed in London in 2007, including 16-year-old Nassirudeen Osawe, who died on a street in Islington, north London, just after Christmas.The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, is believed to have already ordered his officers not to caution anyone found carrying a knife in some areas.