A young mother of three who was dragged from a burning house died from two gunshot wounds, police said yesterday.Lucy Hargreaves, 22, was dragged from the family home in Walton, Liverpool, as fire swept through the ground floor. Merseyside police yesterday revealed she had been shot twice - in the head and chest - before the blaze started. It is thought she was already dead by the time the fire took hold at the terrace house early on Wednesday. Police are searching for three men who had their faces concealed and were dressed in dark clothing. They were seen acting suspiciously in the area shortly before the fire broke out. Detective Chief Inspector Ian Mulcahey, who is leading the murder investigation, said the fire could easily have killed Ms Hargreaves' partner and her two-year-old daughter. The couple's two other children, aged five and three, were on holiday with their grandparents in the south of England. Mr Mulcahey said: "It defies belief why anyone would do something like this. There is nothing to show why people would pick on this lady and we are trying to establish a motive. "This was a targeted attack at the premises, but there is no evidence that this is linked to any other incident in Merseyside. It is not drugs or gangland related. "Three young children have lost their mother, and her partner has been left traumatised." The three suspected gunmen got into the house at around 12.30am on Wednesday. Police said Ms Hargreaves was downstairs in the living room, because she had been having trouble sleeping. Her 28-year-old partner was woken by the incident and went to the top of the stairs to see the fire on the ground floor. Both he and his daughter escaped by jumping from a rear window. They were treated in hospital for minor injuries. Neighbour Rachel Verdy, 22, said: "I looked out of the window and the house was blazing. The dad and daughter were outside and covered in black soot. Then another neighbour ran into the house and tried to rescue the girl. He managed to get her out but the ambulances couldn't help her. A Lexus RX300 estate car was discovered burnt out 250 yards away. Detectives want to speak to anyone who saw it in the hours before the murder. A spokeswoman for Merseyside police said: "We believe the attackers made their way into the house, shooting the woman in the living room. They then used petrol to set the house alight."