Boy George's capacity for controversy is matched only by his capacity for re-invention. Ever since George O'Dowd, a young singer from Eltham in south-east London, changed his name, painted his face and launched himself on the world as the flamboyant and deliberately androgynous frontman of Culture Club in 1982 he has been something of a media fixture.The fame and chart success that he and the band found with singles such as Do You Really Want To Hurt Me? and Karma Chameleon was later eclipsed by his slide into heroin addiction. Drug problems, tabloid interest and internal feuds broke up Culture Club in the mid-1980s, but O'Dowd was quick to repackage himself as a solo artist, releasing songs including Everything I Own, Keep Me In Mind and To be Reborn. In the early 1990s he became involved with the Hare Krishna movement and sang the theme song to Neil Jordan's 1992 film The Crying Game. He also found time to pen his autobiography, which bore the not entirely innuendo-free title, Take It Like a Man.The candid memoir, which revealed his previously secret relationship with Culture Club drummer Jon Moss, sold well, but landed him in trouble with Kirk Brandon, another musician who sued him for claiming that they had had a sexual relationship. During the high court action, Brandon, who was conducting his own case, told O'Dowd: "You are a self-advertising homosexual." The singer shot back: "And I've had a good career." O'Dowd also said that he had warned Brandon that he intended to write about their alleged affair, adding: "I wrote about how handsome, how talented you were; how I loved you. I don't see what's defamatory about those comments." He successfully defended himself against the claim of malicious falsehood and Brandon was ordered to contribute towards O'Dowd's legal fees. By the turn of the millennium, O'Dowd had carved a niche as a successful international DJ. In 2003, he moved to the US when his autobiographical musical Taboo transferred to Broadway. But his previous drugs troubles returned to haunt him in 2005 when he was arrested in New York on suspicion of possessing cocaine. The charge was eventually dropped, but the singer was given community service in 2006 after pleading guilty to falsely reporting a burglary at his New York apartment. Last year he told Q magazine: "I've been strung out on drugs for the past five years. But this time I'm clean for good. I don't want to die." Snaresbrook crown court heard that O'Dowd had stopped taking drugs and had begun to attend Narcotics Anonymous meetings, but it remains to be seen whether the man who once said he preferred "a nice cup of tea" to sex has finally learned to put controversy behind him.