Tony Blair today made clear the government will refocus the British criminal justice system towards achieving more convictions and speedier trials, in a controversial policy statement to a conference in London.The speech - ahead of next month's criminal justice white paper - drops the biggest hint yet that the prime minister, alarmed by rising street crime figures, is determined to drop the legal precedent of "double jeopardy", the law preventing suspects from being tried twice for the same crime.Most controversially, Mr Blair spoke of a backing away from the recommendations of the McPherson report into the Stephen Lawrence killing, telling his audience: "The days of the old hobby horses about the police and how they treated people, the days of believing the whole issue is simply around how we give better protection to defendants - I believe these have changed."The government - and the prime minister in particular - have come under heavy political pressure of the rise in street crime, often associated with violent muggings and mobile phone theft, which has seen Mr Blair attempt several times to seize the initiative.This has led to embarrasments and u-turns, such as Mr Blair's idea, floated in a speech in Germany, that yobs should be frogmarched to cashpoints for on the spot fines, and a commitment at prime minister's questions, later retracted, that street crime in the capital would be under control by September this year.In his speech today Mr Blair condemns the criminal justice system as having "unnecessary complexities in every corner - damaging not just the efficiency and effectiveness of justice but public confidence tooHe said: "It is a system with no overall direction; no overall lines of management or accountability.He added: "In Britain you still need a whole library to understand the law's rules and procedures. But in Canada, anyone can go out and buy a paperback containing the whole legal code."The white paper will be the 11th criminal justice act brought in by the Labour government since 1997. It is likely to allow the courts to try a suspect for a serious crime a second time, if new evidence emerges. Mr Blair said today: "We need to look again at the double jeopardy rule, in place to prevent people being tried twice for the same crime. For serious offences, if there is overwhelming new evidence that implicates the accused again, they should go back to court. That is the case in Germany, Finland and Denmark. If it makes sense there, it should make sense here too.""Some of our reforms will be controversial. Many rules of evidence and other procedures were introduced to prevent miscarriages of justice for the defendant - and those protections for the defendant have to remain. "But it's also a miscarriage of justice when delays and time wasting deny victims justice for months on end."It's a miscarriage of justice when the police see their hard work and bravery thrown away by the courts who can let a mugger out on bail for the seventh or eighth time to offend again, or when courts don't have the secure accommodation or prison places to put people. "It's perhaps the biggest miscarriage of justice in today's system when the guilty walk away unpunished." Mr Blair said the new white paper would draw on reports commissioned by the government two years ago into the operation of the criminal courts and the sentencing system. "It will amount to probably the most considered re-examination of our criminal justice system for many, many decades," he said. The legislation will bring "clearer and swifter rules of evidence that trust the common sense and the decency of judge and jury", he added. There will also be a review of the double jeopardy rule which prevents people being tried more than once for the same crime - as promised in the government's election manifesto. "For serious offences if there is overwhelming new evidence that implicates the accused again they should go back to court," said Mr Blair. The white paper will also meet another manifesto pledge to give prosecutors the right to appeal against a judge's decision to stop the trial on technical grounds, he added. Other aspects of the reform will include: 路 More supervision of offenders released from prison, as recommended in last year's sentencing review by former Home Office civil servant John Halliday. 路 Measures to ensure violent and dangerous offenders serve more of their sentence in jail by abolishing the automatic early release scheme, plus "tougher supervision" after release. 路 "Record investment" in prison regimes, boosting education to reduce the number of offenders who leave jail only to commit more crime. 路 Investment in technology to allow all parts of the criminal justice system to "communicate effectively" with each other.