Do you remember "A new politics"? It was that turn-of-last-month movement for restoring faith in the way in which we are governed. It sort of coincided with the vague tetchiness that capitalists had just blown up capitalism and the plebs were expected to foot the bill. Came just after the Great Jonathan Ross Wars.Once upon a time – June, basically – a series of scandals made it voguish to go around saying that not only ought the public to be exempted from funding lavish accommodation for MPs' ducks, but that the whole rotten system needed reform. Even some members of parliament themselves were saying it. Honestly, they really were.And so to how the Commons passed Wednesday afternoon. The Conservatives used an opposition day debate to call on the government to review the 2003 Extradition Act, with the specific aim of aiding Gary McKinnon, the Pentagon hacker whom the US wishes to extradite to face trial and up to 70 years in one of its fine prisons. McKinnon has been diagnosed with Asperger's and the Daily Mail has taken up his case. Without wishing to spoil the ending, no fewer than 74 Labour MPs who had previously signed written motions backing McKinnon or demanding a review of extradition agreements with the US were too craven to defy the party line, and so the motion was defeated.You need hardly be told that the debate played out to a typically underpopulated chamber, or that government engagement tended toward the half-hearted. Indeed, one had the overwhelming sense that the home secretary really just couldn't be done with the hassle, and anyway the argument was way over his head. "I accept that I am not a lawyer," Alan Johnson declared blithely. "I am a hack politician. I go by the advice I get."Mm. One doesn't wish to state the obvious – though on this evidence it feels like the latest in a long line of savage cosmic jokes – but this man is home secretary. It's all very well for call-centre operatives and Little Britain characters to drone "Computer says no" at the public, but when you hold one of the great offices of state, and are in charge of an annual budget of £10bn, it does make you look a bit of a spanner. Can you imagine Roy Jenkins addressing the house during the debate on capital punishment with the words: "Don't look at me, luv, I just work here"?As for other lowlights of the afternoon, they would include Rotherham MP Denis MacShane intimating that McKinnon's late diagnosis of Asperger's was a ruse. By way of context, MacShane was the one who wrote that chummy open letter to Michael Martin back in May, suggesting he stand down as Speaker for the good of parliament's reputation. Now he's leaping up in the Commons to accuse someone of inventing an Asperger's diagnosis. It's like a whole new politics out there.Just for a laugh, let's just remind ourselves of said open letter, which positively reeked of the clubby assumption that all would be well if Martin took one for the team. After some presumably parodic guff about "the glory of the Commons", MacShane mused of Mr Speaker's putative replacement: "I do not know who is the Solomon, the Solon, the Lincoln or the Mandela among our midst who can take over ..."The Mandela, if you please! When considering the actual choice available, why does one picture a truckstop caff worker who has just been asked whether he has any mint tea or lapsang souchong, and is going through the motions before he serves up the inevitable mug of weak Tesco own-brand. "Yeah, we're fresh out of Mandelas and Lincolns, I'm afraid. I can do you a John Bercow though?"Back to Wednesday's "debate", then, which seemed to crystallise so much of what repulses the electorate about their representatives. There was the secretary of state who seemed to wear staggering incompetence as a badge of honour. There were hundreds of no-shows – including David Blunkett, the man who originally forced through the challenged legislation, and who might have cared to enlighten the current home secretary as to its finer points.And then there was just the general irrationality. After all, voting to review the law would put the government not simply in tune with what would seem to be the majority of public opinion, but on the side of the Daily Mail – a position it has courted so obsequiously and with such amusingly little success since the New Labour project was but a twinkle in Philip Gould's eye.Yet business as usual prevailed. We shall play out with another excerpt from MacShane's missive, wherein he airily predicted that the Commons "will survive this scandal as it survived earlier scandals ... The great historian Macaulay wrote that there was nothing 'so ridiculous as the British public in one of its periodical fits of morality'. The British public is in one of its fits of morality right now but this will pass."Do excuse our ridiculousness, Denis. We are now back in our state of nihilistic despair, and you will find that rather less of a caprice.