Specialist search teams aim to begin work inside the fire-ravaged home of a missing millionaire and his family this evening or tomorrow, police have said. Christopher Foster, his wife Jill and their 15-year-old daughter Kirstie are feared to have died in the blaze at their secluded country estate in the early hours of Tuesday. The damage to the seven-bedroom home, in Maesbrook, near Oswestry, Shropshire, is so bad that police have not yet been able to begin a thorough examination. Much of the £1.2m red-brick mansion was gutted by the inferno, while the nearby block of stables and garages was completely leveled.Superintendent Gary Higgins, from West Mercia Constabulary, said every possible line of inquiry to trace the missing family was being followed. He said: "Until we can enter the property, we do not know whether the family was inside at the time of the fire, which we believe was started deliberately. "A lot of work has been done by the fire service overnight to damp it down and reduce the temperature enough for work to stabilise the structure to begin and make it safe to enter. "Once it has been deemed safe, which we are hoping will be either this evening or tomorrow, specialist search teams and forensic experts will go in."Higgins said the search was likely to take several days. "It is a large property and there is a lot of debris inside which will have to be painstakingly sifted through and examined. This is not something which can be done quickly," he said."Scenes of crime officers have already carried out examinations at the various outhouses." Since the fire, it has been revealed that two men stood trial on charges of blackmailing Foster, a 50-year-old businessman, but were cleared by a jury in November 2006. Shrewsbury crown court said Timothy Baker, 35, from Shifnal, Shropshire, was cleared of blackmail and found guilty of perverting the course of justice, for which he was given a community order. Leo Dennis, 42, whose last known address was in Telford, Shropshire, was also cleared of blackmail. Police have said they cannot make any comment on the trial. Foster is a well-known and apparently popular figure in the area. He drove two Porsches and an Aston Martin and rode horses.He is thought to have been successful in developing insulation technology for the offshore oil industry. His wife is the company secretary and he is said to have been a multimillionaire before his 30th birthday. Newspaper reports have suggested that the Fosters were shot dead inside the house, which was then set alight.But West Mercia police has refused to confirm or deny the reports. "There is a lot of speculation going on. When we are able to, we will issue facts," said a spokesman."We are not able to go into the building so we do not know what, if anything, is inside. We are not making any comment on speculation."Today, worried friends paid tribute to 15-year-old Kirstie, a pupil at the independent Ellesmere College in north Shropshire, on a newspaper forum. Lucy Harrington, from Shrewsbury, wrote on the Daily Mail website: "Kirstie I hope you're ok. You're one of my closest friends. We have had our ups and downs as friends but you mean so much to me as a friend. I hope you're ok, you don't deserve it and nor do your mum and dad. Love you." About 80 West Mercia police and civilian staff are involved in Operation Feedback, the investigation of the incident.Police are treating the fire as arson but have not declared it a murder inquiry. They are examining CCTV footage from around the property.Detective Superintendent Jon Groves, who is leading the investigation, has asked to speak to anyone who might have seen the Fosters over the bank holiday weekend or knew their possible whereabouts.