Two British racists who fled to the US were jailedtoday following what is believed to be the UK's first conviction for inciting racial hatred online.Simon Sheppard, 52, and Stephen Whittle, 42, were sentenced at Leeds crown court for a number of race-hate crimes.The court heard the pair had published grotesque images of murdered Jewish people alongside cartoons and articles ridiculing other ethnic groups.During their first trial the pair skipped bail and fled to California where they sought asylum claiming they were being persecuted for their rightwing views. They were locked up before being deported back to the UK.Judge Rodney Grant told the pair the material that was used on leaflets and online was abusive and insulting and had the potential to cause grave social harm. He said: "These are serious offences. I can say without any hesitation that I have rarely seen, or had to read or consider, material which is so abusive and insulting ... towards racial groups within our own society."The court heard the investigation began when a complaint about a leaflet called Tales of the Holohoax was reported to the police in 2004. It was traced back to a post office box registered to Sheppard in Hull, and police later found a website featuring racially inflammatory material.Prosecutors said one article suggested that Auschwitz was a holiday camp for Jews provided by the Nazis. Jonathan Sandiford, prosecuting, said: "The general theme of the article was that Auschwitz-Birkenau was in fact a holiday camp provided by the Nazi regime. A constant theme was that the Jewish people had made up the story of the Holocaust as a slur on the German people."Referring to another article by Whittle, the prosecutor added: "He returned to what appears to be a favourite theme: the notion that black people are not as equal as whites. They are sex-crazed, bloodthirsty savages."Sheppard, from Selby, North Yorkshire, who has a previous race-hate conviction, was found guilty of 16 offences and sentenced to four years and 10 months. Whittle, from Preston, was found guilty of five offences and sentenced to two years and four months.Adil Khan, head of diversity and community cohesion at Humberside police, described the successful prosecution as groundbreaking.