Your article (Offenders' anger control classes help make some more dangerous, April 24) stated that, following the tragic murder of John Monckton, "Anger management courses for convicted armed robbers, wife beaters and stalkers are being axed by the prison and probation services", and that people whose crimes are committed purposefully are now to be excluded. Respectfully, you were misinformed.The Controlling Anger and Learning to Manage it (Calm) programme, which I co-authored, was never intended to reduce violence that is "instrumental" or purposeful. To the best of my knowledge it has never been recommended as a treatment for instrumental aggression. Excluding people whose offence involves instrumental aggression is not, as you say "a blow to anger management programmes", it is business as usual.However, your report is accurate when it says that anger management programmes "have gained a reputation for therapeutic value that has been growing in recent years". This is based on a growing list of success stories.Calm works in teaching self-control skills and reducing explosive or unplanned violent attacks - solid research evidence proves this. The reason that John Monckton's killer, Damien Hanson's Calm training did "very little to tackle his use of instrumental violence" is that it is not designed for this purpose.It is important to remember that anger problems can co-exist: instrumental and non-instrumental aggression problems can exist in one person. In such cases, different treatments are required. Is it appropriate to treat explosive anger in someone who also shows instrumental aggression? It is - but treating the former doesn't do much to alter the latter.Your report doesn't mention whether Hanson was treated for instrumental aggression. It does mention his success in attaining control of his emotions - the goal of Calm. Your writer correctly distinguishes between these two very different psychological problems: each requires its own appropriate treatment.You also say that Hanson's 24 sessions of Calm "helped him convince a parole board review panel that he should be released." Calm did no such thing - nothing in the programme teaches persuasiveness or any related skills or tactics.The British prison and probation services adhere well to internationally accepted best practice principles of correctional rehabilitation. Scientifically proven rehabilitation programmes are the best tools a society has for reducing offending behaviours. They will, however, always be imperfect.Mr Monckton's family will likely take little solace from the fact that their loss may reflect the imperfect outcomes of rehabilitation efforts. But there is little comfort to be had from headlines that inaccurately attribute crimes to treatments. Calm did not enable Hanson to fool his parole board, nor did it make him kill. Prison and probation services use the programme because it works, and both have demonstrated the intent to properly implement it.· Dr William Winogron is a psychologist and former consultant to Correctional Service Canada DrWinogron@s4potential.com· The Response column offers those who have been written about in the Guardian an opportunity to reply. If you wish to respond, at greater length than in a letter, to an article in which you have featured either directly or indirectly, please email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content