A teacher who was jailed for firing a pellet gun after she claimed youths vandalised her home went on hunger strike yesterday when her application to be freed on bail pending an appeal was refused.However the court did tell her that her case was being treated as urgent and would be heard on May 5, if not before. Linda Walker, 48, a special needs teacher, was jailed at Manchester crown court on March 29 for six months after being found guilty of affray and possessing a firearm with intent to cause fear and violence. During the case the court heard she had fired the pellet gun at the pavement in front of a gang outside her home last August. She told police she had received nuisance phone calls abusing her family, her garden shed had been broken into, and a car and her garden had been vandalised. Walker, from Urmston, Greater Manchester, says her appeal is based on new evidence proving that what she told police about the boys' behaviour was true. In a statement from prison, she said: "I shot an unloaded air pistol at the pavement when a convicted criminal invaded my personal space. He taunted me to shoot him and refused to move away from me." During the trial it emerged that two members of the group involved in the confrontation with Walker had criminal records. The teacher's children, Craig, 17, and Donna, 20, fear that, unless given bail, she will have served her sentence before the appeal is heard. Walker says her appeal is based on new evidence from a milkman proving that at least one boy was lying when he said he had never been on her property. Her counsel, Farrhat Arshad, told Mr Justice Royce in the court of appeal in London it would be argued that, although firearms offences usually attracted a prison term, she should never have been jailed because the sentence was "wrong in principle" in the unusual circumstances of her case. A probation report had recommended a community rehabilitation order rather than prison. "Although the offence was serious, she is a low risk to the public and there is a low risk of reoffending," said Ms Arshad. The judge said it was clearly an unusual case and there was "a great deal of public sympathy" for Walker. But her appeal application had been given an early date and it would not be right for him to grant bail because, as a judge sitting alone, he was unable to consider the merits of the case.