The Metropolitan police yesterday announced their strategy to ensure that a case like Stephen Lawrence's would, in Sir Paul Condon's words, never happen again. Random testing will check whether officers behave in a courteous and correct fashion regardless of the colour of a complainant or witness. New fast-response teams will deal with murders, and a study will be carried out to find out what Londoners want from their police force. An additional 180 detectives are being drafted in to investigating murders, which will mean fewer officers on the streets, but Sir Paul believes that this priority has to be made. He said it was essential for murder teams to be on the scene in the 'golden hour' after a killing to ensure that all clues are collected and all leads followed. Other changes announced in the package, Protect and Respect, include: * Focus on the reporting of racially motivated crime. Because of internal police publicity, reported racial incidents have increased by 68 per cent in the last five months. The intention is to encourage officers to be more aware of what constitutes such an incident. * All racially-motivated crimes are to be fast-tracked through the forensic system, with a dedicated Forensic Science Service co-ordinator.  * New measures to deal with race and hate crime in London were introduced to all officers as Operation Spectrum last month. * A special intelligence system collates all racial crimes. Intelligence on such crimes has increased 179 per cent in the five months since it was introduced. * The numbers of trained family liaison officers is to be increased from 32 to 80. * A draft hate crime manual will be put out for consultation before being completed by the Association of Chief Police Officers. * There will be new training for senior officers to help them look for racism in investigations, and for consultation with lay groups. * Training will be aimed at dealing with the different needs of London boroughs.* Concentration on the recruitment of ethnic minority officers. There are now 873 ethnic minority officers in the Met, compared with 613 when Sir Paul became commissioner. A positive action team has been increased in number. A new rap video is also being launched shortly in an effort to encourage young black people to join by persuading them that only in this way will the black community get the kind of policing it deserves. Students from ethnic minorities who agree to join the police will have their university fees paid in a fellowship scheme.  * There will be a new approach to stop-and-search. Every police division in London will now have to monitor the use of such powers down to the level of individual officers, who will be held accountable for their behaviour. It is now accepted within the police that this is one of the main areas of concern for ethnic minorities and has to be addressed. * A lay advisory group has been set up to assist with developing the way the Met deals with all racist crime. It has 50 members of whom 80 per cent are from ethnic minorities and include, the Met claims, 'some of our sternest critics'. They are drawn from pressure groups, statutory agencies, community organisations and the media and have a mandate to operate independently of the police and to challenge police policy.  The new strategy, which comes under the banner of Policing Diversity, states that its aim is 'to provide better protection from racial and violent crime and to demonstrate fairness in every aspect of policing'.It is estimated that the cost of the new Racial and Violent Crime Unit will be £832,000 a year. A further £150,000 has been allocated for university fellowships. £1 million is to be spent on training in the community and race relations, and the new lay advisory group will cost £20,000. Other measures include an advertising campaign, begun earlier this month, to encourage people to report racist crime. It urges victims to come forward and calls on witnesses to give information, anonymously if necessary. 