Police forces in England and Wales have been urged to review their handling of child grooming cases after inspectors found serious failings in the case of Breck Bednar, a 14-year-old who was murdered in a “sexual and sadistic” attack by a teenager he met online.Breck was tied up and fatally stabbed after going to meet Lewis Daynes, then 19, at his flat in Greys, Essex, on 17 February last year. He had told his parents he was sleeping at a friend’s house near their home in Caterham, Surrey, but secretly travelled to see Daynes after months of talking in an online gaming forum.Daynes, who was known to police at the time of the murder, used duct tape to bind Breck by his wrists and ankles before knifing him in the throat, causing him to die within seconds. He was jailed for life with a minimum of 25 years in prison in January.The Independent Police Complaints Commission launched an investigation into the killing after it emerged that Breck’s mother, Lorin LaFave, told Surrey police in December 2013 – two months before the murder – she feared her son was being groomed online by Daynes, but police failed to take any action.The police watchdog on Monday released a clip of LaFave’s call, during which she raised concerns five times that her son was being groomed. A log of her call was reviewed by a police supervisor later that day and marked “no further action”, adding: “Nothing to suggest this is grooming”.In a 27-page report, the IPCC said the Surrey police call handler and her supervisor would have faced misconduct proceedings if they had not already resigned from the force.Inspectors also criticised police for failing to carry out a check on the police national computer for Daynes, who had been arrested on suspicion of raping a 15-year-old two years earlier. Instead of carrying out this check, which could have sparked an investigation into Daynes, the police call log was closed and no further action was taken. Breck was murdered two months later.LaFave said: “I am pleased that the IPCC were able to show that there was indeed misconduct in the handling of my call, as I knew in my head and heart that I had done my best to try to get the police to understand the danger I felt my son was facing from this online predator.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lewis Daynes stabbed Bednar to death in a ‘sexual and sadistic’ attack. Photograph: Essex police/PALaFave, a teaching assistant originally from Michigan, US, now campaigns to raise awareness about the dangers of children being groomed over the internet, launching the Breck Foundation in her son’s memory.She added: “We all need to feel assured that our concerns will be taken seriously when we call the police for help, and to be able to trust that if the person taking the call does not know what to do, that someone else will be there to assist. We need to know that the police care about their work and are looking out for our best interests to keep us safe. “Police need to understand the warning signs of child sexual exploitation, and that grooming can happen to boys too. Grooming occurs through control and manipulation over time, and there may not be obvious sexual messages sent to the victim. A predator can be grooming hundreds of children at a time, just waiting for one child to fall prey to their lies and manipulation.”Inspectors ordered Surrey police to provide further training to call handlers on child grooming and radicalisation. It found that the call handler who spoke to LaFave “failed to recognise and understand the threat of both sexual grooming and potential grooming for terrorism”.The IPCC has also written to the senior police chiefs responsible for children and child sexual exploitation to urge them to review current national guidance on the issue and share best practice on the handling of grooming reports.IPCC commissioner Jennifer Izekor said lessons must be learned over the case. She added: “Parents are increasingly aware that child abusers or extremists can use the internet to target potential victims online. Where they have concerns, parents must be able to turn to the police, and expect those concerns to be taken seriously.“For that to happen, police call handlers need to be properly trained to recognise the danger signs and to give the right support and information. Sadly, in the case of Breck and his family, the support they needed was not given.”Surrey police said it accepted the IPCC’s finding and had made a number of improvements in its contact centre. The force’s assistant chief constable Gavin Stephens, said: “The death of Breck Bednar has been a tragic incident for all involved and our thoughts remain with his family and friends.“Following the notification of Breck’s death Surrey police referred the case to the IPCC and carried out an internal investigation to identify improvements the force could make around how information is handled and shared and implemented these at the earliest opportunity.“Surrey police takes all allegations of grooming or child sexual exploitation extremely seriously and encourages anyone who has been affected by such crimes, whether recent or non-recent, to speak with police.”