The judges who earlier this week turned down Michael Stone's latest appeal said today they had been "unpersuaded" by the new evidence that the defence claimed made his murder convictions unsafe.Stone was convicted of killing Dr Lin Russell and her daughter Megan, six, after a prisoner, Damien Daley, gave an account of his apparent jail cell confession, which was crucial evidence for the crown. At Stone's second appeal, heard this week, his counsel, Edward Fitzgerald QC, said that there was new evidence that Daley was a heroin addict who had lied in court. This new evidence was crucial, Mr Fitzgerald argued, claiming Daley had made up Stone's confession at Canterbury prison to win favours from police or prison authorities, and possibly to help him secure drugs. But today, outlining the reasoning for rejecting the appeal, Lord Justice Rose said that the new evidence did not justify altering the conviction. "We are unpersuaded that it significantly devalues Daley's evidence so as to cast doubt on the safety of the verdicts," he said. Lord Justice Rose said that Daley had spoken of his "repugnance at what had happened to the Russell family" and had a motive to report it to the police. The judge said Daley was asked at the trial why he had reported the confession and replied: "I just felt guilty ... towards that little girl." He said the appeal court had decided evidence that Daley was a heroin addict at the time made no material difference because the jury knew that Daley was a deeply flawed character, a career criminal who lied when it suited him and who admitted taking any drug he could. The judge added: "Evidence of his medical condition at the time showed there was no basis for suggesting he was trying to get out of the segregation unit to obtain drugs."The confession was "devastating to the defence", the appeal judge added.Stone, 44, was found guilty in 1998 of killing Dr Russell, 45, and Megan and of the attempted murder of Megan's sister, Josie, in Chillenden, Kent. The convictions were quashed in February 2001 by three appeal judges and a retrial was ordered. In October of that year, Stone was convicted for a second time and the sentence was reimposed after a trial at Nottingham crown court. Today, Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Moses and Mr Justice Walker also turned down a request to take Stone's case to the House of Lords. Stone's legal team said that because the judges had refused to certify the point of law - whether or not there was an obligation on the trial judge to warn a jury about the unreliability of cell confessions of this type - it was now difficult for them to take the case further. Lord Justice Rose said Stone had successfully appealed the verdicts of his first trial by questioning the reliability of evidence given by prosecution witnesses. At the centre of his second appeal was the reliability of Daley and the judge's directions to the jury and summing up over the cell confession evidence. The judge said Daley was in a segregation unit at Canterbury prison when Stone was put in an adjoining cell. They were able to communicate through heating pipes and Stone told him about "smashing skulls and breaking heads and inside it is mush". At first Daley said he did not know what Stone was talking about but realised after reading an account of the murders in a newspaper. Daley then went back to the pipework and heard more details from Stone about the attack that Lord Justice Rose said were not in the public domain or capable of being inferred from information already reported in the press. According to the judge, Daley said it was "like being told a horror story" and was described by prison staff as being disturbed that day. The judge said that although Daley's evidence was crucial to the prosecution case, it was not the only evidence which linked Stone to the killings. Stone had lied to police that he had no knowledge of the area in Kent where the killings occurred, and always carried a hammer in a toolbag in the car he was driving, the judge said. He was also seen by a witness with blood on his T-shirt and a bloodstained bootlace was found near the bodies similar to those used by Stone to raise veins in his arm so he could inject himself with heroin. Stone also had previous convictions for violence, including using a hammer to commit grievous bodily harm.