In every profession there are experts with differing views. Policing is no exception. Expert A will have different views about many aspects of the job from Expert B. The best strategy to control guns, to take a topical example, is something that splits the policing experts down the middle. Another is the importance of training in unarmed combat. But the handling of incidents of hostage-taking is not like that. Police strategies on hostage-taking have been refined and adapted over the years, but for almost three decades the basic principles of the playbook - in Britain and in almost every other comparable country - have remained unchanged: control the access, control the services, make contact, keep talking, sit tight - and then wait.In the great majority of hostage-takings, these tactics sooner or later produce a resolution, mostly a peaceful one. The 15-day police siege in Hackney, east London, that ended with the death of the hostage-taker Eli Hall on Thursday, did not. Inevitably, this has meant that questions have also been asked about the police tactics. The siege disrupted a neighbourhood for a prolonged period, with some residents unable to get in, and others unable to get out. It used up a lot of resources. And in the end, while the hostage happily got away, the hostage-taker ended up dead. Many observers are therefore asking if it could not all have been done quicker, better, and with a different outcome? Easy to say. Hard to do. The Hall siege took place in a bedsit which could only be entered up a narrow staircase, in a heavily populated, busy area, and involved an unstable suspect with a long record of violence who proved, during the siege, that he was willing to shoot to kill. These were big constraints. But the police applied the right tactics. Perhaps, as some critics felt, they then allowed themselves to get caught up the creek without a manual, in a tactical loop that should have been avoided. Perhaps not all the best available eavesdropping and anti-personnel options were used to best advantage. These questions need to be asked and answered and the hostage-taking playbook amended if need be. But the Hackney siege, imperfect though it was, was not a failure. The thinking was good. The use of resources was not wasteful. On the evidence so far there is no case for the police to be panicked into a wholesale rethink of their tactics by the difficulties of this grim siege.