A remand prisoner who felt he did not get a strong enough painkiller for his toothache appears to have triggered a riot which caused tens of thousands of pounds damage at Lewes prison, Sussex, on Tuesday night.The prison service confirmed yesterday that about 30 inmates smashed up two wing offices, windows and computers, before damaging the wing itself by flooding it as part of an incident officially described as "concerted indiscipline" at the jail. The prison service said one officer was treated in hospital for cuts, and 17 of the prisoners involved were transferred yesterday to other jails around south-east England. It is possible that more may be shipped out, but the prison service said the cells on the wing had not been attacked and they had not lost any prison places. Lewes is officially an overcrowded prison. The Prison Officers' Association said the disturbance followed an argument between two older prisoners and staff over medication. It is believed a remand prisoner complained he had not been given a strong enough analgesic to deal with his toothache. But Prison Service sources said the dispute may have been caused by the fact that many of the 120 inmates on the prison's A-wing were drug addicts undergoing detox and the health centre had adopted a much stricter policy on the amount of analgesic handed out. Andy Darken of the POA said the incident escalated after one inmate broke a leg from a table football table and started to brandish it at prison staff. Some young offenders on the wing joined in and prison officers were forced to abandon and seal off the area. "Young offenders take action first and think later, and are a lot more volatile than adult prisoners," said Mr Darken. After four and a half hours a Tornado team, specially trained in riot "control and restraint" techniques, arrived at Lewes and regained control of A-wing. A prison service spokeswoman said an internal investigation had been launched which would establish the cause of the incident and draw up a final estimate of the cost of damage. Phil Wheatley, director general of the Prison Service, praised the professionalism and the bravery of staff involved. "This was a serious incident in which there was violence toward staff. They brought this situation to a swift conclusion." Lewes prison is a Victorian built category "B" jail which dates back to 1853. It has been criticised for its high suicide rate and its drug problems. The most recent report from its independent monitoring board said conditions on some wings were "humiliating, unhealthy and degrading" and added that too many drugs were getting into the prison. The Liberal Democrat MP for Lewes, Norman Baker, said it had too many prisoners, not enough staff, and was a tinderbox waiting to happen. The Prison Reform Trust agreed that overcrowding and staff shortages were making such Victorian prisons more volatile. 