Conventional wisdom says that voters do not pay much attention to politicians in August. But it is possible that the street riots have punctured that assumption. Last week's shocking events may instead have created a fresh appetite for active political responses. If so, David Cameron and Ed Miliband were smart and right to address it in contrasting speeches yesterday. Professional sceptics may continue to think that serious politics in August are a waste of time, yet both the Conservative and Labour leaders seem to feel that this is an important opportunity to speak for England – or at least for English swing voters. It is hard to disagree. The riots are a hugely important national moment which demand an appropriately important national debate. This in turn raises the question of why so few distinctive views on the riots have yet been heard from the Liberal Democrats. Not for the first time, Mr Cameron appears to be bouncing Nick Clegg into a place where a Liberal Democrat leader ought not to be comfortable.There were things in Mr Cameron's speech that impress: the readiness to address difficult issues, the clarity of some of the views expressed, and the sense of a senior politician confident that he has found his voice in a crisis. It is clear that Mr Cameron thinks that the riots have provided him with an opportunity to define the purpose of his premiership afresh around the idea of fixing a broken society. The problem, though, is that much of what he said was in fact a rehash of old policies and prejudices, some of them good in some ways, but many of them not good in any. This was not an occasion for a populist attack on human rights laws, for instance, or even the health and safety culture, whatever its flaws. These riots have posed far more profound and more complex issues than the prime minister, focusing exclusively on crime, allows. Call him brave or call him reckless, but he has set himself up to fail on that front. His pledge to turn around the lives of the 120,000 most troubled families in the country during this parliament is noble but naive. It would be an inspiring goal, if there was a serious strategy. But there isn't. Even with the best will in the world, it is not going to happen.If Mr Cameron thinks he is the first politician to have identified the importance of personal morality and social behaviour, he is deluding himself. All his predecessors, Tory and Labour, have done this – and the early Tony Blair government did a lot more serious work on the subject than the coalition has done. The same goes for policies which aim to strengthen families and relationships, fine though the prime minister's words on this were. The problem is not, as Mr Cameron claims, that Britain had not woken up to its social problems until the riots put them on the agenda. It is that Britain has not found an effective and sustainable way, under any modern government, of addressing these problems. Mr Cameron's speech was strong on rhetoric but it lacked the serious detail, not least on spending priorities, that might make it into a credible strategy.Mr Miliband's speech may do less to make the political weather than Mr Cameron's, which appears to be aimed at cementing the Tory leader's position in his own party rather than putting the national interest first. But it was a much more balanced and serious response – and much more commensurate with the gravity of the issues. The Labour leader is right to berate Mr Cameron for moving from the sensible position he once held that both behaviour and deprivation matter in the fostering of social exclusion and crime to his current simplistic "this was about behaviour" approach – the Lib Dems should be criticising this too. And Mr Miliband is also right to call for a proper commission into the riots. The government's refusal to sanction an inquiry is increasingly perverse. A bit of Lib Dem support for Mr Miliband's campaign would be useful here too.