The news that thieves broke into a dressing room at Blackpool Tower's ballroom while the stars of Strictly Come Dancing were performing has raised a tantalising theory about their escape route: that they might have accessed a "network of historic underground tunnels" leading from the famous tower to other parts of the town.Is Blackpool sitting atop a secret warren? It is a persistent rumour. In 2011, the Blackpool Gazette ran an article collecting memories and myths from readers about Blackpool's alleged underground network. One said there was a tunnel which ran from Talbot Square to the tower: "We used to get in there via the basement of the Clifton Hotel kitchens as kids." Another told of linked cellars and a series of underground offices commandeered by communications teams during the second world war.There was one tunnel that ran between the tower and the Palace Theatre next door (which was demolished in the 1960s). Yuri Gridneff, who runs a circus skills school in Blackpool, remembers his circus-performer parents – his father had been part of a well-regarded Russian circus family known as the "Amazing Gridneffs", while his mother came from a family of musical clowns – telling him about using it, dressed in their cossack costumes and carrying the equipment for their unsupported ladders act. "They might do three shows at the tower starting at lunchtime and through to the evening, and at the Palace they would do two shows a night," he says. "There wasn't enough time to get changed, pack up and unpack again if they'd gone outside."Carl Carrington, Blackpool council's built heritage manager, suspects it is this one tunnel that fuelled the myth that the rest of the town hides a secret warren. "The whole town is built on a very sandy, loamy soil and is not particularly stable, so that prevents going down too far," he says. Media reports of the theft mention the tunnels, "but what they're actually referring to is the [tower's] basement and a rather complex network of corridors – they don't actually lead anywhere. I suppose you might be able to get into the sewers, but I think you would have to come out through the building at some point."There is a local myth, he says, "that there are tunnels running between the Winter Gardens and the tower, and other places, but we've never seen any evidence that it's true. The Winter Gardens are uphill from the tower and any tunnel dug from the Tower would end up 30 or 40 feet underground, and would have to break through other people's basements on the way. Constant roadworks and paving renewals would have revealed any of this if it were there."There are, he says, other buildings with extensive basements, and old subways under the promenade housing Victorian toilets which are now blocked off. "There was a small collapse of the pavement between the tower and the building opposite and everyone got very excited that this was a tunnel, because people could see it had a glazed-brick lining," says Carrington. "Rather prosaically, it turned out to be the ladies' staff toilets of a department store that had been demolished in the 80s. People never want to hear that something isn't there – they like the idea of a mystery."