A crack team of detectives with a near 100% clear-up rate and valuable experience investigating homophobic killings is to be broken up due to a cost-cutting reorganisation at Scotland Yard, sources have told the Guardian.Members of Murder Investigation Team Seven, based at Sutton police station in south-west London, are to be reallocated to other squads next April. While the Sutton team has dealt with all sorts of cases, its most recent high profile inquiries include the deaths of two gay men, David Morley and Jody Dobrowski. Mr Morley, 38, who in 1999 escaped injury in a nail bomb attack on the Admiral Duncan, a Soho pub where he worked, was beaten to death in October last year by a gang. Three youths and a 14-year-old girl, who made a video recording of the attack on a mobile phone, were found guilty of manslaughter this month.Mr Dobrowski, 24, was killed as he walked home across Clapham Common in October this year. Two men have been charged with his murder.A spokeswoman for Scotland Yard said the Metropolitan police homicide investigation teams were being reorganised under a single command. "As part of that reorganisation, some of the teams are being amalgamated but not closed down," she said. "All teams take on a variety of different cases and would have a wide range of experience."But Peter Tatchell, of the gay human rights group, Outrage!, said dispersing the Sutton team would mean the dilution of expertise in dealing with homophobic crime and established relationships with the gay community. "The feeling is that this team, while it does not deal exclusively with homophobic murders, has accumulated a lot of knowledge in this area."The gay community is very appreciative of the efforts made by these officers who investigated the ghastly deaths of David Morley and Jody Dobrowski. The officers have accumulated a great deal of expertise in dealing with gay murder cases and dealing with the homosexual community."It is bizarre and short-sighted to disband this highly experienced, expert team of officers. They have had a series of high profile successes and they deserve accolades, not disbandment. We urge Sir Ian Blair, the Met commissioner, to recognise the valuable work done by these officers."John Roberts, a member of the Metropolitan police authority, said he would be disappointed if the Sutton team was split up. "We should be reinforcing good work that has already been done, particularly with minority groups such as the gay and lesbian community."Each London borough has lesbian and gay liaison officers, who do excellent work to support investigative teams. Communities are key to solving crime and if one aspect of this is lost it could mean a huge deficit in intelligence."