David Blunkett was last night accused of downgrading the importance of the Queen in British public life, after he revealed plans to drop the royal title from another major institution, the second such move within days.The home secretary said yesterday that he wanted the Crown Prosecution Service to change its name to the Public Prosecution Service, to make it more accessible ordinary people. But the announcement sparked fury from royalists, coming just days after it was disclosed that Her Majesty's Prison Service would change its name to the National Offender Management Service this summer. Mr Blunkett said the proposed name change was just one aspect of a wider plan to inspire greater confidence in the criminal justice system, which includes getting judges, prosecutors, the probation service and related agencies more involved with the communities they serve. "It's [the name change] a small signal change but it would get people to feel greater confidence," he said. "Defence lawyers are always seen to be on the side of the defence and we've got to get across that the public prosecutor is not neutral. They are on the side of the public." The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, and the director of public prosecutions also favour the name change. Buckingham Palace has been consulted, although a spokeswoman refused to comment, saying any proposal would have to come from government. But Alan Duncan, Conservative constitutional affairs spokesman, said it would be "totally unacceptable" without proper debate. "It is all part of an increasingly obvious agenda to remove the crown from everything," he said. "The government thinks Downing Street is top of the pile and the world can follow suit. It is better that our courts, prosecution and prison service should remain distinct from the interference and arrogance of politicians." It is as yet unclear whether the courts might drop the crown symbol and mentions of the monarch, or whether future indictments might feature a US-style "the People" versus the defendant rather than "the Queen". Mr Blunkett said that was a matter for the attorney general, but he thought there would be support for keeping the traditional format. He was explaining how government would seek closer co-operation between prosecutors and police in an attempt to improve conviction rates. He also envisages magistrates and district judges holding public meetings to find out what issues matter most to local people. "A judiciary that has heard nothing, seen nothing and experienced nothing is not one that can respond to the real challenges." But he denied such meetings could compromise judges' impartiality. "There's nothing wrong in hearing the public and making sensible balanced judgments. I want judges to be impartial, I want juries to be neutral, but I want the public prosecution service to be on the side of the public in dealing with perpetrators." Mr Blunkett said he had discussed the name change with Lord Goldsmith and Ken Macdonald, the director of public prosecutions. "This is what the attorney general and the director of public prosecutions want and they have my whole-hearted support." The name change was just the "tip of the iceberg". "Any name change comes from a change in practice. Getting out and meeting the community is the most essential feature," Mr Macdonald said. "We are a public prosecution service and for some time I have favoured a name change to make that clearer. This would reflect the major transformation we are making in the role of prosecutors." A spokeswoman for the CPS said: "The home secretary has obviously given his support to it. But we still have to look at all the implications. It isn't a done deal."