I am older than Ronnie,' remarked Jack Slipper after having been diagnosed with cancer in 2001, 'and it would give me great satisfaction to outlive him to show that my way of life was the best in the end.' Ronnie Biggs had at that time just returned from Brazil in failing health to give himself up after decades on the run. Four years later and the criminal has outlasted the policeman, albeit incarcerated in the grim confines of the hospital wing of Belmarsh Prison. The real-life story of a detective in pursuit of a villain over an epic sweep of time, the former failing to prove his quarry's nemesis, Slipper and Biggs seem like a farcically English version of the Javert and Valjean in Victor Hugo's Les Miserables. Yet while Biggs was a minor player in the Great Train Robbery (it was only his ability to avoid capture for so long that made him the most famous of the gang), Jack Slipper had a significant career on the other side of the law. He was one of the last of the 'old school' Scotland Yard detectives and his demise marks not just the end of an era, but the extinction of a species.Doing research for my second novel, He Kills Coppers, his name would often come up, and became synonymous in my mind with the traditional no-nonsense thief-taker. He was so archetypal you just couldn't make him up. 'Slipper of the Yard' - he even sounded iconic, as if part of a fictional tradition of onomatopoeic nomenclature: from Dickens's Inspector Bucket to Hammett's Sam Spade. He acquired the nickname 'Slippery Jack' because of his cunning and, perhaps, a certain suppleness with regard to procedure; however it was best not to always assume a soft-shoe approach. An associate of Buster Edwards on hearing the name when challenged by him inquired: 'As in slipper and foot?' to which the detective replied: 'Yeah, as in the foot that will be up your arse in a moment.' 'He was always affable and a gentle giant,' said Train Robbery mastermind Bruce Reynolds. 'He was a big man, and that sort of weight carries some force in the underworld.'He joined the police in 1951, aged 27, after being demobbed from service in the RAF. He was a hard-working and ambitious officer - after joining CID he completed his probationary period in a record 26 months (the usual term was three to four years). He achieved his aim of joining the prestigious Flying Squad in 1962 and within four years rose through four ranks to Detective Inspector.The Flying Squad had real charisma back then, but as with other flamboyant and unregulated teams (the Drugs Squad and the Obscene Publication Squad, or 'Dirty Squad'), they were prone to corruption. In 1972, Flying Squad Commander Ken Drury was caught on holiday in Cyprus as a guest of one of Soho's most notorious porn barons, James Humphreys (ironically, the alibi that Drury gave was that he was looking for Ronnie Biggs). The same year saw Robert Mark appointed Commissioner for the Met, and implement reforms that would restrict the activities of plainclothes officers as never before. Many in CID felt that this was a death-knell for the professional detective.In 1973, Slipper became Detective Chief Superintendent in charge of operations at the Flying Squad and played a key role in implementing the 'supergrass' system which sought to break the 'honour among thieves' code. With his boss, Commander Don Neesham (they were known as the Terrible Twins), he was instrumental in bringing back morale to the squad. As a detective with a tough approach and a disdain for over regulation, Jack Slipper was clearly an inspiration for the character of Jack Regan in the TV series The Sweeney. He certainly brought some realism to the part. John Thaw, the actor who played Regan recalled, when they met, that Slipper took his character's trademark sheepskin coat and, dropping it on the floor, 'poured a pint over it, emptied an ashtray on it and did a Flamenco dance on it in the sawdust'.For all of his successful operations, however, it will be the one that got away that he will always be remembered for. In 1974 Biggs was spotted in Rio de Janeiro and Slipper was dispatched to arrest him. But a diplomatic wrangle ensued, the Brazilian authorities had not been informed and, baulking at being treated like a banana republic, blocked Biggs's extradition. This gave the fugitive time to consider his options. He was allowed to stay in Rio, where he became a celebrity exile. It was Home Office arrogance to think that they could simply send a detective off to collar someone in a foreign country without a diplomat or even a senior lawyer to accompany them. The popular press found a scapegoat in Slipper, the incident saw him dubbed as 'Slip-up of the Yard', as if it was his own hubris that had brought about the debacle.Slipper never expressed bitterness over this. It was his last years in the job that probably rankled more. One of the most hated reforms of the plain-clothes division was the 'interchange' system, whereby senior detectives were sent 'back to uniform'. After more than 20 years at the sharp end, Slipper declared himself 'stunned' to end his career wearing the blue serge of a chief superintendent in Ruislip. He retired in 1979 to become a security consultant.Perhaps he did have something in common with Ronnie Biggs: they both belong to a different age. 'We come from the same background,' he once commented. 'He went one way, I went that way and that's how it is.'