Four teenagers who acted "worse than a pack of wild dogs" as they beat a man to death outside his Chinese takeaway were jailed for up to 10 years each today.Michael Chen was kicked, punched, stamped on and battered with wooden clubs by the gang after being cornered by up to 12 youths. The 41-year-old's head was hit so hard that one of the gang said it sounded like a cricket ball striking a bat. Anthony Dunleavy, 17, and Joe Sankey, Jason Hughes and Jamie Stephens, all 16, were sentenced at Manchester crown court after being convicted of murder last month. Dunleavy was jailed for 10 years, Sankey for nine years and nine months, Hughes for nine years and Stephens for eight years and six months. The four, of Wigan, Greater Manchester, were aged 15 or 16 at the time of the killing, which happened at around 11.30pm on April 23. The brutal attack was caught on CCTV cameras outside Mr Chen's shop, the Superb Hut takeaway, in Scholes Precinct, Wigan. The court heard that Mr Chen, a Chinese immigrant, was left dying in the arms of his girlfriend, who was also attacked. He was taken to hospital, but his life support was switched off the day after the attack. Passing sentence today, Mr Justice Royce told the gang: "You acted far worse than a pack of wild dogs. The sheer savagery and brutality of the attack by you as a gang or group or pack aggravates the offence. This is the sort of street violence by a group that should not be tolerated by any civilised society." The court heard that the takeaway shop had had its window broken the night before the fatal attack. On the night of the murder, there had been escalating tension and clashes between Mr Chen, protecting his shop, and youths loitering around the precinct. Mr Chen, his girlfriend and the takeaway's chef confronted the youths, who had armed themselves with a spade, a wooden stake and sticks, but were soon outnumbered and cornered, Nicholas Steer QC, prosecuting, told the court. Mr Steer said Mr Chen was punched, knocked to the floor and hit with the sticks. He said Mr Chen had tried to get up, but Sankey stamped on his head. Hughes - who was described as a ringleader in the attack - then kicked him again. This time he stayed down, the court heard. Stephens then stood over his victim, raised the wooden stake and brought it down on Mr Chen's head in an "utterly sickening blow", Mr Steer said. Mr Chen's head was then stamped on again. His girlfriend tried to help him but was pulled away by Dunleavy as Sankey and Hughes continued to stamp and kick him in the head. The gang then departed with their "job done", Mr Steer said.A post-mortem examination revealed Mr Chen had suffered a broken jaw, fractured skull and multiple deep bruises to his head and upper body. The four teenagers denied any intention to kill their victim. Hughes claimed he had been "egged on" by the others. Hughes and Stephens pleaded guilty to murder. Sankey and Dunleavy were convicted after a trial at Liverpool crown court last month. A 17-year-old boy from the Wigan area was found not guilty of murder, while a 17-year-old girl was given a two-year supervision order for violent disorder.Eight other youths, aged 15 to 18, were charged with lesser public order offences and given a combination of fines and non-custodial sentences.After today's sentencing, Detective Chief Inspector Steve Crimins, of Wigan police, said: "The attack on Michael was unbelievably fierce."Not only did the youths violently assault him with various weapons including sticks, planks of wood and gardening tools, they then continued to attack him as he lay defenceless on the floor."He said the Scholes precinct had problems with "youth nuisance and antisocial behaviour".