The home secretary, Charles Clarke, refused to resign tonight despite admitting that five of the foreign criminals released by the Home Office without being deported have committed serious offences.Mr Clarke said the police checks on the 79 most serious offenders had shown five serious offences involving drugs, grievous or actually bodily harm and violent disorder. Mr Clarke said there was an additional rape allegation in one of these cases in which there was insufficient evidence to prosecute. The rape allegation currently lies on file but could lead to a prosecution if further evidence emerges.A "thorough search" of records has taken place, he said, but it had revealed no cases where offenders had been convicted of the most serious offences such as homicide, rape or child sex offences. "I can tell you that this search has to date revealed five cases where an individual has been convicted since their release from prison of offences relating to drugs, violent disorder, grievous and actual bodily harm," Mr Clarke said. Mr Clarke said he would carry on as home secretary and would update MPs soon with progress in finding the 900 foreign criminals still missing. In his letter to the Speaker, Michael Martin, Mr Clarke says: "I am committed to lead the changes and improvements which the community rightly expects of us." Of the 79 serious offenders, Mr Clarke said 72 were on the police computer and all but seven were subject to the beginnings of deportation proceedings. There were also a "small number of further cases" where police investigations have yet to be completed, including two alleged sexual offences, said the home secretary. Others among these pending police investigations related to minor offences such as traffic offences or non-payment of fines, he added. "We would expect as police national computer checks continue to find further cases where lesser offences have been committed or alleged," he said. Asked to apologise to the victims of the five serious offences Mr Clarke told Sky News: "I have apologised and I do apologise. I bear responsibility."Challenged to explain why he would not resign, Mr Clarke said: "I believe the single most important thing is to put things right and I'm the person the with right experience to do that." Asked if he would resign if one of the released offenders committed murder, Mr Clarke said he would "consider each situation as it evolved".Asked if any of 288 offenders released since ministers became aware of the problem had committed further offences, Mr Clarke said, "I think not, but I'm not going into individual cases".Mr Clarke also revealed that although he offered to resign to Tony Blair on Tuesday afternoon he did not feel he should have to go."I didn't think I should resign. I owed it to offer him my resignation. He turned it down," Mr Clarke told Sky News. Responding to the home secretary's statement both opposition parties repeated their calls for Mr Clarke to resign. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "None of his actions were initiated until this week - 10 months after the fourth warning was given to the government. When he was forced to make his statement on Wednesday, Mr Clarke said he would return to the House with all the information. He has only told us about the status of the most serious original offenders.""When he completes the task of assessing the remaining 960 cases it is virtually certain there will be many, many more crimes committed that would not have happened if he and his predecessors had done their job. His position is untenable. He should take responsibility for what has been a massive failure." The Liberal Democrat president, Simon Hughes, said: "Mr Clarke's position is less and less sustainable and the home secretary has to take responsibility and leave his job." Earlier a Populus poll for the BBC's Daily Politics programme found that 63% of people felt that Tony Blair should fire Mr Clarke for the Home Office's failure to consider deporting 1,023 foreign criminals after they had been released from prison. Meanwhile, the Guardian reported the number of staff dealing with prisoner deportations had not been doubled to 100, as suggested by the government. It quoted a letter from senior immigration inspector Alan Kittle that confirmed that the bulk of extra staff had not been recruited despite a funding boost of £2.7m last summer. He said his team had "seen some increase in casework staffing but have, however, been promised a far greater increase in the spring of 2006 which is good news for our staff and you!". Despite not knowing until Wednesday that 288 of the foreign prisoners had been released after ministers were alerted to the problem, Mr Blair yesterday again rejected calls for Mr Clarke to be sacked, a demand repeated today by the Tory leader, David Cameron. In today's BBC Populus poll the home secretary received the backing of just 32%, even though most sympathised with his plight. Some 65% thought that being home secretary was a "very difficult" job, which was impossible to get right, while 35% disagreed with that view. Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults on April 26 and 27. Ken Purchase today became the second Labour backbench MP to publicly question whether Charles Clarke should remain in his job, saying the whole affair had been handled "incompetently" and that Charles Clarke "would have to take the rap for that".Comparing Mr Clarke to the chairman of the board of a business Mr Purshase told the BBC's World at One programme that "There's no excuse for such management failures." "If it is so that clear warnings were given last summer, even last autumn, to ministers and they have failed to activate a review and a change in the way work was carried out, then of course they are as culpable and as guilty as those who failed to do the work. "I cannot see how the chairman of the board would avoid resignation had he been in a position to have taken action to save the company from disaster, which is what has happened here, and failed to act."