The home secretary, John Reid, today announced plans for a radical overhaul of the Home Office and vowed to clear the backlog of almost half a million failed asylum seekers in "five years or less". In a statement to the Commons earlier today, Mr Reid sought to put an end to the catalogue of mistakes identified within his own department over recent months as he laid out measures to raise standards and announced the release of £115m for frontline services.His announcement came as the Home Office faced yet another blow: it was shown to be lagging far behind other departments under the government's new "traffic light" rating system. The department was alone among the four studied in the government's Capability Review to receive red marks - signifying serious concerns. Unlike the Department for Constitutional Affairs, the Department for Education and Skills and the Department for Work and Pensions, the Home Office has failed to achieve a single green light in any of the key areas of leadership, strategy and direction. Mr Reid admitted to MPs today that, following a series of serious blunders exposed at the Home Office, a number of systems had been "found wanting". The department now needed "fundamental reform" to make it fit for purpose, he said. The home secretary, who has staked his position on turning the department around, cited a number of changes in society, such as the role of global crime, which he said had placed new pressures on the department. "We have now reached the limit of what can be achieved without a fundamental overhaul [of the department]" he said. "The capability review [by the cabinet minister Gus O'Donnell, published today] strongly reinforces this view." He added: "We will create a new top team with enhanced leadership and delivery skills, underpinned by an improved working relationship between ministers and officials ... "We will use these values to challenge unacceptable behaviour and to change the culture of the department." Among these changes would be a "contract" between ministers and civil servants to clarify where responsibility lay.Mr Reid also said he would reduce the Home Office workforce by 40% within four years.That announcement was met with disbelief by trade unions, who are already fighting plans to cut 84,000 civil service jobs as part of the Gershon efficiency review. Unions say the job cuts have already left staff struggling to deliver services.Mark Serwotka, general secretary of the Public and Commercial Services Union, said: "It's all well and good looking at structures but what the capability reviews fail to address is the low morale among staff, which is fed by low pay and job cuts. "Rather than looking at how effective departments are at cutting jobs and resources, the reviews should be looking at whether there [are] enough people and resources for the departments to deliver their remits."Another reform would see the Immigration and Nationality Directorate (IND) turned into an executive agency, with a shadow body in place by next year.The government was last night forced to revise upwards claims that there were fewer than 250,000 failed asylum seekers in Britain after officials unearthed evidence that the figure was closer to 450,000. Despite the higher numbers, Mr Reid seemed confident the new, semi-autonomous IND would be able remove them in record time. The public accounts select committee had used the old figures to calculate that removal of all failed asylum seekers would take at least 18 years. "We will achieve the case load in the IND and clear it not in 25 years, but certainly in five years or less," the home secretary said. Mr Reid's wide-ranging action plan would be in place by September, with a follow-up audit by December, which would subsequently be carried out every year. The restructuring of the Home Office would save £115m by 2010, he said.The home secretary paid tribute to civil servants and his ministerial predecessors as he insisted that a programme of reforms at the home office had been in place for "some years"."They took a system designed before the cold war and improved it in three important ways: additional resources, improved technology and logistical and practical solutions," he said.Today's capability review of the Home Office gave the department red marks in the "leadership area" of "building capability" and the "delivery area" of "planning, resourcing and prioritising". It received a red/yellow mark for "developing clear roles, responsibilities and business models" and for "setting direction". In the remaining six areas, it was awarded a yellow light. Sir Gus said the review assessed the department's ability to meet future challenges, rather than its current performance. He refused to concede that the Home Office in its current form was "failing". "The Home Office has faced an enormously challenging environment in which to operate and it does not surprise me that it's at the low end," he said.The opposition parties were unimpressed by Mr Reid's blueprint for change. In the Commons, the shadow home secretary, David Davis, said the crisis in the Home Office was the biggest faced by a government in modern times. "The failures are multiple, are massive and have a serious impact on the public," he said.He told Mr Reid: "We all hope your measures succeed, but even if they do they are unlikely to resolve problems of the size your department faces. "And whatever else they do, they will not allow you to sweep a political problem under a bureaucratic carpet."The Lib Dem home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said: "John Reid's statement seems to be a hotchpotch of managerial doublespeak and wildly implausible targets."While trying to blame the cold war for the collapse of the Home Office, Mr Reid is silent on the burden placed on the department by the government's hyperactive attitude to legislation, with more than 50 new laws and over 1,000 new criminal offences since 1997. No Home Office could function effectively under this government's volley of half-baked initiatives and media gimmicks."