Almost 10 and a half months to the day since David Cameron had his bike stolen from outside a Tesco store in Notting Hill, today came the shocking news that it's gone and happened again. This morning, the Conservative party leader reported to police the theft of a bicycle he had locked to the railings in front of his house ahead of riding it to parliament. It had been outside his house for an hour.To have a bike stolen once may be regarded as a misfortune, to have it stolen twice looks like carelessness. This would particularly seem to be the case when, as applies here, you've borrowed the bike from your parliamentary aide in the first place.At this very moment inside Conservative party HQ in Millbank, wonks, spads and aides will be trying to get to grips with this breaking crisis, to examine what it means not just for Cameron but for the country. Here are some of the key questions they'll be asking:1. Is this a laughing matter? The answer, they will quickly conclude when Dave walks in the room, is: no.2. Could Dave have done anything to prevent the crime? Firstly, he could have refrained from borrowing the bike in the first place, even if it would have deprived him of the endorphin rush he loves before heading into verbal combat with Gordon Brown at prime minister's question time.Secondly, and as advised by the Home Office (admittedly a Labour-run organisation), he could have put his bike out of sight, rather than chaining it up outside the front of his house.3. He didn't go and chain it to a bollard again, did he? No, he did not.4. Phew, that's a relief isn't it? Yes.5. Will this happen again? In short, it will not be allowed to. Debate is currently focused on developing a solution, the most popular being to detail a car to follow the car that follows Dave's bike when he's cycling.6. What does this tell us about Broken Britain? On the one hand, it shows that even the leader of the opposition can be the victim of repeated crimes. On the other hand, it shows that our criminals have a sense of humour.7. Is the leader of the Conservative party cursed by fate? This is a real concern. The possibility that David, his lovely wife Samantha, or his aristocratic family, could at some point have performed an act that would lead to generations of bad luck is being seriously considered. Of particular interest is the time Cameron's 4th great grandfather, King William IV, strangled an innocent stoat for impertinence.8. First swine flu, now this. Should we panic? YES.