To stop rape, John Stoltenberg believes that you need to campaign against it, to reach potential rapists and persuade them that it is wrong. The potential rapists he has in mind are young men, aged 14 to 18, and brought up in what he calls "rape culture" - the culture of mainstream lads' magazines, computer games and rap music that celebrates violence against women and portrays them as easily available sex objects.Stoltenberg, a long-time pro-feminist and stalwart of the US men's movement, helped to found the Men Can Stop Rape project in 1987. This spawned, 10 years later, My Strength, an anti-rape education campaign that attempts to bring young men together to examine accepted misogynistic and sexist attitudes to help them understand how "traditional masculinity can contribute to violence, gender inequality and unhealthy relationships so we can rise above them". There is a huge difference, he says, "between what popular culture dictates what a real man must be, and what it really means".There are My Strength clubs in several US states and 20 countries, facilitating seminars and glitzy poster campaigns. Advice is proffered ("Take a pledge not to disrespect women through words or actions") alongside campaigning tips ("Hold a fundraiser, such as a car wash, and donate the money to a shelter or rape crisis centre"). Its heroic slogan, My Strength is Not for Hurting - "the best six words I have written in my life", says Stoltenberg - sets the idealistic self-help tone. Its poster images are of handsome, serious looking young men, often accompanied by clean-cut young women.If nothing else, it is a refreshing change from the campaigns aimed at young women, warning of the dangers of binge drinking and spiked alcopops. Campaigns to highlight violence towards women usually focus on the victim, with depictions of battered, bruised faces grimacing at us. "To stop rape, you have to think primary prevention," Stoltenberg says. "We are so used to responding after the woman has been hurt and mopping up the mess."Its impact has been significant, he claims, though the evidence he provides for this seems underwhelming. More than 500 young men have taken part in Men of Strength clubs, and at least another 10,000 have encountered the media campaign, and 4,000 professionals working with young people have been through the training provided by My Strength facilitators. One recent evaluation found that the majority of participants were, post-programme, significantly more likely to intervene in situations where a young woman was touched inappropriately by her male peers.The My Strength website carries earnest testimonies from young men who have successfully completed the programme. "I now have a greater respect for and appreciation of women," says one, "and I do not participate in activities that demean women anymore."Stoltenberg's next move is to bring the programme to the UK. If he succeeds, it remains to be seen how eagerly Britain's Zoo and Nuts magazine-obsessed male youth will sign up for a seminar on respecting women. But Stoltenberg - who has a meeting with representatives of the mayor of London's office later this month to discuss My Strength - is determined to try. Stoltenberg says US and UK cultures of masculinity are not too dissimilar. "In terms of engaging men to take public stances against violence, the obstacles are very similar. You have to change the values that are acceptable."Revealing clothingIf Stoltenberg is to make a difference in the numbers of rapes committed in the UK, he has his work cut out. An ICM poll last year suggested that a third of people in the UK believe a woman who flirts is partially responsible for being raped, and more than a quarter believe that a woman is partially or totally responsible for being raped if she was wearing revealing clothing. A third said a woman was partially or totally responsible for being raped if she was drunk. The most recent figures show that of the 11,766 allegations of rape made in 2002, only 655 led to a conviction. And incidence of rape is notoriously underreported; recent research by London Metropolitan University suggests that there are nearer 50,000 assaults a year.The idea of rape prevention chimes with government policy. Ministers this week launched a £500,000 advertising campaign - some of which will be published in lads' mags - urging men to ensure that their partners consent to sex.Some critics are uncomfortable with the way My Strength glorifies notions of men's strength, as it buys into stereotypes about male and female qualities, but Stoltenberg is having none of it. "Slogans such as 'real men don't rape' send out the wrong message," he argues. "We should not be asking: 'Are you a real enough man?' Many men rape because it makes him feel like a so-called 'real man.'"There are feminists who believe that the work Stoltenberg does to stop rape is crucial. "Stoltenberg's ideas could save more lives than all the arms-control pacts, low-fat diets, and prisons combined," says American feminist Gloria Steinem. Eve Elsner, creator of the Vagina Monologues, is equally impressed. "Men Can Stop Rape is a crucial contribution to the work women have done against violence against women," she insists. "We absolutely need young men as active allies."Not everyone in the anti-rape movement agrees. Stoltenberg admits: "There has been a bit of feminist critique from a few women who work in rape crisis centres, because in some of the imagery the woman can be viewed as 'fawning' over the man." The campaign posters are certainly very Californian: model poses of heterosexual couples looking as if they came straight from a soap opera or beauty salon; stunning African American couples with matching sky-lifted cheekbones; smiling white girls straight out of Hollywood; and Hispanic men with rippling arms wrapped protectively around a delicate looking female.The Home Office is shortly to launch an anti-rape campaign that places advertisements targeted at young men, to run in Zoo, Nuts and Maxim. Stoltenberg has mixed feelings about the very publications that could be accused of creating a view of women as available bimbos, now reaping the kudos (and advertising revenue) for warning men that "yes means yes and no means no".Self-loathing"Lads' magazines have a low estimation of their readers," Stoltenberg says. "They promote self-loathing, and the notion that for them to feel better they have to have power over women."Will young British men feel they are being dictated to about their private relationships? "These are positive, not negative messages, such as, 'She didn't want to so I backed off.'" It seems impossibly naive, but Stoltenberg is optimistic. "The forces that keep men in line are very strange. They will say to themselves, 'I'm not a rapist', and that's as far as it gets. We have to teach them to say it in public. We have to tap into all that bravery that society crushes out of young men, and use it well."Curriculum vitaeAge: 61.  Born: Minneapolis.  Lives: Washington DC.  Status: With partner.  Education: 1962-66: BA St Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota, majoring in philosophy. 1969: Master of Divinity, Union Theological Seminary, New York City. 1972: Master of Fine Arts, Columbia University School of Theatre.  Career: 2003-present: managing editor, AARP, The Magazine. 1980-2003: managing editor at a number of US magazines, including, Essence, Working Woman, and Lear's. Has published two books, including Refusing to be a Man: Essays on Sex and Justice.  Interests: Theatre; movies; exercise; weekly hip-hop dance classes.