The Coronation Street star William Roache was acquitted of two counts of rape and five charges of indecent assault on Thursday at the end of a trial that raised questions about the decision of police and prosecutors to press charges.The jury at Preston crown court reached unanimous verdicts after six hours of deliberation on alleged offences committed against five women dating back to between 1965 and 1971. At the time the women were aged between 14 and 16.Speaking on the court steps, Roache thanked his supporters and insisted: "In these situations there are no winners and I think we should all be much kinder to ourselves." Roache, 81, who has played Ken Barlow since the soap launched in 1960, added: "Now if you excuse me I would like to get back to work."Roache's legal team argued during the three-and-a-half-week trial that the police investigation had been "infected" by the abuse allegations made against Jimmy Savile and other celebrities. The "spectre" of Savile loomed large, said Roache's barrister, Louise Blackwell QC.Lancashire police opened the investigation last year after a woman came forward to allege she had been raped twice by Roache when she was 15, saying she had thought she would finally be taken seriously following sex scandals involving Savile and the late MP for Rochdale, Sir Cyril Smith.A further four women went to the police following publicity of Roache's arrest on suspicion of rape, alleging he had sexually assaulted them at the Coronation Street studios in Manchester or in his Rolls Royce .At the time of the alleged attacks, Roache was a handsome young star and father of two young children enjoying fame on the already popular ITV soap. In court he admitted cheating on his then wife, Anna Cropper, but only with "mature and willing" partners. He said he had never forced anyone to have sex and had no interest in underage girls. Under oath, he said he had never even met his five accusers.On Thursday Lancashire police defended their inquiry, saying: "The constabulary remain committed to investigating allegations of this nature, no matter how historic, and would encourage anyone who has been a victim of a sexual offence to come forward safe in the knowledge that they will be treated sensitively and professionally."Roache's legal team was able to highlight inconsistencies in the women's evidence. There were mixups over bystanders – one said she had been warned off Roache by the actor Johnny Briggs several years before his character, Mike Baldwin, joined Coronation Street. Another told police she had had a lift home in Roache's Rolls Royce, only to later claim it was in fact another actor, Neville Buswell, who played Ray Langton, who dropped her off.Roache could also prove he had not owned a gold Rolls – as one woman claimed she had been assaulted in – until 1986, more than a decade after the alleged attack.One of the charges against him, another claim of abuse in his car, was thrown out halfway through the trial after the witness said she "believed" she had been forced to masturbate Roache but couldn't remember.The prosecution's case was that Roache would put on a performance in the witness box. "Mr Roache presents a fictional image of himself for a living – it is a skill central to his work and fame," said Anne Whyte QC for the prosecution, as she opened the case. She told the jury not to disbelieve his accusers just because they had waited more than 40 years to come forward to police. "A crime is a crime, however dated," she saidMark Barlow, a criminal barrister specialising in historical sex cases, suggested Roache was a victim of new CPS guidelines on prosecuting historical sex offences.He said: "The reality now is that if someone makes an allegation of sex abuse, however historic and however weak the evidence, the CPS will prosecute. Bill Roache is lucky he was able to produce independent evidence to undermine his accusers' claims." Despite the verdict, the CPS said it had a duty to press charges. Nazir Afzal, chief crown prosecutor for CPS North West said "We have a duty to those who make complaints of serious offences to listen to the allegations, and assess the evidence against the same evidential standards we use for all criminal cases, no matter who makes the complaint, or who the complaint is against."Roache's supporters, including Christine Hamilton – who along with her husband Neil, a former Conservative minister, was investigated and then cleared of sex crimes – criticised the prosecution for irreparably damaging Roache's reputation.Hamilton said anonymity should be granted not just for alleged victims, as is already the case, but also defendants. Speaking on BBC Radio 4's World at One programme, she said: "I think there should be anonymity for both. I think the pendulum has gone too far and we should restore the balance."But women's groups dismissed that idea, saying legal experts examined such a proposal in 2012 and threw it outconcluding that it would only have a negative impact on access to justice for rape victims. The End Violence Against Women coalition and Rape Crisis England and Wales both said in a statement: "The implicit message of commentary on previous cases has been that women routinely lie and that false accusations of rape are common. They are not, as demonstrated by a CPS report last year which concluded that so-called false allegations of rape are 'very rare'."