Angela Cannings was alone with her first child when it died, and alone with her second and then her third child when they too died, the court of appeal heard yesterday.The court, hearing her appeal against convictions for murdering the two later children, was told she had also been alone with them on three occasions when they had what were described as "acute life-threatening events". Counsel for the crown, Paul Dunkels QC, said the idea that these incidents were due to Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (Sids) or cot death, rather than smothering, did not make sense. "Sids could have occurred any time of the day or night, anywhere or when anyone was about," he said. "Yet these incidents only ever occurred in the morning when the applicant was alone with her babies." Cannings, 40, from Salisbury in Wiltshire, was found guilty last year of killing seven-week-old Jason in 1991, and four-month-old Matthew in 1999. Her first child Gemma died suddenly in 1989. Mr Dunkels told the court Cannings had acted unnaturally in response to Matthew's death, by ringing her husband instead of an ambulance, and asking him to come home to "see what Matthew was like". He said: "It is the crown's case that this was an odd thing to say in light of the family history." Mr Dunkels told Lord Justice Judge, Mrs Justice Rafferty and Mr Justice Pitchers that Cannings had been in the witness box for two days at her trial: "The jurors had ample opportunity to do what juries are best designed to do - to assess her and decide on her credibility. "Seeing her and listening to her, the jury had to decide: 'Can we be sure this mother was capable of smothering her own babies?' and they decided that she was, and that she had done so," said Mr Dunkels. He accepted she did not have any psychological traits indicating a predisposition to harm her children; but then, according to expert evidence, neither did 50% of parents found to have killed their babies. Mr Dunkels dismissed suggestions, put forward earlier in the hearing by Cannings' counsel, Michael Mansfield QC, that the jury must have reached the "extraordinary conclusion that she had given birth in order to kill" by having another child after the first boy died. "She may have thought she could overcome those feelings that she had in the past," said Mr Dunkels. Earlier Mr Mansfield said Cannings had faced prejudice because of the three deaths; the risk was that the jury would think it could not be coincidence, and conclude she must be responsible. But, he said, instances of multiple deaths by murder or Sids were equally rare. The hearing continues.