When Kate McCann arrived at Portimao police station yesterday morning she was met by jeers from among the hundreds of onlookers outside. The crowd bystanders were quick to give their opinion on what they thought had happened on the night of May 3. Brian Harmon, of Shannon, Ireland, who is on holiday with his wife in the Portimao resort of Praia da Rocha, said he refused to point an accusing finger at the McCanns, pointing out they "are innocent until proven guilty".At least four other holidaymakers from Ireland appeared to back the McCann family and said they could not fathom the idea of Kate or Gerry having done anything to harm their daughter.But a holidaymaker from Viana do Castelo in northern Portugal said: "I thought from the outset they were responsible," stressing that he would never leave young children sleeping without being able to see or hear them.Maria Sacramento of Portimao disagreed. "I cannot believe that a normal mother would do something to harm her own child," she said.Jose and Isaldino Pinto, who are on holiday in nearby Armacao da Pera, were less convinced. "We wouldn't be surprised if the parents did it," they said but added: "People are quick to judge and incriminate, and when the police seem confused, then how are ordinary people supposed to understand?"Sympathy for the McCann family was mixed with circumspection yesterday as supporters expressed incredulity and dismay at the turn of events.On Missing Madeleine, which calls itself "the official website to find Madeleine McCann", most messages voiced sympathy for the parents' ordeal. "Keep strong ... your faith is being tested to its limits. Let us hope that recent developments do bring us closer to knowing where Madeleine is," wrote one woman.Another correspondent declared: "It stuns me that anyone can even imply that you were involved in Madeleine's disappearance. The agony of missing her is written all over your faces." A woman named Ann said she was astounded: "I cannot believe the nasty people in this world, who can read into things and come to their own conclusions. I do not, and never will, believe that either Gerry or Kate did anything to harm Madeleine." Anger at the media for pursuing the extraordinary and unpalatable twists in the investigation surfaced regularly. "Please, please don't let the media drain your energy, you need it to find Maddy," Samantha emailed. But on other sites popular sympathy appeared to be slipping away from the McCann family. As long ago as July the Leicester Mercury, the McCanns' local paper, was forced to shut down its comments board on the story after it was deluged by defamatory messages.Children's charities which have backed the hunt for Madeleine yesterday declined to comment.On Mumsnet yesterday a furious debate erupted between people hidden behind online pseudonyms."I do think the McCanns have acted somewhat oddly throughout this investigation - particularly the mother," commented Krazykoolkazza."I can't quite see it as natural for a mother in her position to make one of her immediate priorities in the days immediately following the disappearance of her daughter a visit to the Pope - without her remaining children." According to the Missing Madeleine website more than £1m has been raised by supporters around the world eager to help the search to find the missing four-year-old. The success of the campaign has been phenomenal. Many public figures pledged their support and helped publicise the case; the England footballer David Beckham recorded a video appeal and the Manchester United and Portugal winger Cristiano Ronaldo also gave his backing.The reward being offered by business figures, celebrities and a national newspaper for information leading to Madeleine's safe return has reached £2.5m