We all awoke earlier this week to the news that the home secretary. John Reid, had last seen sense and written to judges and magistrates to tell them that they should stop jailing non-violent offenders because it's a waste of taxpayers' money.Finally, we all thought, the government have acknowledged that stuffing prisons full of drug addicts and the mentally ill, as well as vulnerable women and children just reduces the chances of rehabilitating the serious offenders who really need to be there.But alas, no. Blair and Reid were soon explaining that this was a stopgap measure until they begin the building programme for 8,000 more prison places in March. Meanwhile they are going to use police cells, army barracks, prison ships and condemned wings of existing prisons. Thus, our hopes that the tipping point had been reached, and the long-term strategy to put effectiveness before punitiveness and the beginnings of a long-term strategy to reduce overcrowding were dashed.If you were crying out for a more radical, even liberal, approach then surely we could point to the Libeal Democrats' new manifesto on crime, boldly entitled "We Can Cut Crime", which proposes a "smarter" rather than "tougher" approach. Well - that's definitely something we at SmartJustice would agree with.The Lib Dems highlighted the fact that prisoners who do not take part in education or training are three times more likely to go back to crime - but two-thirds of offenders receive no training at all.Almost half of all prisoners have a reading ability below that of an 11-year-old. Obviously this is not going help in finding work on release - one of the key indicators to prevent reoffending.The Lib Dems want to make education and training compulsory (which is laudable) but they cannot do this unless they tackle chronic overcrowding, and nowhere is this mentioned. The problem is the "churn" - when prisoners have to be moved about to make way for other prisoners. Often education and training courses have to be stopped half way though, as a prisoner finds himself in a prison van to yet another jail cell.But how do you stop prisons being overcrowded? The answer is to take out those who have been locked up for non-violent offences e.g. shoplifting, car theft (around seven out of 10 young people and eight out of 10 women) and make them undertake compulsory work in the community to pay back for the damage they have caused. Far better than sit around in a cell all day doing nothing.It would be a tragedy if the main priority for political parties was to "out-tough" each other on crime as we've seen this week, rather than being honest about effective solutions. This country needs some radical thinking in this area - and real political leadership rather than just cowering in the face of the next tabloid headline.