Ian Huntley yesterday admitted that he killed Jessica Chapman, but denied repeated suggestions that he had sexually assaulted the 10-year-old or her friend Holly Wells.He also denied that he had held Holly under water and "watched her drown", continuing to insist that she died after falling into the bath in an accident at his home in Soham, Cambridgeshire. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the two schoolgirls on August 4 last year. He claims that Jessica died when he put his hand across her mouth to stop her screaming as she saw her friend lying motionless in the tub, but said that he did not deliberately harm her. "You realised you had killed her?" Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, asked at No 1 court in the Old Bailey. "Yes", Mr Huntley replied. The lawyer asked: "You had killed her, hadn't you?" In a barely audible voice, Mr Huntley replied: "Yes". The caretaker, who has never previously admitted killing either of the 10-year-olds, admits one count of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. His former girlfriend, Maxine Carr, 26, denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. Mr Huntley told the court that Ms Carr gave him a false alibi for August 4 because "she did not believe for a second that I was responsible" for the girls' disappearance. In the most highly charged exchanges of the trial, Mr Huntley said he had not pulled Holly from the bath because he had "frozen in panic", and snapped at the barrister that while it seemed rational to rescue her, it was "not so rational" in the actual circumstances. "You can get angry, can't you, Mr Huntley?" Mr Latham asked. "Yes", Mr Huntley said. "You have just lost your temper with me, haven't you?" the barrister continued. "Yes," said Mr Huntley. But he denied losing his temper with the schoolgirls, saying he had no reason to do so. He also denied that he had "lured" them into the house, and that they were "just too tempting" for him. But he agreed that he had been faced with a choice when he realised they were dead. "And you decided it was the cover-up, didn't you?" asked the barrister. Mr Huntley agreed, adding: "My behaviour over those 12 or 13 days was inexcusable." Mr Latham had opened his cross-examination by referring to Mr Huntley's claim that he had tried to regain his memory of what happened to Holly and Jessica so he could come to court and tell their parents the truth. Mr Huntley answered: "That's correct, yes." Mr Latham said: "So all your efforts have been designed to help Holly and Jessica's parents?" Mr Huntley answered: "Not entirely, no." The lawyer suggested: "All your efforts have been designed to help you, haven't they? "From start to finish, you have been looking after yourself. You don't care what impact you have on anyone else." Mr Huntley answered: "That's not true." But he accepted it had been "inexcusable" to approach Holly's father three days after the girls' disappearance and express the hope they would be found safe. Mr Latham put it to him that he was "playing with the emotions" of Kevin Wells. Mr Huntley replied: "I wasn't intentionally playing with anybody's emotions." The case continues.