True to the old tradition of the Home Office, ministers are stubbornly refusing to recognise that imprisonment should no longer be associated with the automatic loss of civil rights. They are behaving as though they have no knowledge of the string of cases, most defended to the last, where the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg required the UK to extend basic civil rights to inmates. There could scarcely be a more basic right in a democracy than the right to vote. Yet when questioned on this 134-year-old ban on prisoners, ministers produced the lamest of justifications.Paul Goggins, the prisons minister, suggested the law should be preserved because it was a "tradition". The late Sir Stephen Tumim, former chief inspector of prisons, rightly responded "so was hanging, but we have done away with that one I believe". He might have added thumb screws, treadmills or even the old rules of silence, all of which have been abolished, too. Baroness Scotland, the minister of state, suggested "prisoners convicted of a crime serious enough to warrant imprisonment have lost the moral authority to vote". Since when did a civil right depend on good behaviour? The international covenant on civil and political rights, which upholds the right to vote in periodic elections, was signed by the UK but, alas, is still not incorporated into UK law.A joint campaign by Unlock, the national association of ex-offenders, and the Prison Reform Trust is launched today. They sensibly urge ministers to remember an important purpose of prison: the rehabilitation of inmates. The ban does not protect public safety, nor is it an effective deterrent. Worse still, it is not a means to correct offending behaviour or to assist in rehabilitation. Eighteen European states have no ban at all. A judgment on a British prisoner's case in Strasbourg is due shortly. Given the history of the court - with its proper insistence that the UK should give prisoners access to lawyers, ambassadors, MPs and journalists, as well as properly run disciplinary hearings - ministers should concede first and at least earn some credit.