With apologies that one man's riot is another man's research grant, I've been trying for more than a year to fund what David Cameron wants to see (Report, 15 August): a programme of public engagement to discuss what values are or are not shared by people in Britain, the foundations on which they rest, and what substitutes for religion secular societies have found for regulating behaviour and promoting civic virtue. The project was deemed to be of "marginal" interest, to quote one letter. If No 10 would like to get in touch, I'll be here all summer.Professor David VoasUniversity of Manchester• The prime minister has set out an agenda for social reform. We have been researching this for over six years and our work provides a comprehensive analysis of why our country displays characteristics of a broken society, and what solutions have been shown to work. Rather than a simple indicator of money, there are five key pathways to poverty: family breakdown, educational failure, worklessness, addiction and debt. These have a crippling effect in many of our communities, but none more so than family breakdown. Politicians can save the time and money of an inquiry by looking at our analysis and acting on it.Gavin PooleDirector, Centre for Social Justice• The long-term needs of young people are too easily forgotten (Letters, 12 August). May I suggest the appointment of a minister for young people to the cabinet, say a respected inner-city MP like Simon Hughes.Ashley MeyerLondon• Personal morality is not a matter for the state, but the morality of the state is. We have a benefits system which rewards single mothers. It contributes to child misery – failure in education, unemployment, addiction, trouble with the law, single-parenting and another cycle of dependency. This is not welfare. It's institutional child abuse.David BrancherAbergavenny, Gwent• The reaction of the communities hit by rioting youngsters was to come together to clean up. A week after the riots, there are a few burnt-out buildings and longer-term problems. But for most of the areas involved, it's back to business as usual. Britain isn't broken, it's remarkably fit and healthy. We have a resilient multicultural society with a high level of security in our relationships. Let's build on that instead of trying to find who to blame.Colin LedsomeLondon• David Cameron's speech got off on rather an unfortunate footing: "It's time for our country to take stock."Dr Frank FaulknerDerby 