Shannon Matthews, the schoolgirl who disappeared more than three weeks ago, was found alive today in a flat about a mile from her home in West Yorkshire.Police found Shannon "concealed in the base of a divan bed" after they broke into the flat in Batley Carr, an area of Dewsbury, at about 12.30pm. A 39-year-old man was arrested at the scene on suspicion of abduction and is currently in custody, a West Yorkshire police statement said. Guardian.co.uk understands that the man is a member of Shannon's extended family.Shannon has been made subject to an Emergency Police Protection Order. It is understood that she is yet to be reunited with her mother, Karen Matthews, who was said to be "in shock" following her daughter's safe recovery.The discovery of Shannon, who disappeared on her way home from a school swimming trip in Dewsbury on February 19, followed increasing fears for her safety by both police and Shannon's family.It is extremely rare for abducted children to be recovered alive if they are not found very soon after they are snatched.Shannon was found after police broke into the flat in Lidgate Gardens, a neighbour who witnessed the operation told the Press Association.One neighbour, 37-year-old Mandy Dixon, said she saw Shannon being brought out of the flat by a plain clothes officer. "A neighbour shouted out 'Is it Shannon?' and they said 'Yes, it is'. I then said 'Has Shannon been found?' and they said 'Yes'," she told PA."I couldn't see Shannon's face - she was covered up. She was clinging to the officer for dear life." Dixon said she then saw the suspect "dragged" out of the flat and into a waiting police car. "He wasn't walking, he was just limp," she said. "There were two men on either side of him. They were dragging him." Another neighbour in Lidgate Gardens, Christopher Heaps, told Sky News the alert was raised by a woman living in the flat below where Shannon was found."She said she heard a child's footsteps above and she knew that he hadn't got any children, I think she called the police and they took it from there," he said.Shannon's mother and her partner, Craig Meehan, were driven from their home by police just over an hour after the police raid. It was believed the pair were taken to see Shannon at a local police station.A family friend, Peter Brown, emerged from the Matthews family home to say he had spoken to Shannon's mother, who had been told by a police liaison officer her daughter was safe."She's shocked, happy, overwhelmed," he told Sky News. "It's the best news we could ever hope for."Shannon's father, Leon Rose, said he was "overwhelmed " to hear the news of his daughter's discovery. "I wasn't going to give up until she was found," he told Sky News.Earlier this week, Shannon's mother said she believed her daughter was snatched by someone close to the family. Asked if she thought someone she knew was responsible, she told the BBC: "It seems that way because there's no trace of her at all. There's no trace of her swimming costume, her towel or anything."The search for Shannon has been the biggest inquiry the West Yorkshire force has undertaken since the hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper serial killer in the 1970s. As well as 300 local officers, the hunt included more than half of the UK's specialist body search dogs. Among addresses searched by the dogs were those of registered sex offenders living in the local area.