The father of Lucie Blackman, the British nightclub host murdered in Japan four years ago, believes it is only a matter of time before another woman working in the country's adult entertainment industry is killed.Tim Blackman, 51, gave the warning yesterday after seeing again, in court, the man accused of killing her, and after an emotional visit to the secluded beach in Miura, south of Tokyo, where his daughter's dismembered remains were found in February 2001. During a three-day trip to Japan, Mr Blackman, and his 24-year-old daughter Sophie, visited Roppongi, an area of bars and restaurants that sits uneasily alongside the seedy hostess clubs and sex establishments. "I can see quite a dramatic deterioration in the quality of Roppongi," Mr Blackman told the Guardian.Many of the foreign women who work as hosts arrive without visas and are vulnerable to underworld figures, a situation Mr Blackman blamed on Japan's authorities. "Unless they change their way of administering the industry, it's only a matter of time before there's another case of this type," he said. Lucie, a former British Airways flight attendant, from Sevenoaks, Kent, was working at a club in Tokyo's notorious Roppongi district when she vanished in July 2000. Joji Obara, a wealthy property developer and a regular customer at the club where Lucie worked, is accused of inviting the 21-year-old to his beachside apartment in Miura, where he allegedly drugged and raped her before she died of an apparent drug overdose. Prosecutors say that Mr Obara - who is charged with nine other sexual assaults, including those of four other foreign Tokyo hosts - then chopped up her body, encased her head in concrete, and buried her remains inside a cave on the beach. Lucie's body was flown back to England in March 2001. The 52-year-old is also suspected of involvement, in February 1992, in the death of another Roppongi host, Carita Ridgeway. Ms Ridgeway, then 21, was drugged and raped, and died 10 days later of drug-induced liver failure. Mr Obara, who denies all charges, faces three years to life in prison if he is found guilty. Yesterday the Blackmans placed flowers at the mouth of the cave, which has been turned into a shrine to commemorate Lucie's memory. Beside the flowers stood two empty wine bottles, a feather and a simple wooden cross. The pair said that the trip was partly an attempt to end the grim association between the cave and Lucie's spirit. "Before, there was such an enormous sense of Lucie," Ms Blackman told reporters. "Her spirit was here when we came here before. Now there's quite a lot of litter here, and it's not quite as symbolic as it used to be." On their last visit a year ago they drank champagne on the beach, leaving the bottle a quarter full, symbolising Lucie's share. But yesterday Mr Blackman said there was no need to repeat the gesture after they shared a bottle of red wine at the site. "Lucie isn't here anymore," he said. In the afternoon they sat just three metres behind Mr Obara as he gave evidence at the Tokyo district court. Dressed in a grey suit, he did not turn around during the hearing and he appeared irritated, squinting frequently as he answered questions about Ms Ridgeway and mopping his forehead with a towel. "We felt that he was very twitchy and uncomfortable," Mr Blackman said. "He obviously wasn't at ease in any way. It was very tense, so we hope it was our presence there that put the pressure on him in that respect." The trial was held up after Mr Obara's defence team resigned in October 2001. But the snail-like pace of Japan's court system means Lucie's family may have to wait another year for a ruling. "We hope that we find justice for her in the end," Mr Blackman said. Ms Blackman said she hoped her sister's alleged killer would receive the harshest possible sentence. "We hear the prisons here are fairly inhumane so spending the rest of his life in one of those, being treated fairly badly, seems appropriate in my view," she said.