A solicitor whose suspicions about her mother's will led to the arrest of Harold Shipman, the GP accused of murdering 15 patients, testified yesterday that it was inconceivable her mother would have left everything to him.Shipman, 53, is alleged to have murdered Kathleen Grundy, 82, in June 1998 and forged her will so that only he would benefit from her £386,402 estate. Angela Woodruff, Mrs Grundy's daughter, told Preston crown court in Lancashire: "The whole thing was unbelievable. The thought of mum signing the document leaving everything to her doctor was inconceivable. The concept of her signing a document which was so badly typed didn't make any sense." Asked by Richard Henriques QC, for the prosecution, about the signature on the will, she replied in a wavering voice: "It looks strange, it looks too big. It didn't look right." Mrs Woodruff repeatedly dabbed her eyes with a tissue while giving evidence. The allegedly forged will arrived at Hamilton Ward solicitors in Hyde, Greater Manchester, on the day of Mrs Grundy's death accompanied by a covering letter purporting to be from her. Several days later, another typed letter arrived which said: "I regret to inform you that Kathleen Grundy, of 79 Joel Lane, has died. I know she lodged her will with you because I helped type it." It was purportedly signed by J or S Smith. The prosecution alleged that forensic evidence showed all three documents had been typed on a typewriter later found at Shipman's surgery in Hyde. The GP, from Mottram, near Hyde, denies murdering 15 patients and forging Mrs Grundy's will. Mrs Woodruff, 54, told the court she was not able to associate the wording of the will with the phraseology used by her mother. She added: "It was badly typed. My mother was a meticulously tidy person who a long time ago qualified as a secretary. She hadn't typed for years, but she did almost everything immaculately." The document referred to Mrs Grundy leaving her house, money and estate to Shipman. But Mrs Woodruff said that, at the time of her mother's death, she owned two properties - the other one was rented out. After becoming suspicious, Mrs Woodruff obtained permission from the solicitors to speak to the witnesses named on the document. The court had earlier been told that those named, Claire Hutchinson and Anthony Spencer, had said that the signatures did not belong to them. Mrs Woodruff called the police and spoke to Detective Constable David O'Brien at Hyde police station. She later gave him specimens of her mother's signature and handwriting on a driving licence, pocket diary, and other documents. She told the jury she had kept a copy of her mother's real will, which she had drawn up for her in 1986 at her solicitor's office in Warwick. Mrs Grundy also kept a copy of the document in a locked cabinet at her home. As far as Mrs Woodruff was aware, no one else had done any legal work for her mother, while she knew of nobody called S or J Smith who had signed the second letter received by Hamilton Ward. Describing her mother's health shortly before her death, she said: "We used to joke that she was fitter than us. "She could walk five miles and then come in and say, 'where's the ironing?' She was just amazing." In the days leading up to her mother's death, Mrs Grundy had not mentioned feeling ill when she spoke to her daughter on the telephone. Shipman had phoned Mrs Woodruff to tell her that her mother had died, she told the court. The following day she visited his surgery with her husband David, a professor at Warwick university, to ask what had happened. "He was not specific about my mother," she said. "But he did tell us that sometimes older people complain about feeling unwell a few days before they die. He did not actually say that that had happened to my mother, but he implied it." Shipman told Mrs Woodruff he had called at her mother's home on the morning of her death so that he could take a blood sample. He had stated on Mrs Grundy's death certificate that she had died of old age, the court heard. But toxicological tests on her body revealed morphine. Nicola Davies QC, for the defence, said: "Putting it bluntly, you contacted the police because you were suspicious about your mother's death?" Mrs Woodruff replied: "I had my suspicions about my mother's will, and began to have suspicions about my mother's death - although it was a hard one to believe." Mrs Woodruff broke down in tears when cross-examined by Miss Davies about the search through her mother's possessions following her death. Regaining her composure, she said: "It was too upsetting to go through my mother's things." She was not aware of her mother taking any opiate or morphine-based medicine. Hazel Shaw, a meals on wheels officer at Hyde town hall, said that she saw Mrs Grundy the day before her death. "She said she had been to the doctor's to sign some papers," Mrs Shaw told the court. "She said she was in there for such a long time - over half-an-hour - and felt guilty because there were a lot of people waiting in the surgery. She said to me that Dr Shipman was going to call to see her again the following morning at 8.30 to take a blood test, and she was going to sign more papers." Det Con O'Brien, who searched Shipman's surgery, told the court the doctor had handed in a typewriter during the search and said: "I presume that this is what you are looking for. Mrs Grundy used to borrow it." The case continues.