As reports came through that the child abuse inquiry panel may be replaced with a more powerful body, Napac’s chief executive, Peter Saunders, appeared on Radio 4’s Today programme. His interviewer, John Humphrys, seemed to have something on his mind: the use of the term survivor in relation to those who have been raped as children. The second time he brought the issue up, he said to Saunders: “I have some difficulty with the word survivor and I think perhaps others do as well. But anyway, let’s call them victims can we? Can we agree on the word victims at any rate?” Saunders had already used the term “victim/survivor” in the interview, as he usually does.At Napac we use the word survivor to describe any adult who has managed to get through a childhood where any type of trauma occurred. We include emotional abuse in our definition of trauma as well as sexual and/or physical abuse and/or neglect. Some people who were abused would rather be thought of as a thriver who has managed to move on and leave all the pain behind.Many people dislike being called a victim, but we recognise that in a legal context this is the word that has to be used, even if many years have passed since the alleged crime took place. It is not our job to decide on the validity of the complaints made; that is for the police and the courts. We take what we hear on our support line at face value.A survivor is someone who has managed to get through something that could have caused severe damage or death. There are many cases where child victims of abuse have also been killed. When Saunders explained his personal reasons for using the term survivor (“I was a victim a long time ago – I survived and thank God I live to tell the tale”), Humphrys response was a stark: “Well indeed, as did virtually everybody, one way or another”.Well, when I was dragged into the woods and raped at age four-and-three-quarters I might not have come out alive. Perhaps Humphrys would see it as being his job to question whether that crime ever took place. But the police did believe me when I made my report to them nearly 20 years ago. They believed me despite knowing it could never be proved, the rapist was a complete stranger.During my street homeless years a long time ago I met many people who had experienced similar childhood trauma. Some of them took their own lives. One of the main reasons Napac has survived as a charity for about 15 years is because we were lucky enough to have been left legacies by people we have supported. Unfortunately our support was not enough to prevent at least one of our beneficiaries from taking her own life. She did not survive. Francis Andrade did not survive.The effects of the sexual and violent crime on children, as well as emotional abuse, can last long into adulthood. Recovery is possible but it is hard work and support is needed on the journey.Napac is part of an increasingly global movement to improve understanding of this healing process. In this movement the word survivor is widely used, and we have chosen to use it, too. We were victimised during childhood, but we are not victims as adults today.Jon Bird is operations manager of the National Association for People Abused in Childhood • Comments on this article will be subject to moderators’ approval before publication