Police investigating the savage murders of two Chinese graduates apparently involved in an internet betting scam today put up a £5,000 reward for information leading to a conviction. Detectives admitted they were still desperate for details of the couple's movements during their last days, despite having recovered vast amounts of forensic evidence from the couple's flat and searching their computers, mobile phones and local CCTV footage for leads. Detective Superintendent Steve Wade, heading the inquiry into the deaths of Zhen Xing Yang and his girlfriend Xi Zhou, of Newcastle, said: "I am today able to announce that a £5,000 reward is being offered for information which leads to the arrest and conviction of those responsible."He appealed for anyone with information about the betting scam to come forward. Yang had advertised on websites for agents to report from football games which were being televised live, allowing fraudsters to use a short time delay in transmission in China to beat the bookies. "It is important to the investigation to understand who is involved in this process and how it operates," Wade said. "I understand people may be concerned that the police will look to prosecute those involved. My only objective is to solve this murder inquiry and information can be passed anonymously to assist in this process. "Myself and colleagues are doing all we can to bring those responsible for this brutal murder to justice and we want to work with the Chinese community in the UK."He spoke at a press conference aimed directly at the UK's Chinese community, and was accompanied by a Mandarin and Chinese-speaking translator for the event at Charing Cross Road police station, in central London. Wade continued: "We are currently going through the bank accounts and financial state of things. We don't think these people were making a huge amount of money out of whatever has been taking place. "Whether that's the sole motive of this attack we don't know at this stage. We want to find out whether the two victims figured in the chain of command." Zhou and Yang, both 25, were found hacked to death in their flat in Newcastle's West End on August 9. They had suffered a prolonged attack, and police suspect Yang may have been tortured for information about the cash he made from the betting scam. Officers also want to trace a man who rented a room in the couple's flat in early August. Wade said: "It makes him a person who is very important that we need to speak to. Whether he's a prime suspect or not I'm not really sure at this stage. "There may well be a perfectly innocent explanation for the lodger disappearing but what we want to do is speak to this individual because he may be able to tell us about the last movements of the victims." Detectives may release more details on the couple's injuries once their relatives have flown to the UK. Police are arranging visas for the families, who they have yet to speak to in connection with the murder inquiry.