The mother of missing nine-year-old Shannon Matthews said today she believed someone she knew had snatched her daughter "to hurt me". But Karen Matthews said she did not know who could have taken the shy youngster. Matthews, 32, told the Today programme on BBC Radio 4 that she was convinced Shannon had been abducted after returning from a school swimming trip in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, on February 19. "She got abducted. That's all I can say," she said. Asked if she thought it was someone she knew who took her, Matthews said: "It seems that way because there's no trace of her at all. There's no trace of her swimming costume, her towel, or anything like that that she's taken with her." And asked why someone close to her would do it, Matthews, the mother of seven children, replied: "Just to hurt me, really." But when pressed on who might be behind the abduction, she said: "No idea at all. All my friends and family have been checked and there are no sightings of her things there at all."Matthews's partner, Craig Meehan, said it was wrong to make comparisons between his family and that of Madeleine McCann, who went missing in Portugal last year. He said: "It's two families from two different backgrounds which shouldn't really get compared - basically, a poor family and a rich family." Meehan, 22, added: "To me, they are like celebrities in other people's eyes. They've got money, they know celebrities and all that, so they can afford to do everything they do, everything they can. We're trying to do what we can with the money we've got, with the resources we've got." Meehan and Matthews dismissed rumours that he had something to do with Shannon's disappearance and denied claims made by Matthews's parents that he had hit the schoolgirl. Matthews said her daughter had not been unhappy just before she vanished. Asked whether police had warned her to expect the worst, she said: "We're not going to be doing that at the moment, because we know she's out there somewhere." Senior police reiterated their "grave concern" yesterday as they described a huge search operation, one of the biggest inquiries the West Yorkshire force has ever undertaken. As well as 300 local officers, the hunt now includes more than half the UK's specialist body-search dogs. But the last confirmed sighting of Shannon remains at her school, Westmoor Junior, in Dewsbury Moor, at 3.10pm on February 19.