Ian Huntley yesterday claimed he never told his girlfriend Maxine Carr that Holly and Jessica died in their house.Mr Huntley said he had tried several times to tell her his account of what happened at their home - that they had died as the result of a freak accident - but had been unable to do so. He said: "How do you tell somebody that you are responsible for the deaths of two girls and then what happened after that?" Mr Huntley's counsel, Stephen Coward QC, asked him: "Of the people that you know, who did you want to tell most what had happened?" He replied: "I wanted to tell Maxine." "Did you tell her?" - "No". Mr Huntley went on to claim that yesterday in court was the "first time Maxine would have heard what happened that day". Mr Huntley told the jury that on one occasion he had asked Ms Carr, 26, if she believed he was responsible for the friends' deaths. He knew his behaviour had been strange and he was "constantly crying". Mr Huntley said: "I thought she must have suspected something was not quite right. I asked her that question half hoping she would say yes." It would have "paved the way" for him to confess to her. But she told him not to be "daft". During cross examination, Ms Carr's barrister, Michael Hubbard QC, told Mr Huntley that there was no better person to confide in than the woman he loved. Mr Huntley replied: "That's right." Mr Hubbard: "You know she certainly loved you?" Mr Huntley: "Yeah.". "She had been talking about marriage?" - "Yes." "Even talking about having your baby?" - "Yes." "Didn't you owe it to her to tell her it was a complete accident?" - "Yes, I did." Ms Carr's barrister suggested to Mr Huntley that he would have gone straight to the police if he had told her the girls were in the house. Mr Huntley: "Yes, I would say that." Mr Hubbard: "You deceived her throughout by letting her think the children had walked away from the house?" Mr Huntley: "Yes, I did." The defendant claimed that after Ms Carr had learned that the girls had been in the house because one of them had a nosebleed, it was her suggestion that she claim she was in Soham on the Sunday of the girls' disappearance rather than more than 100 miles away in Grimsby, so she could give him an alibi. The court has heard that in police interviews Ms Carr lied about where she was because she feared her fiance would be "fitted up" as he had previously been accused of raping a girl. Mr Huntley insisted he had not pressed her into lying.