Two suspected killers, both on the run from police, could be hiding out within a few miles of each other, it emerged last night.Terry Rodgers went missing after his daughter, Chanel Taylor, was shot in the head at her home in Huthwaite, Nottinghamshire, on 30 July, just weeks after he had given her away at her wedding. The 55-year-old was last seen in Nottingham a week ago and his car was found abandoned nearby. Detectives are also hunting ex-miner Robert Boyer, who is suspected of killing 62-year-old Keith Frogson, also a former miner, on 19 July following an argument over the miners' strike of 1984. Boyer, 42, is believed to be hiding out in woodland in the Annesley Woodhouse area, close to where the attack happened. The area is just a few miles from Nottingham, where Rodgers may be hiding, and both men are being sought by the same police force. An avid hunter, Boyer is said to know the woods well. He is also suspected of being involved in an arson attack on Frogson's house 10 days after the murder. Police are working on the theory that the two men fell out because Boyer broke picket lines and continued working while Frogson supported the strike. The dispute is believed to have boiled over on the strike's 20th anniversary last month. Frogson was found dead on his doorstep following a 'frenzied attack', possibly with a crossbow. While officers believe Boyer has managed to survive in the open for the past few weeks, those investigating the Chanel Taylor murder believe Rodgers must be receiving help, if he is still alive. Detective Chief Inspector Paul Cottee said: 'If Mr Rodgers is still in this area, he is undoubtedly receiving some form of assistance. We can only naturally have concerns for his wellbeing. It still remains a possibility that he could have access to a firearm, and I would remind the public there is that risk and he should not be approached. This is particularly difficult for Mr Rodgers' family and his two sons. It is a tragedy for them having lost their sister, and their father being the main suspect in this investigation.' Rodgers had moved in with his daughter and her husband after splitting up with his wife of 30 years and running into financial problems. On Friday, six days after the murder, detectives found a shotgun concealed under floorboards at Chanel Taylor's home. Tests are being conducted to establish if it is the murder weapon.