A Spanish waiter today admitted for the first time that he had killed the 13-year-old British schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson, who was raped and murdered on a school trip to France.Francisco Arce Montes told a court in St Brieuc, Brittany, that he had killed Caroline on July 18 1996, but had not intended to do so.In June last year, Montes was sentenced to 30 years imprisonment for the rape and murder of the "quiet and thoughtful" schoolgirl following a six-day trial in Rennes, Brittany.His appeal against the conviction - which takes the form of an automatic retrial in France - began today.Caroline's father told the court he would be forever haunted by the vision of seeing her body in a morgue. "Life had stuck at the same page for nine years, and I have not been able to start afresh," he said.His testimony was followed by that of Caroline's younger sister, 20-year-old Jenny, who has never before spoken about what she went through after hearing that her "best friend" had died on a school trip to Brittany. Jenny, who was 11 at the time of the attack, said she had been unable to talk to even her close friends about what had happened for around six years. Standing just to the right of Montes and directly before the judge and jury, the media studies student, from Launceston, Cornwall, told of her loneliness following the loss of her "very good friend". "It took a while for me to believe it and I was very lonely," she said. She added that things had not started to sink in until Caroline's funeral, after which she "shut down for a while". She said it had taken her around six years before she could talk to anyone about it, even close friends at school, and had undergone some counselling.Asked how she felt today, she said: "I don't think I can explain that." Montes was wiping his eye as Jenny finished her testimony, but he declined to comment. The court earlier heard him admit that he had killed Caroline, but he said he had not had any intention of doing so. Asked by Judge Jean-Luc Buckel whether he accepted that, under French law, he had raped Caroline on the night she died, Montes, 55, from Gijon, replied: "Yes". He said he had never intended to kill her and, when he left her room, he had not thought she was dead.The judge said: "But the problem is she died," to which Montes replied: "Yes, that is true - I killed her, but I had no intention of killing her. It was an accident, a misfortune. "It was the result of the rape. I didn't go into her room to kill her. I didn't cover her mouth to kill her." Montes told the court he had gone to Rennes to visit his son, whom he had not seen for a long time. Unable to see him, he had been deciding whether to return to London - where he rented a flat in Earl's Court - or to stay.After taking a cocktail of powerful tranquillisers and alcohol, he had gone into a youth hostel at St Lunaire where he had attempted to have sex with another English girl. Thwarted in his attempt by the sound of other girls woken by the attack, he left immediately and went to the hostel at Pleine Fougeres where the attack on Caroline took place. The retrial continues.