The mother of Stephen Lawrence said she hoped justice would be done for her murdered son.Doreen Lawrence watched Wednesday's dramatic proceedings in the court of appeal, which gave permission for Gary Dobson to be charged with the murder of Stephen in south-east London in 1993. He will stand trial with David Norris in November.She emerged from court with her surviving son, Stuart, saying: "I'm really emotional now."She continued: "I'm really pleased by the judgment that happened this morning. It's been a long time in coming, but we still have a long way to go."At this moment in time, all I can think about is Stephen and that perhaps somewhere down the line we will get justice for him. It's been a long time for us to get to this position. And that's all I wanted to say."As he left court, Stephen's father, Neville Lawrence, said: "I am pleased now. I can relax. I was so tense last night."In a joint statement, the Crown Prosecution Service and the Metropolitan police said: "The Metropolitan police service and the Crown Prosecution Service have worked tirelessly with forensic scientists to review the evidence in this case. A full forensic review was commenced in June 2006. New scientific evidence was found and on that basis the prosecution applied for a retrial. We welcome the court of appeal's decision."Our thoughts at this stage go to Stephen's family, who have never given up their quest to see justice for Stephen."The statement went on to explain why the media had been banned from reporting the arrests and charging of Dobson and Norris in September 2010: "In order to protect the investigation and ensure a fair trial, reporting restrictions were put in place in September 2010, which have now been partially lifted."Two men now stand charged with the murder of Stephen Lawrence. It is important that nothing is said or reported which could prejudice their right to a fair trial. We remind people of their responsibilities under the Contempt of Court Act to do nothing which could prejudice any future legal proceedings."