A fitness trainer who stabbed to death a woman he had invited out on a first date was jailed for at least 30 years yesterday.Karl Taylor, 27, was described by an Old Bailey judge as "arrogant, manipulative and highly dangerous" after he carried out a premeditated attack on 32-year-old Kate Beagley. A manager for Centrica who lived in Walton-on-Thames, Beagley had 31 stab wounds to her face and neck when her naked body was recovered. She was killed in a frenzied assault as she sat on a park bench at a beauty spot overlooking the river Thames in Richmond, west London, last May. She had met Taylor a few days earlier at the CC Club in central London, where they exchanged phone numbers. During the date at the Roebuck pub in Richmond Hill, Beagley appeared to be ignoring him. Another customer, Maureen Roncone, told police: "As soon as they sat down, the girl had her head down, texting on her mobile phone." Friends and family had launched a frantic search for her during the four days she was missing after meeting Taylor for a drink. The fitness trainer, who lived in Covent Garden, had gone on the date with a knife up his sleeve. When arrested, he led police to the body, dumped in nettles in Oxhey Wood, north of London. Beagley had been driven there by him in the boot of her VW Golf, which Taylor told police he had intended to steal when he met her. There were cheers and weeping from Beagley's friends and family in the public gallery as the jury found Taylor guilty after two hours of deliberation. Judge Giles Forrester told Taylor: "This was a murder done for gain. You went to meet this girl equipped with a knife. You took advantage of her vulnerability for your own ends." Taylor had claimed Beagley had committed suicide in front of him by prodding her head forward on to the knife after tearfully telling him of her problems. Peter Clarke QC, for the prosecution, said Taylor told police he stabbed Beagley after telling her: "All I want is your car." He had told officers: "She pushed me away. She was grabbing me and I stabbed her in the throat. I constantly and consistently cut her in the neck because she was going for my face." Taylor, who grew up in Notting Hill, west London, later showed off his "new car" to friends and family. He sold Beagley's mobile phone to a friend.