Andrew Adams bounds into the visiting room at Durham's Frankland prison, radiating smiles and energy, and sits on a bolted-down chair. Last month, he turned 36, but he doesn't look much older than the youth I first interviewed at HMP Wakefield in 1994, when his main experience of life had been dating a succession of beautiful girls, racing go-karts, learning to fly... and being sentenced to life for a murder he insists he did not commit. 'I might have lost a lot of years,' he says now, 'and I'm sad about that. But I'm also determined to correct it. Obviously this...' he gestures round the grimy hall, 'is something that's never going to be forgotten. But life goes on and I'm going to make something of it.'Fourteen years after his arrest for the gangster-style execution of Jack Royal, a South Tyneside science teacher, after having been convicted, sentenced, and then losing his first appeal in 1997, Adams has been given a fresh chance of proving the claim he has made from the beginning - that he's innocent. The Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC), the body which investigates miscarriages of justice, has referred his case back to the Court of Appeal, concluding: 'There is a real possibility that Andrew Adams's conviction will not be upheld.' In an 86-page statement of reasons, compiled after combing the files of the police and Crown Prosecution Service, the CCRC sets out a long catalogue of evidence that was never disclosed - in the commission's view, quite wrongly - at Adams's trial and first appeal.'Almost every aspect of the prosecution case has been undermined,' says Adams's solicitor, Ben Rose [no relation to the author]. 'If his trial had heard what we know now, it's very hard to see how he could have been convicted.'In the dismal history of British miscarriages of justice, there has never been a case like Adams's. By the time of his arrest, someone else had already been charged, tried and acquitted of the same murder - of a man who had himself been acquitted of murder. Now, the new evidence unearthed by the CCRC suggests that the main witness to testify against Adams, a former schoolmate named Kevin Thompson, agreed to testify only after negotiating a deal that enabled him and his girlfriend to avoid going to prison for the brutal armed robbery of an elderly couple. Such deals are not unusual or necessarily wrong, but evidence of this deal was hidden from the defence.Jurors, as judges always warn, must try a defendant only on the evidence heard in court, not on the basis of prior acquaintance or gossip. But according to interviews with the jurors carried out by the CCRC, at least one of them claimed to have had 'personal knowledge' of Adams during the trial, and told his peers that he was a 'bad lad' who had been involved in drugs. 'I always believed justice would prevail,' Adams says. 'I was 22, and I believed that any court would see the lies that were being told for what they were.' When the judge pronounced sentence, he gasped at the jury in bewilderment: 'Do you realise what you've done?' Fourteen years later, he is beginning to get some answers.Late in the evening of Monday, 19 March 1990, at their modern, spacious home in Laburnum Grove, Sunniside, where South Tyneside's suburbs give way to open country, Jack Royal and his wife, Sonia, were reading together in their sitting room. If they were feeling calm and peaceful, in the words of Mr Justice Ognall's summing-up at Andrew Adams's trial, this would have been 'a fairly recent novelty'. Three years earlier, on 10 January 1987, Royal had stabbed a man to death after an argument outside a local chip shop. His victim, David Thompson, had been Royal's son's business partner. Charged with murder, Royal stood trial twice, claiming that he killed in self-defence. The first jury could not reach a verdict, and the second found him not guilty. 'Mrs Royal was thereafter fearful of revenge,' Mr Justice Ognall said. 'But gradually, her anxieties were allayed, and she pushed them to the back of her mind.'At 11.35pm that night, someone rang the Royals' doorbell. Jack, 57, got to his feet, walked through the hall and unlocked the inner door between the house and the glazed front porch. As soon as he stepped into it, he was blasted in the face and neck with a shotgun. He died almost instantly. The killer was seen running to a white Montego stolen earlier that day. Less than 20 minutes later, the fire brigade found the vehicle ablaze three miles away.Within days, detectives had taken hundreds of witness statements. One was from Andrew Adams, who had been stopped driving just before 11pm in his Renault 5 Turbo, together with his friend John Hands. The stop, on West Road in the West End of Newcastle, was many miles from the murder scene. After a computer check confirmed that Adams owned the vehicle, he and Hands were sent on their way.Soon the police had a suspect. Walter Hepple, then 21, was a local man from Sunniside, and he seemed to have a motive: David Thompson, the man Royal had killed, was Hepple's sister's partner, and the father of their two children. One of the Royals' neighbours, Beverley Yeadon, said she had seen the hitman when he left in the stolen Montego. She picked out Hepple at an identification parade, and later told a jury: 'He was definitely the driver. I had seen the face that night.' However, a few days before the ID parade the police had shown her photos of 55 possible suspects and, as she would do later, she picked out Hepple. The defence was able to argue that when she saw him in the flesh, she was merely recalling the photo. In June 1991, after a three-week trial, Hepple was acquitted.Then, on 6 April the following year, a gang of robbers burst into the home of Henry and Mary Thomas in Consett, County Durham. The couple, both in their seventies, were tied up at shotgun point while their house was ransacked, and antiques worth £15,000 stolen. As a result of his ordeal, Mr Thomas suffered a stroke. Just two hours after the robbery, Durham detectives found copious incriminating evidence at the home of Kevin Thompson. The gang had driven to the Thomas's house in a Vauxhall Cavalier, which was discovered, complete with false number plates, at the house Thompson shared with his girlfriend, Nicola Henderson.Thompson had been driving around in the car throughout the previous week. Inside his house were the shotgun used to threaten the Thomases and all their stolen antiques: when the police came through the door, Thompson and Henderson were making an inventory. Mrs Thomas had given the police a description of one of their assailants: 'White, twenties, slim, fair eyebrows, blue eyes, fair hair, sharp features.' As Thompson would later agree, it matched him perfectly.But although the police set up an ID parade, it never took place; when interviewed, Thompson claimed his part in the raid was confined to handling the stolen antiques. He was originally charged with robbery - for which he might have expected a sentence of 10 to 15 years. But the prosecution dropped the robbery count, and in June 1992 Thompson pleaded guilty to the lesser offence of handling. Judge Hannah gave him a suspended sentence and he was free to go.By then, two detectives, DI Ian Sharp of the Northumbria police and DI Ian Scott from Durham - now the head of Durham CID - had been to see Hannah in his chambers. As Mr Justice Ognall put it at Adams's trial, they 'advised the learned judge of the assistance that Kevin Thompson had given and was continuing to give in the Jack Royal inquiry'.Kevin Thompson, John Hands, Andrew Adams and his girlfriend at the time of Jack Royal's murder, Catherine Thompson [no relation to Kevin] had all been at West Denton High School in Newcastle in the same year, and all of them left together in 1986 when they turned 16. According to Kevin Thompson, it was Catherine who supplied the motive for Adams's murder of Jack Royal. Her brother was David Thompson, Royal's victim. Kevin told the police that her hatred for Royal ran deep. Not only had he killed her brother, he had severed his vocal cords and this prevented him crying for help. Catherine was charged with incitement to murder.Adams's background was the most prosperous of the group. His parents had parted when he was 11, but stayed on friendly terms. At school and for a while afterwards, he lived with his mother, Joan, in a redbrick semi in Chapel Park. 'The posher part of the West End,' as Adams says. His father, Bill, owned a successful business, Little Wings, which maintained all the private and commercial propeller planes that used Newcastle airport. 'Anyone who flew, or was learning to fly, knew us,' says Adams. Among Bill's friends and customers was Northumbria's chief constable, Sir John Stevens, later commissioner of the Metropolitan Police. By the time of Adams's arrest, he was running Little Wings with his father, and they had plans for expansion. 'We were going to start an air taxi service.'Adams was working hard during the day, but the nights were wild. 'It was just the beginning of dance music, acid house and all that. We all began going to the city-centre nightclubs: Rockshots, Madisons, Walkers, Manhattans. They're friendly people, the Geordies. Particularly the girls.'Tall, well built, with brilliant blue eyes, money to spend and an open, direct manner, Adams did not find it hard to form relationships. The most serious partner of his late teens was Kirsten Heathcote, who had been out with him some years earlier when they went to the same middle school. 'She was blonde, good-looking, a former gymnast.' Andrew got on well with her parents - her father was a police chief superintendent - and her sisters. Later, Kirsten went into the force herself. But by the time she became a WPC in 1990, says Adams, 'our relationship was over'.Its end, around the beginning of 1989, was abrupt. 'We were out at Manhattans and she caught another girl sitting on my knee.' Andrew dropped her for the girl on his lap - his future co-defendant, Catherine Thompson. Although they'd known each other for years, they fell for each other hard, and bought a house together, a Billy Elliot-style terraced cottage in Sugley Street, Lemington, about two miles west of where Adams had lived with his mother. He was, he admits, too young to settle down, and by the summer of 1990 they had separated.The following January, Adams took in a lodger in Sugley Street - none other than Kevin Thompson. But they began to fall out, says Adams, partly because Thompson owed him money. The 'last straw' came early one morning the following May when police burst into the house and arrested Adams and Thompson for an armed robbery at a Presto supermarket. Adams had an alibi and was soon allowed to leave. Thompson, however, was charged, after a witness picked him out in an ID parade. Later the case was dropped, but Adams told Thompson to leave.By the spring of 1992, Adams and John Hands were dating twin sisters. On the morning of 6 May, Adams and his girlfriend were fast asleep when the phone rang. 'I thought it was someone taking the piss. He said he was a police sergeant, calling to inform me that there were 25 armed officers surrounding the premises. So I put my hands on my head like I was instructed. I had no idea what they wanted, and when they said it was for murder, I...' Adams tails off, suddenly choked. 'That was it. The end of everything. Everything started collapsing, and it has been ever since.'Even before the trial, according to the CCRC, errors and omissions by Adams's solicitor, John Foley, damaged his chances of acquittal. In its 2005 statement of reasons, the CCRC says that in its view, 'the presentation of Andrew Adams's defence was significantly disadvantaged by the failure of his legal representatives to prepare the case for trial.'One blunder was to enter incorrect timings on the court document that set out his alibi - that he had been at a friend's house at the time of the Royal killing. The result, the CCRC says, was that the prosecution was able to claim he was lying, when he may well have been telling the truth. Another was to instruct the same barristers, James Chadwin QC and Patrick Cosgrove, who had earlier defended Wally Hepple. Foley had been told in writing by Chadwin and Cosgrove that they could only take the case if Adams did not intend to run any line of defence that suggested that Hepple had killed Jack Royal. If he did, they said, they would be 'professionally embarrassed'. There is no suggestion that Hepple was wrongly acquitted, but Chadwin and Cosgrove could not explore the evidence used against him at the first trial, and there was an obvious conflict of interest.Chadwin and Cosgrove did not meet Adams until almost a year after his arrest, on 8 April 1993. A few days earlier, they had been told that John Hands, Adams's co-defendant in the Royal murder, did intend to call some of the evidence that the prosecution had used previously against Hepple. The barristers told Adams they would have to withdraw. But according to the CCRC, Chadwin and Cosgrove should have realised much earlier that this conflict of interest might arise, and 'should have declined to accept the brief to represent Andrew Adams'. There were now just 13 days to go before the scheduled start of the trial.Earlier this year, I asked Foley about his choice of barristers. Despite the documents that show that Chadwin and Cosgrove told him of their role in the Hepple case, he says: 'I didn't know at the time I instructed Mr Chadwin that he'd represented Walter Hepple, and if I had known that, I wouldn't have instructed him.' He refuses to answer further questions.The barristers who Foley eventually found, Andrew Menary and Robert Fordham, first met Adams in jail on Monday 19 April. It had been 'a pretty horrible weekend for us both, reading the case papers,' Menary told the CCRC. Fordham (who died in 2002) was only made a QC on 21 April, the day the trial began. 'I don't think he had a lot of experience in serious crime,' Menary said. Aware that they had to master a mountain of paperwork, and might need to make inquiries to challenge the prosecution case, Mr Justice Ognall granted an adjournment. Foley thought they would need four weeks - the judge gave them five days.When the hearing finally opened, it was clear that without Kevin Thompson, there would have been no prosecution case. Apart from Thompson, there were no witnesses who said Adams and Hands had been anywhere near the murder, nor was there any physical evidence that linked them with it. Thompson said he had driven Adams and Hands to a pub near the murder scene where they picked up a stolen car. When they came back, they torched this vehicle and Adams showed him a shotgun, saying he had 'blown [Royal's] fucking head off'. The murder weapon had disappeared. According to Thompson, Adams had broken up the shotgun with a mallet, so that it 'shattered' into small pieces. The defence called evidence to argue that this would have been impossible.Adams's defence cited the evidence of Thompson's light sentence for the Consett antiques robbery, suggesting he had done a deal with the police before his release on bail on 11 April 1992. He vehemently denied it. According to Thompson, he had no idea that the Consett charge would be reduced when he first began to tell the police about the murder. He had acted purely out of conscience, notwithstanding the fact that he had said nothing while another man, Wally Hepple, had been charged and tried for the same murder. When two officers, DI Sharp and DC Ian Mackle, first came to his home on 14 April and asked about the killing, Thompson insisted this approach came 'totally out of the blue'.The jury returned its verdict on 18 May 1993. Although Thompson had claimed that Hands and Adams did everything on the night of the murder together, Hands and Catherine Thompson were acquitted. Adams, of course, was not. 'I was devastated,' Hands says. 'He'd been by my side and I was walking out, leaving him there. I went outside and my family was already celebrating. But my best pal had just been sent down for life for something he hadn't done. That night there was a party. But I couldn't do it. I just went home. How could I celebrate when such a terrible injustice was being done?'Later, some police officers would try to insinuate that Catherine might have been pleased to see Andrew go down; that their relationship had been marred by sexual violence. Like so much else, she says, now settled in another part of Tyneside with two children, it was a lie. 'I have said for 14 years that he's innocent. I have never doubted it. It caused me and my family so much pain. We've never been able to forget it. It's been a living nightmare.'A few days after the verdict, three of the jurors contacted Adams's family, saying they regretted what they had done, and that they had been influenced by another juror who claimed to have secret information about Adams. This was the start of a long investigation I carried out with a local journalist, John Merry, for The Observer. At first, we were unsure whether he was guilty or not, but we became increasingly convinced of his innocence. In July 1995, we published an article on The Observer's news pages. The prosecution claimed that Adams had destroyed the gun used to kill Royal, but we revealed that six months before his arrest, the police had found another weapon at the home of a criminal named Mark Dixon. A friend of Kevin Thompson, he had been convicted of the Presto supermarket robbery with which Thompson was also originally charged.A forensic scientist compared Dixon's shotgun with a cartridge recovered from Royal's porch in 1990. The scientist could not be certain, but said it seemed possible a distinctive scratch on the cartridge was caused by one of the gun's components rubbing against it, and when other cartridges were loaded into the weapon, it appeared to mark them in the same way. Two detectives visited Dixon in jail, and told him that they believed that the shotgun found at his house had been used to kill Royal. Dixon denied it, and there is no evidence that he was involved in Royal's murder. None of this, however, was disclosed to Adams's defence at his trial.This and other evidence was considered by the Court of Appeal in 1997. All of it was rejected: in the judges' view, had the jury known about the other gun, it would have made no difference. Although they did find 'inexcusable and serious irregularities' in the fact that some of the conversations between Kevin Thompson and the police had not been properly recorded, they did not affect the verdict's safety. The CCRC later reviewed this evidence and agreed with the Court of Appeal that it did not challenge this verdict. For Adams, on a rollercoaster with many low points, this was one of the lowest. 'We thought we had some good arguments,' he said. 'When it was knocked back, I was absolutely devastated.' Worse was to come.The following year, his mother was diagnosed with a cancer. She was too ill to visit him in prison, but after weeks of trying, he was finally allowed out under guard from Full Sutton jail near York to see her in hospital the day before Christmas Eve. When he got to the ward at Newcastle General, she was in a coma, surrounded by family and friends. 'They let me have about half an hour with her. Then about 20 armed police descended on the place. They claimed I'd been planning to escape, and dragged me back to prison.' She died later that evening.There was one recourse left: the newly created CCRC. Adams spent weeks in his cell, poring over his case papers and writing a submission. It caught an official's eye and, in 1999, Adams was told the CCRC would investigate. The following year, he found a solicitor willing to help - Ben Rose of the London firm Hickman and Rose.It was a slow, frustrating process. Two CCRC investigators working on his case left, having found other jobs, before a third, Scott Marcroft, was assigned to it in 2001. Adams says: 'The first conversation I had with him, I asked, "Are you going to stick at this, or are you going to fuck off, too?" He said, "No, I'm going to stick with this to the end."' He was as good as his word.Some of the evidence uncovered by Marcroft casts grave doubt on the prosecution version of the night Royal died and on some of the details of Thompson's testimony. But at the heart of the dossier Marcroft compiled is a paper trail, none of which was seen by the defence before the trial. It suggests Thompson was lying when he denied he had made a deal to avoid going to prison for the robbery and that the first police questions about the murder came 'out of the blue' on 14 April 1992, four days after his release. One of the newly revealed documents from the police murder file is a memo dated 6 April - the day of the robbery and Thompson's arrest. It states: 'D/Insp Sharp, DC Mackle recommence full time enquiry. Thompson quickly identified and converted to assist the cause.' If Thompson were already helping with the murder at this early stage, it might well explain why he was not put on an ID parade for the robbery - so allowing him to be charged only with handling.In all, Marcroft found 15 important documents covering Thompson's dealings with the police. There was no police misconduct in connection with the deal, but the documents should, in the CCRC's view, have been disclosed. They include a partial record of an entire 'missing interview' (the tape itself is said to be missing) and several detectives' pocket books. The documents also reveal a series of 'informal' conversations between the police and Thompson's girlfriend, Nicola Henderson.The robbery was investigated by Durham police. It is therefore striking that the newly disclosed notebooks of the Northumbria murder detectives DI Sharp and DC Mackle reveal that they were present at Consett police station in County Durham, about 20 miles from their own force area, as early as 9 April. They spoke to their Durham colleagues there shortly before the mysterious 'missing interview' between the Durham detectives and Thompson.'If a deal were done over his charge in respect of the robbery, the seeds of it were most likely sown in that interview,' the CCRC statement of reasons says. Sharp and Mackle were at Consett again the following day, when their pocketbooks say they spoke to Nicola Henderson about the Royal murder - according to the CCRC, for as much as one-and-a-half hours.Almost immediately afterwards, she and Thompson, though still in police custody, were driven home and then back to the station in order to fetch toiletries and a change of clothes. 'In 15 years as a criminal defence solicitor, I've never known suspects be given such a privilege before,' says Ben Rose.Guy Whitburn QC, the prosecuting counsel at Adams's trial (now a Crown Court judge) ran the case on the basis that there was no deal with Thompson. But at the Court of Appeal, the Crown accepted that there had been a deal, but only in relation to the robbery and not Jack Royal's murder. Whitburn told the CCRC: 'It was perfectly clear that there had been a deal. He had a lot to gain by giving evidence. But all that Kevin Thompson said checked out...' He had not been personally told of such a deal.However, if there is one new document of 'particular importance', says the CCRC, it is the note of a conversation in November 1993 between a DI Kenneth Dixon and Karen Graham - Kevin Thompson's then solicitor, and coincidentally the elder sister of Andrew Adams's former girlfriend, WPC Kirsten Heathcote. Graham had said that while Thompson had been in custody in April 1992, she had asked the police to recommend a lighter sentence for him in return for his naming his accomplices in the robbery. But at this point the detectives 'refused to make a deal'.The next day, 11 April, she added, she spoke to Thompson, just after he had been bailed. 'He asked her if she was aware police officers wished to speak to him about the Jack Royal murder,' says Dixon's note. He didn't have to say anything as he had not been arrested in connection with the murder. But apparently Thompson decided he was going to speak to the officers despite the implications, and said he knew Adams had shot Royal - he was determined to protect Nicola and their child and get out of the area. This, of course, was three days before he had supposedly discussed the murder with anyone.This document, the CCRC states, is 'directly relevant to the central issue of [Thompson's] credibility', and should have been disclosed before Adams's appeal. Karen Graham's sister, Kirsten Heathcote, also helped the murder squad. Yet another new document is a record of a meeting between her and DI Sharp on 12 May 1992, in which they discussed 'background information' about Adams. The CCRC found no grounds to object to the meeting itself, but criticised the failure to disclose the document.In Frankland prison, Adams fights to contain his impatience at further, seemingly endless delays. It isn't yet clear whether the Crown will resist his new appeal. If it does, the hearing may not take place for many months. But for the first time in many years, Andrew Adams has real hope. He knows if he wins, he will face enormous difficulty in readjusting to life outside, but insists: 'If I can cope with coming into a totally alien world for something I hadn't done, I can cope with this.'Even if this story has a happy ending, it will leave a heavy legacy of sadness. 'Every time I see him I just want to take him home and go for a pint. It sickens me so much, leaving him there,' says John Hands, who still visits him several times each month. 'When he went into jail, everyone was into going out, being young. Now we've got our own lives, our own little families. Whenever I look at my own two kids who I adore so much, I think to myself, "That's what Andrew should have."'Court charactersJack Royal killed David Thompson in January 1987; he was acquitted after pleading self-defence. Royal was then murdered on 19 March 1990.Walter Hepple was tried for Jack Royal's murder in1991 and acquitted.Andrew Adams was charged with Jack Royal's murder in May 1992. He was jailed for life. Following the discovery of new evidence, Adams has been granted a second appeal.Catherine Thompson Andrew Adams's girlfriend at the time of Royal's death. She was also David Thompson's sister, and was acquitted of incitement to murder.Kevin Thompson (no relation) The school friend of Andrew Adams who became the main prosecution witness against him after allegedly concluding a deal with police by which he avoided charges for armed robbery.John Hands is Adams's best friend. He stood trial with Adams, but was acquitted of murdering Royal.