For Sir Ian Blair, who takes over as Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police on 1 February, this weekend was supposed to be an interval of calm - an Alpine skiing trip. Alas, this top policeman's lot is not a happy one. Instead of scything powder, Blair and his party have found themselves pinned in their valley by a blizzard.After five years as Deputy Commissioner to the energetic Sir John Stevens, Blair probably needed the break. He also knows that plans laid by Met commissioners do not always come to fruition, while the careers of most of his recent predecessors have come unstuck spectacularly when assailed by unforeseen events. Sir David McNee (1977-82) left office humiliated by the Queen's discovery of an intruder in her bedroom; Sir Kenneth Newman (1982-7), supposedly an expert on inner cities, presided over riots in Brixton and Tottenham, and the hacking to death of PC Keith Blakelock.Sir Peter Imbert (1987-93) was a brave reformer, whose impact was tragically diluted by a near-fatal heart attack. As for Sir Paul Condon (1993-2000), he began by pledging to eradicate police racism - only to find his entire commissionership haunted by the murder, weeks after it started, of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence, and the Met's failure to bring his killers to justice. Of the past six commissioners, only Stevens seems to have survived both physically and psychologically unscathed. Yet however daunting Blair's task, there is a palpable sense of excitement in and around New Scotland Yard over his appointment, not least from among the considerable numbers of progressives within police ranks. Radical change to this vast organisation - 30,000 officers and 15,000 civilians- has long been promised. This time, say Blair's supporters, it finally has a leader with both the vision and the skills to make it real. At the end of last year, an inquiry by the former union leader Sir Bill Morris made sweeping criticisms of the Met's employment practices and continuing racial discrimination. At first glance, Blair's response looked bland, low key: 'I have always worked towards modernising the Met and it's fair to say that perhaps one of the reasons I have been appointed as the next commissioner is because of my determination to reform and modernise the service.' To confuse his lack of hyperbole with weak intentions would be a mistake. Blair can be expected to begin his tenure by setting up a root and branch review, with pow ers to investigate which police roles can be performed by civilians, and new ways of making the service more effective, open and accountable. Almost 20 years ago, Imbert conducted a similar exercise, only for his 'Plus Programme' to falter when it came to implementation. Blair is determined not to fall at the same hurdle, and while he often likens the Met to a FTSE 100 company in terms of size and complexity, he has also taken time to study first-hand how such corporations have managed successful reform. 'He's always had an extraordinary ability to spot the potential for change, often long before anyone else,' says Tom Williamson, a former Met murder squad leader and later Nottinghamshire deputy chief constable, now a visiting professor at Portsmouth University. 'Behind the scenes, he's been delivering wake-up calls to the service for the past 20 years.' 'Above all, he's a man who understands process,' adds Gerry Acheh, former senior partner at KPMG and now head of the Partnership in Policing initiative at the business organisation London First. 'He'll consult widely, and has learnt from other, very different institutions. He is an outstanding choice.' Ian Warwick Blair was born in Chester on 19 March 1953. His father - 47 when Ian was born - was a Lever Brothers transport manager, the son of a doctor. The teenage Blair boarded at The Wrekin, in Wellington, Shropshire. Remodelled by the evangelical preacher Percy Warrington in the 1920s, the school's prospectus records that Warrington imbued it with lasting traditions: 'Service, loyalty and Christian values.' Such qualities, say Blair's friends, helped to propel him into policing, and influence him still. But 'The Job' was not always his vocation. After a gap year spent on a scholarship in Los Angeles, he arrived to read English at Christ Church Oxford in 1971, determined to become an actor. But although Blair devoted much of his time to acting and directing, he realized he lacked the talent to turn professional early on. Blair's readiness to look outside the service in his work extends to his social and cultural life. A few years earlier, all or most of Blair's Oxford friends would have classed the police as 'pigs', but he was young enough for his decision to join the Met on graduation in 1974 not to seem eccentric. Many police officers, graduates included, still tend to mix mainly with colleagues, and policing's intense subculture can leave them isolated from broader social and intellectual currents. For them, the rejection of the uglier features of traditional cop culture, such as racism and homophobia, has taken an effort of will. Blair is different. He has always lived within civil society, rather than merely serving it, and in him, the need for policing to reflect its diversity is instinctive. 'He's known as a champion of Brian Paddick [the deputy assistant commissioner who stopped arrests for cannabis use in Brixton],' says one Yard source. 'Brian's enemies hated him because he's gay. At a very deep level, Blair does not see why this should be an issue.' Blair's wife Felicity (they married in 1980 and have two teenage children) is a retired family lawyer. At one recent dinner party, recalls a fellow guest, 'Blair was talking to [the novelist] Ian McEwan, discussing Richard Dawkins's ideas about evolutionary psychology. Blair engaged him and held his own. I did find myself suspecting that John Stevens could not have done that.' Selected on recruitment for the fast track, Blair rose rapidly through the ranks. By 1985, he was a detective inspector. Three years earlier, a BBC documentary had depicted detectives interrogating a rape victim, accusing her of lying. It was one thing to demonstrate the need for reform, another to achieve it. Blair's book, Investigating Rape: A New Police Approach , transformed procedures throughout the country, and close descendants of its recommendations are still in use. At the same time, he was developing a quality vital for any successful police chief - operational credibility. 'People always assumed that because they were fast-tracked, this new crop of graduates were going to be incompetent officers,' says Tom Williamson. 'I remember when he took over the CID at Kentish Town, and inherited a particularly difficult murder. He went on Crimewatch and performed superbly, and went on to do a brilliant job in solving the case.' Success in two further very big, and very different operations marked his ascent to the highest ranks. For years, the Met had complacently assumed that financial graft was a thing of the past. In 1993, weeks after taking over the complaints investigation branch, Blair found himself heading Operation Gallery, the biggest anti-corruption inquiry for more than a decade, after a devastating Panorama showed detectives taking bribes from criminals. The following year, as Thames Valley's assistant chief constable, he directed the long and potentially hazardous operation at the Newbury bypass construction site. Adopting the principle that the rights of both protesters and roadbuilders had to be respected, he helped ensure the road was built without injury or loss of life, and with a minimum of arrests. To reform the Met now will require just as much deftness and political sensitivity. Some of the objective factors are running in Blair's favour: for example, almost all the service's top posts are falling vacant at the same time, giving Blair the chance to work with a new board of colleagues who share his views and priorities. Like every police chief, he may also be thankful that he will be working with Charles Clarke as Home Secretary, not the confrontational David Blunkett. Meanwhile, the one-time police basher, London's mayor Ken Livingstone, seldom makes a speech without praising the Met, and calling for more officers and funding. But leaving aside the unforeseeable, there are also bear traps. The government remains committed to public service micro-management by statistics, and has set targets for cutting recorded crime - 20 per cent over the next three years - which many regard as unrealistic. In London, the position is exacerbated by the fact that, according to the Audit Commission, the Met has been failing to record 15-20 per cent of offences. Blair has to fix that problem - so making the reduction target still harder to reach. As deputy commissioner, Blair introduced one of the most popular innovations in policing for decades - the 2,000 community support officers, now being widely copied elsewhere, who patrol the streets without the full powers and training of a PC. Like so much of his agenda, the plan developed when he looked outside the service - with a period of study at New York University in 1998. Resisted at first by senior police traditionalists, few now consider it as remotely controversial. As he puts away his skis and dons his braided uniform, Blair must be hoping to replicate that consensus. 'His backbone is his wishbone,' says one senior colleague. 'That's both a strength, and possibly at times a weakness. It's going to be an interesting first 100 days.'  IAN WARWICK BLAIR   DoB: 19 March 1953 (Chester)  Education: Wrekin College; Harvard High School, LA; Christ Church, Oxford (MA)  Family: Married Felicity Jane White in 1980 (one son, one daughter)  Interests: Skiing, tennis, golf, theatre  Book: Investigating Rape