Serious failures by the probation service lay behind the killing of a police dog-handler by a convicted robber who was on an early release scheme l, an inquiry has found.The report published yesterday by the chief inspector of probation, Rod Morgan, on the death of PC Gerald Walker in Nottingham in January last year includes scathing criticism of probation officers, Home Office ministers, and the management of the Nottinghamshire and national probation services. David Parfitt, 26, had been released early from Ranby prison under licence in a pilot scheme. The condition was that he should pass two drug tests each week.Professor Morgan found that Parfitt regularly breached his licence conditions. He missed seven appointments - on one occasion saying he "was feeling unwell as he had been smoking heroin heavily", and failed 10 out of 19 drug tests. The probation officer should have instigated the revocation of his licence, his arrest, and his recall to prison in September 2002, but he continued to show "inappropriate leniency" for a further three months. Parfitt was being tracked by police officers after his licence was officially revoked in Dec-ember 2002. He was on the run when Walker tried to stop him in a stolen taxi.Parfitt sped off and the dog handler was dragged by the speeding car. Walker died two days later from head injuries. Parfitt was captured the next day. He was jailed for 13 years in December 2003 for manslaughter.The police officer's widow, Tracy Walker, said the report had confirmed all that she had feared. "If the probation service had not failed in their duty my husband would still be alive today. If the drug testing scheme had been properly enforced he would never have been out on the streets." It was Mrs Walker's campaign to learn the full background to her husband's death that led to today's report.Prof Morgan highlights the failings in Nottinghamshire probation service, which should have had Parfitt returned to prison shortly after he was released. The 92-page report portrays a chaotic situation in the Derby Road probation office in Nottingham, where there were only eight staff to deal with 1,200 cases. The management should take the blame, since they were labouring under such an enormous workload, the report says.The problems were compounded by the probation staff being confused by differing rules of three government pilot schemes on drugs running at the time in Nottingham. The report vindicates the original decision by the prison service to release Parfitt early but says the probation officer used her own judgment to assess his progress instead of following guidelines, and failed to take enforcement action when he missed drugs test.The national probation service is blamed for failing to act on the policy issues arising in the case. Home Office ministers are also censured for their "inept" arrangements for expressing official condolences to Mrs Walker and their two children: a card with the funeral flowers called him George instead of Gerald.David Hancock, Nottinghamshire's chief probation officer, said that he took full responsibility for the failures of his staff. and that he had apologised to Mrs Walker. But no disciplinary action has been taken against staff. Mr Hancock said the probation officer was very experienced but that she had failed to absorb the "finer details" of the guidelines on the drug-testing programme.The correctional services minister, Paul Goggins, said the government was determined to address the failings identified by the report. "We also accept there are serious flaws in the way both the probation service and the Home Office dealt with Mrs Walker, and will take steps to ensure that bereaved families are treated differently in future."