The Serious Fraud Office has suffered one of its worst-performing years on record, securing convictions against only half of suspected fraudsters brought to court and tried, according to its annual report published today. Of the 39 defendants pursued through the courts in the year to April 4, 10 pleaded guilty and 10 were convicted by juries. Nineteen defendants were acquitted of all charges against them. A conviction rate of 51% is the lowest achieved by the SFO since a disastrous spell in the early 1990s which prompted critics to refer to the "serious farce office". High profile setbacks last year included the acquittal of corporate raider Andrew Regan on charges relating to a bribery scandal at the Co-op. Also acquitted was Leslie Rosenthal, the last of five original co-defendants, all of whom had been cleared of involvement in a turnover inflation fraud at Wickes, the DIY chain. Among the more prominent convictions was that of Stephen Hinchliffe, who was given a second prison sentence for embezzling almost £2m from Facia, his failing high street empire, in the mid-1990s. Asked about the disappointing conviction rate, SFO director Robert Wardle, said: "I am not overly troubled about it. You need to take an average over a five-year period to get a better picture of how we are doing. We want to be somewhere above seven in 10 - some years it is much higher; some years it is down around five [in 10]." Over the past five years, the SFO's conviction rate has been in steady decline but still averages 74%. Mr Wardle will be keen to ensure this figure does not slip back to the levels around 60% recorded after the SFO was set up in 1988. In the early 1990s, the SFO's reputation suffered as poor conviction rates were compounded by high-profile setbacks such as the Blue Arrow, George Walker and Maxwell cases. It is a reputation Mr Wardle and his colleagues have done much to dispel since the mid-1990s. In this morning's annual report, Mr Wardle welcomes the government's proposed fraud bill that would introduce new offences of fraud and of obtaining services dishonestly. Speaking ahead of the report's publication, Mr Wardle said he would continue to be one of the most passionate proponents of scrapping jury trials in the most complex fraud cases - despite a House of Lords' rebellion against such proposals last November. Frustrated that the government's plans for judge-only trials were blocked, Mr Wardle said: "It is not good enough to say 'if you cannot do it [bring a complex prosecution] in front of a jury, you shouldn't do it at all'. We have simply reached the limits of litigating in this way. "It may be that the public are not ready for a judge sitting alone ... But if you talk to people on the street, I am not sure there is public confidence in juries in many of these types of cases either." He is consulting with the Home Office on alternatives to the judge-only proposals rejected by parliament. He said: "There are two options being looked at: specialist juries of some shape or form; or judges sitting with assessors, lay jurors with particular knowledge of the financial world." Both alternatives are seen as raising a host of practical problems including the availability and cost of financial specialists for lengthy trials as well as the likelihood of conflicts of interest. Mr Wardle conceded that any such proposals could again meet with stiff opposition in the House of Lords. "People do see it [the right to trial by jury] as a fundamental and important part of our system. But I do think the present system is simply not appropriate for the 21st century." Judges regularly cut back evidence, charges and even the number of defendants at the pre-trial stage in large, complex fraud cases. Often they do so, not because evidence presented by SFO prosecutors is irrelevant or the charges unwarranted, but to ensure cases are presentable to a jury. The size of complex fraud cases has effectively been capped since a landmark appeal court ruling that overturned four convictions in the Blue Arrow case in 1992. The ruling described the 13-month trial as a "costly disaster" which had been so large and complex that it had "proved to be incapable of accommodation within the context of a jury trial". In future cases, the appeal court recommended, "robust and early" use of judicial powers should be employed to prune cases.