I went online this morning to tap in my postcode and check how much crime takes place in my street. Not that I really wanted to know; it was more a mischievous desire to confirm that the new www.police.uk website was busy crashing. It was.In any case, I know roughly what goes on in our street. The occasional burglary and mugging, no murders in the many years I have lived around here, though there were several on or around the high street a few years back, including a crime of passion: an abandoned wife went into a beauty salon and shot her rival dead.We are invited today to believe that the new website will make most of us feel safer, that information is power and that voters will be able to monitor local trends and do something about it – especially when the coalition's new and accountable police commissioners have been elected by a grateful populace.Who says so? Well, Nick Herbert, the police minister, for one, though a huge task like this must have been in the pipeline since you-know-who was in power.The home secretary, Theresa May, whose Maidenhead constituency crime map is among those illustrating newspaper articles, says it's "about fighting crime together". Hmm.The organisers of the new website – it cost £300,000, according to the Mail (you could run an undercover police Romeo for that sort of money) – have anticipated all sorts of obvious problems such as identifying obvious victims or ruining local house prices. Sexual crimes, for example, are lumped in with "other crimes" to avoid identification.The six main categories, by the way, are burglary, robbery, vehicle crime, violence, other crime, and antisocial behaviour, which, May assured the Guardian this week, she is still taking seriously despite it being a Labour policy. She's cutting the number of asbo-related offences from 19 to 5. There's progress!But you can see the problem, whatever they say. Thus Glover's Court in Preston wakes up to find that it is one of England and Wales's crime hotspots – with 152 incidents recorded in the month of December. Is that true, is that fair? I don't know Glover's Court, but it can expect the TV crews to arrive by lunchtime.Elsewhere the data suggests the problem is primarily one of asbo misconduct (73 offences) – nasty enough, but not Al Capone, either. Too late for nuances! Sorry, Glover's Court.Fallibility also surfaced quickly in Bolnore Road, Haywards Heath, a more prosperous Sussex town than Preston, Lancs. It emerged as a hotspot. It was traced to the way hoax calls are all recorded in Sussex – though whether there was a hoaxer in Bolnore Rd was not immediately clear.Nick Herbert says he has championed street-level crime mapping since first encountering them in Los Angeles. Britain's new map website goes further than any other. And various pundits (and estate agents) argue in today's papers that it won't affect the housing market because buyers tend to know these things.Oh, do they? I think that, as with Google Earth maps, which also caused a panic, we should wait and see how it works out. Our old car is still parked outside our Google Earth house (in real life I crashed it last year), the sun shines and the trees are always in full leaf. I visit it in the winter months. Lovely!But my hunch on day one is that this sort of service, technically brilliant when it settles down, so I expect, will serve chiefly to widen the information gap.Educated and well-off people, with the time, money and broadband access to gobble up this sort of data and put it to good use, will do so.Those without, quite possibly including the good people of Glover's Court, Preston, may struggle to make the case for better policing to the elected police commissioner. In any case, he/she will be struggling with sharply reduced budgets – and pressure from those nice people in Haywards Heath whose pedigree cat has been stolen.Estate agents, insurance companies, credit card firms, takeaway pizza shops, surely they will all use the new service to make snap judgments about the kind of streets they are happy or unhappy to do business in. OK, so they use postcodes in a rough and ready way already, as they once used neighbourhood addresses. Agreed.But I can't help thinking that this new tool – created on the familiar internet principle that all information is good – will simply accentuate the gap between the information rich and poor, another of those unattractive gaps growing in society, the wealth and health gaps, the pay and education gaps and their like.Let's hope I'm wrong.