 Kwaku, co-presenter of popular late-night Nubian Forum phone-in on the London pirate radio station Powerjam:'Gun crime is a huge concern, and we're getting lots of calls with people extremely upset. Callers are pointing out that whenever a crime is committed against black people, the police never seem to catch the culprits. Yet if people have information about a crime, they're frightened to give evidence as the police tend to publish their names and addresses. 'The police are employed to investigate, but they expect the community to do their work for them and then just come along and make their arrest. Until people are sure they're going to be protected, why should they put themselves up front? 'Our listeners feel gun crime was introduced into the black community by "outside forces" - white drugs lords. There aren't any black countries that make guns, and we don't own any gun factories in England... Someone outside the community provides them. It's the gun trade that must be stopped, and not the black community blamed for it. 'When football hooligans go on the rampage abroad, the papers don't blame the entire British population, just a small segment. So why do they blame the entire community for the work of a few criminals?' The music industry, too, promotes aggressive acts that encourage violence, he adds, while refusing to sign musicians who offer more positive role models.  Ivor Etienne, programme controller at Choice FM, a (legal) urban radio station based in south London. Rising gun crime was the main topic in yesterday's [Saturday] lunchtime phone-in; 'We're not looking after our young children and teaching them the proper values... It's a family issue. Some parents aren't asking their children where they've been and who they're seeing until the alarm bells start ringing. If kids want to get into a clique, it's easy to drift in.'  Elaine Sihera, magazine publisher and commentator, founder of the British Diversity Awards and the Windrush Achievement Awards: 'The media never report "white-on-white" crime... Guns are carried by all types of people, white and black, but the reporting creates a perception that a higher proportion of black people carry guns. 'There might, and I don't know the figures, be more guns proportionately among the black than the white community. But one reason they are so prominent is the social backdrop. When people fear that they cannot advance, because they are discriminated against, or are deprived of power, you find a subculture developing. Guns are associated with power, allowing someone with low self-esteem feeling they can make an impression and be someone significant. To carry one as an accessory lets them say, look at me, at how big and powerful I am - as if the consequences of carrying that gun don't matter. 'The solution is to stop treating minorities as extraordinary people who do not belong with the rest of society. We need to solve this together as one community. We need to ask what can each one of us, each mother and father, do. 'Music has always been a reflection of an era's culture and social priorities. In the Fifties every song was about love; today rap represents a culture of deprivation and high unemployment. There's 5 per cent unemployment among the white community and anywhere between 18 and 25 per cent among minorities. You have to understand that today's music reflects the anger of that community. 'If you're excluded, you're going to act in an excluded way. Unless we change things, this will continue until we have a situation such as in the States, where an appalling percentage of black males are in prison, and their sons just grow up with anger of their own. 'The police must take some blame for failing to gain the black community's trust... They brought it on themselves, with the small proportion of racist officers. That will take time to put right.'  Lucy Cope, chair of Southwark Mothers Against Guns. Her son Damian, 22, was fatally shot in central London last July by a man he named before his death as a black gang member. The suspect has since fled the country: 'There should be a minimum sentence of five years for possessing a handgun, and a ban on imitation guns - which can be bought for £25 and modified to fire live bullets. People are saying that years down the line this country will be like the Bronx. They're wrong - it's months down the line. 'Families must take more responsibility. If a father or mother notices gun activity, they must deal with it. There are mothers and girlfriends out there who know who killed these two girls in Birmingham. We can't blame the Government or police for everything. But politicians have failed to appreciate the scale of the problem - which is no longer a "black on black" problem, but is now being emulated by white teenagers. Tony Blair ought to clear up his own back yard before he cleans up other places. Shouldn't he disarm the UK before he sets out to disarm Saddam?'