Because of their criminal record, many ex-offenders find it difficult to find employment; trapped in a vicious cycle, they end up reoffending. To tackle this, Paul Harrod founded Bristol Together, a social business that employs ex-offenders to renovate empty properties.Harrod had previously co-founded Aspire, a social enterprise that employs the homeless, ex-offenders and other people who are long-term unemployed to do maintenance and gardening jobs. "I've always had real interest in this area and a belief that meaningful paid employment is the route to recovery," he says, emphasising that Bristol Together offers full-time, permanent jobs: "You have to invest in people for the long term."Out of more than 60 men employed at Bristol Together since 2011, only one has reoffended, a staggeringly low figure compared with the standard 26.1% who reoffend within one year of release (according to Ministry of Justice figures).The business is open to all ex-offenders who "want to make a difference. Attitude is the key thing: someone who really wants to turn their life around," says Harrod. Previous DIY experience is not required: the men are trained according to their aptitude and preference.The business does not limit itself to mild offenders, instead giving a second chance to repeat, violent and sex offenders. "If we can prevent them from reoffending," says Harrod, "arguably the social impact is even greater." They are also given in-work support and mentoring, and are advised on financial, legal and personal issues.Many of the workers have gone on to find better-paid employment elsewhere, becoming contractors, dock workers and electricians. "A few have become self-employed: one guy set up his own carpentry business and is doing really well. It's the next step on the ladder – they've got a job on their own merits despite the criminal record," says Harrod.The buildings they have worked on include a women's refuge, social housing and private properties. The houses are then sold for a profit and the money is put back into the project to make it self-sustainable. "Everyone who invests in us – charitable trusts and individuals – believes in our social mission, but they're giving us a loan so we've got to make sure the company performs sustainably."Harrod is working to expand the business to other parts of the country: it is already active in the West Midlands, working on a project in Glasgow and in talks with groups nationwide. "The focus is very much on replication," he says. "We want to take the model we've got and make it available for other people to learn from and develop."