As a survivor of the 7 July attacks, I can hardly find the words to say how outraged and appalled I am to learn that a respected newspaper such as the News of the World appears to have stooped so low as to intrude on the private grief of those who've lost their loved ones.I am so angry. On behalf of the parents of Milly Dowler. On behalf of the parents of David Foulkes and Ciaran Cassidy, both of whom died in the London bombings. And on behalf of the journalists who have worked so hard to make the British press the best in the world. Years ago, my father was among them, working freelance – for that same newspaper – with the highly respected crime reporter Peter Earle to expose fraudsters.I recently attended a European conference in Brussels on the media, and how they behave towards victims of disaster and terrorist activity. There, I felt pleased to stand up and say that there was something the British could be proud of: we have a code of ethics. We have press guidelines. Well, according to this week's allegations, what we really have here is a bunch of criminals who think nothing of hacking into a missing girl's phone and deleting her messages. When they obtained Graham Foulkes' phone number with the intention of listening to the messages of heartbreak and grief that they knew would be there, what exactly were they hoping to find?During a live interview for Radio London yesterday, we discussed how easy it is, with current technology, to hack into other people's phone messages. Can we really blame those journalists for taking that extra step? Well, yes, we can. For a start, they knew it was illegal, not to mention that bereaved members of the general public are not fair targets. This might be an old-fashioned idea to those journalists, but there is a difference between right and wrong. They knew the difference.And here's another old-fashioned idea: people make decisions and choose to act on them. Grown-ups take responsibility for those actions. I hope those responsible for these despicable actions are properly identified and prosecuted. And I hope they never, ever, work in journalism again.