A judge yesterday reignited the debate over the law on self-defence by asserting that a householder who repeatedly beat a burglar with a metal baseball bat had been using "reasonable force".David Summers, 21, a drug addict, suffered a broken wrist, fractured elbow, cracked ribs and a cracked skull. He had broken into the Peterborough home of Lee Gapper, 20, and his lodger George Goodayle, 21, both self-employed builders. Sentencing Summers to a year in jail for burglary, Judge Hugh Mayor QC said: "They used reasonable force. I am making no allowance for reduction in sentence for any hurt you may have received in a failed attempt of a citizen to arrest you. "You brought that on yourself and I have no sympathy for those who receive hurt while committing a crime. It is a very serious offence," he told Peterborough crown court. Summers was arrested minutes after fleeing the house and complained to police that his potential burglary victims had assaulted him. Mr Gapper and Mr Goodayle were arrested by Cambridgeshire police and held for 12 hours. The crown prosecution service decided not to bring charges against them. Last week the Tory leader, William Hague, said the law on self-defence should be changed to give greater protection to people who were forced to defend their homes against intruders. He was accused of trying to exploit pub lic outrage at the murder conviction of the Norfolk farmer Tony Martin, who shot dead a teenage burglar. A Conservative party spokesman said of the Peterborough case yesterday: "In this case the law appears to have operated in a commonsense and reasonable way. "Our concern has been that one can't always be confident that in cases of this kind the law is on the side of householders using reasonable force in defence of themselves and their property." Mr Gapper said after the case: "I was told if anything happened to the intruder I could be looking at manslaughter. I was petrified at the time. "I think it was a disgrace what happened to Tony Martin. It means he is being made out to be a criminal." Mr Gapper said he kept a baseball bat by his bedside for self-defence. "I think 90% of England has something to use to defend themselves, but I never thought I would use that bat. I acted out of fear. I'm no angel, but I'm not violent. "I was in bed when I heard this banging on the window downstairs at around 10am. At first I didn't know what it was, then I heard the door being smashed in. I woke George and said I thought someone was in the house and raced downstairs. "At first, all I could see was the shadow of this man, but as he turned to face me he lifted his arms above his head and I saw he had a spanner in his hand. "I was face to face with him for a split second before he ran past me and I just hit out. I thought he could have hit me. I hit him first in the back of the head and then twice about his body." Mr Goodayle said he grabbed the intruder and punched him three to four times: "He deserved what he got." Mr Gapper added: "I could feel my adrenalin take over my body. "I could have killed him. Afterwards, I was still shaking, but chased him barefoot out of the house into the street in the rain and people were just standing, watching me." The court heard that Summers had committed the burglary to fund his drug habit. Asked after the case if he would attack a burglar in his home again, Mr Gapper said: "If I had no choice, if my life was in danger, I guess I would do anything. No, I don't regret what I did."