Almost two years ago, Tony Blair curiously chose an audience of students in southern Germany to trail the idea of on-the-spot fines for yobbish behaviour on British streets. Downing Street - still reeling from the prime minister's handbagging by the Women's Institute, and with crime figures soaring - was desperate for an eye-catching initiative.It was bad luck for the backroom brainstormers at the Home Office that it was one of their still-embryonic ideas which was chosen for the harsh glare of publicity. The prime minister told his audience: "A thug might think twice about kicking in your gate, throwing traffic cones around your street or hurling abuse into the night sky if he thought he might get picked up by the police, taken to a cashpoint and asked to pay an on-the-spot fine of, for example, £100." The reaction was instant and hostile - and not just among opposition MPs. Home Office ministers were horrified at the way their tentative plan had been garbled in transmission, while the police - the very people intended to be most helped by the move - declared it unworkable. Two days later came a humiliating climbdown. Charles Clarke, then the Home Office minister in charge of youth justice, insisted the prime minister was "using a metaphor" when he spoke about frogmarching young hooligans to cashpoints, and admitted: "One or two chief constables said it was not a goer." It was a classic case of Downing Street panic colliding with blue sky thinking from the Home Office. Ministers there had been discussing how to tackle the growing problem of low-level street disorder - drunkenness, yobbish behaviour, rowdy disputes between neighbours. Serious work was under way to try to find a solution to the problem, which experts said tended to lead on to more serious offences. The answer they were looking for had to be quick and proportionate. Prison was not an option, nor was there any enthusiasm for using the slow and expensive court route. On-the-spot fines had been discussed as one option, but, Home Office sources said yesterday, that never meant cash being handed over to police officers on the street. The idea was always fixed-penalty notices, to make punishment virtually instant and relatively simple to administer. Meanwhile, Mr Blair - as a handwritten memo, leaked shortly afterwards, revealed - was alarmed at the failure to make progress on crime, and by research showing the government was regarded as "out of touch". In a memo written a few weeks before the speech in Germany, he told his most senior advisers he wanted "eye-catching" initiatives. "I personally should be associated with as much of this as possible," he wrote. Somewhere along the way, the tentative idea of on-the-spot fines being discussed within the Home Office was captured and turned into something much sexier than the issuing in triplicate of a notice to pay. Not only was the proposal ridiculed in all quarters, Mr Blair's personal nadir came three days after the speech when his eldest son, Euan, was found drunk in a gutter in Leicester Square. Mr Blair's talk of drunken yobbishness suddenly looked a little close to home. But the Home Office, still looking at ways of boosting the power of the beat bobby faced with drunken louts, quietly retrieved its plan and put it into intensive care. The Youth Justice Board, under Lord Warner, carried out further research. Specific difficulties were identified: there were concerns about how a positive identification could be made without cooperation, and there were also problems with enforcement. And chief police officers had to be squared. It took months of work before the idea was publicly resuscitated and inserted into the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001. Even yesterday's announcement that the scheme will be piloted this year disguises the amount of work still to be done. MPs still have to approve orders allowing the project to go ahead and approving the pilot areas.