Detectives hunting the killer of Milly Dowler yesterday revealed that a man carrying a shovel was spotted near the woods where the schoolgirl's remains were found.The man, who was in his late 40s and wearing a green parka-like jacket with a hood, was seen near Yateley Heath forest in Hampshire three days after Milly vanished. Police are also trying to trace a second man in mud-spattered clothes who was seen nearby a few days later. And they want to find anyone who may have slept in two makeshift camps which they have found near where Milly's remains were discovered. Milly, 13, from Walton-on-Thames in Surrey, was last seen as she walked home on March 21. Police believe she was the victim of a chance abduction. Her remains were discovered 25 miles away in thick woodland near Fleet between the A30 and the M3 last month. Since then police forensic officers have been combing the woods and asking local people if they saw anything suspicious. Officers believe the two men could have vital information about Milly's disappearance. The first was described as white, aged between 45 and 50. He was around 5ft 10in, of medium build and wearing a thigh-length jacket. He was seen in a wooded area near the Ely pub on the A30 on the morning of Sunday, March 24. The pub is close to Blackbushe airport, where a Sunday market is held. People at the market were one of the first groups police targeted after Milly's body was found. The second man was seen near a roundabout between Elvetham Heath estate and Ancells Farm estate shortly after 11am on the Wednesday or Thursday after Milly went missing. The estates are separated by Minley Road, off which the girl's remains were found. The man was white, aged between 30 and 40, around 6ft, with dark, neatly cut hair. He wore a short black leather coat, black trousers and black shoes. He had mud on his clothing, particularly his jacket, and a witness remembered seeing a rolled up item on the ground near him. Police have also sifted through two makeshift camps in the trees. One was strewn with bottles, cans, old food and a sleeping bag. Officers are keen to speak to anyone who used the camps. Meanwhile, the search of the woods is continuing. Milly's parents, IT consultant Bob and teacher Sally, visited the site last week. They spent 30 minutes there accompanied by the officer in charge of the investigation, Detective Chief Superintendent Craig Denholm, who explained how the inquiry was progressing. They also read messages which have been left by members of the public in a book of condolence.