A mother made an emotional appeal for information yesterday about the baffling disappearance of her baby boy 13 years ago.Five-month-old Ames Glover vanished after apparently being snatched from the back of his father's car in 1990. Detectives have been reinvestigating the case for the past two years following pressure from the baby's mother, Shanika Ondaatjie. Yesterday, on the boy's 14th birthday - if he is still alive - Ms Ondaatjie pleaded for help in finding out what happened to her son. "I am desperately clinging to hope, but I need to know even if it's bad news," she said. Ms Ondaatjie, 35, said she found herself looking at boys of Ames' age on the street and wondering whether one of them was her son: "I wonder what he would look like if he was still alive. I sometimes look at children in that age group, mixed race like him, and I wonder." Ames went missing on the early evening of February 5 1990. His father, Paul Glover, told police he left his son locked in the back of his Ford Sierra on a busy street in Southall, west London, while he went to use a cashpoint and buy a curry.When he got back 15 minutes later, the child had gone. Suspicion fell on Mr Glover when no witnesses came forward who saw Ames being kidnapped or even remembered him being in the car. It also troubled police that Mr Glover's car did not seem to have been broken into. The garden around the place where Mr Glover was staying - the couple had separated before the child's disappearance - was dug up. The father was arrested but released without charge and has always vigorously denied involvement in the child's disappearance. In the months that followed, Ms Ondaatjie expressed concern that detectives had not done enough to find her baby. There were also complaints that the media did not seem as interested in the disappearance of Ames as they did in cases involving white children. In the wake of the Stephen Lawrence case which exposed institutionalised racism in the Metropolitan police, Ms Ondaatjie, who was born in Sri Lanka, contacted the Lawrence family's lawyer, Imran Khan, to ask for his help. Mr Khan approached the Met's racial and violent crime taskforce which agreed the case merited another close look. Since then 20 officers have reinvestigated the events and reinterviewed some witnesses. Officers have also travelled to Ghana, where Mr Glover has family links, but found no trace of Ames. Detectives considered constructing an image of what Ames might look like now but they were told a worthwhile image could not be produced because the bone structure of a five-month-old is not well enough developed. Yesterday's appeal - with the offer of a £10,000 reward for information - was described by one Met source as a "last push". The police do not accept that they failed to pursue the case vigorously enough in the early 90s. A source said Ms Ondaatjie had not been told of all that was going on because Mr Glover was a suspect. Ms Ondaatjie added: "I always said I wanted to get to the bottom of this and I will not be satisfied until I do that. I feel that for 13 years someone has been holding the key to what happened to Ames. I want that person to come forward so I can unlock what happened." She sobbed as she said: "I only have a few photographs of him - it is getting harder to remember."