Seven men who were arrested on suspicion of murder after a body was found in a well in Surrey have been released on bail.The men, aged between 21 and 27, have been bailed until a date in late December pending further investigation, a Scotland Yard spokesman said.Specialist police officers, including divers, recovered the body on Saturday after it was found by workmen clearing out the garden of a property in Audley Drive, Warlingham. It is believed to have been in the well for a number of weeks, before being discovered on Friday. The seven men arrested on suspicion of murder are aged between 21 and 27. A postmortem is due to take place on the body at East Surrey hospital on Sunday but a Scotland Yard spokesman said it was unlikely to reveal the identity of the deceased.Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons, who is leading the investigation, said: "It is a murder investigation. As far as I am concerned, when a body is found in a well it either fell in there or was placed in there, and the evidence is apparent that the body was placed in there." He said the person was white and most likely to be an adult judging by the size of the body but could not confirm that the body was intact. Police do not know the gender of the victim but are hoping that the postmortem will establish it. The property in Warlingham stands in an acre of grounds in an affluent area. Lyons said that he was aware of claims by neighbours that there had been trouble in the past couple of years with the people who lived in the house and that police had been called many times. "The residents have expressed concern, there is intelligence to support that notion, yes," he said. He was not prepared to discuss who lived in the house, or a suggestion that the body was wrapped in carpet.Retrieving the body presented a number of logistical challenges, requiring a police marine diving team with breathing apparatus to recover it intact to preserve forensic evidence. "The well is two feet in diameter, it is seven feet deep to the water line, and the water is approximately four feet deep," said Lyons. He added that the body had "not been there for an extended period of time; it will be a matter of weeks at the most". Lyons appealed for anyone who had concerns about a person who has gone missing, especially if they had connections to that area, to come forward.