Police were last night hunting a killer who stabbed to death a 16-year-old girl in a frenzied attack. Detectives said it appeared the teenager had fought courageously for her life but in vain.The attack was the second killing in nine months to affect Hartlepool's Central Estate, following the murder of a toddler by his babysitter last July. Shocked neighbours named the dead girl as Kim Bage, although Cleveland police have yet to formally identify the victim. She was found on Friday morning in a downstairs room and could have been attacked the evening before. Forensic scientists were yesterday continuing to examine the scene following a post-mortem examination which showed the teenager had suffered multiple stab wounds. Detective Superintendent Tony Hutchinson, leading a team of 40 officers, said: 'The female victim suffered a frenzied attack that would have lasted some minutes. The young girl I believe has fought valiantly for her life.' Hutchinson also led an investigation into the murder of two-year-old Kyle Fisher, who lived in the same street, and was murdered by his babysitter, Suzanne Holdsworth, while his mother was on a night out. Holdsworth was sentenced to serve at least 10 years of a life sentence at Leeds Crown Court last week. Hutchinson said yesterday: 'The Central Estate has now seen two murders in their relatively small community in the space of nine months. There is no connection between this murder and Kyle's. 'However, I am mindful of the fact that it is the second time for this community and certainly Kyle's grandparents can see all the police activity from their front window. This is obviously causing them some distress.' No weapon has been found yet, and Hutchinson said there was no sign of a sexual motive. He said he did not have a particular suspect in mind, but he did not believe this was a 'stranger-style attack'. Claire Robson, 17, who attended St Hild's School in Hartlepool with the victim, said: 'Kim was bright, she was funny and you could have a laugh with her. She had everything going for her.' Anyone with information is asked to call the incident room on 01642 301 612.