Writing in this week's Society Guardian professor Ray Jones reminded readers that "children are not protected by procedures and records… (but) by skilled, confident and competent workers… who are closest to the children and their families".He was writing about the social services, regretting that the media and public hue and cry after the Baby P case "could easily make the future less safe for children in danger… but, if ministers, the media and managers were more measured and reflective, focusing on children and those workers closest to them, we could make it safer."But, as I read his article I could not help reflecting on the relevance of his plea to the needs of another organisation relying on skilled, confident and competent workers, whose wellbeing has also been undermined by government action, namely the probation service.For over 100 years the probation service has had a proud record for the quality and quantity of its rehabilitation work, for which it earned and enjoyed an international reputation. I well remember, on being appointed chief inspector of prisons, being contacted almost at once by the late Sir Graham Smith and Julia Roberts, chief probation officer for Herefordshire and chairman of the Association of Chief Officers of Probation (Acop) to suggest that we meet, which we did. Indeed it was through Acop that I was able to meet with other chief officers around the country, and learn about the importance of aftercare in the community to build on what work might have been done with and for prisoners while in custody. Prisons and probation, two separate services with different roles with offenders, one in custody and the other in the community, are two essential parts of the criminal justice system, the others being the courts and the police, with whom probation had to have close working relationships, unlike prisons.However after 1997, it was clear that the incoming government was determined to bring prisons and probation closer together – not a bad aim provided it concentrated on their closer working rather than the marriage of two opposites. Firstly it tried to merge the two inspectorates, from which, thankfully, it then withdrew. However it then merged the two services into the National Offender Management Service (Noms). It also set about changing the whole ethos of probation, firstly by nationalising individual county services into the national probation service, and then giving it a new set of priorities of which "punishment" came first. At the same time it abolished Acop, claiming that the national service was now the mouthpiece of the organisation and spoke to and for all chief officers. But the destruction has not stopped there, because if you look at the Noms organisational chart you will look in vain for either the National Probation Service, or the director of probation or indeed for any professional probation officer in any key position in that vast headquarters. Instead probation is run by a variety of recently formed trusts, or remaining boards, reporting to directors of offender management with budgets or regional offender managers without them. When I asked a question in the House of Lords about who was now the professional head of what is, after all, an operational service, the minister declined to answer.What I find most worrying about all this is at, as far as the management of offenders – and so the safety of the public – is concerned, the government seems fixated with the purchase and provision of services, not on the leadership of those who have to actually work with offenders. Something is clearly wrong with the system if, for example, probation officers are so overwhelmed by bureaucracy that they cannot carry out home visits, so vital a part of maintaining contact with offenders and their families. And, if there is no professional probation officer in a responsible position in headquarters, who is providing professional advice to ministers, including representing the views of senior practitioners up and down the country?Not surprisingly, the chief officers of probation around the country feel that their interests are not being best served and that their voice needs to be heard not just by government but by the public whom it serves. This week saw the launch of the action that they have taken to try to reverse some of the destruction that I have described. Under the chairmanship of David Scott, the outstanding chief probation officer for London, the Probation Chiefs Association will be launched, designed to act as a conduit between government and the service. As an independent body, it is not government-funded and therefore can speak on behalf of its membership with authority and without inhibition. Probation has long needed a voice, standing up for all its skilled and competent workers, whose confidence has been so unwisely undermined by a government that seems to put records and procedures before the quality of work done with offenders. Knowing those who are leading the PCA I have every confidence that, from now on, hard-pressed probation officers around that country can feel confidence that their needs and problems will not go by default. Hopefully that will lead to a more appropriate form of operational leadership than that provided by the monstrous Noms.Then the safety of the public, the ultimate responsibility of the probation service, will be better served.