The grandmother of a five-year-old girl mauled to death by a pit bull terrier while in her care smoked up to 10 cannabis spliffs a day for 25 years, a court heard yesterday.Jacqueline Simpson had drunk alcohol, smoked joints and taken sleeping tablets and anti-depressants before the fatal attack on her granddaughter, Ellie Lawrenson, in the early hours of New Year's Day, Liverpool crown court was told.Mrs Simpson, 45, denies manslaughter through gross negligence following the incident at her home in St Helens, Merseyside. The dog, called Reuben, was owned by Mrs Simpson's son Kiel; six weeks before the fatal attack it had bitten Mrs Simpson's daughter Kelsey, then 19, in an unprovoked incident.Paul Hudson, a police sergeant who was called to the scene, said the living room floor was "awash with blood, as though it had been mopped with blood".In a statement read to the court, Sgt Hudson said: "Jackie was not making much sense and I could smell alcohol on her breath. It was difficult to say if I would describe her as drunk, she clearly had a drink."Sgt Hudson had shone his torch at the dog, which was in the garden when he arrived. "It was frenzied, barking at me, baring its teeth at me. I was worried that if it ran at the window it could easily break the glass and get in to us." He reiterated the need over his radio "for urgent armed assistance".The dog was later shot by a police marksman.The court heard that Mrs Simpson had 140mg of alcohol in 100ml of blood, almost twice the legal drink-drive limit of 80mg. Brian Johnson, a toxicologist at the Forensic Science Service, said the presence of prescription drugs combined with cannabis would be further exacerbated by the presence of temazepam, a sleeping tablet. He said: "I would expect the slurring of speech, balance affected and their co-ordination would be impaired. In general the effects of cannabis use are euphoria to begin with replaced by a period of restfulness, relaxation and a dreamlike state. If continued, you would experience intoxicating effects and coordination would be affected for up to three to four hours."At 10.30pm on New Year's Eve, Mrs Simpson had also taken 20mg of an anti-depressant and temazepam, which would have made her drowsy. The defence said Mrs Simpson had been smoking "up to 10 spliffs a day for a very long time".A trainee paramedic, Kai Farmer, who was called to the scene, said: "Jackie was lying down in an almost foetal position on the kitchen floor. She was absolutely covered in blood."He said she had a deep laceration on her right arm and her thumb was bleeding. In the ambulance she was crying and repeating: "Why would a dog do something like that?"PC Peter Tallack, a specialist dog handler with the Metropolitan police, who examined Reuben, said the dog had been "in prime condition. It was of immeasurable power and strength".Mrs Simpson's police interview was read to the court. In it she said the attack had lasted for between 20 and 25 minutes and that she was "wrestling all over the room" with Reuben to make him stop. "It was surreal," she said.She told the interviewing officer she had not wanted the dog and thought it was unpredictable. She said she had smoked cannabis for 25 years and that every time she closed her eyes she "relived" the attack. "Our Ellie was the light of my life and now she has gone. I never thought you could have a broken heart."The court had previously heard that Ellie had suffered 72 separate injuries, primarily to her head and neck. Reuben, at 34kg, had been twice her weight.The prosecution claims Mrs Simpson had broken a family rule by allowing Reuben into the house when Ellie was there. She is expected to give evidence today.