Doreen Lawrence yesterday stepped out of the sunshine of a warm spring day and into the darkness and calm of a church to again remember her lost first-born child.Ten years ago few outside his circle of friends and family knew the name of Stephen Lawrence. Yesterday, at St Martin-in-the-Fields, ministers and senior police officers joined others to remember his lost life and promise."This is a place that values memory," said the Rev Rosemary Lane. "Human beings need to remember those whom we no longer see". It was true yesterday for the Lawrences and their own personal grief, and for a nation still debating how far it has advanced on the road to racial justice. The teenager, who dreamed of becoming an architect, became an icon. The message from speakers was that much had been achieved in his name, but so much more remains: "Over the last 10 years Stephen's name has become synonymous with the battle against the forces that would dehumanise us all, black and white," said David Cruise, formerly of the church where Mrs Lawrence and her husband, Neville, used to take their children. The service marked the 10th anniversary since a racist gang stabbed Stephen, 18, at a south-east London bus stop. The killers still walk free after a bungled police investigation, labelled "institutionally racist" by a public inquiry. His parents, ignored for years, fought a gruelling battle to have the police held to account for their mistakes and win promises of change from the government. In a message read to the congregation, Tony Blair praised their campaign: "They have worked tirelessly to improve race relations in this country and to ensure our society learns the lessons from the senseless murder of their talented son, Stephen." The Lawrences are the family around whom the recent history of racial inequality in Britain has flowed, and as it touched them, they changed it. Mrs Lawrence led Stephen's friends and family in lighting candles of remembrance, as a soloist sang: "Would you know my name, if I saw you in heaven." She lit the same candle she lights every year on the murder's anniversary. The candles flickered from an altar covered in orange, the chosen colour of Stephen's memorial. There were noticeable absentees. For years the struggle almost overwhelmed Mr Lawrence, and he chose to stay away. Duwayne Brooks, with Stephen at the bus stop when he was attacked, has never got on with the Lawrence family. He was not invited. "How can the main person involved in these 10 years of misery not be invited?" he asked. "It just brings it all back, 10 years and still no justice. If I'd kept my mouth closed there'd have been no public inquiry, it would just have been another murder." Just after 3pm the service began, the air filled by gospel singers as 700 people filed into St Martin's. At the same time a decade ago, Stephen got out of school and met up with Duwayne. They caught a bus to Lewisham where they hung out in a shopping centre. Then he visited his uncle Martin to play video games, and eat dinner before leaving for home. Stephen's last day contained many elements of his life, compassion, family, education, joy and honesty. In the morning he consoled his out-of-work father, and promised to get back home in time to see his mother returning from a course. The Rt Rev John Sentamu, a member of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry panel, now Bishop of Birmingham, said he hoped for a day when "children in England will ask what is racism, violence and harassment. You will tell them these words are not used any more." The bishop said the task of fighting the racial hatred that killed Stephen, and the prejudice that helped his killers stay free, was the responsibility of us all. 