Tuesday’s killing at Pentonville prison is the latest in a record surge in jail homicides and violence in England and Wales and underlines why the north London prison – dubbed the “grimmest of the grim” – should be the next major closure under the government’s prison renewal programme.Murder is still rare in English and Welsh jails. There have been only one or two a year at most over the past 30 years. But there have been at least 11 in the past two years, including seven in the past 12 months, the highest number since the prison riots of the late 1980s.Pentonville prison knife attack: second inmate arrested The spike is not isolated. Every indicator of violence shows a rising tide of volatility and despair behind bars: assaults have risen by 31% to more than 22,100 in the last 12 months; assaults involving a blade or other weapon have risen by 38% to more than 4,000 incidents; there have been 105 suicides and an unprecedented 22% increase in the number of prisoners self-harming to more than 10,000.The prison ombudsman, Nigel Newcomen, has described the rising number of murders as “emblematic of the wholly unacceptable level of violence in our prisons”. He says a flood of new psychoactive substances – previously known as legal highs – has partly fuelled the rise in bullying, violence and debt in jails.In an inquiry report published last month into the record numbers of murders behind bars, Newcomen highlighted “the lack of a structured and coordinated approach to challenging violent behaviour” in some of the jails where the killings took place. He called for a much more rigorous approach to searching cells for weapons and managing violence and debt, not least that associated with what he described as an epidemic of new psychoactive substances. Prison governors say the increase in violence is a direct result of budget cuts that have led to 10,000 fewer prison officers dealing with a record 85,000 prisoners. The new justice secretary, Elizabeth Truss, does not deny – as her predecessor, Chris Grayling, did – the link between staffing levels and violence. Two weeks ago she announced an extra £14m to employ 400 extra staff in the 10 “most challenged” jails. Her immediate predecessor, Michael Gove, also pumped an emergency £10m into the system in July for the same reason.Recognising the urgency of the situation, Truss has ordered that Gove’s ambitious and radical prison reform plans be remodelled into a prison safety and reform plan. It is due to be published early next month, to be followed by legislation in the new year.I’ve been in Britain’s grimmest prisons, but Pentonville’s the worst | Carl Cattermole But Gove also recognised that progress was unlikely without closing the “ageing, ineffective and overcrowded” Victorian inner city jails whose “dark corners” facilitate bullying, drug-taking and violence.He singled out Pentonville as “the most conspicuous” and “most dramatic example of failure within the prison estate”. A recent chief inspector’s report said the jail, which opened in 1842 and is supposed to house 900 prisoners, now holds 1,300 within its “bloodstained” walls. Not long ago its governor faced the sack for secretly shipping out inmates to subvert an official inspection.So far only one major jail has closed under the government’s £1.2bn “new for old” programme. That was Holloway’s women’s prison, which did not really qualify as a Victorian jail as it was completely rebuilt from the ground up in the 1980s. The closure of Pentonville and the transfer of its prisoners to Holloway has been on the agenda of successive home and justice secretaries since August 1938, when Sir Samuel Hoare, a relative of Elizabeth Fry, considered turning the north London prison site over to council housing. The second world war stymied those plans. Arguments over selling off inner city sites to private developers shouldn’t be allowed to postpone the decision again. Nearly 80 years after Hoare’s plans, the moment to end the brutality and squalor of Pentonville has finally come.