Police in Britain today opened a murder inquiry into the death of Roberto Calvi, a Mafia-linked Italian banker whose body was found hanging beneath a London bridge in 1982.The mysterious death of the Milanese financier, who was nicknamed "God's banker" because of his connections to the Vatican, has been a pet subject of conspiracy theorists for more than 20 years. Although the first inquest into Calvi's death returned a verdict of suicide, his family have long claimed that he was murdered. This theory was confirmed by a recent Italian investigation which, in July this year, issued its final report into the circumstances of his death.Calvi was found dead in June 1982, hanging beneath Blackfriars Bridge. The discovery came just days after Banco Ambrosiano, a Vatican-based bank of which he was president, collapsed with debts of $1.3bn (£0.8bn).However, Calvi's business connections reveal motives for murder. The Banco Ambrosiano had dealt not only with the Cosa Nostra, but also with the Vatican's financial arm, the Institute for the Works of Religion, and P2, a highly influential but illegal Masonic lodge of which Calvi was a member.In October last year, Rome prosecutors, who had been investigating the case since 1998, announced the results of forensic tests on Calvi's exhumed remains. The results showed it was most likely that he had been strung up from underneath the bridge by his killers.Calvi's pockets were weighed down with bricks and stone, suggesting a Masonic connection. Blackfriars, or Fratelli Neri, is the nickname for the Italian Freemasons, who swear that those who betray the brotherhood will be weighed down with stones and drowned.But in December 2002, a Mafia supergrass told police that Calvi had been murdered by the mob for stealing funds they had handed to him to launder. The supergrass accused a convicted Mafioso, Pippo Calo, of ordering the hit. The Italian inquiry agreed, announcing in July that it believed Calvi had been killed by mobsters who had made his murder look like a Masonic ritual. The need to punish and permanently silence Calvi, who had knowledge of Mafia money-laundering, was the main motive for the killing, the inquiry said.The investigators studied a series of foreign transfers by Banco Ambrosiano before its collapse, amounting to the $1.3bn hole in the bank's books, which they said were "directly linked" to Calvi's death.The desire to scare senior officials from the IOR and P2, who also had knowledge of the bank's activities, were additional motives, the investigators said. In July, investigators named four Mafia-linked figures - Calo, Flavio Carboni, Ernesto Diotavelli and Manuela Kleinszig - as key suspects in the Calvi case. City of London police spokesman Peter Holt said today: "We're following up a number of angles identified after a new senior investigating officer reviewed the whole case file in some detail. We are treating it as a murder inquiry." He said that officers were working closely with their Italian counterparts.