At a south Belfast primary school many desks are standing empty today. The Romanian children who attend this richly multicultural school have suddenly vanished.The other children wonder where their friends, who arrived after Romania's accession to the EU in 2007, have gone. The bleak answer is that their Romanian classmates have been driven away by racist attacks, suspected to have been carried out by people in the loyalist Village area of the city. The attackers intimidated their families – including a five-day-old baby girl – out of their homes with bricks, bottles and stones.The scenario demonstrates the two faces of Northern Ireland. There is the new one where, as Ian Paisley in his transformation as a peacemaker put it, "children can play together, in which people can work together, and in which families can live happily side by side, regardless of their community or ethnic background or their religious beliefs".This Northern Ireland exists episodically, and in patches. It's the one where newcomer families from other cultures are made welcome, where the children play trombones 10 sizes too big for them in the school orchestra, where mums bring their own speciality dishes to the summer fair. It's the one where a friendly, community-minded local church took in those bewildered Romanians, numbering more than 100, fed them and tucked them in for the night.Then there's the old, familiar, insular Northern Ireland, rooted in tribalism; fiercely territorial, truculent, self-loathing and hostile to outsiders. The racist intimidation of the Romanians – the latest and most visible in a sustained campaign of attacks against migrants in the area since trouble broke out at a World Cup qualifying match between Northern Ireland and Poland in March – has been described as the new sectarianism. But there's nothing new about this. Both spring from the same poisoned well of bigotry.And hateful youths throwing bottles and yelling Combat 18 slogans are only the half of it. Just like homophobia – that other "acceptable prejudice", as a report put it – racism is alive and flourishing in Northern Ireland. Many people are even prepared to admit it, with 31% of people in a survey (pdf) stating they were "very" or "a little" prejudiced.Such sentiments have been evident in the tortuous logic used by some to justify the attacks, from well-spoken callers on radio shows claiming that a Romanian once looked sideways at their granny, to comments such as this one from a political blog:The attacks were wrong and unacceptable but sometimes it's the only way that some people can express themselves when they are powerless and disadvantaged by the political system and political elites.Even where an embryonic form of integration is working, it's not all sunshine and clapping games. Despite Paisley's beguiling vision, the journey towards a truly culturally diverse Northern Ireland will inevitably be marked by suspicions and embarrassments. Yes, it is uncomfortable to see a Romanian mother at the school gate, then later begging outside the market, or on the street with her kids at 2.30am, trying to flog plastic roses to drunk students coming out of clubs. But that's the reality. It's difficult and complicated.Yet their experiences have little impact on the tribal carve-up with which Northern Ireland's politicians are almost entirely obsessed. Consequently, a coherent strategy for race relations is way down the list of priorities, and the number of prosecutions for hate crimes remains desperately low.It's the dull grip of this institutional sectarianism that prevents a serious challenge to the racist forces that swept those Romanian children from their school desks this morning.