A caretaker and cleaner at a Church of England primary school was being questioned last night by detectives investigating a month-long letter bombing campaign across England and Wales that injured nine people.As police continued to search the school and the man's home in Cambridgeshire, the officer leading the inquiry warned that other devices might still be in circulation."We have now reached a very significant stage in this inquiry," said Assistant Chief Constable Anton Setchell, the national coordinator for domestic extremism. "At this stage I am not able to guarantee that there is not another postal package containing an explosive device within the postal system. The previous seven devices have all been contained in A5-size Jiffy-type padded envelopes. I am therefore renewing my request for the public to maintain their vigilance and not to handle any post which appears in any way suspicious." He asked anyone who has received such a package to contact local police.The man in custody was named locally as Miles Cooper, 26, who was working part-time at Teversham Church of England primary school. He lives with his mother, Lorraine, and sister, Sally, at nearby Cherry Hinton.Relatives and neighbours described him as a solitary man, who was not known well either at the school where he worked or within the local community. "He's been a lonely boy all his life," said Peter Mepham, 52, an uncle who often spent Christmas with Mr Cooper's family. "He didn't say much. We are not a close family."WithdrawnNeighbours in the 1970s cul-de-sac where he and his family have lived for at least 20 years, also described him as a polite, but withdrawn young man who did not socialise locally. Mr Cooper, who had previously worked in Tesco and at a Cambridge university holiday play scheme, did not drive, using his bike to get around instead.His next door neighbour, Shelley Thurston, 51, described him as a "very nice, quiet boy". She said: "We have seen him and his sister grow up. Mostly you would see him walking up and down the road to work."He's never been into loud music and we've never had boys disturbing us by turning up in cars or anything like that."Keith Bailey, another next door neighbour, said he was woken at 3am when officers swooped at the house to arrest Mr Cooper. "I heard cars pulling up and doors opening, and voices, and wondered what was going on. I looked out and saw some policemen and then I saw Miles and his mother walking away with the police."Mr Bailey said he often saw Mr Cooper when he was out walking his dog, and that they'd always say hello. "That's about all you ever get from Miles, he is a very quiet sort of boy. He is the last person in the world I would have thought would be arrested over something like this. He is not a rowdy type of lad at all."Michelle Brasnet, a dinner lady at the school, said: "He never spoke to anybody at school. I never saw him out locally except cycling to school or the post office."Jo Lee, 26, who knew Mr Cooper when they were pupils at Netherhall school, said he used to hang around with a couple of friends. "He looked a bit gothy. He had long hair and wore big boots." Yesterday forensic officers searching Mr Cooper's house in Welstead Road took away computer equipment for analysis. Detectives said the school would be closed for at least today for officers to their work.The seven bombs, which were sent over the last five weeks, are now thought by police to be linked. The first three were sent on January 18 to forensic science laboratories in Oxfordshire and Birmingham but they did not receive wide publicity. A further three were sent this month to offices in London, Berkshire and Swansea.Targets included the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) in Swansea, the offices of Capita, which administers the congestion charging system in London, and the business address in Berkshire of Speed Check Services, which provides road traffic regulation technology. A seventh device was sent to a private home in Folkestone, Kent, which was used as a business address.PostmarkSome of the devices, including those sent to Capita and Swansea, caused injury to the people opening them in the mailrooms of the organisations. A total of nine people have required treatment. So far none of the injuries have been serious.The bombs were made of pyrotechnic material such as that used for manufacturing fireworks. One package had a Cambridgeshire postmark, according to police, and at least two are thought to have contained glass.Earlier this month, police said animal rights extremists and people with a grudge about motoring restrictions were two potential lines of inquiry. One of the envelopes contained a reference to Barry Horne, the animal rights activist who died in jail in 2001 after a hunger strike.Campaigners have said there is no evidence to link the animal rights cause to the letter bombs and said Horne's name could have been added to confuse police.