The mother of a young Frenchwoman killed as she tried to find her way home wept as her daughter's dying moments were described in court yesterday.Dominique Delagrange, 54, and her husband, Jean-Francois, 57, listened as a jury were told how Amelie, 22, was found lying face down on the cricket square at Twickenham Green, south-west London, on August 19 2004.Brian Altman, prosecuting, said the student who found her placed her in the recovery position before racing to get help. But she died from her injuries in hospital an hour and a half later. The court heard that a friend of Levi Bellfield, who is accused of murdering Ms Delagrange and another woman, Marsha McDonnell, had driven him to hospital on August 25, the week after Ms Delagrange was killed, because he would not stop crying.Mr Bellfield, who had been drinking, told Richard Hughes: "You don't know what I've done." He told staff at Hillingdon hospital that he had overdosed on diazepam and that he had suffered from panic attacks and had been depressed for six months. He also claimed that he had tried to hang himself. Mr Bellfield, 39, a former wheel clamper and pub bouncer, from West Drayton, west London, denies two charges of murder. He also denies the attempted murders of Kate Sheedy and Irma Dragoshi, and the kidnap and false imprisonment of Anna-Maria Rennie.Ms Delagrange, described by her landlady as sensible and intelligent, had been drinking with friends in Twickenham on the evening she was killed. She had missed her usual bus stop and was walking back home. At the same time, the court heard, Mr Bellfield was out cruising the streets in search of a victim.Mr Altman said: "Amelie was lost. She was tipsy and walking along the road. Because of all this and despite the sensible precautions she had taken earlier, she made herself a target for a predatory male looking for a girl like her."He alleged that Mr Bellfield drove past her in his Ford Courier van and parked near the cricket square. He waited for Ms Delagrange before catching her in the darkness and battering her to death. Mr Altman told the court that Ms Delagrange got off the bus at about 9.45pm that evening, while a van said to belong to Mr Bellfield was seen on CCTV in the area from about 9.30pm, and a call to Mr Bellfield's mobile phone also placed him in the Twickenham Green area at 9.30. The court was told there was a "missing 26 minutes" between the van being spotted fleeing the scene and it being caught by another CCTV camera heading back towards Mr Bellfield's home.Mr Altman said: "The prosecution's case is that in the intervening 26 minutes the Ford Courier van with Bellfield at the wheel, took a necessary detour: he stopped under Walton bridge, an area with which Bellfield was very familiar, where he disposed of some, not all, of the items he had stolen from Amelie during or after the attack." A CD player, a bunch of keys, and her purse were later fished out of the river near the bridge.The case continues.