Keeping London safe from terrorist attack remains Scotland Yard's key task, according to the man set to take over the UK's top policing job.Sir Ian Blair, named yesterday as the next Metropolitan police commissioner, said more grass roots intelligence and better relations with Muslims would be central to his strategy to counter-terrorism. Sir Ian, the current deputy commissioner who will succeed Sir John Stevens on February 1, also aims to stamp out racism in the police and make the Met one of the most ethnically diverse forces in the world. But he said there could be "no other, higher priority" than preventing terrorists striking the capital or anywhere else in Britain". They had already tried, and there was no doubt they would try again, he said. But he did not accept that they would succeed. "It's absolutely inevitable that terrorist organisations will target London," he said. "They have already done so. It's inevitable they will try and our job is to protect London and the rest of the country." He said he would move counter-terrorism detectives from their desks at Scotland Yard to help local officers gather intelligence about al-Qaida sympathisers on the ground. "Community intelligence will be better gained by local officers and what we have is the idea to put special branch officers into a number of boroughs, making sure local officers understand the ethos of special branch. "The first person to meet a terrorist on the streets of London is not going to be a special branch officer from Scotland Yard, it's going to be someone out there. Sir Ian, 51, a staunch advocate of more inclusive policing, said it was also vital to build up trust within the Muslim community. "The vast, vast majority, of Muslims living in the UK support policing efforts, fear terrorism and want to work with us," he said. "But of course we are concerned how some vulnerable young men and woman can be swept up into organisations that support that kind of activity. "It's difficult here just like it's a difficult period in Iraq. The only way we can do it is by talking, talking, talking and listening." The McPherson report into the bungled murder inquiry of black teenager Stephen Lawrence castigated the Met as "institutionally racist", and Sir Ian conceded there were still problems but said things were getting better. "I think all large organisations are institutionally racist, but that doesn't mean an organisation such as ours isn't improving - it is," he said. He pointed out that 17% of current Met police trainees were from ethnic minorities, and said he was convinced this would continue to rise. "This city is one of the most diverse communities in the world and one of my ambitions is to make the Met look like London," he said. Sir Ian, who has been Sir John's deputy for five years, was the favourite for the £225,000-a-year appointment. He has been heavily involved in shaping police reform and is a champion of the government's favoured neighbourhood policing plans. But he shrugged off the tag "New Labour's favourite copper" yesterday, insisting: "The Met is politically neutral and I'm politically neutral."