When Christopher Edwards was arrested by police for asking two women in a busy high street whether he could go home with them, his parents could not hide their relief.'Christopher wasn't violent or aggressive,' insists his mother, Audrey. 'But his mental state was deteriorating and his only hope for recovery lay in being committed to a secure unit.' Christopher never got there. Instead the 30-year-old former child genius was bundled into a police cell with a paranoid schizophrenic, Richard Linford, who had a long history of extreme violence. If the police or the prison had checked, they would have known Linford had been recognised a month earlier as 'capable of killing'. Instead, within hours of the cell door closing, Christopher was dead, his head smashed to a pulp by Linford with such violence that he had to be identified through dental records. His ear was ripped off in the onslaught.  An eight-year battle by the Edwards to trace errors that led to his death ended last week in the European Court of Justice with a ruling that will transform the way Britain's criminal justice system treats sufferers of mental illness. Condemning the police, the Prison Service and the local health authority, the court found the UK guilty of breaching the Human Rights Convention on four counts. Awarding the family heavy compensation, the judge acknowledged that the authorities' behaviour was probably replicated across the UK, and demanded changes. The ruling could lead to statutory investigations of every death in custody. Christopher Edwards had been a model child, a maths expert who played chess at tournament level and taught himself Russian and French. As he grew older, his intellect sharpened but his social skills plummeted. A brush with a fundamentalist Christian group at university harmed his mental stability irretrievably culminating in the street encounter. Linford was convicted of manslaughter due to diminished responsibility. The 35-minute hearing refused to examine the failings that led to Christopher's death. The case was closed. His father Paul said: 'We were no clearer about what had happened that night. It was shattering. The police and the prison were protecting themselves. You cannot imagine the litany of lies, misinformation and stonewalling.' The couple, who had never been inside a police station, transformed themselves into a campaigners. Paul retired early, and within a year they forced a Prison Service inquiry. When it reported three-and-a-half years and £1 million later, however, the Edwards were devastated. 'The prison was allowed to investigate itself; the inquiry had no power to compel witnesses to come forward, and we were excluded from the proceedings,' said Audrey. 'There was no way an efficient investigation had taken place.' The Government agreed and set up a second, Police Complaints Authority inquiry, which reported last April. It condemned Essex police on 15 points, accusing the force of negligence, carelessness and complacency. It had, however, concentrated 'entirely on Christopher's medical treatment', said Paul. 'It gathered no new information about that night. Seven years on, we were no nearer understanding why our child died.' Finally the couple turned to the European Court. With the same evidence given to the inquiries, answers finally flooded in: the police, doctors and prosecutors had failed to pass on information about Christopher's killer to the jail, whose inadequate screening of their son failed to show his immediate need to be committed to hospital. Paul and Audrey, both in their late sixties, can barely believe the ruling. 'It is compensation of sorts,' said Paul, 'but if you lose a son, the sense of bereavement never goes away.'