Amer, a slim teenager with baseball cap and hood, is slouched on the railings overlooking Regent's Canal in north London when he suddenly becomes exasperated. "It's not like you see on the news and that," he says standing up straight. "There is a lot of stuff going on that you never hear, people being in gangs for protection from other gangs or from drunks or cos that's what you need to do to keep safe... It's not about knives or stabbings - you keep your head down you can keep out of that."The canal which winds towards Maida Vale in one direction and King's Cross in the other was used as a "rat run" by Learco Chindamo and his friends in the months before the teenager stabbed headteacher Philip Lawrence to death at the gates of his school 12 years ago. It allowed members of the disparate group of teenagers - who had formed into what they thought of as a Triad-style gang - to launch a spate of vicious street robberies and attacks before escaping along the tow path.Yesterday at the back of an amusement arcade in King's Cross which the gang had used as a base, Robert, the assistant customer service manager, said that despite the recent panic over a perceived rise in gang culture and knife crime the area had improved dramatically in recent years. "We used to get them all in here just hanging around, they would fight outside and use this as their base. If we asked them to move it would be trouble, but there are more police now and we don't let anyone under 18 in so it's got much better - the whole area is better."In the months leading up to Mr Lawrence's murder, members of Chindamo's gang stabbed John Mills, husband of the then director of public prosecutions, Barbara Mills, outside his Camden home, although Chindamo was not involved in that attack. After Chindamo was arrested for the headteacher's murder, other members of the gang raped an Australian woman, 32, on a secluded section of the canal at King's Cross.The sex shops and derelict warehouses that would have been familiar to the gang as they moved between the arcade, King's Cross and Camden have been replaced by wine bars and hotels as part of a multi-million pound redevelopment programme.But yesterday just a few hundred yards along the canal from the spot where the woman was attacked, a group of teenagers explained that although the area's buildings have changed, life could still be difficult. "It's getting worse 'cos the police are giving out cautions and no one cares," said 17-year-old Rex. "No-one's interested what they [the police] think so it's about looking after yourself ... about having back-up, gangs."However, further up the canal not far from where Mr Mills was stabbed, another group of teenagers disagreed. Sid, an 18-year-old A-level student, said they were fed up of being labelled as "troublemakers" because of their age and appearance. "There are some people who are into that sort of thing but we all get pushed together and it's frustrating because a lot of us are just trying to get on and do normal things."His friend Raj, who said he was going to university next month explained: "People lump everyone together because of what they see in the papers and on the news. They may see us walking down the street now and because of our age and what we look like they assume we are in a gang or something but that is totally wrong - in fact we've just spent the afternoon looking round London Zoo."