The justice secretary, Jack Straw, was last night warned by lawyers and probation officers that it is inevitable that the new identity of James Bulger's killer Jon Venables will become known while he is back behind bars.Straw yesterday strongly defended his decision not to reveal why Venables, now aged 27, has been recalled to prison more than eight years after he and his co-defendant, Robert Thompson, were released on life licences from local authority secure units."I know there's an intense public interest in why he has been recalled," said Straw. "I would like to give that information but I'm sorry that for good reasons I can't, and that's in the public interest."Only 89 offenders released on a life licence were returned to jail last year after breaching the terms of their licence. Only a handful of justice ministry officials, senior probation officers and prison governors currently know Venables' new identity. But as his trial solicitor, Laurence Lee, pointed out: "Every prison in the country will be looking round to see whether or not there's a 27-year-old who looks a little bit like that boy."Lee said it was too early to condemn Venables until it was known what he had done to justify the recall to jail. He said breach of the ban on going to Merseyside or something similar might be regarded as minor technical infringements that would not mean spending long in prison.Harry Fletcher of Napo, the probation union, also said he believed Venables' new identity would be quickly compromised inside prison.Justice ministry officials said yesterday that disclosing the details of the breaches involved could prejudice the forthcoming parole board hearing to decide whether the recall is justified. It is also thought that disclosing the nature of the breach could jeopardise the anonymity order in force since Venables and Thompson were released in 2001. Bulger's family have not been told the details.The two-year-old Bulger was abducted from a Bootle shopping centre and murdered by Thompson and Venables in 1993. His body was found was found by children playing on a railway line. The grainy CCTV footage of his abduction has lost none of its emotional power to shock.The killers were released in 2001 on life licences which included conditions such as not contacting each other or going near Merseyside. Both were given new names and a worldwide anonymity order granted to protect their identity.