Britain's youngest convicted terrorist was sentenced to two years behind bars yesterday as a judge described how the schoolboy had "fallen under the spell" of fanatical extremists who exploited his naivety. Hammaad Munshi, the grandson of a respected Islamic scholar, was 15 when he was radicalised via the internet by co-defendant Aabid Khan and recruited into a cell engaged in a "worldwide conspiracy" to kill "kuffar", or non-Muslims. The GCSE student's trial, at which he was found guilty of compiling information likely to be useful in terrorism, heard how he attended school in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, by day and surfed jihadist websites at night to download information about making napalm, detonators and grenades for himself, Khan and Sultan Muhammad, another defendant. Al-Qaida propaganda was stored on his PC, promoting "murder and destruction". Handwritten notes about longing for martyrdom were found under his bed.Munshi's family said there were lessons to be learned on how easy it was for jihadists to groom youngsters online. Their MP, Shahid Malik, said the case was a "wake-up call" to parents and urged mosques to do more to combat extremism.Sentencing Munshi, now 18, at the Old Bailey to two years in a young offenders' institution, judge Timothy Pontius said: "You have brought very great shame upon yourself, your family and your religion. However, I have no doubt at all that you ... fell under the spell of fanatical extremists, and your co-defendant Aabid Khan in particular." Former burger bar worker Khan, described as a "Mr Fix-it" of the terrorist world who had links to proscribed organisations, was arrested in June 2006 at Manchester airport on his way back from Pakistan. He was carrying the largest "encyclopaedia" of terrorism-related articles yet seized, including personal information of 15 members of the royal family. The 23-year-old, from Bradford, was jailed for 12 years after being convicted of three counts of possessing articles for terrorism. Muhammad, also 23 and from Bradford, was given a 10-year sentence for three similar charges and one of compiling information for terror.Harendra de Silva QC, defending, said Munshi, who was arrested at the age of 16 on his way home from school, had been subjected to "grooming and manipulation" by others who were "more criminally inclined". Munshi's relatives were devastated by what had happened "not least because of the shame that it has brought upon this very upstanding family".His grandfather, Sheikh Yakub Munshi, an imam and president of the Islamic Research Institute of Great Britain at the Markazi Mosque in Dewsbury, said in a statement that the family respected the judgment as proud British citizens."All of us feel there are lessons to be learned, not only for us but also for the whole Muslim community," he said.