Have you ever heard of Raymond Horne? Perhaps the name is familiar, but you can't quite remember why. In fact Horne created a tabloid storm back in March this year when the Queensland authorities decided to deport the convicted paedophile, who had been in and out of Australian jails since the 1960s, back to Britain – a country he hadn't lived in since he was five. Inevitably several red-top front pages carried pictures of Horne arriving at Heathrow, blanket over his head: the Sun's that day was The paedo is landing.Since then, Horne has been placed on the sex offenders' register – the Sexual Offences Act (2003) introduced a new civil order designed to ensure that those convicted of sexual offences abroad are made to sign on the sex offenders' register in this country, and he has been monitored under multi-agency public protection arrangements (MAPPA) which involves a team of police, probation officers and social workers ensuring that Horne is staying where he has registered, taking any medication that might have been prescribed and not attempting to make contact with children.I don't know if Horne has also been made the subject of a sexual offences prevention order (SOPO) – which also applies to those who have been convicted of sexual offences abroad – and which, for example, bars a convicted sex offender from being near a playground, but the simple reality is that he could have been made subject to a SOPO, like the 30,000 sex offenders who are currently being managed under MAPPA. I hope that what I am describing gives some comfort to those people who will no doubt be concerned that Paul Gadd – aka Gary Glitter – who was convicted of sexual offences against two young girls in Vietnam, is being deported back to Britain, having served his sentence in Thu Duc prison. Concerns are of course understandable, but frankly Britain has some of the most robust monitoring arrangements for sex offenders in the world, and a wealth of knowledge about how best to manage the risks that paedophiles pose to children in the community. So too it has harnessed public support to manage newly released paedophiles through Circles of Support and Accountability – volunteer-led schemes that were originally started in Canada and which have reduced the predicted rates of re-offending by released paedophiles there by over 70%, and which are now coordinated in this country by Circles UK.We also know what makes sex offenders generally, and paedophiles specifically, re-offend when they return to the community after a prison sentence. In short, they are more likely to re-offend when they are "named and shamed", hounded from pillar to post, demonised, scapegoated and pilloried because when that happens they calculate that they may as well commit more crimes because, well, they have nothing left to lose. Sadly, an unnamed police officer quoted in the Sun doesn't seem to be aware of this fact and claimed that when Gadd returned he would get a "Hell of a tough time … we'll unleash the hounds". Yet, even if we rightly decry those who commit sexual offences against children, remember: if we want to make children safer and stop others from falling victim to sexual abuse, we need to engage in a mature debate about what is likely to work with this group of offenders and not fall for lurid tabloid headlines, populist cries for castration or unleashed hounds. Of course, no system is ever perfect, but what seems to have worked for Horne is the sex offenders' register and MAPPA, and what is true for him will also be true for Gadd.