 Prisoners' rights  Mary Riddell sounded a deeply sad warning about the dangers of suicide in people committed to prison whether innocent or not (Comment, last week). However, there was something ominously unforgiving buried among her words. She said Shipman may have taken his life to provide his wife with a substantial pension she would not have received had he lived beyond 60. If that were the case, why kill himself at 58? If the pension were the motive, then is it not possible that his death was a glimmer of compassion in someone otherwise irredeemably evil? Her comment 'the duty of prison officers is to ensure that those deprived of their freedom cannot exercise the ultimate human right of ordaining their own deaths' upholds the idea of prison as retribution and affirms the notion that prisoners have no human rights.  Nigel GanlyExeter   Big Benn   'What is so special about Tony Benn?' implies Richard Ingrams (Comment, last week). My wife was his constituency secretary for six years. She said that all letters from his constituents received early and helpful attention, even on minor matters. Further, when my wife had a major operation, several members of his family visited her in hospital. Oh that some other MPs were like him. John Clarke Uxbridge   A touch of evil   I was interested to read the article by Nick Cohen on the nature of evil and what appeared to be the complexities of understanding the actions of evil people. Perhaps he should consider the definition of evil as I heard it described in a programme on the Nuremberg trials, as 'the inability to empathise'. (Although immediate families of evil men can often be an exception.) With this in mind, all those cases that he mentioned would have a baseline from which they could be understood. Maybe a lack of empathy can be measured, then we would not only have a pointer towards the suitability of people for positions of power, but also a means of assessing the possibility of future criminality. E.L. Targett WaterloovilleHants   Society mores   Contrary to Frank Kane's article (Business, last week), there are 63 building societies in the UK who are delivering excellent value to their members in the competitive mortgage and savings markets. Indeed, building societies regularly top the best buy tables as they do not have to fleece their members to pay dividends to shareholders, which increases a bank's cost base by 35 per cent on average. Not only that, but mutualism is on the march in other areas such as football supporter trusts, the NHS, childcare and housing provision, not to mention the growth of the credit union movement and continued success of the Co-operative sector. The problems of Standard Life face are due to circumstances unique to that institution, not its mutual status. Adrian ColesDirector-General, Building Societies AssociationLondon W1   French cuff   Philip French commits a rare error in his review of Girl With a Pearl Earring. Though Tom Wilkinson's portrayal of Pieter van Ruijven is necessarily pure invention, van Ruijven was real and Vermeer's major patron. Since the late nineteenth century, scholars have known of a 1683 Delft inventory listing 20 paintings by Vermeer. But it was not until 1989, after years of research in the Delft archives, that J.M. Montias in Vermeer and his Milieu was able to argue that in all probability the collection had been made by a wealthy rentier, Pieter Claesz. Van Ruijven of Delft, a collector of paintings, was documented as having known Vermeer and died in 1674, little more than a year before the painter. John NashWivenhoeEssex  Criticising Zion   Whenever someone dares to make even the mildest of criticisms of the Israeli apartheid state and its abominal treatment of the Palestinians, the Western media is quick to label this anti-Semitic. And, when the critic is an Irish republican, and we are talking about the British press, the labelling is often compounded by a vitriolic stereotyping specially reserved for them. Such is the case in the highly personalised attack on me in last week's Observer headlined 'Republican says Zionists will hi-jack Holocaust Day'. Leaving aside the fact that I merely said there was a danger of that happening, not that it was inevitable, this article was based on views I had expressed in a private email. Had the article been a genuine critique of my own expressed opinions, one may have had little cause for complaint. Instead, what we got was a mixture of old news, no news and made-up news. The email which was never meant for publication, represented the personal opinion of one person - me - and was simply part of an ongoing internet discussion among a small group of people. At no time did I say that 'Zionists will hijack Holocaust Day'. At no time did I 'denounce Belfast's Holocaust Day' as claimed. In fact I urged that everyone should support it. The crux of what I did say is that we should challenge the double standards which exist towards racism and human rights in the world, issues which should be underpinned by universal values and concepts but rarely are. In particular we should challenge those who have no difficulty viewing Nazism, or the apartheid regime in South Africa as racist - but are uncomfortable making similar observations in relation to Israel. In my view, we should urge the population to remember the Holocaust. However, we should also urge people to learn, as the Holocaust Commemoration Committee has stated, 'the lessons of the Holocaust'. Dr Féilim Ó hAdhmaillBelfast   Top-up torture   Clive Stafford Smith makes a powerful argument against top-up fees (Comment, last week). I and my sisters had our university expenses paid without any contribution from our parents in the Forties and Fifties. The objective for each of us was to be of public service. If students know they will be faced with an appreciable debt after graduating they will be less motivated to go into public service work - they will look for work which promises higher remuneration. Also this encourages the making of money becoming the motive for higher education, and implies that one is valued by the amount one can earn rather than the more socially responsible concern of 'of what service can I be?' As a surgeon, after lengthy training, I was earning a significant salary (for those days) and wholeheartedly accepted the duty of paying a high rate of tax. If the present proposal about top up fees is passed it will have particularly grave repercussions for the medical profession where not only does the extra length of the course incur a greatly additional debt but it also delays the time when the debt can start to be repaid.  Peter Jackson Lewisham SE13   Rock solid   At no stage was my Government made aware, by the intelligence services or by any other party, of any evidence or suspicion or allegation of money laundering by BCCI (Business, last week). Had I, as Chief Minister, been informed of the existence of such evidence, my Government would not have tolerated it. To my knowledge no such information or intelligence was provided to the then Governor, the Royal Gibraltar Police or the financial services regulators. The sum total of my involvement was to try to ensure that Gibraltarian and UK ex-pats who had deposits with BCCI were included in any rescue package. Joseph BossanoGibraltar   Team spirit   I am delighted Will Hutton recognises some of the outstanding work being done in the state education sector (Comment, last week). He is right that standards are rising fastest in the poorest areas. But he is wrong to say the Government is infatuated with a model of leadership where the head teacher is a super-hero who does everything. The whole thrust of Government activity in this area is to promote a leadership team of the sort he describes.  David Miliband MP Minister of State for School Standards London SW1   Humour failure   Why can't Victoria Coren (Review, last week) see the joke in the German wallpaper for singletons? Where is her sense of humour? Heather Mason London SE3