The former chief executive of the £357m shell company Langbar International, which collapsed six years ago leaving shareholders with big losses, has been sentenced to 12 months in jail and banned from being a company director for five years. Commenting on the verdict, the Serious Fraud Office said, "this was fraud on a grand scale".Stuart Pearson was found guilty on Monday on three counts of misleading investors by falsely claiming that the Aim-listed investment company, originally known as Crown Corporation, had assets held by Banco do Brasil and that some assets were being transferred to the company. A confiscation hearing will be held on 1 August.After a six-year investigation, the SFO said these claims, made through official London stock market announcements in 2005 and personally to investors, were designed to paint the company as an attractive investment.Hundreds of institutional and private investors, including Merrill Lynch and Gartmore, lost millions of pounds after investing in the company, attracted by the £357m of cash Pearson said was sitting in accounts in Brazil and the Netherlands.SFO director Richard Alderman said: "This was fraud on a grand scale with scant regard for the essential integrity of the financial markets or for the inevitable losses and misery caused to the investors. Our investigators have worked closely with the City of London police and the Spanish authorities in what has been a painstaking investigation."No other people have been charged by the SFO.Crown was founded by Mariusz Rybak in 2003 and described itself as a business that bought underperforming companies, turning them around and selling them at a profit. The Bermuda-based firm floated on Aim that year but the shares fell following a series of deals and it held a rights issue.Pearson, a chartered accountant and former partner with Baker Tilly, joined Crown as chief executive in 2005. The company took over Pearson's firm, Langbar Capital, and renamed itself Langbar International.Trading in the shares was suspended in 2006 after Rybak, who had resigned as executive chairman, made £2.5m from share sales and the company said it could not "establish the existence of nor verify its entitlement to any of the [bank deposits] at any time in the company's history".Rybak agreed to pay the company £30m in 2008 to settle a civil recovery lawsuit, and was ordered by the judge to sell his home in Monaco. Langbar's former financial adviser, Nabarro Wells, which floated the company on Aim, was fined £250,000 by the London Stock Exchange in 2007 and publicly censured for breaching the exchange's rules.• This article was amended on 27 June 2011. The original headline said that Stuart Pearson had been jailed "for fraud". An ensuing sentence described a Serious Fraud Office statement as saying that Stuart Pearson was guilty of "fraud on a grand scale". These points have been corrected. A published correction will also appear in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column.