Customers of the online bookseller Amazon are being warned to be wary of a fake "phishing" email asking them to check their accounts.These emails, addressed "Dear Customer", say: "Your order has been successfully canceled [sic]. For your reference, here's a summary of your order." They then give an order number and a link to "order information", which appears to take users to an external website that does not belong to Amazon. The emails have a link to the genuine Amazon.com website at the bottom, making them appear authentic."From time to time, customers may receive emails appearing to come from Amazon, which are actually false emails, or 'phishing emails'," said a spokeswoman for Amazon. "These can look similar to real Amazon emails but often direct the recipient to a false website, where they might be asked to provide account information such as their email address and password combination."She advises customers to send any such emails to stop-spoofing@amazon.com and only check their order status by logging directly into their account from amazon.co.uk.This particular spoof is one of a growing number of fake emails landing in people's inboxes, as the global wave of phishing attacks grows. Phishing is the criminally fraudulent process of trying to illicit sensitive information such as usernames, passwords and credit card details from website users, usually via emails that look as though they genuinely come from a bank or an online retailer.Last week the industry body UK Cards Association announced that the number of phishing attacks on bank customers had risen to 51,000 from just 1,700 five years ago. As a result of this and other methods of internet banking fraud, online banking losses totalled almost £60m in 2009 compared with £52.5m in 2008 and £23.2m in 2005. It is the only area of card fraud that has increased rather than fallen in the past year."Banks would never approach customers by email asking for their bank details, but people still fall for this scam," says a spokesman for the association.Phishing attacks have also plagued users of social networking website Twitter in the past few months. Criminals have been attempting to trick Twitter users into giving away their username and password via messages that apparently come from friends. The messages contain a link to a spoof website that looks just like the Twitter home page, where users are then prompted to enter their login details. Security experts have expressed concern that this information could then be used to gain remote access to Twitter users' computers.Last week the website introduced an anti-phishing service designed to protect its users from these types of attacks.UK banking customers can see examples of recent phishing emails in a gallery, sorted by bank, on the industry's Bank Safe Online website.Protect yourself• Make sure your computer has up-to-date anti-virus software and a firewall installed. Consider using anti-spyware software.• Ensure your browser is set to the highest level of security notification and monitoring.• Apply common sense. Your bank would never contact you to ask you to disclose your Pin or other sensitive details by email. Delete such emails and make your bank aware of what you have been sent.• Always access online accounts by typing the bank or retailer's address into your web browser. Never go to a website from a link in an email and then enter personal details.