The Olympic gold medallist Linford Christie has been disqualified from driving for 15 months and fined £5,000 after he crashed his car going the wrong way on a main road.The 100m champion at the 1992 Games was found guilty of careless driving after he crashed head-on into a taxi carrying a bride and groom to their wedding reception.  Linford Christie outside court. Photograph: Yui Mok/PAChristie, 51, of Twickenham, west London, said he thought he was "going to die" and had to clamber out of the window of his badly damaged Audi A8 before he fell to the ground."I was just driving along and the next thing I knew, I saw a light and we had a crash, and that was it," said Christie. "I accept that it was my fault. I was driving along and I saw the car headlights and I thought he was on the wrong side of the road, and then I realised I was, and then I tried to turn."As he climbed out of the window of the wreckage of his car – number plate 100 RUN – he fell to the ground and said: "Oh my God, it's all my fault," the court was told by Claire Lloyd-Ashton, the bride in the taxi.The court heard that Christie, who was cleared of the more serious charge of dangerous driving, had recently split with his girlfriend of 26 years and was in the process of moving out when he left the house to buy milk.He was making his way back along the unlit A413 in Chalfont St Peter, Buckinghamshire, between 11.30pm and 11.40pm on 8 May last year when he crashed into the taxi.Lloyd-Ashton's new husband, Peter Ashton, 58, suffered a punctured lung and four broken ribs. Another passenger, Lloyd-Ashton's uncle, Michael Burt, was in hospital for two months with multiple injuries, and the taxi driver, Naeem Akhtar, for three and a half months.Christie had denied one count of dangerous driving. Ben McQuire, defending, told the judge: "This was driving limited to a particular circumstance, at a time when there were difficulties in Christie's personal life. His failure was to drive on the wrong side of the road, and it was not a conscious decision. From the jury's verdict it was a lapse of concentration on the part of Christie."He said Christie was preparing 20 athletes for next year's Olympics, 10 of whom were real medal hopes, and disqualifying him even for a short time would limit his coaching abilities.The judge, Francis Sheridan, had advised the jury to treat the famous defendant as "any other person".Burt, 61, said afterwards he was "very disappointed" with the outcome. Separate civil cases against Christie are ongoing.