Five separate murder inquiries have been launched after a spate of violence amid the New Year revelry which resulted in the deaths of two teenagers.Two people were being questioned by police yesterday after a 16-year-old boy was killed near his family home. Friends and neighbours claimed the teenager, identified locally as Bradley Whitfield, a keen sportsman who had ambitions of becoming a PE teacher, had been attacked with a bottle.A 14-year-old boy and 15-year-old girl were arrested in connection with the attack, which happened in the early hours of New Year's Day in Leicester. A 31-year-old woman and a 34-year-old man were also being questioned.In a separate incident, an 18-year-old man was stabbed to death following an argument between two groups of youths in Edmonton, north London. The teenager was chased after getting off a night bus yesterday morning and police have appealed for witnesses. The stabbing was another reminder of the problem of knife crime. A spate of high-profile attacks last year made knife crime a hot political issue. Last year 27 teenagers were murdered in the London area.In Manchester, one man was killed and three injured in two shootings on New Year's Eve. The 26-year-old man who died was taken to North Manchester hospital with two injured friends in a car which a lone gunman sprayed with bullets in the suburb of Crumpsall. The car was driven by a fourth man who left the trio - another of whom was seriously hurt - with doctors. After the second shooting, a man found slumped on a pavement in Trafford was taken to the same hospital, where his condition was described as serious but stable. Police are not linking the two attacks.Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, warned the public to take the level of crime seriously."The New Year is barely several hours old and two teenagers are lying dead on our streets," he said. "Britain has to wake up to the violence now exhibited on our streets - often committed by children," he said."These murders must shock us into addressing the problem rather than shocking us into giving up."When Leicestershire police were called to Fosse Road South, about 400 metres from Whitfield's home, at 5.16am yesterday they found the 16-year-old lying fatally wounded in a pool of blood.A large area around the scene, near a row of shops and takeaways, remained cordoned off last night as forensic science experts combed the area.Shane Faulkner, a close family friend, said: "I am just shocked it has happened to him - he's definitely not that type of lad."He was looking forward to a career as a PE instructor and everyone will tell you the same thing about him - he was never in any kind of trouble. He would never have caused anything or provoked anything."Tributes were left at the edge of the police cordon, where forensic science experts were searching the site. One of the notes, signed by Liam and family, read: "Brad. We had some great times mate - can't believe you have gone. We will miss you always."A postmortem examination was being carried out yesterday. Police sources suggested that Bradley had not been stabbed with a knife, but with a broken bottle.Another murder investigation was launched after a woman was killed in house fire yesterday morning in Kingsthorpe, Northamptonshire. Detectives confirmed the fire was being treated as suspicious. Firefighters carried the body of Mavis Clift, 73, from the burning house and she was certified dead by a police surgeon. Police forensic officers are scouring the woman's house for signs of how the fatal fire started. A man has been arrested in connection with the incident.Police were also investigating a possible link between a fight outside the Park Lane hotel, central London, in the early in hours of the morning, and the discovery of a man nearby who had collapsed and later died. Officers came across two men attacking another who was on the ground. They then found the other man around the corner. He was pronounced dead on arrival at a central London hospital. The two men thought to have been involved in the attack were arrested on suspicion of assault and the victim was taken to hospital and later discharged. The fourth man's death was being treated as unexplained and police said they were keeping an open mind about a possible link.Death toll· Bradley Whitfield, 16, was stabbed to death in Leicester and found by police in a pool of blood about 400 metres from his family home· An 18-year-old man was stabbed to death in Edmonton, north London· A murder investigation was launched after Mavis Clift, 73, was killed in a house fire yesterday morning in Kings-thorpe, Northamptonshire. A man has been arrested in connection with the incident· In Manchester, three men admitted themselves into hospital with shotgun wounds shortly after 6pm. A 26-year-old died at the hospital while another was treated for wounds to his back and a third for bullet grazes· A man collapsed and later died after a fight near the Park Lane Hotel, central London