If, as the Liberal Democrat spokesman asserted yesterday, the jury system served the principles of justice well in complex fraud trials, the system should clearly be retained. But long before the collapse of the London Underground Jubilee line case in March - a trial that ran for 21 months at a cost of £60m - there was a strong and objective argument for change. Jubilee was not the first fiasco. It followed a long line of earlier debacles including Blue Arrow, Guinness and Maxwell. Eighteen months before the Jubilee case collapsed, the 2003 criminal justice bill, which included a provision abolishing juries in complex fraud trials, was passed. The attorney general signalled yesterday that the government would be seeking to implement it.The first problem facing prosecutors pursuing a complex fraud involves how to handle the different suspects involved. After the failure of monster trials like those listed above, prosecutors opted for more tightly focused charges with smaller groups of defendants. But these were still drawn out, and worse still they often failed to show the jury the full criminality. There is a second and more fundamental problem: the complexity. Guy Mansfield, the chairman of the Bar Council, insisted yesterday that "juries are able to understand the issues in serious fraud, which boil down to a question of dishonesty". But research suggests he is wrong. A large-scale study of 48 jury trials in New Zealand, which are almost identical to our own except they do not have majority verdicts, showed that jurors found it difficult to assess the credibility of witnesses and struggled with elements like intent and the standard of proof. Nearer to home, where research is more tightly controlled, a study by Middlesex University's criminologists last year found that fewer than half of jurors understood everything that was going on in court.A third problem is the length of trials. True, new procedures have already been introduced to speed them up. But juries inevitably lengthen trials. The jury was only present for 17% of the Jubilee line hearings, with the lawyers arguing in much of the rest of the time about what could be shown to them. Any move to change a procedure that can be traced back 800 years needs serious scrutiny. But the debate has been continuing since it was first proposed in 1986 by an official review. Earlier moves to abolish juries in more mundane criminal acts were fiercely resisted in these columns, but we support the present move. There is something fundamentally wrong when petty fraudsters are convicted but the much bigger villains may be getting off.