A shop assistant held at gunpoint during a £40m heist at a Mayfair jewellers believed she was going to die when two armed robbers escaped using her as a hostage, a court heard today.Petra Ehnar, who worked at Graff Diamonds on New Bond Street in London, told police: "I was thinking I am going to be shot, killed. I had no idea."The robbers forced her into the street while pointing a gun at her back. As they made their way to a getaway car, she heard the gun being fired. "The noise was so loud. I realised I wasn't shot because I was still in one piece," she told the jury.CCTV footage capturing the robbery on 6 August 2009 was shown to Woolwich crown court as nine men went on trial accused of conspiracy to rob the jewellers between 3 and 7 August last year.Two of the accused, Aman Kassaye, 24, and Craig Calderwood, 27, entered the shop wearing makeup applied by professional artists as a disguise, said prosecutor Philip Bennetts.One asked to see a 2-carat gold ring displayed in the window, but as Ehnar went to get it they produced handguns. "The staff were told to 'get down on the fucking floor' or they would be shot," said Bennetts.The prosecution claim Kassaye told Ehnar: "You are going to help us open the windows."He said the terrified assistant began opening the display windows, one of which contained a £3.5m multicoloured diamond necklace. All the jewellery was then put in a black plastic bag.According to Bennetts, Ehnar told police: "I was so scared. All I could hear was the white man saying: 'If anyone moves, we will kill you.' " The prosecution say this man was Calderwood.She could see him pointing his handgun at the shop's manager, Martin Leggatt, who was spreadeagled on the floor, the jury heard.Another man, who was black and who the prosecution claim is Kassaye, then made her walk towards the door."She said: 'I could feel that the black man, who was behind me, was now pointing the gun into my back. I could really feel the gun being pushed into me."She was made to open the door and forced out into the street, Bennetts told the jury. "As she did so, she thought she heard the security guard shouting out. She said: 'This worried me because I could still feel the gun being pushed into my back. I felt the men would shoot, I really did.' "A shot was then fired, the jury heard, and the two men got into their stolen BMW.All nine suspects deny conspiracy to rob. Kassaye and Calderwood, both of no fixed address, deny possession of a handgun and a sawn-off shotgun. Kassaye also denies kidnapping.The court heard that the stolen jewellery had not been recovered, and the police had arrested "many but not all" of those alleged to have been involved.Opening the prosecution case, Bennetts said: "They had come prepared to use weapons."Footage of the pair fleeing to their getaway car was captured on a mobile phone by a passerby and shown to the jury. Another shot was fired after the car crashed into a taxi in nearby Stafford Street. A member of the public ran after Kassaye, who had given the bag containing the jewellery to a waiting motorcyclist, the court heard.The robbery would have required meticulous planning, the prosecution said, saying that a string of vehicles were used in the escape, with some of them intended to block police vehicles. A number of "dirty" telephones were also purchased the day before, using false details.Five hours before the robbery the two suspects had visited Charles H Fox makeup artists in Covent Garden, where they told staff they "wished to be aged to 60 for a music video", the jury were told.Latex and grease paint was applied, but Calderwood was initially unhappy with the results. According to Bennetts, Calderwood told the makeup artists: "It's a bit much. My grandfather's older than this. He was a miner and he doesn't look as bad as this."On being told it was the best they would get without having the latex made up, the pair eventually settled on shading to "bring out the ageing lines".The court heard that two days before the robbery the two were seen near Graff Diamonds, having been disguised by another makeup artist.Bennetts told the jury that CCTV showed a police car passed by twice at the same time. "Was that what put them off, or was it a dry run?" he asked.The trial continues.