The full scale of official incompetence that left Thomas Hamilton free to kill 16 children and their teacher in the Dunblane massacre is revealed in secret documents released today for the first time. Testimony, police reports and profiles in the 106 documents do not, however, endorse claims of cover-up and conspiracy in the aftermath of the shootings, according to one father who has seen them.Mick North, whose only daughter Sophie, five, was shot dead when Hamilton opened fire on a gym class at Dunblane primary school in March 1996, said the documents show that police and crown prosecutors failed to take proper action against Hamilton despite a series of incidents that demonstrated he posed a serious threat to children. "The documents ... in many ways confirmed what I already believed I knew about the role of the police and the involvement of the procurator fiscal service.There was incompetence," said Dr North. "Someone was behaving inappropriately, repeatedly showing aggression towards children, and the margins of the legal system were not flexible enough to allow the matter to be investigated properly." Hamilton, a social misfit who ran a series of boys' clubs, turned his gun on himself after spraying Gwen Mayor's class with bullets, killing the teacher and 16 of her pupils.Documents from the police investigation into the shooting were submitted to Lord Cullen's inquiry into the massacre in 1996 but they were placed under a 100- year-rule to keep them secret. Two years ago, the lord advocate of Scotland, Colin Boyd QC, decided to review material placed under the order and as a result members of the public will be able to view a number of the files at the National Archives of Scotland from today.The papers are thought to include letters raising the theory that prominent figures connected with Hamilton were freemasons. Further documents include a statement from a firearms expert saying that, on March 7 1996, Hamilton asked for instruction in close-range instinctive shooting and testimony that, for two years prior to the massacre, Hamilton had questioned boys about the layout of the gym at Dunblane primary.Dr North said the papers explained away several theories, including that officers had been tipped off that Hamilton was armed and heading for the school. One of the most persistent claims was that Hamilton had received favours from friends in the Central Scotland police force to enable him to keep his gun licence.Dr North said while Hamilton had friends in the force, the documents did not suggest they had provided support to him. "[Hamilton] wrote incessantly to senior officers and to politicians and copied them in on letters to others," said Dr North. "A number of people who gave evidence to the inquiry talked of seeing police cars outside his home on numerous occasions, giving the impression he must have had many friends in the force.In fact, it is clear that most of these visits were made in relation to the various complaints he pursued. It was business, not pleasure." Dr North said the documents reinforced his belief that the inquiry had failed to address the key point - how society should deal with individuals like Hamilton.