The taxi driver who was driving Mark Duggan, whose death led to the wave of summer riots in England in 2011, has said he had not seen him holding anything in his hands before police shot and killed him.The evidence of the taxi driver before the Inquest into Duggan's death clashed with that from police on several points.Police say Duggan was holding a gun and preparing to fire which led to an armed officer to shoot Duggan twice, in August 2011, in Tottenham, north London. The cab driver is the only independent witness to the shooting.The driver was hired to take Duggan first to Leyton, where it is alleged Duggan collected a gun in a shoebox, and then to return to Tottenham.The inquest has heard that Duggan died "within 10 heartbeats" when he was shot by a police marksman after intelligence was received that he had collected a gun and was part of a violent gang.Police forced the cab to stop by boxing it in on Ferry Lane, Tottenham, with Duggan bolting out of the cab and being shot within seconds.The taxi driver's name is not being made public and he testified in Punjabi with the help of a translator.In his evidence the taxi driver told the inquest jury sitting in central London;• He did not see Duggan open or close the shoe box, inside which the gun had been handed over by a man in Leyton.• At no stage did he see Duggan with anything in his hands, nor did he see the passenger holding a weapon in or outside the cab.• When stopped by police Duggan raced out of the rear of the cab to try and escape. Once out of the car Duggan did not raise his arm, nor did the cab driver see him make a sudden or threatening movement towards the armed officers.• The cab driver said he heard the men who stopped his cab shouting but he did not hear them shout "police" to identify themselves as officers of the law. He said he understands 40% of the English language, but knows the word police.• The taxi driver did not see a gun flying in the air after police fired. The gun, wrapped in a sock, was found on the other side of a fence 10 to 20 feet away from where the fatally injured Duggan fell to the pavement.After police pulled him from his car and handcuffed his hand behind his back, he said that an officer had threatened to shoot him. "Do not look there, if you move I will shoot," the officer is alleged to have said. The cab driver said he was then moved so he could no longer see the now dying Duggan, lain on the pavement as officers gave him first aid. The cab driver claimed one armed officer, W42, was in a rage "like someone who had lost their senses". He claimed that it was W42 who opened fire on Duggan. The inquest has already heard other evidence that it was a different officer that fired the fatal shot.The cab driver said he saw Duggan shot in the back by police and described cotton from his jacket being blown out by the force of the bullet. This clashes with forensic evidence heard previously by the jury which says the first shot struck Duggan in one of his biceps. The second, entered through Duggan's chest and exited his back. When later asked about his evidence, the taxi driver said he had not seen Duggan being shot.He said he was "very much surprised" when police shot Duggan and left the stand saying: "My thoughts are with the family."Opening the inquest, counsel to the inquiry, Ashley Underwood QC warned the jury that the evidence was complex and contradictory: "An awful lot of the evidence is going to point in all sorts of different directions."The marksman who says he fired the fatal shots, V53, will testify on Tuesday.