It is classified as a toy, can be operated by remote control and resembles a prop from Doctor Who. But the spy drone unveiled yesterday in Liverpool is the latest weapon being used by Merseyside police in their fight against crime.The four-rotor device will be used in a three-month experiment from next month to monitor criminals and anti-social behaviour. It is a metre wide, weighs less than a bag of sugar, and can record images from a height of 500 metres.The Hi Cam Microdrone was originally used in military reconnaissance operations. The drones, which are almost silent in use, can be sent up into the air within three minutes. They can operate with 10-megapixel stills cameras, digital video or infrared cameras and are flown either by remote control or by using programmed GPS navigation systems. The images they capture are recorded and sent to a support vehicle or directly to the force control room.The launch comes as a senior police officer warned that moves towards a surveillance society are eroding civil liberties in the UK. Ian Readhead, the deputy chief constable of Hampshire police, said Britain could face an "Orwellian" situation with cameras on every street corner. However, the Merseyside officers insist the drone is not the next phase in a "Big Brother" society.Merseyside police's assistant chief constable, Simon Byrne, said: "People clamour for the feeling of safety which cameras give. Obviously there is a point of view that has been expressed, but our feedback from the public is anything we can do to fight crime is a good thing."There are safeguards in place legally covering the use of CCTV, and the higher the level of intrusion, the higher the level of authority needed within the police force to use it. So that is the balance there."We're always looking at ways of putting more officers on the streets, and maximising technology is a powerful way of achieving this. Our drone will be used primarily to support our antisocial behaviour taskforce, Axis, in gathering all-important evidence to put offenders before the courts."The drone could also be used for crowd control during large events and to broadcast images of traffic congestion to police headquarters.Alistair Fox, from the Stoke-on-Trent firm MW Power, which supplied the drone, said the plane was classified as a toy and was therefore not restricted by Civil Aviation Authority requirements."It is much easier to control than an ordinary remote-controlled helicopter," he said. "It is pretty much forward, back, left, right and record."