Maninder Pal Singh Kohli did everything he could to avoid being caught. He fled the country, changed his name and created a new life for himself in India.But the parents of Hannah Foster, the girl he murdered and raped, pursued him. And yesterday, five-and-a-half years after their daughter died, they saw him convicted and sentenced to life in jail.Sentencing Kohli, 41, to serve a minimum of 24 years at Winchester crown court, judge Mr Justice Keith told him: "It took a long time for you to be brought to justice, but the law caught up with you in the end. The jury saw through your lies and you stand there exposed as a heartless and contemptible man who abducted and raped an attractive 17-year-old girl ... and then callously and quite premeditatedly took her life so she would not be able to point the finger of guilt at you."On the night that she was killed Hannah made her way along Portswood Road, a strip of takeaway restaurants, low-key pubs and small businesses in Southampton. A bright student who planned to study medicine, she was a stone's throw from her parents' house when she was snatched by Kohli on March 14 2003. The sandwich delivery driver accosted the teenager, forcing her into his work van. In the hours that followed, he raped and strangled her before dumping her body in a tangle of brambles in Allington Lane, on the outskirts of town. He then drove back to the home he shared with his wife and two small children. The details of her last hours remain unclear, but one thing is sure: she was afraid. She made a desperate 999 call, but because she could not speak directly to the operator, the call was disconnected. Her mother, Hilary, later said that she had never heard Hannah sound so scared. During the 50-second recording she could be heard giving a false name, that of her sister, to a man. Towards the end of the call her voice could be heard saying: "Huh ... listen ... anything." After the call Kohli, who one local described as "a gambler, a waster, a drunk", found a quiet place to park his van and raped the teenager. His DNA was recovered from her body. Fearful she would go to police, he then strangled her. Hannah's mother texted and later called her in the early hours. Records of these two actions, combined with DNA evidence, proved key in proving Kohli's guilt. They revealed that Hannah's handset had been moving down the M275 outside Portsmouth at the same time that his distinctive van was captured by CCTV cameras on the same motorway. The next day Kohli, a father of two, deviated from his normal delivery round and drove to a recycling bin in Southsea, where he dumped Hannah's handbag, which contained her mobile phone.Then the panic set in. In tears, Kohli phoned Balwinder Chalal, an acquaintance from his Sikh temple, asking to borrow money for a plane ticket to India, where he said his mother was seriously ill. Chalal refused, but Kohli borrowed the money from his father-in-law and flew from Heathrow to India on March 18, two days after Hannah's body was discovered. A Crimewatch appeal, on March 26, alerted James Dennis, Kohli's supervisor at Hazelwood Foods in Southampton. Dennis linked Kohli to the crime and phoned police. But the sandwich delivery driver had disappeared.A year later, desperate to find their daughter's killer, Hannah's parents travelled to India. The ensuing media frenzy and £65,000 reward led to a manhunt and Kohli was captured four days later. Calling himself Mike Davis, he had created a new life for himself in the town of Kalimpong, in northern West Bengal, where he had illegally married Bharati Das, a 32-year-old Indian aid worker. A month after his arrest Kohli confessed on Indian TV that he had killed Hannah, a fact kept from the jury. Speaking at the Punjab police headquarters, he said: "I did it. I raped her. I strangled her ... I was dead drunk. And as I came out I saw this girl across the road. She was very pretty. I went to my car, took a U-turn and abducted her. I took her to a deserted place and raped her." A month later he retracted the confession, saying it was "not by my own will".The Fosters' satisfaction at finding Kohli soon gave way to frustration and anger, as he remained in judicial custody. After three years, 100 hearings and 30 appeals, he was finally extradited to the UK on July 28 2007. As part of a defence that at times drew gasps of disbelief from the court, Kohli said he had been targeted by his supervisor, James Dennis. He claimed that he owed Dennis £16,000, was having an affair with the man's wife, and that Dennis arranged for him to be kidnapped by three men, who tied him up and forced him to have sex with a woman. He only realised later that it must have been Hannah, as his semen was found on her body, he said. Speaking after the verdict, Hannah's father, Trevor, talked of his family's overwhelming relief. He said: "Kohli is a cold, calculating and totally ruthless man and has destroyed so many people's lives without a second thought."