 The Liberal Democrats' biggest donor is suspected of repeatedly flying in and out of Britain while a fugitive from justice.Michael Brown, who gave the party £2.4m before being sentenced in absentia to seven years in jail for a multimillion pound fraud, used the holiday carrier Thomson to leave Punta Cana airport in the Dominican Republic.The airline flies from the Caribbean island to East Midlands, Newcastle, Gatwick and Manchester airports.Police are investigating claims that Brown has been using multiple false identities since vanishing in 2008. He is believed to be in the Dominican Republic. The last known sighting was in Punta Cana two weeks ago. The disclosures will concern immigration officials who failed to notice that Brown, while awaiting trial, had applied for a passport under the name of Darren Patrick Nally.The Lib Dems are under pressure for refusing to return the stolen money they received in 2005 from Brown's company 5th Avenue Partners.A taxi driver in the Dominican Republic, when shown a picture of Brown, said: "I picked him up from a Thomson flight three months ago. He was here with a male friend. They stayed here for a week and then I took them back to the airport."I know it was a Thomson flight because I was told to wait for one to come in."On another occasion, Brown is believed to have flown into the same airport on a British Airways flight.British Airways flies from Gatwick to Punta Cana via Antigua.Brown has been top of City of London police's most wanted list since he disappeared. He is also on Crimestoppers' list of most wanted criminals.Police have yet to recover the millions of pounds he defrauded from investors, which may explain why he has been able avoid the authorities for so long.The exclusive lifestyle that Brown has enjoyed can be seen by touring the houses he has rented around Punta Cana golf course, one of his favourite haunts.One, a four-bedroom, neocolonial villa faces a pristine golf course and has an open garage to park a golf buggy. It comes with a swimming pool and games room and backs on to a grove of palm trees.It can only be reached by passing security guards who scrutinise the ID of approaching parties.Marta Palomo, the estate agent who rents out the property and who is the last known person to have seen Brown, said she met the softly spoken Glaswegian she knows as Darren in the villa a fortnight ago and that a week ago he phoned to say he was going away because a friend was ill.She said he stayed there with his dog and a maid and drove a gold-coloured Porsche Cayenne.The house is now being rented to new tenants.When shown pictures of Brown, other locals recognised his face. A man who works in the area said: "I saw him walking down the street here just recently. He goes for walks and runs and plays golf."One person who has worked in the house during Brown's visits said he was "scary", adding: "He did not say much. I would just go in and come out."Another house frequented by Brown, just half a mile away from the first, is a yellow three storey house where he has stayed with friends.This is where he brought his guest when he flew in on a Thomson flight. According to ex-friends, he often travelled to London, Antigua and the Bahamas with his dog Charlie, named after the former Lib Dem leader Charles KennedyBrown, 45, appeared to come from nowhere in February 2005 when he gave money to the Liberal Democrats. The self-proclaimed trader was not registered to vote, was not a party member and lived abroad, but his largesse was gratefully accepted by then leader, Kennedy. The payment was within electoral law because it came from a British subsidiary of Brown's Swiss company 5th Avenue.During the election, Brown flew Kennedy across Britain in his private jet, gave presents at the birth of the politician's first child and dined with party grandees. The money helped the party to what was then its most successful election since the second world war. It was spent on posters and advertising.But Brown's "business" began to unravel soon afterwards. In November 2005, he was arrested. It transpired that he had duped a string of wealthy people including former Manchester United chairman Martin Edwards into investing around £60m in guaranteed bonds that did not exist.While on bail accused of false accounting, perverting the course of justice and theft, he changed his appearance and disappeared.A payment of more than £150,000 for Brown's bail was made by fellow Lib Dem donor Paul Strasburger, who has since been given a peerage.He says he has been let down by his fellow donor.Brown's victims have asked the Lib Dems to return their stolen money, particularly after a court ruled that the company was wholly fraudulent and that it only traded to handle stolen funds.Last week, Kennedy denied the party had done anything wrong, telling the BBC that it had acted in good faith and had been cleared by the Electoral Commission after an investigation into the payment.Anyone expecting Brown to slow down his fraudulent behaviour since running away from justice will have been disappointed.It can be disclosed that established two businesses while living under his false name. Van Der Lay Holdings is a property company set up in November 2008 in the Dominican Republic. Yorick Ltd, a subsidiary set up in Nassau, the Bahamas, has also been established.Court papers in the Dominican Republic show that Brown, under the name of Nally, was jailed for three months after reneging on payments over an oil deal. He was freed after promising to pay the firm Inversiones Inmar $318,000 (£205,000), which included a penalty. It is understood that he is late on his repayments after paying $104,000 of it.City of London police are locked in talks with the Crown Prosecution Service, the Home Office and the Dominican government over whether Brown will be returned home.Britain has no extradition treaty with the Dominican Republic.Two people were arrested in Britain on Friday in connection with Brown's disappearance.