The commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir John Stevens, yesterday signalled that the reinvestigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence has uncovered what happened when he was attacked by racists eight years ago.Asked during a radio interview if he knew who had killed the 18-year-old, Sir John said unequivocally: "Yes." He said a team of officers, led by Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, were still hoping to arrest and charge the youths who stabbed Stephen in Eltham, south-east London, on May 7 1993. When Sir John was asked if the public would know who the suspects were, he replied: "I think you probably do." This could mean only that the five original suspects - including Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight, who were formally acquitted when a private prosecution for murder failed - are still the focus of Scotland Yard's inquiries. Though Sir John's remarks on BBC Radio Five will have given hope to campaigners who want to see Stephen's killers behind bars, they will not have been welcomed by members of the investigating team in Scotland Yard's racial and violent crimes taskforce. They are extremely sensitive about the impact media coverage could have on pre-trial arguments about prejudicial publicity, should the matter get that far. Duwayne Brooks, a friend of Stephen's who was with him the evening he died, immediately rang the phone-in programme to challenge the commissioner about his remarks. He said the current investigation was a waste of money and that nobody would ever be charged. "We know it's impossible for these guys to face trial." Sir John replied: "John Grieve, who is heading the investigation, would not pursue these avenues of inquiry unless he thought they were going to get a result. We owe it to you and the Lawrence family." He added that he was hopeful that the home secretary, David Blunkett, would scrap the double jeopardy rule, which prevents defendants being tried twice for the same crime, and that the law would be changed retrospectively. "We'll never give up while we think we have evidence that will take people before the courts. We're still on the case and will still be on the case while there's hope that we can convict these people," said Sir John. Sir William Macpherson's report into the original murder inquiry uncovered incompetence and mishandling, and branded the force "institutionally racist". Mr Grieve started from scratch, in effect, with a fresh investigation that has been ongoing for more than two years.