Arkadi "Badri" Patarkatsishvili had predicted that he might be assassinated; he was certain that his political opponents wanted him dead. "I have 120 bodyguards, but I know that's not enough," said the 52-year old Georgian in December last year. "I believe they want to kill me."Yesterday, after the exiled billionaire collapsed and died at his mansion in Surrey, police launched an investigation to discover if his prophecy had come true.Weeks ago, the businessman said he knew that a plot had been hatched to get rid of him. He had been campaigning to oust President Mikhail Saakashvili and he claimed that an official from the Georgian government had tried to hire a hitman to kill him in a plane crash or assassinate him in London. Patarkatsishvili had heard a covertly taped conversation apparently between two men which he said proved it.Last night, the police investigation led by Detective Superintendent John Boshier of Surrey's major crime investigation team was focused on a postmortem examination of the body due to be conducted by a Home Office pathologist at Royal Surrey County Hospital. Initial results are due to be released this morning. If it is inconclusive, the cause of death may not become clear for several days while toxicology tests are carried out which might rule in or out poisons which would not be immediately obvious.Senior sources said there was nothing pointing to Patarkatsishvili having been murdered, but said they were obliged to treat the death as suspicious until proved otherwise. However, the sudden death of a wealthy emigre is inevitably sensitive after the assassination of the Russian Alexander Litvinenko in 2006, poisoned with radioactive polonium-210 after meeting contacts for tea in a London hotel.Throughout yesterday, Patarkatsishvili's body was left in his mansion to allow forensic searches. It was eventually driven away after dark for the examination."We are looking at every possible explanation for his death," said a spokeswoman for Surrey police. According to reports from family members who were with the tycoon at Downside Manor when he died at 10.45pm on Tuesday, the problem appeared to be with his heart. His associates said he had no history of heart trouble and was fit, although he had been complaining of feeling a little unwell in the days before his death.Last night an exclusion zone had been thrown around the £10m home, which neighbours said had been recently reinforced with cameras and high fences.Patarkatsishvili was the former Soviet state's richest man, with a £6bn fortune and business interests ranging from a TV station to the football club Dynamo Tbilisi. He had spent Tuesday in meetings in London to prepare his defence against allegations from the Georgian government that he had plotted a coup against Saakashvili, including plans to murder a government official and commit terrorist acts.At 11am he sat down with the former attorney general Lord Goldsmith QC, whom he had hired as his lawyer. They met at the offices of Debevoise & Plimpton, the City law firm of which Goldsmith is European chairman of litigation. Yuli Dubov and Nikolai Glushkov, Russian business associates of Patarkatsishvili, who are opponents of the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, were also there. At 4pm, the group was joined by Lord Bell, the Georgian's public relations adviser, and Boris Berezovsky, the Russian oligarch who was one of his closest friends. The four dissident businessmen had all worked together at Beresovsky's Logovaz conglomerate, which invested in oil, media, airlines and automobiles during the privatisations of the early 1990s. The talks went on for a further hour, during which Patarkatsishvili complained of feeling unwell."The offices at Debevoise are extremely hot and everybody was feeling very stuffy and Badri complained of not feeling too good so he went downstairs to get some air," said Bell, who rejoined the Georgian outside after the meeting. "He seemed to be fine after that."Bell said Patarkatsishvili had complained over the previous few days of "feeling not 100%".The Georgian left the City at 5pm and travelled to the office building on Down Street in Mayfair he shared with Berezovsky. At about 7pm he set out on the 16-mile journey home in his chauffeur-driven Maybach. When he got there he met members of his family. At 10.48pm a call was made to the ambulance services to report that he had collapsed and died. The police were alerted, as was Berezovsky, who arrived at the home at 4am but was turned back at the police cordon."The death of Badri Patarkatsishvili is a terrible tragedy," Berezovsky said yesterday.