With his pale, angular child-like features and dark hair, gunman Sean Mercer acquired the nickname "Beaver" on the north Liverpool estate where he lived.Although he was only 16 years-old at the time of the murder of Rhys Jones, he had already gained a reputation for hooliganism and casual violence, as a would-be gangster with the Crocky Crew.In 2006, he was given a three-month referral order for possession of a CS gas canister and in February 2007 he was given an anti-social behaviour order for being part of a group terrorising security staff at Croxteth Sports Centre. There had been seven complaints about him in a matter of weeks.Magistrates were told that Mercer and others, including his co-defendant Dean Kelly, were engaging in a snowball fight in the centre in February last year and refused to leave the premises when asked. They threatened a security guard, attempted to set light to his jacket and told him they would get a knife to cut him.Two months before the murder, he rode into Norris Green, enemy territory, on a motorbike chasing rival gang members and waving a handgun in a "territorial and threatening fashion".His father, Joe McCormick, a heavily-built former doorman, regularly attended court during the trial. Although separated from Mercer's mother, Janette, he was involved in his son's life.Mercer left De La Salle school, near his home, at the age of 16 without any educational qualifications. Between 2004 and 2008 he was stop-checked on the street routinely by officers, on more than 80 separate occasions. In the month before he was charged with Rhys's murder, he was before a youth court for cannabis possession.Detective superintendent Dave Kelly, the officer who led the murder inquiry, said: "Three shots were fired. It was the second shot that struck Rhys. Mercer had known that and he said later that a kid went down. Despite that, he fired a third shot and that is significant to me. He knew what he had done and he knew he had hit and injured Rhys Jones, yet he still aimed and fired again".Mercer ignored numerous appeals, not least those from Rhys's mother and father. Instead, said Kelly, he sought to distance himself from his crime, drawing in his close associates to help him to destroy evidence.