A naked, unarmed man was shot dead by a police marksman during an early morning raid which was catastrophically flawed in both planning and execution, yet prosecutions against five officers involved have all failed, it emerged yesterday.Other more senior officers in the Sussex force were investigated for misconduct over the death of James Ashley, 39, on January 15, 1998, including the chief constable, Paul White house, who was accused in an independent report of "wilfully failing to tell the truth" about what he knew of the botched operation. None of the other officers, however, was charged with criminal offences. Relatives of Mr Ashley yesterday demanded Mr Whitehouse's resignation, described the collapse of the prosecutions as "a scandal" and threatened to take civil action. The extent of the incompetence and alleged deceit surrounding the events before and after the shooting in St Leonards, East Sussex, emerged yesterday following a decision at Wolverhampton crown court to abandon the prosecution of three Sussex officers - Supt Christopher Burton, 43, Det Insp Kevin French, 47, and Det Insp Christopher Siggs, 42. They were accused of deliberately failing to make a true assessment of the intelligence which led to the armed raid at Mr Ashley's flat at 4am. Officers claimed the raid was essential to recover a kilo of cocaine, seize a firearm and arrest a man who was wanted for attempted murder. All of this turned out to be untrue. Nevertheless, Nigel Sweeney, QC, prosecuting, said he was offering no evidence on the charges of misfeasance - misuse of public office. While the raid should not have been sought and should not have been approved, Mr Sweeney said it would be impossible to pursue cases against individual officers because of the depth of "corporate failure" in the force and the lack of evidence of deliberate intent to damage the public interest. Under current laws, it is not possible to bring a charge of corporate manslaughter against the police. Earlier this month the officer who shot Mr Ashley, killing him with a single bullet at virtually point blank range in front of his girlfriend, Caroline Courtland-Smith, walked free from the Old Bailey. The judge, Mrs Justice Rafferty, instructed the jury to find PC Chris Sherwood, a member of Sussex's special operations unit, not guilty of murder. It was accepted that Mr Sherwood had acted in self-defence and the prosecution could not disprove his claim, the court heard. Another officer, PC Robert Shoesmith, was also cleared of misfeasance at an earlier hearing when the prosecution offered no evidence. Charges against the men were brought following an investigation into Mr Ashley's death by Kent police under the supervision of the Police Complaints Authority. Kent's report concluded that the raid had been authorised on intelligence that was "not merely exaggerated, it was determinably false ... there was a plan to deceive and the intelligence concocted." A senior source in Kent police said the investigation found widespread "systemic failure" in the Sussex force. A separate, confidential report into the conduct of Mr Whitehouse, which has been leaked to the Guardian, was undertaken by the chief constable of Hampshire, Sir John Hoddinott. It condemned Mr Whitehouse for holding a press conference in which he wrongly stated that Mr Ashley was wanted for attempted murder, the raid was professionally planned and that the use of firearms was justified. "The chief constable is a public officer and has a duty to tell the truth," the report said. "He wilfully failed to tell the truth as he knew it; he did so without reasonable excuse or justification and what he published and said was misleading and therefore likely to injure the public interest." After receiving the report, Sussex police authority suspended Mr Whitehouse for three weeks and then issued him with a "written advice" - one of the lowest sanctions available. In its disciplinary advice to Mr Whitehouse, the authority told the chief constable that it was "not satisfied that you have not committed a disciplinary offence." The authority urged Mr Whitehouse to take greater care with his public statements. "Your role as a strong and supportive commander of your force should never be confused with your duty never to mislead or misinform the Sussex police authority or the public. We believe that error was made on this occasion." Mr Whitehouse yesterday "expressed regret" for Mr Ashley's death and said the force had lessons to learn. "There was no criminal intent on the part of any of the officers involved in the operation," he said. "Five Sussex officers have had criminal charges hanging over them for far too long. I feel for them all, and for their families." A statement issued on behalf of officers Siggs, French, Burton and Shoesmith, added: "The investigation into our conduct generated sweeping allegations that were wholly unfounded. "Any suggestion of dishonesty on our part has been finally withdrawn." Mr Ashley's brother, Tony, said his family was angry and frustrated. "We haven't had justice. Jimmy was defenceless when he was shot. The officers have got off, and Sussex police is in a shambles. We are bitterly, bitterly disappointed." Miss Courtland-Smith, 38, said the collapse of the trial against PC Sherwood showed the police were entitled to shoot innocent people in their own homes. An investigation by the Guardian has discovered that the death of Mr Ashley is the latest in a series of shootings of civilians by authorised firearms officers who have not faced criminal proceedings. In the last 10 years, police officers in England and Wales have shot 41 people who were not carrying a firearm. Fifteen of the victims died and none of the officers has been convicted of any criminal offence. The vast majority were not even prosecuted. Related articles23.05.2001: Armed and dangerous: the police with their fingers on the trigger  23.05.2001: Inquiry into shooting provoked three-way row among police