Scotland Yard's hopes that it could get the crown prosecution service to bring new charges over the Stephen Lawrence murder, through a fresh investigation into police corruption, have foundered because it has so far been unable to find proof supporting allegations against two former detectives.Yesterday, the Guardian disclosed that the CPS was continuing to reject a variety of proposals from the deputy assistant commissioner John Grieve's reinvestigating team for re-charging the original Lawrence suspects. Mr Grieve retires today, without realising his ambition to bring charges. Crown prosecutors are now expected to display even more nervousness in the wake of last week's collapse of the Damilola Taylor murder prosecution, brought following similar intense pressure on Scotland Yard. Details of the new corruption allegations have been obtained by the Guardian. But they are denied by two suspected detectives, and frustrated police have so far failed to find proof of their suspicion that - contrary to Yard protestations at the time - the killers may have been shielded by corrupt officers. Senior officers had ultimately hoped that if the corruption claims proved to be true, by establishing a conspiracy with detectives involving the five prime suspects, they could charge all of them, even the three already cleared of murdering Stephen, with such offences as attempting to pervert the course of justice. Fresh investigations began 18 months ago after John Davidson, a detective sergeant who played a key role in the first, failed, Lawrence murder inquiry, was named as a partner in crime by a former detective colleague in south-east London. He was accused of selling drugs and helping to divide up the proceeds.  Raided Mr Davidson, a burly Scot nicknamed "OJ" - for "Obnoxious Jock" - by his former colleagues, is now running a bar in Spain. In 1998 he was arrested at his London home and it was raided over corruption allegations, but he was released without charge. He had recently retired from the Met, decorated and having served 30 years. He denies all wrongdoing. He refers to his "right to remain silent". He spoke to the Guardian only through his lawyers. Mr Davidson's conduct during the failed Lawrence murder investigation was heavily criticised by the Macpherson inquiry. A veteran sergeant, he controlled much of the flow of information. The Macpherson report said there was no reason to think he was corrupt, but found he had alienated potential witnesses by his manner and mishandled a potentially vital informant. One particularly disturbing feature of the investigation, as the Macpherson inquiry subsequently discovered, was that the drug dealer father of one of the chief suspects, Clifford Norris, was using his connections to try to bribe and threaten witnesses. He was known to have police contacts. Mr Norris's son, David, and the other suspects, when eventually arrested, stonewalled their way through interrogations . Mr Davidson has now been named as having corrupt links with a south-east London drug dealer at around the time of these events. Ex-detective constable Neil Putnam has claimed Mr Davidson was one of a group of corrupt local detectives. Mr Putnam said many of his own former colleagues were colluding with informants to steal and re-sell drugs and other goods seized from criminals. Five detectives, including Mr Putnam himself, were subsequently convicted and jailed, in one of the Met's worst scandals of recent years. But Mr Davidson denies being involved and he was never charged. The Lawrences' family solicitor, Imran Khan, says they were never told of the existence of Mr Putnam's evidence at the time of the Macpherson inquiry. Mr Khan said: "If we had had those statements, we would have recalled Davidson to be re-examined ... If we had known about Putnam, it would have affected the whole line of questioning of every officer. There needs to be an independent investigation into corruption in this case". Visits Neil Putnam, a stocky, hard drinking south Londoner, was a detective constable in the now disbanded south-east regional crime squad when he was joined at the end of 1993 at East Dulwich police station by a new sergeant, "OJ" Davidson. "OJ" was fresh from the collapsed Lawrence investigation where he had been in charge of the "outside team" which interviewed witnesses and tried to develop informants in the case. It was not long before the two men were playing football together, and visiting each other's houses. The Scot was invited to the christening of Mr Putnam's child. Mr Davidson concedes the two men were colleagues, but denies they were friends. Mr Putnam would be convicted of corruption offences and sentenced to three years 11 months. After his arrest he became a "grass". Although others have been convicted on Mr Putnam's evidence, it was decided there were insufficient grounds to prosecute Mr Davidson. He denies doing corrupt deals with criminals, and denies knowing Clifford Norris. Mr Putnam continues to tell a different story. He says Mr Davidson hinted to him he had some prior knowledge of Clifford Norris. "It was just us two on duty and he said 'Old man Norris ... had been putting some work our way.' By that I assumed, giving information." Mr Davidson denies saying this. Mr Putnam's assertion that Mr Norris and Mr Davidson were linked is one of the factors which Scotland Yard is investigating. In statements to Scotland Yard's anti-corruption team, CIB3, after his own arrest in July 1998, Mr Putnam said of Mr Davidson: · The two men split the £250 proceeds from a stolen consignment of Omega watches; · In December 1994, Mr Davidson gave him £40 or £50 he described as "Sargey's Christmas box" - part of the proceeds from sale of a recovered haul of electrical goods from a hijacked lorry. · In spring 1995, after a cocaine dealer was stopped at a Dulwich pub: "I saw Davidson take from the car a white carrier bag. I could see that there was a brick shaped object inside. He just turned around and walked away". The next day, he gave Mr Putnam £500 in an envelope, saying it was his share of the proceeds. Mr Davidson denies each of these allegations. But Mr Putnam's claims caused a sensation behind closed doors at Scotland Yard. They were passed to John Grieve's Lawrence murder reinvestigation team. Mr Grieve's officers wondered whether these unsubstantiated allegations could both explain what had gone wrong with the original Lawrence inquiry, and provide a route back into making re-arrests in the case. Detectives believe it was to be expected that, after the Lawrence murder, a hardened drug dealer like Clifford Norris would have immediately set out to find out how much danger his eldest son was in from police investigations. Mr Norris did have at least one police contact. Detective Constable David Coles was determined by the Macpherson inquiry to have been sighted three times having suspicious meetings with Mr Norris, while the latter was on the run from customs and excise. Mr Davidson denies he and Mr Coles were associates or that he was suspected by police of corruptly passing information about the Lawrence investigation to outsiders. But a Scotland Yard source said: "Norris could have told the boys 'they [the police] haven't got very much, keep your gob shut for 36 hours'." Mr Grieve's officers cannot prove one way or another whether Mr Putnam is telling the truth about Mr Davidson's character. In other cases where he gave evidence in court, corroboration was discovered. Mr Putnam's claims alone are not sufficient to charge Mr Davidson. Neither Mr Davidson's informant in the drugs case, nor the drug courier who had allegedly lost his cocaine, proved willing to cooperate. The Grieve team has also been unable to find concrete evidence of any relationship between Clifford Norris and either of the suspected detectives in the context of the Lawrence case . So, after what at first seemed to be a dramatic breakthrough, the fresh corruption investigation has slowed to a frustrating crawl.