Privately run prisons have existed in Britain for well over a decade. Indeed, Scotland may well soon have a higher percentage of prisoners living in private facilities than any other country in the world.These sites have always been controversial, their security records and low staffing levels frequently criticised. Now, however, despite the flaws in the private-incarceration model, it looks like the government is set to dramatically expand their role.Last week, as the country's incarcerated population topped 80,000 for the first time ever, news organizations reported that the Home Secretary was pondering whether to seek private investment for building thousands more jail cells. According to the reports, Real Estate Investment Trusts would raise money from investors, the trusts would use the money to build about 8,000 cells and then they would rent them back to the Home Office to be used for housing prisoners for whom the state cannot find room in its existing facilities. That way, the state would sidestep the need to build its own additional prisons.If that sounds like a win-win situation, good for investors, good for the government, beneficial to society at large, think again. In fact, for many reasons, this is a terrible idea. Private prison schemes like this tend to be about as stable as pyramid investment scams in the third world. For investors, they are little better than junk bonds, promising high rates of return but usually allowing the companies to walk away from the contract should prisoners not start to flow into the facilities as rapidly as predicted. For governments and populaces, they often offer pyrrhic benefits, saving money in the short term, while costing more down the road because of flawed security systems, the provision of poor healthcare to inmates, and the failure to rehabilitate inmates locked into prisons operating on bottom-line economic principles and providing few services to those inside the facilities. In other words, key collateral costs get defrayed back onto the public purse.Over the past decade, I have reported on the ways in which America's growing criminal justice system has come to impact the broader society. For more than 30 years now, the U.S. prison population has grown yearly, regardless of whether or not long-term crime trends are up or down. In 1973, when this binge began, fewer than half a million Americans lived in jails (short-term holding cells run by cities and counties) and prisons (run by the state, and housing those sentenced to over a year behind bars). Today, over 2.2 million do. It costs a fortune and creates a huge sub-class of hard-to-employ, angry people at the back-end of the whole process.Hundreds of thousands of these inmates live in privately run jails, prisons, and immigrant-detention sites, often in remote regions of the southwestern deserts, or in impoverished border towns a stone's throw from Mexico. Over the years, I've visited many of these places, mostly depressing little towns in the middle of nowhere, to report on private prison scandals and dodgy investment mechanisms. In regions of the country denuded of industrial and agricultural jobs, areas such as Pecos and Sierra Blanca, both in the arid expanses of west Texas, county commissioners have viewed the creation of private prisons as prime job-growth projects. Perhaps it is not surprising that before wooing private prisons, Sierra Blanca had already turned itself into a toxic dumpsite for New York City sewage waste, and also tried to bring in a radioactive waste dump. Private prisons are very much a part of this scheme of last resort.Facilities in Oklahoma, Texas, Arizona and several other states, now low-bid each other to try to woo contracts from other states to house their excess prisoners. California, for example, a state with 172,000 prisoners, recently began exporting inmates out of state as a way to deal with its own prison-overcrowding crisis. If these options weren't available, there's at least a chance its legislators would instead have been forced to tackle the out-of-whack sentencing policies, including the notorious Three Strikes and You're Out law, largely responsible for more than quintupling the state's prison population since the late 1970s.The rise of private prisons, while not a primary cause of the growth in America's incarceration machine, has become a powerful motivating factor for its continuation. While more people initially went to prison because rising violent crime and drug addiction rates scared American voters into supporting get-tough policies, and politicians then latched onto get-tough rhetoric as a way to prove their "hard" credentials, today, with crime rates lower than at any time since the early 1960s, high incarceration remains popular at least in part because the private prison industry continues to shape the debate about crime and punishment policy in the U.S. The industry has become part of a feedback loop making it ever-easier to increase the incarcerated population and ever-harder to shrink it back down to size during periods of social calm and low criminal activity. Investors have a stake in keeping the private prisons full, since private prison companies are paid a per diem rate by the state for each prisoner they house; and the large number of legislators who are now either paid lobbyists to private prison companies or who receive large campaign contributions from these companies, have a similar incentive to enact tough-on-crime legislation.None of this augurs well for public policy. In America, over the past three decades interest groups and economic players with extremely parochial interpretations of the public good have hijacked criminal justice policy. As a result, many experts in the field of corrections argue that good, long-term thinking has been replaced by short-term politicking.I believe that there are many things worth emulating in the United States. In fact, unlike many of my friends in Europe, I am, at heart, in many ways temperamentally an American. Yet, America's approach to crime and to punishment is certainly not one of those characteristics. Creating trusts to woo private money to build prisons that the state should be building will only ensure that policies get set in stone that increase the prison population still further, regardless of the prevailing crime rate. They will further embed the role of the private sector in a process that should, fundamentally, remain the purview of the state.