A bearded and bespectacled family doctor stood in the brass-railed dock in an oak-panelled courtroom yesterday to be accused of being one of the most prolific serial killers Britain has known.No one asked Harold Shipman, 53, how he pleaded: at previous hearings in lower courts he has always denied - in a strong, clear voice - killing 15 of his women patients and forging the will of one of them.So he said nothing and stood impassively, apart from the occasional lick of his dry lips, as the litany of his alleged victims was read out in an unemotional monotone by the clerk at the former quarter sessions house in Preston, Lancashire. The list was heard in silence in a packed court, followed by relieved shuffling and coughing. It had taken more than hour to empanel a jury (seven men, five women) and Mr Justice Forbes warned members that the trial could last until February. At 11.59am, Richard Henriques QC, surrounded by almost 100 files of evidence, rose to unfold the case for the Crown in an opening statement that is expected to last three days. Mr Shipman sat with his head bowed as Mr Henriques began a clear but undramatic account of the deaths of 15 women: nine had been buried and were later exhumed; the other six had been cremated. "All of them died most unexpectedly," said Mr Henriques. "All of them had seen Dr Shipman on the day of their death. "There is no question of euthanasia or what is sometimes called mercy killing. The defendant killed these 15 patients because, in the submission of the prosecution, he enjoyed doing so. "He was exercising the ultimate power of controlling life and death and repeated the act so often he must have found the drama of taking life to his taste." The Crown's case is that all 15 women died as a result of doses of morphine or diamorphine given to them by Mr Shipman, who had a one-man practice in Hyde, Greater Manchester. As the account of the deaths continued, Mr Shipman, wearing a white shirt and light brown suit, looked straight ahead at the judge. He occasionally reached for papers in a ring binder and made notes on an A4 pad. Behind him sat his wife Primrose and son Christopher. Mr Henriques pointed to a number of similarities between the cases: Mr Shipman had "wickedly" falsified patient records, convinced relatives that post mortems were not necessary and carried out at best "minimal" examinations of the dead women. "In several cases, his manner was unsympathetic and inappropriate after death," he said. "When each of these allegations is looked at and placed in the context of the trial as a whole, it will be very plain that Dr Shipman killed each of these 15 women as he purported to treat them as patients." Mr Henriques told the court that Mr Shipman had altered his medical records to suggest that the last of his alleged victims, Kathleen Grundy, an 82-year-old widow, was addicted to morphine. He claimed that Mr Shipman killed her while at her home to take a blood sample. He also pointed the jury to a photograph of Mrs Grundy in their bundles of evidence: it was taken at a meeting the day before she died. Mr Henriques said Mr Shipman had forged the will of Mrs Grundy, a former mayoress of Hyde, who was "quite exceptionally fit and energetic right up the the moment of death", in an attempt to secure her estate valued at almost £400,000. In the allegedly forged will, which had been written, said Mr Henriques, on an old Brother manual typewriter later found at Mr Shipman's surgery, the doctor wrote that Mrs Grundy wanted to leave all her wealth to her doctor because of all the help he had given her. "My family are not in need," the will said. The trial continues today.