Police are investigating the death of a shopkeeper who was discovered with a serious head wound following a robbery by a gang of teenagers.Gurmail Singh, 63, was found after people in a nearby pub heard a commotion at his convenience store in the village of Cowcliffe, near Huddersfield, West Yorkshire at 8.30pm on Saturday. He was taken to Huddersfield Royal Infirmary but died seven hours later.The group from the Shepherd's Arms pub found the shopkeeper lying on the floor. They tried to detain two of the four robbers but were unable to hold them.Pub landlord William Pickup, 60, said: "One of the locals went outside for a cigarette and saw two [robbers] come out of the front of the shop with their hoods up. He thought something was up and went over to the shop and saw two more inside."He pulled the door shut to stop them getting out and they started beating on the door with a hammer to get out."He said the two robbers escaped through a storeroom at the back of the shop, but were chased by the witnesses.West Yorkshire police have launched a murder inquiry. The four robbers were said to be in their late teens and wearing dark-coloured hooded tops and tracksuit bottoms.One was armed with a hammer but it is not clear if the weapon was used to assault Singh, who was a father and grandfather.West Yorkshire police are also investigating a separate incident at the store on Thursday involving Singh and at least two youths who were trying to steal cigarettes.A police spokesman said Singh "had been living and working in that area for quite a long time and was well regarded". He added: "It was a robbery but they stole the takings from the till, some cigarettes and sweets. It is hardly a major crime and that makes it all the more sad that he died in this way."Detective superintendent David Pervin, who is leading the murder inquiry, said: "Mr Singh was a well-known and popular local businessman who had been in this area many years. I appeal for anyone with information to contact us."A postmortem examination is due to take place today to establish cause of death, the police said.Neighbour Ian Davison said there had been trouble at the store on Thursday when teenagers attempted to open the till. "Mr Singh was saying that four kids had been causing trouble. He said he did not want to take them on because they were a lot bigger than him."Davison said there was a serious drugs problem in the area.Singh's death has left locals shocked. "He was a really popular, lovely bloke," Davison added. "You couldn't wish to meet a nicer bloke than Mr Singh. "Even in the snow he was pulling his sledge up here with his grandson, making sure the papers got delivered."Relatives have travelled from all over the UK to comfort Singh's immediate family, who live near the shop.