A 16-year-old was stabbed to death in a street fight involving up to 40 youths in Beckenham, Kent, late on Saturday.Witnesses say Ben Hitchcock was attacked by a group who stamped on his head and forced him onto spiked metal railings. He and his friends had tried to flee from a gang armed with metal poles, broken bottles, and planks of wood. They heard him cry: "Please help me," before slumping to the ground.Metropolitan police officers found the boy with serious injuries. Nine youths were arrested at the scene, near Crystal Palace FC's training ground, and five more arrests were made yesterday.Samantha Crossingham, 33, saw the fight when her 12-year-old son called her to the window of their flat, only yards away. "My son saw the group drag the boy into the road and stamp on his head," she said. "It was like a riot outside. There were up to 30 kids screaming and running all over the place."I threw the phone at my other half and shouted at him, 'Call the police'."She said that the boy had got to his feet but the gang went on attacking him. "The boy got up but then they began punching him towards some metal railings. They kept on punching him and I think he just landed on the railings."She grabbed a towel and ran into the street where the boy was lying. "I put the towel under his back, put him in the recovery position, and tried to talk to him. He didn't say anything, but was breathing and had a good pulse." She shouted at his friends to give her their jackets to keep him warm. She kept talking to him until the police and ambulance arrived. He was taken to Lewisham hospital, and pronounced dead shortly after arrival.Laura Davies, 21, who lives near Southend Road, where the incident took place, said: "I heard screaming from outside my flat, looked out the window and acould see kids running down the road."It was crazy. There must have been 30 or 40 at least. They were smashing bottles and all running after about four lads."Friends paid tribute to a "happy and friendly young lad" last night. He lived in Penge, south-east London, and had recently finished GCSEs at Kelsey Park school, in Bromley, Kent.A 16-year-old said: "Ben used to be a good friend. He was always happy and always had a joke to say. I used to see him a lot at school but he started to go round with another group and we did not see as much of him. It was a shame; we used to get on really well."Everyone is really devastated. I found out when I went on MSN Messager [an instant internet message service] this morning and there was an RIP next to Ben's name. I was shocked. He has two brothers, Louis and Jake. they must be distraught. His whole family must be."Det Chief Insp John MacDonald said the boy had been stabbled with a knife, and that a total of 14 arrests had been made. Police were following up a lead that the boys in the attack got off a bus from Sydenham or Penge. A post mortem examination has yet to take place. Officers would like to hear any information, particularly from those knowing anyone in the fight.The murder followed the shooting of a girl in a fight at a bar in Tottenham, north London early on Saturday. Annaka Keniesha Pinto, 17, died yesterday afternoon in hospital. Elsewhere, a man in his 20s was shot dead in the street in Acton, west London.