A grieving mother told a murder trial yesterday of the hours before her former husband hurled their six-year-old son from a hotel balcony before leaping from it with his daughter in his arms.John Hogan, 33, is on trial in Crete for the death of his son Liam, who sustained head injuries. His daughter Mia, then two, survived with a broken arm after her father's body cushioned her fall.Natasha Steel, who divorced Hogan last summer, told the court yesterday that they had gone on holiday to the beachfront Petra Mare hotel in August 2006 in an attempt to patch up their marriage. But their constant arguing left their son upset. She described how on the night of Liam's death, as she and the children were having dinner in the hotel's restaurant, Hogan kept coming down from their bedroom in an increasingly angry mood.Steel, 35, told the court: "For the next two hours the children were in the bar and he kept coming down. Liam was crying and crying. I said what is the matter and he replied, 'You and daddy are breaking up'."Describing the moment her husband jumped from the balcony, she told the court that she had decided to take the children home early and went back to the room to arrange the suitcases.She said: "He stared at me with a crazed look and started shouting."They rowed about the packing. "He said 'My packing is crap. John's packing is crap'. I had my back to him and when I turned around no one was there." Hogan had jumped 12 metres from the balcony.Hogan denies planning to murder his children. He told the court in Chania: "I do not accept the charge that I planned to kill my children. I did not plan it."His ex-wife said Hogan, who ran a tiling business in Bristol, worked hard to care for his family. But since the birth of their children, he had become increasingly depressed and unhelpful.She said: "For me, the stress became too unbearable to continue. I was becoming stressed with the children and it wasn't a happy household any more. I wanted us to go on the holiday because I wanted a break away from the stress."She added: "I realised I did not love him any more but I wanted to try. By booking this holiday, I thought it would make sure."Steel was questioned about "flirty" emails she had swapped with an old schoolfriend in 2005, which Hogan had discovered. He also found a Valentine's card. She told the court: "We had problems but we agreed to try for the sake of my children."Steel said: "We had talked about divorce in the past but never during the trip ... I think he had not accepted the possibility of our relationship ending. He was upset by the potential break-up."She said that when she was pregnant with their son, Hogan began having panic attacks. She said: "I think his family history contributed to his problems."He was sitting directly in front of his ex-wife as she gave evidence. He held his face in his hands as she spoke of his tragic past, including the deaths of his brothers, Stephen and Paul, who both killed themselves.Sitting with his back turned to her, Hogan interrupted, saying: "She called my family a 'family of death' when my grandmother died one month before we went on holiday."Steel responded by saying: "He didn't mean to kill my children but I do know with his history of suicide that he should not have taken my children ... he is a selfish man."She later told the court that her husband had said to her on an occasion before the holiday: "If you are going to live in a house with the children, I will burn it to the ground."Hogan has been held in an Athens jail for 16 months. He has attempted to kill himself several times since his arrest and has been treated for clinical depression. His lawyers argued he was not mentally fit to stand trial.Joannis Nestoros, a professor of psychiatry from the University of Crete, told the court yesterday that he believed Hogan had thought he was "sending his family to heaven" by jumping off the balcony. "He was away from reality. He did not know what he was doing," he said. "It was not his intention to harm the children. He thought he would be able to take his children to heaven. This was not logical."Nestoros, who conducted a series of interviews with Hogan, went on to describe how he had "heavy illusions" and schizophrenic symptoms when under pressure. The psychiatrist said: "His body did this, not his brain - he wasn't himself that night."Hogan has been on a course of anti-depressants since jumping from the balcony.The case is being heard by a jury of three men and a woman, sitting alongside three judges. The hearing was adjourned until Wednesday, when the panel will hear from Hogan before deciding on its verdict. The murder charge carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.Before the trial opened, a British police officer read out a statement on Steel's behalf, in which she said that her daughter had made a full recovery from the injuries she sustained, and is in regular contact with her father's family.