Fourteen women gave evidence in court against John Worboys on assaults during 14 months up to February 2008. Worboys had been driving a London cab for 12 years. Police think he could have attacked more than 100 women.Victim 1This woman left a club on the King's Road, London, on 14 October 2006, at about 2am. She got in Worboys' cab and he gave her two tablets, telling her they were aspirin for a hangover. After taking the pills she passed out. She came round to find Worboys with his hand up her skirt. She told him to get off but passed out again until the next morning.Victim 2The journalist from Balham, south London, hailed Worboys' cab in Regent Street, central London, between 2am and 3am on 10 November 2006, after a work party at which she did not drink much. Worboys told her of his "casino win" and she drank the champagne. She lost consciousness, waking at 5.30am in south London. Worboys eventually dropped her at home. The next day she saw her GP and was given the morning-after pill. Victim 3This woman went to a club near Oxford Circus, London, on 5 April 2007. She did not drink there, and caught Worboys cab at 2.30am. Finding the 22-year-old sober, he offered her champagne to celebrate his "big win" at a casino. She refused several times until, feeling under pressure, she accepted a glass but did not drink. As her concerns grew she began to phone friends, and Worboys drove her home.Victim 4The hedge-fund administrator from north London got into Worboys' cab in Regent Street at 2am on 29 June after an evening's social drinking. Using his casino tale and showing her a bag of money, he offered her champagne, which she accepted as he joined her in the back seat. She became groggy and disoriented; she recalls him kissing her, which she was too stupefied to resist. Her boyfriend called repeatedly until she answered her phone; she told him the driver kept passing the house. Worboys eventually stopped and her boyfriend helped her inside.Victim 5Carrie Symonds, 19, was waiting for a bus on King's Road, London, at 2am on 19 July 2007, when Worboys offered to take her home for £5, telling her he lived close to her in south-west London. He asked if she would ever give a "hand job" for money. He offered champagne but she took only a sip and poured the rest away. He asked would she mind if he stopped for a toilet break, then climbed into the back of the cab. Worboys bet her £10, then £50, that she would not drink a neat vodka. Feeling indebted for the cheap fare, she agreed. She remembers little else and got home at 4am, the journey of just over five miles having taken two hours. She did not report the incident.Victim 6This 23-year-old Swedish student, who lived in central London, had just left a nightclub at about 2am on 26 July, when Worboys offered a ride home for £5. Again the casino story and champagne were used; she took a sip, then Worboys asked her would she have sex with a man for £1,000, upping it to £2,000 when she said no. Anxious, she angrily asked him to take her home. She had poured the champagne on the floor of the cab. He drove her home.Victim 7The 19-year-old student was picked up on 27 July. She took his cab after about 3.15am at Charing Cross station. She sipped the champagne, which "tasted horrible", and felt drowsy. He stopped the cab, climbed into the back and forced a tablet into her mouth. She remembers no more until 2pm the next day, when she found her tampon had been removed. She called the police and CCTV footage at the halls of residence was examined. Worboys was arrested for sexual assault and released on bail.Victim 8Aged 25 at the time, this woman was picked up by Worboys in Oxford Street after 4am on 21 December 2007. She was "quite drunk". She accepted the champagne. He offered her tablets, which he said were ecstasy, which she accepted. After 40 minutes, and another pill, she lost awareness. At one point she knew he was raping her, but she remembered no more until waking in her bed the next day, feeling like a "zombie". Victim 9On 3 January 2008 this city worker, from Hornchurch, got a cab near Fenchurch Street, east London, at 10pm to go to Liverpool Street. Worboys told the 29-year-old the station was closed and said he would take her home for £20. He gave her a "new year's drink", of which she took a few sips then poured the rest on the floor. She became groggy. He got into the back of the cab holding on to the door. She began to cry when he exposed his penis, rubbed it on her trousers and tried to touch her breasts.Victim 10She left a club on the King's Road at 3am on 11 January and hailed Worboys' cab. He gave her wine, stopped the car and climbed in the back. She stopped drinking and asked him to take her home to Smithfield which he did. Victim 11On 31 January she left Soho at 2.30am and caught Worboys' cab in Dean Street. He told the advertising director from south London his tale about the lottery win. She agreed to a drink. At one point she came to and found her skirt pushed up high and Worboys fiddling with his belt. He dropped her at home, two hours after picking her up. She could only crawl into her house, and was violently sick.Victim 12This 34-year-old lawyer, who was on maternity leave and planning her wedding, met her bridesmaids on 5 February 2008, in the City. At about 10.30pm, she caught Worboys' cab at London Bridge station. After drinking champagne she became groggy. He parked and climbed into the back of the cab. She recalled him helping her into her house. Victim 13A 30-year-old journalist from west London, she got into Worboys' cab in Wardour Street, Soho, with a friend at about 3am on 14 February. Worboys dropped the friend off first. Then he got into the back of the cab and gave the journalist champagne. She saw a tablet dissolve and the drink go cloudy, so pretended to sip but did not drink. Her husband had gone out to the street to wait for her, so Worboys let her go.Victim 14The 18-year-old from Barnes, south-west London, got into Worboys' cab with a friend on Oxford Street at 3.30am on 15 February. After her friend left, Worboys offered champagne. She took a few sips and began to lose consciousness. When she came round, she was on the cab floor. She put her keys through her fingers to use as a weapon and demanded to be let out.