The government stands accused of failing in its pledges to tackle domestic abuse after it emerged that fewer than half of all men ordered to attend specialist programmes aimed at curbing their violent behaviour complete them.It has also been forced to admit that it has yet to implement a high-profile plan to place men who beat their partners under restraint orders, despite announcing the scheme more than three years ago.Opposition politicians were quick to accuse the government of failing to live up to its promises, as probation teams across Britain highlighted problems with the Integrated Domestic Abuse Programme. In one case, a man from South Wales found guilty of choking his wife repeated the offence after more than a year waiting to go on the programme. Probation officers in the region say they now have more than 40 men waiting for courses, a picture their union, Napo, say is reflected across the UK. West Midlands probation officers say their backlog is now so serious they are placing only the most high-risk abusers on the programmes. In Avon and Somerset, waiting lists are between eight and 12 months and in Yorkshire some offenders have been waiting for up to two years. The programmes run for up to 27 weeks and cost between £8,000 and £10,000 each. Extremely popular with the courts, police and the Crown Prosecution Service, they were introduced in 2001 and widely promoted by the government in 2005 as part of its National Domestic Violence Plan. But the Ministry of Justice confirmed that only 1,800 out of more than 4,000 handed down by the courts in 2007 were completed.In 2004, the then Home Secretary, David Blunkett, promised the Domestic Violence Crime and Victims Bill, which introduced specialist Domestic Violence Courts to expand the use of domestic abuse programmes, was 'the biggest shake-up of domestic violence legislation for 30 years'. And in 2006 Home Office minister Vernon Coaker pledged that the government would 'place [domestic abuse] victims at the heart of the criminal justice system... while bringing perpetrators to account for their offences'.Harry Fletcher, Napo's assistant director-general, said: 'The government has widely flagged dealing with domestic violence as a central plank of its policy. There are now, disturbingly, cases of further offences of domestic violence being perpetrated by men awaiting the course.' A Ministry of Justice spokeswoman confirmed that in some areas demand for the domestic abuse programmes was 'outstripping' places, but that the government was tackling the problem: 'We are refining the process of assessing offenders to ensure that only those who will benefit from an intensive programme are recommended for it.' The government has also yet to implement measures introduced in 2005 that would allow courts to impose restraint orders against men suspected of beating their partners even if they have not been convicted.'They were introduced with great fanfare as an urgent measure to better control domestic violence,' said Edward Garnier, MP, the Conservative's Justice spokesman and a Crown Court Recorder. 'But the government simply hasn't implemented the legislation.' A Home Office spokesman said 'discussions' about implementing the restraint orders were 'ongoing'.