Myra Hindley, the Moors murderer whose part in the killing of five children made her one of the most enduringly notorious and controversial figures in Britain for more than 30 years, died last night in a Suffolk hospital.After 36 years behind bars, Hindley, 60, finally lost her battle to die a free woman at 4.58pm when she succumbed to the series of heart and lung conditions which had seen her health deteriorate rapidly over recent weeks. Suffering severe respiratory problems, she had been taken to the West Suffolk hospital, 10 miles from her cell at Highpoint prison near Haverhill, for tests on Tuesday but by Thursday she was gravely ill. Guarded by three prison officers in a private hospital room, Hindley, who returned to Catholicism while in prison, was read the last rites at 9am yesterday by the prison priest who had spent the night at her side. She then appeared to rally slightly, but her condition remained critical and she dropped in and out of consciousness before being read the last rites again in the afternoon. The prison service said she died of respiratory failure. Her estranged mother, Nelly, had been informed. The death of one of Britain's most infamous prisoners comes within weeks of a decision by the House of Lords which is likely to have led to her release. The law lords are due to rule on an appeal brought by the double murderer Anthony Anderson, who is challenging the power of politicians, rather than judges, to set the lengths of murderers' prison sentences. He is expected to succeed - a ruling that would have left the home secretary, David Blunkett, facing a new challenge from Hindley. She was one of 70 prisoners who had already served longer than the recommended sentence and planned to apply to Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, for release. In 1985, his predecessor, Lord Lane, recommended that she should serve no more than 25 years, but subsequent home secretaries fixed her tariff first at 30 years and then at "whole life", meaning she would never be released. Mr Blunkett had already promised to pass a new law to keep high-profile killers such as Hindley behind bars if the current system was declared illegal. Hindley, along with her partner Ian Brady, were jailed for life in May 1966 for a series of child murders which shattered the innocence of 1960s Britain. Brady was convicted of the sexual abuse, torture and murder of three youngsters, Lesley Ann Downey, 10, Edward Evans, 17, and John Kilbride, 12; Hindley was found guilty of killing Downey and Evans, and of shielding Brady after Kilbride's murder. In 1987, they confessed to killing Pauline Reade, 16, and Keith Bennett, 12. His body has never been recovered. Her death was greeted with both relief and anger by the families of her victims. Bennett's mother, Winnie Johnson, who has begged Hindley to reveal where her son is buried, said: "I hope she rots in hell... I always hoped she would be able to tell me, at least something of what I wanted to know, and I've never given up that hope. I want him back and buried in a proper grave." Danny Kilbride, brother of John Kilbride, said Hindley's death would do little to ease the family's continued sense of loss. "It never stops and this makes it worse in a way. It's like a dagger, it digs right in and it will still dig in even though she is dead." Phil Woolas, the Labour MP whose constituency covers Saddleworth moor, where Brady and Hindley's victims were buried, said: "Whilst nobody would wish anybody suffering and pain, it is with a sense of relief that we can now begin to put this nightmare behind us. "She never expressed any remorse and refused to cooperate with the investigations into Lesley Ann Downey's and Keith Bennett's deaths, and nobody in my constituency and this part of the world will mourn her passing." But Peter Timms, the Methodist minister who counselled her in prison, said her treatment was a "scar on the judicial system". "I have supported her only because I think she had been treated grossly unfairly in comparison to other life sentence prisoners," he told Sky News. "The reason she wasn't released wasn't because she was dangerous but people were afraid of the press. "Her part in the business has always been one of complete remorse and complete regret. She's always done everything she can to help the police." The prison service is understood to have been discussing hospital arrangements for Hindley for several weeks as her health steadily worsened. Earlier this month, she suffered a heart attack and was found collapsed in her cell. She underwent surgery for a cerebral aneurysm, and also suffered from angina, brittle bone disease, osteoporosis and high blood pressure, as well as the long-term effects of a broken thigh. She is believed to have left instructions in her will that she be cremated and the ashes scattered at a secret location.