Police in Liverpool have revealed that they have a CCTV image of the killer of 11-year-old Rhys Jones. The revelation came following the arrests of seven more teenagers yesterday, including two girls, from the Croxteth and Norris Green areas of north Liverpool that border Croxteth Park, where Rhys was shot dead last Wednesday. The teenagers range in age from 15-19. Two other boys arrested last week have been released on police bail.Locals are circulating the name of one teen they believe to be the killer. A police spokeswoman confirmed they were in possession of a grainy image of the killer taken from CCTV footage of the area around the Fir Tree pub where Rhys was killed.Chief Superintendent Chris Armitt, head of criminal justice at Merseyside police, said: 'We have recovered a number of CCTV images. We need to ensure those images are in the best possible condition, so they have been sent away to be enhanced and enlarged. This will take days.'The Observer can also reveal the key witness to Rhys's murder was just two yards away from the killer as he fired the shots. Speaking publicly for the first time, the young mother told how she looked into the eyes of the killer as he paused after firing.'He looked over at me, right into my face, then fired two more shots,' said the woman, who was waiting for her daughter and has asked to remain anonymous.'He was between 13 and 15 years old, white and on a black BMX, wearing a dark, hooded top. He turned at the same time and I saw his eyes. When he had fired two more shots, the boy calmly cycled away and I ran past Rhys, who was on the floor, and grabbed my daughter.'The new arrests came hours after the shooting of two bouncers in the Penny Lane area of the city and on a day of high emotion as Rhys's father, Stephen, and his brother Owen, 17, attended the Everton versus Blackburn Rovers football match at Goodison Park. A minute's applause was held before the match and both sides wore black armbands.Last night, the civil rights activist Reverend Jesse Jackson criticised a culture that allows youngsters in Britain to turn to gangs and said those harbouring Rhys's killer were conspirators to murder.Police sources familiar with the Liverpool underworld have told The Observer that the city's thriving gang culture is being orchestrated by corrupt private security firms who are using teenagers to help run their drug-dealing and protection rackets.The firms offer companies, building sites and shopkeepers 'protection' against the gangs to whom they supply 'pollen' - cannabis containing large amounts of the hallucinogenic chemical, PCP.Teenage gangs such as the Croxteth Crew and the Nogzy, who come from Norris Green and are blamed for much of the area's violence, work for the private security firms, according to the sources, who also said some members could earn up to £1,000 a week.'The firms say to legitimate businesses, "We can get rid of these kids for you, if you pay us,"' said one source, who estimated there are some 500 gang members in the city and between 3,000 and 4,000 drug dealers.Members of the teen gangs are used to regularly bring in small supplies of 'pollen' from Amsterdam through airports in the north of England, so that if they get stopped they will not receive jail sentences. Last night plans for informants to anonymously tip off the police about illegally held guns were being drawn up by the Home Office.Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said the Home Office was also considering neutral 'drop-off zones' where weapons could be handed in. She said her priority was to get guns off the streets, amid mounting public alarm about the recent spate of shootings involving young children and teenagers.It is estimated much of the 'hijack' trade in stolen lorries on Britain's motorways is carried out by criminals working for the private security firms. In recent raids on a number of security companies, 14 people were arrested and more than 1.5kg of cocaine recovered.