The parole board can use the "special advocates" system - controversially used in terrorism cases - to keep evidence secret from Harry Roberts, a prisoner seeking release on licence, the law lords ruled by a 3-2 majority yesterday.But the system was damned in strong terms by the two dissenting judges, with one of the most senior law lords predicting it would be ruled unlawful by the European court of human rights in Strasbourg. Under the system - used in the past for detained terrorist suspects and now for those under control orders - an advocate appointed to safeguard the interests of a suspect can see secret evidence which is before the tribunal deciding the case, but cannot disclose it to the suspect or his lawyers. The advocate cannot therefore find out whether the suspect has an innocent explanation for apparently damning evidence, because he cannot tell the suspect what the evidence is. The law lords were deciding whether the system could lawfully be extended to parole board hearings where the board wants to keep from the prisoner evidence it has received for fear of retaliation against the informant. Extending the special advocate procedure to parole hearings means a prisoner can be kept in jail indefinitely without ever knowing why. In Roberts's case the home secretary argued that evidence, possibly from another inmate, that Roberts was still dangerous would endanger the infor mant's life if it was disclosed to Roberts or his lawyers. Roberts, 69, is serving life for the murders of three policemen in London in 1966. Although his 30-year tariff expired in 1996, recommendations to release him have all been rejected. Dissenting yesterday from the majority decision, the senior law lord, Lord Bingham, and one of the longest-serving judges, Lord Steyn, delivered a scathing attack on the special advocate system. Lord Steyn said: "The special advocate procedure strikes at the root of the prisoner's fundamental right to a basically fair procedure. "It is important not to pussyfoot about such a fundamental matter: the special advocate procedure undermines the very essence of elementary justice. It involves a phantom hearing only." He said the outcome of the case was "contrary to the rule of law" and was "not likely to survive scrutiny in Strasbourg". If the special advocate procedure was fully adopted, said Lord Bingham, the prisoner's rights under article 5(4) of the European convention, the right to challenge the lawfulness of detention, "could be all but valueless". Lords Woolf, Rodger and Carswell refused to rule out the special advocate procedure, but warned that it should be a last resort and its use should be carefully monitored. Lord Woolf said the board must consider whether the prisoner's rights and minimum standards of fairness have been complied with. If not, "then either necessary steps must be taken to ensure compliance or the non-disclosed material cannot be relied upon." Roberts's solicitor, Simon Creighton, said: "My client is deeply disappointed by the decision to dismiss his appeal, although he is heartened by the fact that the most senior judge in the country, Lord Bingham, has found in his favour and agreed that he cannot have a fair hearing under these procedures ... He intends to lodge an application to the European court of human rights. "The decision is a deeply worrying example of how special measures designed to combat international terrorism can seep into other areas of the law and erode the basic rights and freedoms that have always been held to exist in this country."