Clearly Richard Clayton, quoted in your article (Time taken to shut child abuse sites criticised, June 6), misunderstands how the Internet Watch Foundation operates. If someone reports a child abuse website to the IWF, it does two things: first it confirms whether or not the images complained of are likely to be found to be illegal by a UK court. If yes, the IWF then determines where the website is being hosted. If it is in the UK, it informs the hosting company and, providing the host acts promptly to remove the material (eg within 24 hours), the host will have no liability for it. Of course the police are also informed and will normally initiate an investigation to determine who put the illegal material there and who the child might be.But most sites which the IWF identifies are overseas, where it has no jurisdiction. The IWF cannot issue a notice to a Polish or Irish internet service provider. The IWF informs a sister body, known as a "hotline", in the relevant country and then it is a matter for them and their local law enforcement agencies. None of the overseas bodies have the same power or duties as the IWF in relation to their ISPs. Everything seems to be left to a, typically, overworked and underresourced local police service. Perhaps this helps explain why so many overseas child abuse websites remain active on the internet. The time delays are completely unacceptable. Clayton is right about that.It's true that banks seem to be able to get phishing or similar websites taken down in a matter of hours. But Clayton draws a false conclusion when he says this means the IWF "is failing to deliver a service". What his research really reveals is that we need to beef up the IWF's resources considerably so it can match the banks' capabilities in relation to phishing. But above all we need law enforcement and hotlines in other countries to develop much speedier responses. Could Interpol help bring this about?John CarrSecretary, Children's Charities' Coalition on Internet Safety