Ian Huntley was today described as "a very level-headed person" at the Old Bailey as the Soham murder trial entered its second day of witness evidence.Officials from Mr Huntley's workplace and townspeople involved in the search for Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were called to the stand. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the 10-year-old friends but has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. His ex-girlfriend, 26-year-old Maxine Carr - a former classroom assistant at the girls' primary school - denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The prosecution alleges she gave Huntley a false alibi for August 4 2002, the day the girls went missing. Their bodies were found in a remote ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk, 13 days later.The first witness called by the prosecution today was Benjamin Hickling, managing director of a company that supplies window films to stick on glass. Mr Hickling told the court he had visited Soham Village College, where Mr Huntley worked as a caretaker, on March 21 2002, and was shown around the site by the defendant. As well as talking about windows, he said they had a more general and personal discussion during which they discovered they were both interested in aeroplanes. Mr Hickling said Mr Huntley had told him that one of the reasons he had moved to the area from Grimsby was that it was near the RAF base at Lakenheath. He told him he had found a "quiet area" where he could watch the planes take off. "It was an area that you were not supposed to go down. It was an area where he spent a lot of time, an area he enjoyed going to because of his interest in planes. He would say that no one ever goes down there," Mr Hickling told the court.Mr Huntley had referred to "we" when he talked about going to the area but did not say by whom he was accompanied, the witness added.Earlier this week the jury of seven women and five men visited the ditch near the Lakenheath airbase where the bodies of Holly and Jessica were found.The court also heard from Marcus Bull, a cousin of Mr Hickling and joint manager in his firm, who attended the same meeting with Mr Huntley. Mr Bull said that during the tour of the school, a military aircraft flew overhead and the topic of conversation turned to aircraft. He told the court that he had no particular interest in aircraft but recalled Mr Huntley saying he did. "He gave the impression he had access to somewhere where he could get to watch planes that was not available to others or not widely known," he said. The next witness was Margaret Bryden, the vice-principal at Soham Village College, who was one of three on the interview panel when Huntley applied for the job of site manager. She explained that their previous caretaker was suspended in July 2001 after it was felt that he had "an inappropriate relationship" with a 13-year-old female student. The former caretaker, who was not named in court, was sacked in September 2001 and Mr Huntley was interviewed on November 9. Mrs Bryden, the chairman of the school's governors was keen to take "a cautious approach" because of their previous experience, she said. Mr Huntley applied for the job under the name Ian Nixon, and they were introduced to Ms Carr as his fiancee."He was a young man for the post but someone who was very enthusiastic. He mentioned his father was a caretaker at Littleport Primary School," Mrs Bryden told the court. The job interview included a hypothetical question in which all the candidates were asked to imagine that a girl on the college premises had become attracted to them, and were asked what action they would take. "Huntley gave a very, very specific reply that he would be reporting it to myself as his line manager or to the principal if anything was untoward," she said.He had told the panel he would "literally go through the procedure", adding that he knew children were involved in his job but that his duties lay elsewhere. "I would take it to mean that children are going to be around but they're not my business and I will carry out my duties," Mrs Bryden said. Asked what she had thought of Mr Huntley as a candidate, she said: "I was delighted. Here we had a very sensible approach to it, someone who was going to marry, whose fiancee was there, and a very level-headed person." She said he was very upfront about his lack of management experience, but said it was felt he could be offered training.The case continues.