A "bus stop stalker" who was today found guilty of killing two young women is the prime suspect in the murder of the schoolgirl Milly Dowler, it has emerged.Levi Bellfield killed the French waitress Amelie Delagrange, 22, and 19-year-old gap year student Marsha McDonnell by battering them to death with a heavy object. The 39-year-old was also found guilty of the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy, 18. The jury was unaware that Bellfield is to be interviewed by Surrey detectives investigating the March 2002 disappearance of 13-year-old Milly. The Metropolitan police confirmed that Bellfield would be interviewed about other unsolved murders. He is understood to be connected to 20 attacks on women including a number of rapes."He clearly is a dangerous man and … south-west London in general will be a much safer place [without him] particularly for women," said DCI Colin Sutton, who led the investigation. "He is a clever man, a cunning man and an arrogant man." After more than five days of deliberations, the Old Bailey jurors were unable to reach a verdict on four further charges. Bellfield had denied the kidnap and false imprisonment of Anna-Maria Rennie, 17, and the attempted murder and grievous bodily harm of a 33-year-old hairdresser, Irma Dragoshi. The Crown Prosecution Service later said there would be no retrial.Bellfield's victims were either on buses or standing at bus stops in the Twickenham area of west London in the moments before they were attacked. The former nightclub bouncer murdered McDonnell in Hampton in February 2003, hitting her over the head with a weapon similar to a lump hammer.After the verdict, her uncle, Shane McDonnell, said her "good sense of fun, spirit and passion for life" remained with them."She had nothing but love in her heart and was brutally slain by a man who had nothing but hate in his," he said. "Life will never be the same again for the family."Sheedy, who had just celebrated her last day at school, was seen by Bellfield on a night bus in May 2004. He waited for her to alight before running her over twice in his van.Today she emerged from the Old Bailey to cheers from well-wishers and said: "With this verdict, I can finally move on with my life. "I will never be able to forget what happened to me. The fact that Bellfield has been found guilty means more to me than I can possibly say. "I hope this verdict brings some comfort to those affected by the actions of this man."Three months after the attack on Sheedy, Delagrange was killed after she missed her bus and walked back to her home in Twickenham. She was hit with a blunt instrument and left for dead in August 2004, the trial heard.Delagrange, from Hanvoile, northern France, was a gifted linguist who moved to London in April 2004 and worked in the Maison Blanc bakery. She was attacked as she took a shortcut across a cricket pitch. Her mother, Dominique, described her loss as "an open wound that will never heal … we shall never get over it".The three and a half-month trial heard that the attacks on McDonnell, Sheedy and Delagrange were connected by the presence of vehicles linked to Bellfield. These were a silver Vauxhall Corsa, a white Toyota Previa people carrier and a white Ford courier van.The silver Corsa that followed McDonnell behaved in an "unnatural manner", slowing down and stopping as it approached the number 111 bus from which she was about to alight, the prosecution said. It was "identical" to the behaviour of the people carrier that ran over Sheedy after she had got off the bus.The jury was also told of direct evidence linking Bellfield to the attacks on Rennie in 2001 and Dragoshi in 2003, and "compelling" circumstantial evidence linking him to the other three crimes.The jury convicted Bellfield unanimously of the murder of Delagrange. Majority 10-2 verdicts were reached for McDonnell's murder and the attack on Sheedy. He will be sentenced tomorrow.Bellfield, who was wearing a grey suit, showed no reaction as the verdicts were delivered. Milly vanished on her way home from school after arriving at Walton-on-Thames station in Surrey. Her decomposed body was found in a field six months later.It is thought Bellfield may have known her because she was in the same primary school class as the daughter of one of his former partners. This would explain why she may have got into someone's car in Walton-on-Thames when she had been warned never to accept lifts from strangers. Surrey police want to find a red Daewoo Nexia car similar to one seen in CCTV footage taken from the area shortly after Milly was last seen alive.The car was bought by Bellfield for his partner and was used by him. Bellfield, who sought out blonde women who were young and slim, could not accept being rejected by them. Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, told a pre-trial hearing: "He hated women. He hated blonde women." The attacks were consistent "with someone who has great animosity to women".