A council defended its decision yesterday to house a family of six in a hotel after they were evicted from their home for antisocial behaviour.Sharon Griffiths and her five children were evicted from their home in St Helens, Merseyside, because of the behaviour of two of her sons. One of them, Michael, 15, was the subject of an antisocial behaviour order last December for spitting and swearing at neighbours and pelting their homes with eggs. They were given emergency housing in a hostel and then in two £45-a-night Travelodge rooms in Haydock, running up a weekly bill of £630 for the past 13 weeks. The total cost to the taxpayer is more than £8,000. The family were evicted in March by the housing association Helena Housing. St Helens council initially refused to rehouse them, saying Ms Griffiths had made herself "intentionally homeless" by failing to control her children. A county court judge ruled in the family's favour and the council identified the Travelodge as suitable temporary accommodation. A spokeswoman said: "Following the court's decision, the council has been looking to secure accommodation for this family but this has proved difficult due to their previous behaviour and the availability of accommodation for a family of this size. "Bed and breakfast accommodation has been provided during this period as this has been the only accommodation available. "A recent offer of accommodation has been made which has been accepted by the family and they will be moving to their new home shortly." She added: "The council works effectively with its partners to tackle antisocial behaviour and supports those housing organisations in the borough which evict tenants for antisocial behaviour where this is necessary. "On this occasion the council supported Helena Housing's decision to evict this family and worked with both Helena and Merseyside police to obtain an antisocial behaviour order against one of the children. "Having been evicted, the council then deemed the family to be intentionally homeless. "However, this decision was overturned by the court on appeal. "Whilst the council accepts the court's decision, it remains concerned that efforts to tackle antisocial behaviour may be compromised by its current responsibilities under homelessness legislation and the impact this will have on the wider community." Ms Griffiths, who has never been accused of antisocial behaviour, was unavailable for comment.