One of the gang who tortured, raped and strangled a young Kurdish woman in an "honour killing" boasted of how he had finally stamped on her neck to "get her soul out", the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Mohamad Hama, 30, laughed and joked as he described how they subjected Banaz Mahmod to a series of degrading acts of sexual violence during a 2½-hour ordeal in her home. Ms Mahmod, 20, disappeared last January. Her body was found three months later, in a suitcase buried in a pit in Birmingham. Her murder was planned and ordered by her father, Mahmod Mahmod, 50, and her uncle, Ari Mahmod, 52, after she fell in love with a man they deemed unsuitable.The full details of her killing emerged in a pre-sentence hearing yesterday to decide what part Hama, an associate of Ari Mahmod, had played. The prosecution says Hama took part in the murder, but he claims he only helped bury her body.Hama's account of the murder was secretly taped by police during prison visits after his arrest in February 2006, the court heard. "Her soul wouldn't leave the body. It took half an hour," he told an unnamed visitor to Belmarsh, believed to be a relative. "I was kicking and stamping on her neck to get her soul out."He described how he stood with one foot on her back as another man prepared the ligature that would kill her, how he would "shut her up quickly" and how she had vomited during her ordeal. The court was told that when Ms Mahmod was found she was only wearing pants. Victor Temple, QC, prosecuting, said: "Hama is no doubt speaking about how long it took to murder her. There is laughter. That is nothing to do with the burial. It's the placing of the foot so Hama could pull the ligature." He told the court that none of the defendants had expressed the slightest degree of remorse for Ms Mahmod's "cold-blooded and callously executed" murder. In one taped conversation Hama refers to a series of sexually abusive acts carried out on Ms Mahmod over "more than two hours". No evidence of sexual abuse was put forward in the trial.In another, in which he describes how he helped drag her body from her home in Morden to a waiting car.Amid laughter, Hama said: "The road was crowded and a police car came by. Cars were passing by and we were dragging the bag. The handle broke off. Man, I swear I was standing there, I almost ran away." The visitor asks: "Who was dragging?" Hama replies: "Mr Ari.""We were around him, each side of him - as God is my witness - her hair was sticking out, her elbow was sticking out. It was a stupid, silly thing. We put the bag on our shoulder to take it away."Hama's counsel, Malcolm Swift QC, told the judge Hama was repeating details given to him by Ari. Although involved in the planning of the murder, there was evidence he was at home that day.The Crown says Hama was the leader of the gang recruited by the Mahmod brothers to carry out their plans to murder Ms Mahmod and her boyfriend, Rahmat Sulemani. Hama was one of five men Ms Mahmod had named in a letter to police as being involved in a plot to kill her.Hama, of West Norwood, has pleaded guilty to the murder. Mahmod Mahmod, of Wimbledon, south London, and Ari Mahmod, of Mitcham, were found guilty of murder last month. They will all be sentenced today.