The prison overcrowding crisis facing the home secretary, John Reid, deepened yesterday when protests by residents forced him to abandon plans to turn a former Parachute Regiment barracks in Dover into an open prison for 500 low-risk offenders. Mr Reid said he had taken the decision not to go ahead with the conversion of Connaught barracks because of "unique local circumstances" in Dover."There is the presence locally of the families who are fighting abroad, and a school where the children of those who are facing terrible risks in Afghanistan and Iraq are being educated. That particular thing has weighed heavily on my mind," said Mr Reid. He said he could not add to their worries.The 1st Battalion, the Parachute Regiment left Connaught barracks for a new base in south Wales in March. Local residents, who include many Ghurka families, objected to the way the Home Office went about the prison plan.The decision means that the hunt to find suitable prison ships to meet the overcrowding crisis will have to be stepped up. The prison population stood yesterday at 79,752, leaving only 320 spare places in England and Wales. A further 230 places have been made available in local police cells as a result of an emergency plan triggered last month.The Treasury has backed plans to build a further 8,000 new places but the new prisons will not be ready until 2011. The Home Office is urgently trying to return home thousands of foreign national prisoners. Two weeks ago it advertised for shipping companies to provide "floating accommodation" with between 200 and 800 places to be used for prisoners or immigration detainees from next summer.It is believed the Home Office is already negotiating to lease back or buy outright the Weare, the prison ship based at Portland harbour in Dorset, which it sold because the vessel's seaworthiness certificate was running out.Bibby Lines' "floatel", the Rennaissance Bibby, which has been rusting away in Barrow harbour for the past eight years, is also under consideration.Mr Reid said building of the extra 8,000 prison places had already begun. "We will continue to explore vigorously options for increasing the prison capacity in line with the projected need and are in negotiations with relevant authorities over a number of other sites in England and Wales."But William Higham of the Prison Reform Trust said: "It seems the home secretary is discovering that concreting over the country with jails is not going to be as popular with local residents as it is in the national tabloid press."With only a couple of hundred places in the entire system and police cells being used as overflows, it is time to put aside quick fixes and finally fulfil the promise to be tough on the causes of crime and to repair the gaps in mental health provision that drop so many vulnerable people in prison."