A missing white cardigan could provide the vital breakthrough in the hunt for the suspected serial killer who murdered model Sally Anne Bowman.As the search for the 18-year-old's killer widened from London to the whole of the UK, detectives said that a crochet bolero-style cardigan Bowman was wearing on the night she was stabbed to death could prove 'significant'.Calls by police for the public to be on the lookout for the garment came amid tributes by the mother and sisters of the teenager, who just a few months ago announced herself the 'happiest girl in the world' after launching a catwalk career. Her mother, Linda, said in a statement that one regret was that her daughter never had the chance to make the front cover of Vogue magazine. Bowman had joined a modelling agency and recently made her debut at the Swatch Alternative Fashion Week in London.Her mother said that the teenager would turn heads wherever she went. 'She was always glamorous, even when just going shopping in Asda. She had the face and the singing voice of an angel,' she said, adding that she often sang at local karaoke bars.Bowman's three sisters - Nicole, Michelle and Danielle - also spoke to the media for the first time since the murder, describing their sister as energetic and fun-loving. 'She was a real drama queen and always managed to take the limelight of all around her,' they said in a statement released today.Bowman was sexually assaulted and stabbed almost a dozen times with a long carving knife close to her home in Croydon, south London, in the early hours of last Sunday morning. Neighbours found her bleeding to death a few yards from her front door.Police were last night questioning night-workers and passers-by who were in the Croydon area between 3am and 4am to determine whether they had seen anything suspicious a week earlier. Officers are also still investigating reports that the suspect may have robbed another woman an hour before the killing. Detectives have found forensic links between Bowman's death and the attempted rape of a woman in the same area four years ago.A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police yesterday played down reports that Bowman's murderer could be the same man who murdered Rachel Nickell, 23, also a blonde model. Nickell was repeatedly stabbed with a long knife as she walked on Wimbledon Common - only five miles away - in 1991. However, Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Cundy, who is leading the investigation into the murder, believes the man being hunted may have carried out other sex attacks over the past four years and has urged women in the area to take extra care.The attacker is thought to be white, in his twenties or thirties and between 5ft 9in and 6ft tall. He has short dark hair, is clean-shaven, and wore dark jeans with a long-sleeved top on the night of the murder.One theory is that the attacker may have been lying in wait for Bowman when she was dropped home by her former boyfriend Lewis Sproston. He is among four men arrested since the murder who have been ruled out of the inquiry by forensic tests.