John Reginald Halliday Christie was sentenced to death at the Old Bailey tonight for the murder of his wife. One hour and 26 minutes after the jury had retired from No. 1 Court to consider its verdict the black cap was being laid on Mr Justice Finnemore's head and he was uttering the words "... there is only one sentence known to our law ... and there suffer death by hanging."Today's proceedings consisted of the final speeches by Mr Derek Curtis-Bennett, QC for the defence, and Sir Lionel Heald, QC the Attorney-General, followed by the Judge's summing-up, which lasted just over two and a half hours. When the jury retired the old hands were saying that it might be midnight on a case like this before a verdict was reached. But far sooner than that a crowd was pushing round the courtroom door as the signal was given that the jury was returning.The court was hushed and still in the interval until the Judge returned to his place. Then "Have you arrived at your verdict?" — "We have." And in another second or two the unwavering voice of the foreman - all eyes upon him - is saying not the three words which were the best Christie could hope for but stopping short at the one: "Guilty."Now the formula of the law. "Have you anything to say before... " but Christie does not wait for it to be finished. He breaks in mouthing "No" and shaking his head. No emotion is visible on his face at the sight of that black symbol on the Judge's wig.In the court as the day wore on and the thermometer climbed steadily to the middle seventies the atmosphere was soporific. Here and there eyelids drooped and heads nodded. "Thirty years ago," Mr Curtis-Bennett told the jury, "you would have heard distinguished people talking so loudly - with tears running down their faces - they could be heard next door. Fortunately advocacy of that kind has died out."And suiting his actions to his words he proceeded to speak at times so low that only a few could hear.For just over an hour Mr Curtis-Bennett pursued his theme that the murders were motiveless, that the verdict should be "guilty but insane."George Smith, the "Brides in the Bath" killer, had insured his victims. "Here as I see it," he went on, "it is absolutely motiveless." Insanity was the only clue. Christie he called "an object of pity rather than of horror - he is a man who should be locked up for the rest of his life."Sir Lionel Heald scorned the view that if a man could be shown to have killed enough people he must be mad and he was sure the jury would not accept it.When the time came for his summing up Mr Justice Finnemore went over the accounts Christie had given of the murders, over the medical evidence and through a summary of the evidence for the defence. "The mere fact," he told the jury, "that a man acts like a monster cruelly and wickedly is not of itself evidence that he is insane."Perhaps no jury before in this country had seen a man charged with murder go into the witness box and say: "Yes, I did kill this victim and I killed six others over a period of ten years." Later he said that if the jury accepted the scientific evidence then Christie's story was plainly untrue. Mr Ambrose Applebe, Christie's solicitor, said tonight that the question of an appeal was being considered.[John Christie was executed at Pentonville Prison on 15 July 1953.]