Tony Martin was released from jail today after serving two-thirds of his five-year jail sentence for shooting dead a 16-year-old burglar and wounding his accomplice.Mr Martin was freed on licence after repeatedly being turned down for parole because he refused to show remorse for killing Fred Barras and shooting Brendan Fearon. He was originally jailed for life for murder but his sentence was reduced on appeal for manslaughter.He was released from a secure secret location where he spent the weekend after being moved from Highpoint Prison near Haverhill, Suffolk, for security reasons. A prison service spokesman today: "He is now a free man."Friends have said Mr Martin now plans to lead campaigns to protect householders who defend themselves against intruders, and to prevent burglars getting legal aid to sue for compensation if they are injured during a break-in. He is also believed to have signed an exclusive deal with a national newspaper to tell his story.Whether he will now return to Bleak Farm, his isolated Emneth Hungate farmhouse, and the scene of the 1999 shootings, is not yet clear. Police have set up a mobile police station outside the farmhouse following reported threats on the farmer's life.Mr Martin's supporters say he is furious that Mr Fearon, who he shot in the legs during a raid in his home, was released on Friday, less than a third of the way through an 18-month sentence for heroin dealing, imposed after he served 18 months of a three-year sentence for the farm burglary.Mr Fearon, of Newark, Nottinghamshire, began a bid to sue Mr Martin with legal aid for up to £15,000 for being unable to work since being shot in the legs. But today it was reported that he had decided against the move. "He is not claiming a penny," Joe Fearon, Brendan's brother, told The Sun.Mr Martin's release renewed calls among his supporters, including former Conservative home office minister Ann Widdecombe, for the law to be weighted in favour of people who use a weapon in self-defence."What this case raises is a very much bigger picture, which is the whole issue of the right of somebody to defend themselves and their property," Ms Widdecombe told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "I'm saying that the presumption should be with the householder. I think where you end up with somebody dead, as you did in this case, or where somebody is seriously maimed, you do have to test of course whether the force was reasonable, and it then becomes a matter for the courts." She continued: "But for every Tony Martin, and this is what concerns me, there are hundreds of people every year, ordinary householders whose names don't hit the headlines, who find themselves on the wrong side of the law because they have either gone to somebody else's aid in the street and have caused injury to the assailant or they have defended themselves or their property and caused injury to the intruder. Even if it doesn't end up in court they still go through the anguish of a police investigation."Ms Widdecombe also called for a change in the law that currently allows a wrongdoer to sue the person he was intending to wrong as that was a "complete nonsense". Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes said that individuals should be allowed to defend themselves but should not go over the top. "I'm very sympathetic to Tony Martin's position and I share with Ann the view that the public expects somebody who breaks the law not to be in the same position as somebody who doesn't," he said. "Of course you have to have a test that says you can't react unreasonably. But certainly it is a nonsense that it would be possible, as it still is in law, for Mr Fearon to sue for compensation for what happened."