Jacqui Smith's announcement that she is dropping plans for directly elected representatives on police authorities comes after months of turmoil and leaves forces well short of a satisfactory democratic structure. Smith had been painstakingly trying to build support for the idea that currently invisible and ineffective police authorities, which are responsible for overseeing police budgets and strategy, needed to be given a boost with the inclusion of some directly elected members.The "crime and policing representatives" would have been a supplement to independent members, such as magistrates, with one or two indirectly elected local government councillors remaining. It was clear in the Smith vision that the directly elected element would have taken the lead, since one of their number would have chaired the authority, creating a high-profile figure able to challenge the police. With an £11bn overall police budget, and declining public satisfaction with police performance, Smith had argued that something needed to be done to make the police seem less remote and inefficient. The departure of the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, and the failure of Charles Clarke, the previous home secretary, to win support for a merger of police authorities added to the sense that the police were the last unreformed public service. Too many police authorities seemed to serve the police rather than the public.But since the publication of the police green paper the home secretary appears to have run up against a brick wall in Labour local government and parts of the police. The Local Government Association Labour group complained: "We believe there is no evidence of any public appetite for direct elections. There are already people elected at local level to represent the community - they're called councillors." Sir Jeremy Beecham, the Labour local government chief, had described the proposals as "potentially catastrophic" and organised a successful campaign of resistance.Smith insisted yesterday that she still believed in the principle of direct elections, but recognised that the climate had changed. "Once we had the Ian Blair affair, we had senior officers saying they were seriously worried about the politicisation of policy and their operational independence. I have had to look afresh."If the police had said to me 'we don't want to be held to account', that would not have been good enough, because I have been very clear that there needs to be proper accountability both at local level and at a police authority level for strategic decisions, proper budgeting and the way in which local people are engaging with local decision-making. "But they did not just say that. They said to me there is a real risk that something that is very important in British policing - about non-politicisation - is at risk of being undermined, and I think when you are faced with something that fundamental, it is quite important that you do take stock."She admitted she had been frustrated by "a certain amount of defence of the status quo within local government" in councillors' fierce opposition to elections.She pointed out that polling conducted by the Association of Police Authorities showed her proposals for direct elections were seen by the public as a far more effective way of making the police accountable than the status quo.She insisted she would have probably have pressed ahead with her proposals despite the controversy but for the new context of sharpened concerns about the politicisation of the police, for which she blames the Tories.She singled out Boris Johnson for ousting Blair: "If you take on a job and on the first day you declare a lack of confidence effectively in the person you are working with, I think that is irresponsible. It was not about trying to find a way to work together. It was not about a true accountability relationship: it was about flexing political muscle. That has changed the landscape, and not for the better." Equally, she questioned the motives of the Tories over the arrest of shadow minister Damian Green. "The scale of the political storm that has been developed by the Tories has gone beyond simply asking questions about the investigation and instead fans further the flames of concern about politicisation." She insisted she did not know if classified information had been leaked to Green by the civil servant in her private office at the Home Office.Despite her criticism of the Tories, she said she would work with Johnson to find a candidate to replace Blair as Met commissioner. A shortlist of four was announced yesterday by the Metropolitan police authority: Sir Paul Stephenson, Blair's deputy; Sir Hugh Orde, chief constable of Northern Ireland; Merseyside chief constable Bernard Hogan-Howe; and Sir Paul Scott-Lee, chief constable of the West Midlands.