The lost world of Scotland Yard detectives with cropped moustaches and Fleet Street writers with extravagant expenses still flourished in 1974, when Colin MacKenzie of the Express brought in the best and by my reckoning last scoop in the paper's history.He had found Ronnie Biggs. The great train robber, who had escaped from Wandsworth prison in 1965, was living under an assumed name in Brazil. Then as now, newspapers had to respect the law - not obsessively comply with its every detail, you understand, but occasionally acknowledge its existence. The Express cut a deal with the Yard. They would interview Biggs, and then Superintendent Jack Slipper could burst in and arrest him.Unfortunately, the Brazilian authorities did not take well to gringo coppers giving orders in Rio de Janeiro as if it were a British colony. Because Biggs had got a local girl pregnant, they decided that as the father of a future Brazilian citizen, he could not be extradited.In Slip-Up, a book which captures the exuberance and absurdity of journalism better than Scoop, Anthony Delano describes a mournful Slipper surrounded by taunting hacks on the flight home."Did you enjoy yourself in Rio?" Mike Brennan of the Mail asked him."Well," Slipper said pinioning Brennan with the piercing, ice-blue glare that had helped many a scoundrel to sharpen the recollections of his misconduct, "I have travelled a very long way, having left home at very short notice."It has been rather uncomfortable these last few days, having to share a room with my colleague here in this bloody awful heat. I have had quite a lot of difficulty in finding my way around in a strange place where I did not speak a word of the language."I am returning to London, in spite of everything, without my prisoner, Ronald Biggs. And I have had a nasty dose of the shits. No, sir, I did not enjoy myself in Rio de Janeiro."Biggs always got under the establishment's skin. To official consternation, the public saw the train robbers as daring rascals rather than dangerous criminals. Biggs's escape from Wandsworth, and the patriotic decision of a homesick exile to return to England in 2001 to live out his final years, only confirmed the favourable impression.Jack Straw's spiteful refusal to allow Biggs to leave Norwich prison continues a pattern of bureaucratic vindictiveness that began when the courts treated the robbers as if they were worse than killers. Even the Mail of the day condemned the judge's extraordinarily severe sentences and asked: "Does this mean that stealing banknotes is more wicked than murdering somebody?"Straw overturned not only the parole board's recommendation but also, I am told, the advice of his own civil servants that Biggs be allowed to die in peace. Biggs was "wholly unrepentant" and had "outrageously courted the media", he said as he rejected the appeals of just about everyone to show mercy.I have not sufficient reserves of scorn to treat the spectacle of a New Labour minister condemning others for outrageously courting the media with the derision it deserves, so I will concentrate instead on Biggs's failure to repent.I was going to say that the great train robbery was in 1963, and that 2009 was a little late in the day for Biggs to start playing the penitent - particularly as he had nothing to do with the coshing of Jack Mills, the post train's driver, the robbery's one moment of nastiness. Then my sources in the prison service told me that Straw's complaint about Biggs was not merely about his attitude to the robbery but also his unwillingness to show remorse for the jail break of 1965.I am all for "victim-offender dialogues", "restorative justice" and forcing criminals to "confront their offending behaviour". I can spend many a happy hour wallowing in the sociological jargon of criminologists as they try in their clumsy way to explain how villains should make amends. But the idea that a convict serving a 30-year sentence should repent for breaking out of Wandsworth nick is only slightly less preposterous than the notion that anyone would believe him if he did.In any case, how could Biggs express his contrition? He is being fed through a tube and has to use an alphabet board because he can no longer speak. King Lear cries to Gloucester: "See how yon justice rails upon yon simple thief. Hark, in thine ear: change places; and, handy-dandy, which is the justice, which is the thief?"After Straw's refusal to show common decency and allow a dying man to spend his last days with his family, I too cannot see how the justice minister is morally superior to the train robber.If his mean treatment of Biggs were a one-off, it would matter less. It will not be an isolated case, however, because under Labour, the state has thrown more money at the forces of law and order than ever before, yet dissatisfaction with the police has never been higher. Harry Fletcher of the probation officers' union points out that government targets required an expensive bureaucracy to monitor and enforce them, and then there was all the money wasted on IT and the "community" police and probation officers who cannot deal with serious criminals.With huge budget cuts on the way, firing managers so that basic services might be protected would seem the obvious next move. But management is like bindweed: once it is established it is next to impossible to root out. Managers perpetuate systems that guarantee their own survival, and Fletcher tells me that, true to form, no civil servants in Straw's department are fired when their jobs go. Instead, they are put in the "surplus employees' scheme", a kind of Whitehall recycling bin, and kept on full pay until another post comes up.King Lear tells the blind Gloucester: "Get thee glass eyes, and like a scurvy politician, seem to see the things thou dost not."As the recession pushes crime up, Straw's political fate is to play the hard man by pulling petty stunts while lacking the resources to deal with criminals who are a slightly more dangerous than a bed-ridden old man.