Official plans published yesterday to merge the prisons and probation watchdogs into a single inspector of corrections were last night attacked as a politically driven means to curb the power of the chief inspector of prisons.The trenchant reports on jail conditions by Sir David Ramsbotham and his criticism of wider criminal justice policy have repeatedly stung Home Office ministers. He has also proved a thorn in the side of the prison service ever since he led an inspectors' walkout of Holloway prison, in north London, because it was filthy and infested with rats. A Home Office consultation paper published yesterday confirmed that ministers are considering the abolition of his separate job and merging it with the post of the chief inspector of probation. The Home Office minster Paul Boateng said: "There is already considerable overlap in the work of the two services and this should be reflected in the inspection process. We are looking at ways of best ensuring that inspection arrangements support joint working between the prison and the probation services. Equally we must ensure that nothing is lost in the current independence and rigour of the inspection process for either service." The official consultation document says that more than a third of those sent to prison will spend part of their sentence under the supervision of probation officers, and "the public has a right to expect that we do in fact have a coherent system either side of the prison gates which works to reduce reoffending". It does, however, recognise that there is "a potential risk that the chief inspector's responsibilities become so wide that he or she is not sufficiently in touch with practice on the ground to inspire the confidence of the public or of ministers". The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, is already pushing for some common standards to be laid down for the chief inspector of prisons, so that governors are not torn between satisfying Mr Narey's objectives and those of Sir David when they clash. For example, Sir David recently criticised prisons that provide only a narrow range of education at a time when Mr Narey asked them to concentrate on expanding literacy teaching. Sir David's five-year term in office expires in November and he has been given only a nine-month extension. The chief inspector of probation, Sir Graham Smith, is also due to retire next summer. Last night Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said the merger seemed bizarre at a time when a national probation service was being created, the first national director of probation had been appointed, and probation had just received public funds to expand its courses to tackle reoffending. "It does seem a means of reducing the power of the prisons inspectorate. Everybody suspects it is politically driven, and the real agenda is about reducing the impact of the prison inspector."