“My dad loved feeding the birds. He had lots of bird tables in the garden and lived in the countryside,” says Charlotte Brown, 31 from Oxford. “Seven years ago, he was diagnosed with dementia but prior to that he was behaving extremely oddly and we had absolutely no idea what was wrong with him. One day, I got a phone call from mum who was in floods of tears and she said, ‘Dad’s just come home and he says he’s been a naughty boy’.”Brown’s father, who was 62 at the time, had been a successful businessman and a pillar of the community. He had been arrested by the police but couldn’t remember any details about the circumstances. It transpired that he’d been in the supermarket and the store manager had noticed that instead of paying for bird feed, he had been putting it in his pocket. He was banned from the shop for life.Shoplifting is at its highest level in four years and rose by 6% in 2013, according to recent figures released by the Office for National Statistics. Police data shows that shoplifting offences rose to 317,027 last year. The British Retail Consortium estimates that thefts from stores cost about £250 million each year.A spokesperson said: “We all pay for this increased stealing through higher prices and, increasingly, shop closures and damage to our town centres. Retailers therefore dedicate considerable resources to protecting their businesses from criminals who target them.”However, while some shoplifters are repeat offenders with criminal intentions, others may have found themselves penalised for life for taking goods in very varied circumstances. In many cases instead of calling in the police and prosecuting shoplifters, well-known stores are using lifetime bans and employing companies to sue shoplifters on their behalf. Critics are asking if this is just.Brown says shops need to be trained to accept that, as in her father’s case, there may be another reason why people are stealing. “A ban for life is a huge ordeal. It really knocked my dad's confidence,” she said. “Yes, he had done something bad but it wasn’t his fault. It was traumatising for him and for the family to see him go through the experience.”Dr Alison Cook, director of external affairs at Alzheimer's Society, said: "Dementia can make people behave out of character as it can affect reasoning and mood. Some people with dementia can become confused and disorientated when shopping. Staff in shops have an important role to play in enabling people with dementia to maintain their independence by showing understanding and offering support.”People’s routines are often based around their local towns, shops and supermarkets, and some feel they are being hit with a lifetime’s punishment for a small mistake. Sean Furness, 20 from Oldham, says he is banned for life from a supermarket chain for spraying deodorant on his friend. He was 18 at the time of the offence. He had his photo taken and was threatened with prosecution or told to sign a declaration form. “I signed it and then I received a letter and I was harassed by their legal company to pay a £150 fine,” he said. “I felt this was unfair. Obviously, if you steal things which cost a lot they should get banned but in my case that’s not what happened. I think they should look at each case individually. I’ve had to tell my family that I can’t go to that shop ever again and it’s humiliating.”Emma James, 18, a mother of one from Birmingham, was 16 when she stole a pair of pyjamas in a high street clothes shop. She was sent a letter demanding a payment of £178 and banned from the store and others with crimestoppers stickers in the window. “I shouldn't have robbed them and I never will again, but the fine was unexpected and I was really stressed. It makes me feel stupid and it’s affected my routine because when I go to town with my friends I have to tell them why I’m not allowed in certain shops.”Marc Gander, founder of the Consumer Action Group, believes that private companies are entitled to organise their business in whichever way they want but rather than employing debt collection agencies and a lifetime’s ban, each case should be looked at individually or it should go through the justice system where it can be dealt with appropriately. “I understand they are in the business of trying to do doing a decent retail trade, but certainly, where you've got people with mental health problems or people who are terribly impoverished or people who just make a mistake, then this is tremendously sad. It makes me want to weep,” he said. “The shops calling in these companies are declaring war on their customers.”A spokesperson for Marks & Spencer, which is one my many stores that uses lifetime bans, said: “Lifetime bans are rare, but a necessary measure to protect our customers, employees and products.” Some names have been changed.@tessreidy