In the General Cemetery in Harpurhey, among the dead of 19th century Manchester, lies a man who gave his life in the service of the city.Exactly 145 years to the day before the tragic deaths of PCs Fiona Bone and Nicola Hughes, Sergeant Charles Brett became the first Manchester police officer to be killed on duty. It was an event that was just as shocking in its time as the shooting in Mottram.On 18 September 1867, Brett was helping to transport a group of prisoners from court to Belle Vue jail. Among them were two leaders of the Irish Republican Brotherhood, Thomas Kelly and Timothy Deasy, both violently opposed to British rule in Ireland.  Broken but the inscription is still clear. Charles Brett’s headstone.As the police van approached the railway bridge on Hyde Road, a group of about 40 Fenians, many of them armed, attacked it. Kelly and Deasy were sprung to freedom, and Brett was shot dead. According to most accounts, the fatal bullet hit Brett after passing through the van’s keyhole as the mob forced the door.Duncan Broady, Curator of the Greater Manchester Police Museum, believes the ambush caught police and public alike by surprise:It was a sudden outbreak of extreme violence using firearms. Although the two Fenians being rescued were suspected of being involved in some sort of activities, there was very little preparation done to provide a special escort. The normal sort of prisoners were being taken through to the prison at the same time.The controversy about who fired the fatal shot has never been fully resolved, but the following day’s Manchester Guardian was in little doubt:A young man, named William O’Mora alias Allen of Sudell Street, Oldham Road, who, it is stated, shot Brett, was keenly pursued... At length he was overpowered by some civilians in a brickcroft near the Ashton New Road, was knocked down and treated with considerable violence, and was only given up alive at the intercession of the police.The deaths of PCs Bone and Hughes prompted tributes to them fromacross society, and so it was in 1867 too. The first court hearingbegan with a tribute to Brett from Fowler, the presiding magistrate,as reported by the Manchester Guardian of 20 September:For many years an officer of that dock, he has performed most difficult duties with admirable temper, firmness and credit to himself, and he carries with him to his last resting place the universal respect of all with whom he has been associated.Kelly and Deasy were never recaptured and escaped to America. But Allen, Michael Larkin and Michael O’Brien were found guilty of Brett’s murder and were hanged two months later outside New Bailey gaol in Salford. It was the last public execution to take place in the Manchester area and a crowd of thousands, many from the local Irish community and sympathetic to the Republican cause, attended.The three are still known as the ‘Manchester Martyrs’, and memorials exist both in Manchester and in several towns in Ireland. But, says Duncan Broady, Brett has been less well remembered, at least once the initial shock of his death faded:The funeral was particularly elaborate. Various subscriptions were made, and a tablet to him is still in St Anne’s Church in Manchester. But there wasn’t any plaque erected within a police station. It was still too early. That sort of thing only happens after the world wars when we start to see memorials to fallen soldiers.Sergeant Brett’s gravestone has toppled over, and lies cracked and difficult to find. Even with a map, it took me 20 minutes to spot it amid all the similar stones. But if you look closely, you can still make out the inscription: DARE NOT I MUST DO MY DUTY.The Greater Manchester Police Museum on Newton Street is open everyTuesday between 10:30am and 3:30pm. Admission is free and it’s wellworth a visit.Richard Jones is a freelance journalist. You can find him on Twitter @rlwjones. You can read earlier Guardian Northerner pieces by him here.