The police need to improve their protection of vulnerable people, the chief inspector of constabulary warned yesterday, as the government published performance tables showing continued under-achievement by some forces in England and Wales.Eight forces were given a "poor" rating for the protection of vulnerable people , which encompasses protecting children , missing vulnerable people, combating domestic violence and protection against sex offenders. They were Bedfordshire, Essex, Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, Suffolk, Warwickshire, West Mercia, and Wiltshire.Sir Ronnie Flanagan, head of the Inspectorate of Constabulary, said this was an area where "clear improvements" were needed, although he was "confident the action already under way will produce effective solutions to these categories".He and Tony McNulty, the policing minister, launched the publication of police performance assessments for April 2005 to March 2006, measuring 43 forces across seven criteria as either "excellent", "good", "fair" or "stable".The assessments, carried out by the inspectorate and the Police and Crime Standards Directorate, also showed whether the forces' levels of service had improved, remained stable or deteriorated even when their overall category score remained the same. Eleven per cent of ratings were "excellent" and 46% "good". Mr McNulty said: "Although in some areas there is a lot more to do, the police forces have done an excellent job in rising to the challenge." He and Sir Ronnie said the scores should not be turned into a league table.In a table compiled by the Press Association, Northamptonshire and Humberside came bottom, followed by Nottinghamshire. Humberside received no "good" ratings and Nottinghamshire only one. Northamptonshire had the third highest rate of crime reduction in the country but was still performing badly.The three forces were bottom of the same table last year and are the only three receiving extra monitoring from the Police and Crime Standards Inspectorate. Sir Ronnie said all three had improved.Peter Maddison, chief constable of Northamptonshire, said the gradings were "unhelpful" but acknowledged: "We do have problem areas. Robbery and burglary are the critical things we have to address."Top of the table was Staffordshire, which received four "excellent" ratings and three "good" ratings in the seven categories. Cambridgeshire was recognised as having improved in each one after coming through what Sir Ronnie described as a "very turbulent period". In the year covering the July 7 bombings, the Metropolitan police was said to have improved in six of seven categories and got "excellent" for community policing.