A convicted paedophile whose partner is accused of murdering their two children in a Spanish hotel has been found hanged in his prison cell.Former TV psychic Martin Smith, 46, originally from North Shields, was jailed for 16 years in March 2011 for raping a girl under the age of 16 in Cumbria.His partner Lianne Smith is in custody in Spain, accused of murdering the couple's two young children in the resort of Lloret de Mar on the Costa Brava in 2010.Greater Manchester police said Martin Smith's death was not thought to be suspicious. A spokesman said his body was found in his cell on Monday evening. The coroner has been informed and an inquest will take place at a later date.Smith, who appeared on television as a medium five years ago on the Living channel's Most Haunted programme, was extradited to the UK from Spain.In March last year, he was jailed for 16 years at Liverpool crown court after being convicted of 11 specimen charges of rape, attempted rape, indecency with a child and indecent assault, spanning nine years from May 1995 to May 2004, following a trial in Manchester in December 2010.Smith had regular access to the victim and abused her for almost a decade from when she was seven. He would attempt to hypnotise, hit and bully the victim to ensure she complied, the jury was told.Sentencing him, Mr Justice Stephen Irwin said he "trapped and overwhelmed" his victim with repeated sexual assaults over a sustained period of time. "You had so domineered her that she was crushed by you," said the judge. "Despite all the evidence, you continued to deny what took place."The judge added: "In my view, you rewrite the world to suit yourself."Smith's children, Rebecca, five, and son Daniel, 11 months, were found dead in the Hotel Miramar in Lloret de Mar on 18 May 2010. Their mother Lianne Smith, 44, faces two counts of murder.The couple left the UK for Spain with Rebecca in December 2007, after he jumped bail following his initial arrest. Daniel was born in Spain. Martin Smith was finally extradited to the UK in spring 2010.A Prison Service spokesman said the prisons and probation ombudsman was investigating Smith's death.The spokesman said: "Prisoner Martin Smith was found hanging by staff at HMP Manchester at approximately 6.30pm on Monday January 23 2012. Staff intervened but he was pronounced dead at the prison at approximately 7pm."As with all deaths in custody, the independent prisons and probation ombudsman will undertake an investigation."Lianne Smith has previously admitted smothering her children but plans to deny murder when the trial commences, claiming she was not criminally responsible for the youngsters' deaths as a result of mental illness. She was formerly a manager at Cumbria county council's children's services department but did not work directly with children.