The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday August 4 2006Contrary to what we said in the article below, a knife thought to have been used in the murder of 12-year-old Keith Lyon in 1967 was not lost by the original inquiry team, which took pains to store evidence when they were disbanded. The weapon disappeared later when a police storeroom in Brighton was sealed during renovation work, re-emerging four years ago.It was almost 40 years ago that a young grammar school boy set off on a sunny Saturday afternoon to buy a geometry set, still wearing his distinctive uniform as he wandered down a rural bridle path nick-named Happy Valley.Harold Wilson was in Downing Street and the new car sensation was the Mark 2 Ford Cortina, but both were wiped off the front pages by what happened to 12-year-old Keith Lyon before he reached the village store at Woodingdean, near Brighton.In a brief attack, he was stabbed 11 times in the stomach with a serrated kitchen carving knife after a mob of older teenagers from a rival school jumped him, according to local people, then left him to bleed to death on the path. The murder rocked the country. More than 80,000 homes were visited by Sussex police and 6,000 sets of fingerprints were taken from schoolboys in the immediate area.EmigratedAnd then the trail went cold - until this week when detectives rapped on the doors of a couple of addresses in Manchester and Brighton and arrested two men in their 50s on suspicion of murdering Keith. The reinvigorated police inquiry appealed for information about a family, with a son then a teenager, who are said to have emigrated to Canada soon after the tragedy in May 1967.The dramatic developments, eight months after Keith's mother, Valda, died without seeing his killers brought to justice, follow sophisticated DNA and forensic work of a type unforeseen for many years after the murder. They were used after another breakthrough (literally) when workmen renovating John Street police station in Brighton broke open a sealed storeroom and found prosecution evidence, including the suspected murder weapon which had been "lost" by the original inquiry team.This discovery took place four years ago, and since then increasingly accurate tests have been carried out on traces of two different types of blood on the knife, which was found close to a local school soon after Keith's murder.The case had already been earmarked for the attention of the inter-force murder review group, an elite team of detectives which applies the latest scientific techniques to evidence from unsolved killings, but Sussex police decided to go ahead with its own resources.Detective Inspector Tim Nunn, senior investigator with the force, said yesterday: "These arrests are part of one of a number of lines of inquiry we are continuing to pursue. They will continue over the next few months."Crucially, the force hopes that witnesses who were silent in the immediate aftermath of the murder will be encouraged to come forward. When the knife was found officers were told of someone trying to wash blood off their clothes and hands in a local public lavatory. School pupils spoke about louts who targeted boys from the "posh" Brighton and Hove grammar school, which Keith had recently started attending.Mrs Lyon and Keith's father, a musician who was getting ready to conduct a concert in Brighton's Metropole hotel when police gave him the news, made appeals for evidence at the time. Ken Lyon died 24 years later, still hoping that someone would come forward and say who had killed his son.The two men arrested this week have been released on bail until November, while Mr Nunn's team re-examines a list of suspects drawn up by the first inquiry as well as data from previous reviews and appeals on BBC Crimewatch in 2000 and 2001. There may also be fresh interviews with people who spoke at time of schoolboys seen scuffling at the site, and older teenagers targeting a younger one.Mr Nunn said: "There have been many appeals for information over the years, but we are still interested in hearing from people who have felt unable to disclose it previously. I believe there are people who know who committed this murder but, for whatever reason, have not had the confidence to speak to the police. Now is the time to do so, so that Keith's remaining family can finally understand what happened on that tragic day in 1967."The hunt for the emigrants to Canada is likely to involve liaison with immigration officials in both countries. A Sussex police spokesman said there had been consistent claims at the time about a family moving out "hastily", although neither their names nor any further details were known. Mr Nunn said he was "particularly interested" in hearing about the family and their teenager, who would now be in his mid- to late-50s.ConsciencesKeith's brother Peter, who was seven years when his brother was killed, asked people to examine their consciences. "I have had to live my life with not knowing why my brother died for 39 years, but knowing that the person or persons who murdered him is living their life without being punished. If you know who killed Keith, please share your secret with the police."Cases that came out of the cold· Suzy Lamplugh, a 25-year-old estate agent, disappeared in 1986 while showing a client, who called himself Mr Kipper, around a vacant house in Fulham. Although she was declared dead in 1994, her body has not been found. Police reinvestigating the case four years ago named a convicted murderer and rapist, John Cannan, as the prime suspect, but said there was insufficient evidence to prosecute him. He denied any involvement.· Rachel Nickell, 23, was sexually assaulted and stabbed to death on Wimbledon Common in July 1992. The case against Colin Stagg was thrown out at the Old Bailey in 1994 because officers had attempted to get evidence against him through a "honeytrap" operation involving an undercover policewoman. In June police said they were interviewing a man in Broadmoor secure hospital in connection with the murder and in the light of what is understood to be new DNA evidence.· Last month, a 49-year-old man admitted being the so-called Dearne Valley rapist who attacked several women in the Rotherham and Barnsley areas of South Yorkshire in the early 1980s. James Lloyd was finally caught when "cold case" detectives matched a DNA sample taken from his sister on an unrelated matter with evidence gathered at the time of the assaults.· John Humble, the man better known as "Wearside Jack", who hoaxed detectives investigating murders by the Yorkshire Ripper, was jailed for eight years in March. Humble, who sent three letters and a tape to police, wrongfooting their inquiries, was caught after officers matched a DNA sample from an envelope with a sample of his DNA on their national database.· One of the most famous claims of miscarriage of justice was dismissed in May 2002 when the court of appeal ruled there was evidence to show "beyond doubt" that James Hanratty, was guilty of the so-called A6 murder, for which he was hanged in 1962. Three judges said DNA analysis of garments recovered from the scene in 1961 had provided "certain proof" that Hanratty killed Michael Gregsten, and raped and shot Valerie Storie. Hanratty's body was exhumed and tests confirmed it was his DNA on the exhibits.