The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 1 July 2009In the article below about a London school's plan to include pupils aged up to 19 and start a boarding school in the home counties for some of them we should have said that Durand primary school has up to 125 pupils in each year group, of whom a boarding facility might cater for about 80. Editing changes made it seem that 125 was the school's total population. A south London primary is planning to set up a boarding school in the home counties to remove pupils from the "violent" streets of Brixton once they become teenagers.Durand primary school, in Lambeth, is applying to become an "all-through" academy teaching children from three to 19, but from the age of 13 pupils will be transported to a new senior school built on the site of an old private school outside London, from Monday to Friday every week.Jim Davies, the chairman of governors, said: "We'd take these Brixton children to an entirely different environment. You see the stories about stabbings – they are all within half a mile of here."Last week government research revealed that 8.5% of 16-year-old boys had carried knives to protect themselves, with disproportionately high levels in the capital and other urban areas.Durand school has held meetings with ministers about the proposals and agents are researching sites on the outskirts of London previously occupied by private schools that have gone bust.There are currently more than 30 state boarding schools, but they all charge parents for accommodation and food while providing the education free. Durand school proposes not to charge parents.Last year the government announced a £10m expansion of state boarding schools as an alternative to children's homes or foster care. Durand's scheme will be funded through a business it runs, operating a private gym and flats.Greg Martin, the school's director of learning, said: "In a boarding school environment we will be able to work with pupils over a longer, more effective school day. We can do more physical activity, drama, arts and crafts. We can do homework classes, where they actually get on and do their homework. We'd bus them out on a Monday morning, then we'd bus them home again on a Friday."The school currently has a 125-pupil intake and space on its Lambeth site to create a middle school allowing pupils to stay until the age of 13, after which they would transfer out of London. Martin said they needed to convince the families of 80 of the 125 pupils to make the plan viable.He said: "Our parents are deeply concerned about secondary education. They are anxious about their children travelling – all that risk and the dark nights."The school, which has foundation status – giving it freedoms from the local authority and ownership of its buildings, has a history of controversial innovations. In 2004 it set up a commercial wing building a gym, swimming pool and flats on its site. Last year this made a £300,000 profit, which it spent on reducing class sizes to 20 pupils. This month it emerged that Martin earned £85,000 last year running the business, on top of his £70,000 salary. He said the cost of the new site could be met by surpluses built up through the business.The Liberal Democrat education spokesman David Laws visited the school last week. He said: "To give youngsters an ability to move to a setting where they can engage in sport, outdoor activities and things that are beyond the city setting is a good thing. If it were the only possible school [and] parents could only send their children away at 14, I would have reservations – you can't foist this on parents. But where children have a choice to get a different kind of education that's to be welcomed. It shouldn't only be parents who can afford it who can send their children to boarding school."