Police sirens howl down the main road off the park every 15 minutes or so. Lawrie Winston, sitting on a bench in the autumn sunshine, barely raises his voice. Around these parts, where many cultures coexist in low-rise council blocks and the defining identity is poverty, sirens are as uneventful as birdsong in the country. This is Bow, in the East End of London. Winston is 23 and has been offending since he was 11. He was first jailed at 15 - sent to Feltham young offender institution. The eight years since have been a revolving door of prison and street crime. He has 58 convictions to his name. But Winston is trying to go straight. The big question is whether he can stick to the honest road with the few prospects that his lack of education and marketable skills hold out, in an area that he calls home but where the way of life for most people he knows is crime. His future is on a knife edge. Winston was released from Onley prison three weeks ago, where he had support from YMCA workers. He had positive ideas about his future, but is finding himself bogged down in the sluggish and overstretched bureaucracy of the benefits and housing system, which he needs to help him stand on his feet. "I was going to carry on writing my book," he says, referring to the life story he began writing in Onley. "I haven't really bothered. I've been out about three weeks and I've been trying to sort things out, get some form of money without it being illegal. It's trying my patience so much that I'm thinking, what's the point of me trying to better myself when everywhere I go doors are just getting shut in my face?" Before this latest spell in prison - he was sentenced to two and a half years and was out in 18 months (for his usual car thefts and stealing from cars) - he lived with a girlfriend, drove where he wanted in stolen vehicles and had as much money as he wanted. Life going straight, however, is different. Winston is back with his mum, who has four other children and, unlike his peers, he's on foot. "For the past four or five years I've drove a car," he says. "Every day a different car, and for me to get up in the morning and walk and go to this place, and get on a bus and go to that place - and they're not close, the housing where I have to go is all the way in the Isle of Dogs - I don't think they see how hard it is for a person like me. I could walk round the corner, see a BMW parked up and have it in about 20 seconds. I haven't done it up to now, but there's too much temptation for a person like myself who is struggling. "I could go back to prison, I know that, but is it so much of a deterrent that I'd rather suffer out here? Having no money and no way of obtaining money when I know I can thieve and just try my hardest not to get caught?" Before leaving prison, he says, appointments were made for him with the job centre and housing department, which he attended. But that, he says, is when the problems started. He spent whole days there, only to be told by the housing officers at 5pm that they needed a birth certificate and he must come back on Monday. Before that, however, he would have to sign on to prevent himself from getting into arrears. "What do I do? I have to go back down the job place, sit there all Monday, not be able to go to the housing until Tuesday, sit there all day Tuesday and hopefully something might happen. Well if it don't, that's where I'm going to find it hard to keep my patience." Winston laughs at the craziness of it. "I'm going to end up pulling my hair out or committing another assault down the housing place." The housing department is not promising Winston a flat. He explains: "They can either put you in a hostel where there's going to be ex-offenders, ex-drug users. I've been to a few of them places before, to see friends of mine. People say they're clean but they ain't." The alternative, he has been told, is bed and breakfast, but that could be on the other side of London. The jobseeker's allowance will bring Winston about £100 a week, which he thinks is derisory. He's used to a much bigger takehome pay. When he was 17, he stole a briefcase from a car that contained £12,000. When he was 19, he picked up £4,500 left in another. He shakes his head at the stupidity of people who leave valuables in their vehicles. But the ease with which he has been able to make a living out of crime makes it all harder now. "I've had a taste of money that I should never have had," he says. A job at maybe £130 to £150 a week would be different. "If you've worked for the money you respect it more. If you're just going out and committing crime and getting it through somebody else's stupidity, you don't respect the money. You blow it on silly things like clothes, trainers, jewellery." He began thieving with friends as a kid. They might smash a car window and get a bit of a buzz and run away. Then they'd get bolder. Did he get anything out of school? "Not at all. I was thieving." And playing truant. He used to smoke cannabis but had never touched anything harder before Feltham, when his cellmate offered him heroin to smoke. "When I got out I started taking cocaine and things like that, ecstasy." He never "needed it and needed it" like some, he says, but he was into taking drugs and sometimes selling them. And he learned a few things about the business of crime while he was inside. He was told how to steal different cars and got orders from bigger criminals for 20 at a time. This story of escalating criminality is familiar to the YMCA. The charity works with hundreds of young people such as Winston. Ceri Davies, director of programme development, says prison is not the best place for habitual, non-violent offenders. "There's a multitude of alternatives to custody that would work better. Youth work could be done more effectively outside prison than inside. Many of the problems we have to deal with in terms of helping people to resettle are created by the experience of being in custody." Although some young offenders lead chaotic lives, many have some relationship that can be damaged by being in prison. "Prison is not a productive experience and doesn't contribute to them leading a worthwhile and productive life," says Davies. Winston has a three-year-old son. He and the child's mother have broken up, but he sees the boy as often as he wants. His son, he says, is another reason why he needs money. "What's he going to think of me if I can't get him nothing in the future? 'Daddy didn't care - he didn't do nothing.' Some things have to be done, don't they?" He says he walks past temptation every day. Around West Ham "you can just tell the streets are riddled with drugs. Every street you walk down. If we were sitting in that area now we'd have seen a crime. That's just terrible. And I have to go there every other day to see my nan, my uncles and to see my son. I keep having to pull myself away from situations, and it's not good." Winston now has a job as a cleaning supervisor.The CV Age 23  Status Single  Education Schools in east London to age 15; Feltham young offender unit; various prisons, including Chelmsford, Pentonville and Belmarsh. Many certificates, including YMCA youth achievement awards, workplace fire safety, manual lifting and handling. Completed drug awareness and harm reduction courses.  Career Mostly stealing from cars and car theft. Has worked briefly for Rentokil, as a shop assistant, and as a painter and decorator.  Interests Going to the gym, drawing, poetry.