Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, last night waded into the controversy over the planned new supreme court by calling for legislation creating it to be delayed until a suitable home for the court was found.The top judge in England and Wales put himself on a collision course with the constitutional affairs secretary, Lord Falconer, who insists that the court could be created first and a building for it found later. Meanwhile, the minister argues, the law lords, transformed into the supreme court justices, could squat in their current quarters in the House of Lords.Lord Woolf urged the 12 law lords to refuse to go along with this proposal. "I think if they were to stay there as squatters they would lose their leverage to make sure they have a new building - whether an existing building or a brand new building started from scratch - worthy of the supreme court. "If we're going to have a supreme court it must be properly resourced and it must have proper accommodation," he said in a public interview at Gresham College in central London. "We've got to be very careful not to give the public the impression we don't value our courts system. "One of my concerns, right from the start, about the whole concept of the supreme court is that it's agreed that there are to be no new resources for it. I'm afraid I know just how tight are our resources at the present time." The law lords have rejected Middlesex Guildhall, the early 20th century Gothic building at Westminster which had emerged as the frontrunner to house the supreme court. The government is reluctant to embark on a new build, but options among existing buildings are running out. Lord Woolf said he would not himself have embarked upon the wide-ranging reforms, including the abolition of the post of lord chancellor and the creation of a supreme court, which the government sprang on the judges without warning last June. But he was now reconciled to the idea that the lord chancellor must go and must no longer be head of the judiciary. "The one thing I am sure is that we don't want our court system and the judiciary in a position where they are subservient to the home secretary. It's not because of personalities or anything of that sort - just not a desirable arrangement," he told his interviewer, Professor Richard Susskind. Lord Woolf acknowledged that such a change had almost happened at one point. What he did not reveal was that he had intervened to head it off.