The "have-a-go" hero is a popular character in the British media, for politicians and for the public wanting some good news. A report by the centre-right thinktank Reform has shown that "The 'have-a-go' hero is an increasing rarity in Britain".It highlighted research commissioned by the security firm ADT that said six out of 10 people in the UK would be unlikely to challenge a group of 14-year-old boys vandalising a bus shelter whereas in Germany, six out of 10 would challenge the group. Speaking at the launch of the report, Dominic Grieve, the shadow home secretary, gave the example of chasing a yob who had vandalised a bus shelter; the youth eventually being arrested when he ran into the police presence around the US embassy in Grosvenor Square. However, many of us who have chased yobs or been attacked confronting yobs find that the police response has been slow or non-existent. That is one reason why people do not intervene.My experience in inner-city Liverpool is that this situation has improved dramatically in recent years. However, a friend reported a shockingly bad example the other day – her boyfriend attacked getting off a bus; the lads' nose was broken and surgery needed on his face. A police officer stated they didn't need to rush to report the incident officially or make a statement. That doesn't inspire confidence. Maybe the officers are investigating without a formal report while the victim recovers; maybe they will contact them later and get the statement then; maybe they already have an idea who the offenders are and have stepped up their presence in the area.The overwhelming impression though was that the police were not interested and have done nothing to find any of the other bus passengers. They all scarpered straightaway. No one helped – if ordinary people had thought the police would respond maybe they might have done. If the mindless perpetrator had faced the prospect of being put out in the community in a fluorescent jacket cleaning graffiti and a substantial fine, maybe it wouldn't have happened at all.Of course it should be said that Liverpool is one of the safest cities in the country, but still crime causes great fear and blights lives in every part of the UK. The policy paper highlights a truth that many politicians do not want to admit – that the government and politicians cannot tackle crime; that it is local people, the police and local agencies working together that can. Initiatives like the Community Justice Centre presided over by Judge David Fletcher are showing the community that the system will deal with their concerns. So are energetic young police inspectors and their teams on the ground. But innovations only appear to be allowed if they fit in with centralised policy and funding regimes.Legislation or guidance can make clear though that the police and public do not have their hands tied in the fight against crime. The message that if someone makes a stand to protect their property then they will not be prosecuted unless their behaviour is wholly disproportionate is a welcome one. A clear signal is needed from the centre that health and safety and human rights legislation do not stop the police and public bodies from doing their job. Work needs to be done on how more information can be disseminated but the basic idea of publishing far more information about crime and offenders is clearly correct. I don't know if prisons should be controlled locally but if a yob was banged up in the neighbourhood lock-up then everyone would know about it. Giving prison governors as well as community judges a direct role in following up the progress of offenders is an excellent idea. Should police chiefs be elected? In the past it has been strongly argued that policing should not be politically controlled. But we all know that the police are more controlled by Whitehall than ever. I'm not convinced by some government plans for directly-elected boards for public services but I do believe if the members of the public were offered a say over policing then they would take an interest and police figures would both run for election and be held to account on whether they delivered or not. An elected justice commissioner might capture the public imagination but most elected crime and policing representatives (proposed in the latest green paper) don't have a hope in hell's chance of doing so.There are key differences between government and opposition parties over grandiose flagship schemes such as identity cards. However, there is also a lot of consensus and Dominic Grieve's speech and the report by Reform are welcome because they indicate a halt to the "arms race" of "we are tougher on crime than you" pronouncements. That gives space for the police, probation, other bodies and the public to concentrate on what works in tackling crime.