The "trophy rapist" stalks behind his victims in dark wooded areas and approaches them unseen before attacking without warning.This is a modus-operandi which, despite his 10 attacks, has left the police with only blurry descriptions and has so far frustrated a rape investigation which police say is the largest since the Yorkshire ripper hunt more than three decades ago.On his possible age, the most police have been able to say is that it spans two decades between 30 and 50. Much hope will be pinned on the police's e-fit of the man, but the face staring out from it does seem rather nondescript, average, unlikely to be remarkable in a crowd. Kent's assistant chief constable, David Kelly, gave a good reason today why, as well as his tactics of attack, that identifiable details have been so slight. "He uses violence to ensure they [the victims] do not look at him," Mr Kelly said. Some victims said he had a knife and punched them in the face if they resisted. However, while confirming the 10th attack in the home counties area over a year-long series, Mr Kelly outlined what was known of the rapist's appearance. We know he is white and either around average height or beneath it, with estimates ranging between 5ft 5in and 5ft 10in. He has short dark hair. "He is described as having a gruff voice," Mr Kelly said, and there is a suggestion he may have a north-east accent. His skin is said to be tanned and leathery, which detectives reason may indicate he works outdoors. His victims have been able to tell that he smells of cigarette smoke and alcohol. He may have distinguishing marks on his face but there is not certainty about these. They could be "marks or blemishes or possibly scars ... either above or below his eyes."However, aside from these physical descriptions there are other potentially identifiable elements that may be very useful to officers. Psychological profilers have said that he may well have a criminal record, and that he could have mental problems, which he may have been treated for in the past.So as well as making an appeal to the public today, police were also reaching out to mental health professionals to come forward if they had suspicions about any previous patient.That is pretty much the sum of the description that the police have issued; although of course they may know other things they are not releasing for operational reasons. But detectives do have the one thing that, should he be caught, will hopefully nail him to all his crimes: a sample of his DNA.