The manager of a care home murdered two elderly women after stealing "very significant quantities" of drugs from them and other residents to feed her own addiction, a jury was told today.Rachel Baker murdered Frances Hay, 85, and Lucy Cox, 97, by giving them overdoses, Bristol crown court heard.Baker, 44, who ran the Parkfields care home in Butleigh near Glastonbury, Somerset, became addicted to drugs, including heroin, after being prescribed painkillers for migraines. She allegedly fed her addiction by "diverting" drugs prescribed for residents at the care home. She either stole the drugs from residents who needed them or exaggerated or made up symptoms so that drugs the elderly people did not really need were prescribed.Baker has admitted eight charges of possessing controlled drugs and one of intending to pervert the course of justice. She denies the murders.Opening the case, David Fisher, QC, alleged that Baker had diverted drugs from at least eight residents. He said the records system at the home was "chaotic" but said "very significant quantities of drugs were unaccounted for".He claimed that more than 4,000 tablets were missing along with almost 2,000 ampoules and more than 1,000 doses of oral solution.Baker qualified in 1987 and had been initially considered "an extremely good" nurse. She took over the management of Parkfields in 2000, running it with her husband, Leigh.But the year before she had begun to suffer migraines and was given strong painkillers including diamorphine – heroin – and pethidine. Fisher said that in about the autumn of 2005 Baker began to abuse prescribed drugs. By the end of 2006 she was addicted or had been addicted to a variety of drugs including diamorphine, diazepam and pethidine.At first she was able to persuade doctors to prescribe her the drugs she craved, the court was told. Fisher said Baker's behaviour became increasingly "erratic" and staff became worried about her. On one occasion after collecting a course of pethidine for a resident, she was seen staggering and her eyes were rolling.Fisher alleged that Baker murdered Frances Hay by giving her an overdose in November 2006. On New Year's Day 2007 she murdered a second resident, Lucy Cox, by giving her a "massive" overdose of the painkiller tramadol, it was claimed.Another elderly resident, Fred Green, was prescribed strong painkillers for skin cancer, but after he died a prescription for him was dispensed, the court heard. The trial continues.