A student was beaten to death by a drunken gang in a town park because she and her boyfriend were dressed as goths, a court heard yesterday.Sophie Lancaster, who was 20, died after she vainly tried to protect her boyfriend 21-year-old Robert Maltby from kicks and punches, a jury at Preston crown court was told.The couple were targeted in Bacup, Lancashire, by five teenagers who behaved "like a pack of wild animals", Michael Shorrock QC told the court in his opening speech. The killers celebrated their attack on the goths - or "moshers" - by telling friends afterwards that they had "done summat good", and claiming: "There's two moshers nearly dead up Bacup park - you wanna see them -they're a right mess."Police who arrived at the scene could not tell whether the young woman was male or female because of her horrendous injuries. Shorrock told the hearing: "Sophie and Robert were singled out not for anything they had said or done but because they looked and dressed differently. Kicks and stamps on their heads and body followed as the gang goaded each other on."Lancaster died two weeks later without recovering consciousness and although Maltby survived, he has not made a full recovery and suffers from severe memory loss. A 15-year-old youth from Bacup, who cannot be named for legal reasons, denies murder but he and four other teenagers have pleaded guilty to causing grievous bodily harm.Shorrock told the court that the attack happened shortly before midnight last August, when the couple wandered into Stubbylee Park in Bacup. Maltby had taken a summer job packing doors and had spent the evening with Lancaster at the home of some friends before walking back to the flat they shared in the town.The couple came across a group of teenagers at the entrance to the park but there was no trouble until they were well away from roads when the gang set on them.A 14-year-old girl who was tagging along with the gang told police afterwards that one of them pointed at Maltby and said: "Shall we batter him?" before another youth ran across and smacked him in the face.She added that Maltby had laughed, which triggered a full-scale assault, with Lancaster crying out "Leave him alone" and then cradling her unconscious boyfriend in her lap. The gang then set about her, according to another witness, a 15-year-old boy, who told police: "They were running over and just kicking her in the head and jumping up and down on her head." Another 14-year-old girl said in a statement to detectives: "I started crying because I'd never seen anything like that. They were all just booting them. They were making loads of noises, screaming noises."They were booting them in the head swinging the leg back properly booting them, like jumping on them."Shorrock said paramedics who found the victims side by side said the assault was one of the worst they had seen. He said: "Their facial injuries were such that it was not immediately possible to tell which sex either casualty was. Miss Lancaster had blood all over her face and appeared to be bleeding from her ears."Maltby's wallet and its contents were found strewn around bushes later, the court was told, while the gang ran off to a nearby petrol station and boasted to friends about what they had done. Shorrock told the jury that a witness would describe how they were "behaving in a giddy way, hyperactive and bouncing around doing silly things". One of the teenagers offered him Maltby's mobile phone, telling him: "We've just beaten someone up - do you want a phone?" Another said: "You wanna see them - they're a right mess."All five gang members were arrested within two days but blamed one another and claimed that they were only on the fringe of the attack. The trial continues.