The killer of the teacher and talented musician Jane Longhurst preserved her body for several weeks before being "spooked" into trying to destroy it by burning it, police said yesterday.Detectives believe the murderer carefully hid the body of Ms Longhurst, who vanished from her Brighton home more than five weeks ago, but then panicked and made a clumsy attempt to dispose of it. The body was found burning at Wiggonholt Common, near Pulborough, West Sussex, at dusk on Saturday after a passing motorist reported a plume of smoke coming from a wooded area. Detective Chief Inspector Steve Dennis, who is leading the inquiry, said he believed Ms Longhurst, 31, had been dead for between three and five weeks but her body had been stored somewhere cool as her remains had been well preserved. He said: "For some reason, out of the blue, she was moved from where she was kept and put in an open public area during the Easter weekend, so something must have panicked him. Her killer acted in a bizarre manner and it was an urgent gut reaction to get rid of her body." Mr Dennis appealed for people to think whether they knew anyone who had returned home on Saturday night smelling of petrol or smoke. He said it was too early to say if Ms Longhurst had been sexually assaulted. He would not speculate on whether it was likely she had known her killer. He asked for information about three cars, an old, red Volkswagen driven by a man with "scruffy, long, dark hair", a Renault Espace and a dark green Ford Focus, all of which were seen near the scene. Detectives are also searching for Ms Longhurst's blue denim jacket, red trainer-style shoes, a black purse from Next and her Nokia mobile. Ms Longhurst's mother, Liz Longhurst, her sister, Sue Barnett and her partner, Malcolm Sentance, said in a statement: "We have lost a devoted daughter, sister, and partner. Jane was loved by all who knew her and enjoyed life to the full. She will be missed terribly and her death has left a hole in all of our lives." Ms Longhurst was last seen on March 14 when a neighbour saw her walking up to the front door of her ground floor flat carrying bags of shopping. Mr Sentance, 34, an education welfare officer, reported her missing at 6pm. Since then her mobile phone has remained switched off and her bank cards unused. A huge search was launched and a reward offered but police began to fear the worst when she failed to contact her mother on Mother's Day. Colleagues and friends of Ms Longhurst, who studied music at Liverpool University, paid tribute to the "exceptional" teacher and musician. Paul Atkins, headteacher at Uplands special school in Brighton, where she taught, said she was a "motivating force" for youngsters with learning and behavioural difficulties. He said: "She was the type of teacher who didn't take time off sick, who ran after-school clubs and was always full of bright ideas." She was a member of the Brighton Youth Orchestra and the Musicians of All Saints in Lewes. Andy Sherwood, musical director of both orchestras, said: "She was adored by the children in the orchestra. It is just awful and the manner of her death and what has happened to her body is revolting." Mr Sherwood's wife, Mary, said: "She was a superb viola player and would have conducted an orchestra one day - there's no doubt about that. She was a very beautiful person, very sincere. If she spoke to you she made you feel as though you were the only person there. "Some of the teenagers that are involved with the orchestras have problems but they would always behave for Jane and listen to what she had to say. "Jane was always prepared to help people and that may well have been her downfall. If someone asked her for help she would do whatever she could and she may have helped out someone she shouldn't have. What has happened to her is just horrible." Mrs Sherwood said the Musicians Of All Saints had held a concert at the end of last month at which Ms Longhurst should have performed. They went ahead with the performance but it was "terribly subdued". It is expected that, if her family wishes it, a concert will be held in her memory.