The 52 people who died in the London bombings of 7 July 2005, were murdered in "acts of merciless savagery", their families heard today, on the first day of the full inquests into their deaths.Relatives of the victims gathered at the high court in London to hear distressing details of the circumstances in which four Islamist terrorists detonated home-made bombs on three tube trains and a bus, each packed with morning rush-hour commuters. The family members were mostly hidden from public view in a private annexe linked to the court by video, but members of the public, scores of reporters and 16 separate legal teams stood for a minute's silence after the names of all 52 had been read, one by one, to a silent courtroom.Describing his task in opening the hearings as "the saddest of duties", Hugo Keith QC, counsel to the inquests, said the devices had been "detonated among the innocent and unknowing, indiscriminately killing and maiming passengers who were simply going about their daily business. The bombs struck down men and women, the old and young, British nationals as well as foreigners."They paid no regard to whether the victim was Christian, Muslim, a follower of any of our other great faiths or an adherent to none. They were just travelling on London's transport system."Though a number of agencies have examined the circumstances of the bombings, the inquests present the first opportunity for the families to hear a full account of the actions of the four bombers – Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain, 18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19 – in planning and carrying out the attacks, and of the response of the emergency services. Some of the families have called for a public inquiry.Lady Justice Hallett, who is presiding without a jury, will also examine whether the attacks could have been prevented. She said she had not yet decided whether it was within her powers and in the interests of justice to hear some highly sensitive intelligence evidence in private.The inquests, which are expected to last for five months, were adjourned in 2007 because of a criminal trial of three men who were accused of conspiring with the bombers. The men were acquitted of that charge last year.While the verdict that she would arrive at – of unlawful killing – was not in question, Keith said, the coroner would be asked to judge whether some of the victims might have survived if they had been treated more quickly. A succession of dramatic recordings of phone calls between London underground control staff, British Transport police (BTP) and London ambulance service, played to the court, revealed for the first time the extent of confusion among the emergency services in the immediate aftermath.Metropolitan police logs and BTP records showed repeated reports of a loud bang or explosion in the Aldgate area. At 9.01am, 11 minutes after the pre-arranged time of 8.50am at which three of the bombers had exploded their devices on three separate trains, a police officer had reported at Aldgate, "a bomb in one carriage. Multiple casualties, some possibly fatal." Shortly afterwards a BTP officer at the station had phoned to say: "We have got pandemonium going on here at the moment and we have really got to get some control."But thanks to a major power outage caused by the Aldgate bomb, which was detonated by Tanweer, London underground staff had originally attributed the incident to an electrical problem, while some reports spoke of a person under a train, others of the train at Edgware Road derailing and hitting one of the walls. The result was that tube staff did not call a code amber, in which the entire underground network is closed, until 9.19am, almost 30 minutes after the first three bombs had been detonated.In one call indicative of the early lack of alarm, a London Fire Brigade worker is heard to comment: "It all happens in one day, doesn't it?"Among much new information to emerge about the bombings, the court also heard that:• The murders may have been planned for the day before – 6 July, the day London was awarded the 2012 Olympics – but Khan, the ringleader, had apparently called off a planned rendezvous at the last minute. Examination of his mobile phone, recovered from the tunnel between King's Cross and Russell Square, showed that he sent a text message at 4.35am on July 6 saying: "Having major problem. Can't make time. Will ring you when I get it sorted. Wait at home."• The bombers had been ready to fight police if challenged, having prepared nailbombs which could be thrown in addition to the principal devices they carried in their rucksacks. A semi-automatic handgun was also found in one of their cars, which they abandoned at Luton.• Commuters on the 07.23 Luton to Brighton train, on which the bombers travelled to London, described them as "smiling, laughing and generally relaxed".• A neighbour who saw the bombers leaving their bomb factory in Leeds in the early hours of 7 July told police she had seen a second white car leave the address at the same time – it has never been traced.• At least 34 milk pans had been destroyed by the bombers while boiling concentrated hydrogen peroxide in Leeds. Little remained of the pans but their labels, which were found among high explosive, funnels, filter paper, wire and detonators.• After his bomb failed to explode at the pre-agreed time, apparently due to a faulty battery, Hussain repeatedly tried to call his fellow plotters, who were already dead. He then bought a 9-volt battery at the King's Cross branch of WHSmith, before boarding a bus to Euston and then the number 30 towards Hackney. He detonated his bomb in Tavistock square.