There are always people on the underground who behave oddly. This time it was a young lad holding a large bag. I remember his eyes: large, brown, intense. He seemed on edge and made me uneasy, so I walked on down the platform. I never discovered the young man's name but, because he made me uncomfortable, I didn't die that morning. I'm happy to tell you that neither did he.I think about him a great deal. I've thanked him in my heart, every single day since that terrible morning in July 2005 when the bombs exploded in London. I was on the Edgware Road train, in the first carriage. Mohammad Sidique Khan was in the second, carrying about 10kg of explosives in a rucksack. He looked like an ordinary traveller.Thanks to the young man I think of daily, my physical scars have healed. I was lucky, my injuries were slight: I suffered a broken tooth, concussion, tiny shards of glass embedded in my scalp. I breathed in a hundred years of rat-infested dirt that had been blasted from the tunnel walls. I was trapped for a while and saw horrors that still leave me rigid with fear some sleepless nights. This is how it is for me, five years on. As I say, I was lucky.In the years since the bombings, two prime ministers and a succession of home secretaries have refused us – a representative group of bereaved and survivors alike – an independent inquiry. There have been no satisfactory answers as to why Sidique Khan and Shehzad Tanweer were known to the secret services, known to have attended a meeting with a detonator specialist together with the "fertiliser" bombers, were tailed back to their homes and yet were apparently dismissed as of no importance. There has been no explanation as to why Charles Clarke, home secretary at the time, described the 7/7 bombers as "clean skins", meaning they were not known to any surveillance organisation.And now we have the inquests, after five long years during which children have grown into young adults not knowing how their loved ones died – or, worse, believing they died instantly and only now finding out that they lived for many minutes and were able to converse with rescuers. For them, this is truly unbearable. For those of us who have campaigned for so long for answers, we're encouraged by Lady Justice Hallett's decision to allow the inquest to cover events leading up to the bombings, going as far back as 2004.But this should not be a time for survivors to be hanging over the shoulders of the bereaved, hoping for the answers that have so long been refused us. We'll hang back and give our silent support and, as always, stand as witnesses when called on, even though our own questions remain unanswered. I hope that, somehow, the lessons of 7/7 will have been, if not learned, at least paid attention to, so that when something like it happens again, it will not be because we've made the same mistakes.