A lurid light is thrown upon the possibilities of life in the East End of London by the crimes which have carried terror into that not easily daunted district. On Saturday forenoon there was an attempt to murder a woman in Spitalfields Market, and still earlier in the grey morning another woman was murdered with circumstances of fiendish barbarity. This is the fourth woman who has fallen a victim to this outbreak of homicidal rage. The four murders have occurred within a stonethrow of each other, the victims have been women of the poorest and most unfortunate class, and the manner in which the crimes have been committed is so similar as to point to the belief that the series of outrages are all the work of the same inhuman monster. It must be added that the last transcends all the others in its horrors.The house is one in which six families reside, and there is a backyard, used partly as a workshop, whilst the passage from the front to the back is almost as easy of access as a street. This was the locality selected by the murderer. None of the inmates were disturbed by any outcry during the night or in the early morning hours, when the deed was done, although the murderer must have passed through the house into the yard, and possibly have returned by the same way; but as one of the inmates was leaving his house for work about six o'clock in the morning he saw in the yard the lifeless body of a woman, mutilated in a grotesque and revolting manner.The victim had at one time occupied apparently a position in life very much above her final degradation. The butchery seems more like the work of a madman than that of a responsible person, however depraved. No wonder that the East End is in a state of panic, and that the failure of the police to detect the perpetrator or perpetrators of the crimes that have preceded this last atrocity is severely criticised. The Metropolitan police authorities are themselves on trial until the Whitechapel murderer is in the hands of justice.From Our London CorrespondentThose who interest themselves in the annals of crime have to look a long way back before they can find a parallel to the recent atrocities in Whitechapel.In 1790 a wretch called Renwick Williams created panic at the West End by stabbing ladies as they left the opera, and so sudden and dexterous were his movements that though his crimes were committed in the most crowded thoroughfares he repeatedly contrived to make good his escape.