The Home Office has been split over whether the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, should be forced to go this week if he fails to accept the main thrust of the Lawrence inquiry report. Jack Straw has supported him throughout the inquiry, arguing privately that if he were forced out police morale would collapse, and that he is the best man to initiate the reforms needed to create an 'anti-racist police force'. Sir Paul has only 10 months left before his official retirement.But other voices inside the Home Office, reportedly including Paul Boateng, the Criminal Justice Minister, have argued that he must go if he does not accept the charge that the Metropolitan police are institutionally racist. A senior Home Office civil servant has also been repeatedly quoted, anonymously, saying the Government could not work with Sir Paul if he did not accept that finding. A black Labour MP, Bernie Grant, continued to articulate that view yesterday, saying: 'Paul Condon must go. He must either resign or be sacked. Individual commanding officers have to be held accountable for the actions of their men. The black community expects the police to show some contrition, to take on board the recommendations and to accept that there is institutional racism in the police.' Sir Paul's rejection of the charge of institutional racism during the inquiry caused an uproar, but in a speech just before Christmas he said that if Sir William Macpherson came up with 'a new and widely accepted definition of institutional racism from his report then I will welcome it'. He argued that Lord Scarman's definition of 'knowingly as a matter of policy' being institutionally racist polarised views rather than mobilised reform. He went on to warn: 'Similarly, definitions which suggest that most police officers are racist most of the time do no justice to the working lives and courage and integrity of police officers. Simplistic and perjorative labelling which obscures complex truth will not inspire and we must inspire.'  The commissioner appeared hopeful yesterday that he would be able to embrace Lord Macpherson's verdict on the question. 'I hope, pray, anticipate that the judge will say something very significant around institutional racism. I will embrace that with zeal," he said before going to the Home Office to read the report. But his future does not only hang on whether he will accept the charge of institutional racism. Sir Paul has repeatedly made clear his commitment to an 'anti-racist police force", saying the notion of a few bad apples does not begin to describe the problem the Met faces, and adding that most police officers will at some time in their careers have acted in a way 'which may be experienced as racist by a minority ethnic member of the public, regardless of the officer's motivation'. However some of his other views in this area are still controversial. He does not want to accept police stop and search figures should be seen as 'the primary measure of anti-racism'. He says that requiring the police to stop black and white suspects in representative numbers of their ethnic communities would not eliminate racism. He says the police must abandon their traditional 'colour blind - treat everyone the same' approach, but argues that the need to uphold the law equally does not allow the 'latitude indicative of a social service'. As the commissioner has also pointed out, there is still little consensus over Lord Scarman's report into the inner city riots of the early 1980s which shaped the current difficulties. 'The right accused him of providing an alibi for police to allow no-go areas and criminality because of his insistence on the need for preservation of order. The left criticised him for being too soft on the police and failing to expose the extent of racist policing as they saw it. There has always been general difficulty in honestly unwrapping these issues.' 