The Female Voice in Violence report by Race on the Agenda (Rota) has, for the first time, taken the voice of women and girls affected by gang violence to UK decision-makers. Amid the media flurry it is easy to become fixated on a few of the report's issues – in this case sexual violence and its use in gang conflict. However, the picture the report paints refers to a whole host of issues experienced by girls and women linked with gangs and which endanger them.The 350 girls and women we interviewed for the research came into contact with gangs as sisters, mothers, girlfriends and friends of male gang members, as well as being directly involved in gang activity. Females reported holding weapons and drugs, setting up attacks, recruiting other females, providing alibis and storing money – in addition to any role they played in actual violence – all generally conducted within an exploitative setting.The girls involved came from a variety of backgrounds and were spread across all London boroughs. Some were attending all-girls' grammar schools and achieving good academic results, while others were completely removed from the education system. Some had come into contact with the police, social services and the youth justice system, and others were known only to their GP or teacher.For sisters and mothers of gang members the impact of their anxieties, both for their own safety and that of male relatives, affected their mental health and ability to identify and seek support. All felt isolated; all believed that no one could protect them.Worryingly, girls who had been picked up by a service, or received an intervention, often passed through systems that had been designed for boys. Girls who had been excluded from school and sent to pupil referral units dominated by males struggled to find safe spaces to talk about their concerns.Those in the youth justice system encountered services that were designed for boys and men, and which consequently failed to reduce their offending or address their victimisation. One 17-year-old we interviewed was first incarcerated at the age of 11. Her boyfriend was in an opposing gang to her brother; she had been sexually exploited by a gang at 13 to feed her drug habit, been kidnapped, held at gunpoint and had self-harmed. I wondered how many more times she would have to be imprisoned before these issues were properly addressed.The issue has been so overlooked that even local workers with the best intentions are struggling to support girls or refer them into social services. Those working in statutory and voluntary agencies can all name females they are concerned about. Few knew what to do about it. In some cases we were told that when a girl under the age of 18 disclosed sexual violence to a service she could be placed in more danger, rather than less, as the mechanisms needed to support her properly simply did not exist.Rota's Female Voice in Violence coalition will monitor how government and other agencies respond to these issues over the next three years. By extending our research to Liverpool, Birmingham and Manchester next year, we will continue to build evidence. The report makes clear and achievable recommendations, and should enable accurate figures on the number of girls affected to be gathered. Specialist services needed to prevent female involvement in gang violence, reduce victimisation and address their offending, must be appropriately resourced and supported.When we talk about young people, how often do we think about their sex? The assumption that gang members are invariably male has allowed female involvement in gangs to escalate.