A third body found in the burnt-out Shropshire mansion of the millionaire businessman Christopher Foster has been removed from the ruins of the house. Police are waiting for the results of a postmortem examination to establish the identity and cause of death.Detective Superintendent Jon Groves, who is leading the investigation, said this morning that police hoped tests would reveal whether the two bodies that had yet to be identified after the blaze were those of Foster and his daughter, Kirstie. "At this stage we are not able to release any details of the body, including whether it is male or female, as until the postmortem is complete we do not have that information," Groves said.The remains were discovered across the hall from the gutted front room in the main part of Osbaston House where teeth and bone fragments of Jill Foster, 49, and an unidentified man were found at the weekend close to a 0.22 rifle.The arson investigation has been upgraded to a murder inquiry by detectives and a round-the-clock search is continuing. There were reports this morning that police had recovered CCTV footage from the home's security system showing Foster carrying a rifle and leaving a burning stable block after shooting three horses.A report in the Sun said he was seen running to the main house where, it is believed, his wife and daughter were already dead. Detectives have shown the CCTV footage to a relative for identification.Police are examining the remains of the CCTV system and what is left of two computers. Spent and unspent gun cartridges found in the grounds are being checked and fingerprint and DNA specialists are working on the family's horsebox, which was left with its tyres punctured in front of the main electronic gates.The Fosters were last seen returning to the six-hectare (15-acre) estate after a barbecue at a Shropshire car dealer's home a week ago last night. Friends of Kirstie, who was due to return to her boarding school at nearby Ellesmere this week, said she abruptly left an internet chat in the early hours.Foster's oil rig insulation business faced debts of more than £1m. His flamboyant lifestyle, with two Porsches and an Aston Martin in the ruined stableblock, went with business practices that a high court judge described this year as "bereft of the basic instincts of commercial morality". Jill Foster drove a 4x4 with the number plate JILL40.West Mercia police, which has more than 100 officers on the case, said it could not confirm reports that court bailiffs had arrived at the house on Tuesday morning to find it devastated and sealed off. County courts at Oswestry, five miles away, and Birmingham had no comment on this.Officers are having to work gingerly beneath shored-up walls stripped of plaster by the fire. The site has had to be evacuated several times after further debris fell.Detectives have established that Jill Foster was shot through the head. Autopsies have been carried out on the remains of Kirstie's three shot horses, Scrumpy Jack, Breezy and Bramble, which she described on the internet site Bebo as central to her life.Friends of the family left flowers yesterday at the edge of the garden at Osbaston House. Fiona Bray, whose daughter Megan clung to her as they passed the police cordon in a single-track lane, said: "We have heard things said about the Fosters that are just not true. We have come to pay our respects because Megan went to school with Kirstie and we were very close to the family. They were a lovely bunch of people."Kirstie's headmaster, Brendan Wignall, said everyone at her school was "deeply concerned" by the discovery of the third body. "Despite the obvious speculation, I feel that it would be inappropriate to comment further but we are all deeply concerned about this latest development in the ongoing investigation."