Last April I was invited to the glitzy opening-night party at the Mayfair club Maddox, thrown by owner Fred Moss. I presumed this was because I had been a member of the club in its previous incarnation as Noble Rot, the unofficial social headquarters of London's blueblood and royal Eurotrash set. Although it was around 11pm by the time I showed up, there was already a long queue outside. The only real changes I noticed were that the cocktail list didn't have the blackcurrant vodka blasts; the design had been given an impossibly chic minimalist look, with the sort of music that would make a purist Ibiza raver cringe; and there were rather more young, rich Arabs like 21-year-old Farouk Abdulhak, the billionaire businessman's son now wanted by UK police. Tragically, Abdulhak's business school friend, Norwegian socialite Martine Vik Magnussen, was found strangled last Sunday morning, her body partly concealed under rubbish in the basement of his expensive London apartment block.Under the dim lights of Maddox's black-and-red Samy Chams-designed interior, a typical table on a Friday night will cost £1,000, including champagne and a hostess, making it one of London's most chic, cool and expensive private member clubs. It has more of a New York social DNA than the old country-house look of Annabel's or the heavy gilt style of Johnny Gold's Tramp.I didn't really know anybody the night I went, but I enjoyed the opening night because the crowd looked as if they were out to seriously enjoy themselves. And I was right. I left around 2.30am - having met a 34-year-old Russian art dealer called Anna.There are many attractive girls who go to such clubs and leave with strangers on a regular basis - and who tragically think that, just because the taxi is told to go on to an address in Chelsea or Knightsbridge, somehow the invitation is safe. As Anna, who remains a regular at the club, told me after hearing about Martine's death, London's Mayfair has a darker social side. 'When I heard about the girl's death, I thought, oh my God, that could have been me,' said Anna. Martine was last seen getting into a taxi with the young playboy outside the Maddox in the early hours of last Friday morning. He is believed to have flown last Saturday from Luton Airport aboard the private jet of his father, Shaher Abdulhak, bound for Yemen, which has no extradition treaty with the UK. It was reported yesterday that if Abdulhak is charged by Scotland Yard, his father would consider inviting British prosecutors to try him in Yemen, a country that has the death penalty.The murdered girl was a well connected and popular young woman who worked at the clothing designer Mulberry before enrolling as a student at the private Regent's Business School. She is a family friend of Norway's richest man, John Fredrikson. On moving to London, she became a fixture on the trendy London party scene of which Thursday night at Maddox was a regular pit stop. It is just one of a whirligig of evenings hosted by the private members' clubs favoured by wealthy young foreigners and celebrities such as Madonna, Keira Knightley and P Diddy that have helped London to usurp New York as the party and nightclub capital of the world.Anna says that Maddox is among the top three clubs in London favoured by her ultra-wealthy Russian girlfriends: 'They go there because they are bored in their life; they don't work, no rich Russian girls work.'In the morning they go to the shops, do massages, get extensions to their hair, eyelashes and nails and they are so tired by the treatments they go home to sleep. They have dinner at Cipriani and then in the evening they go to a place like Maddox to show themselves off and tell how much money they have spent on themselves.'Maddox is tucked away behind Bond Street where a shop could be sandwiched next to a long-standing upmarket 'gentleman's club'; and I am not talking about the type of gents' club you will find in St James's. More like the sort you'll find in Mayfair's red-light Shepherd Market area.Part of the reason for the success of a club like Maddox - run and owned by the socially intuitive Moss - is that, although it operates a strict members-only door policy, you can also get in by booking a table at the fashionable upstairs restaurant. Although anybody attempting to walk into the club simply wouldn't get through the door, the label 'private members' allows an element of discretion. In short, the club wants to attract the hottest, hippest, most beautiful, sexiest, richest crowd, and if somebody looks the part - well, that may be enough to get you past the velvet rope.As a source at Maddox explained to me: 'We like to have a mixture of every type. The club is very much a reflection of how international London is today. We make sure there is a cross-section. London is a real melting pot and our clientele reflects that. We serve expensive drinks with great service, and it's an expensive place to come.'Following the death of Martine, four or five police officers were standing by the door of the club last Thursday night handing out leaflets to regulars, asking them to recall what they could about the week before, when Martine fatally met up with her college friend Abdulhak.'It was surprisingly busy, although the mood was slightly subdued because of the police,' said Hugo Campbell-Davys, a well connected club promoter and fixture on the London scene who was at Maddox.'Maddox is very much the hip Eurotrash cool crowd - there was a birthday party for a model and there are a lot of models there. You could say it is like Tramp was in the Eighties when you had a strong, glamorous continental contingent combined with an Arab element. You get what you pay for as there are always really beautiful girls there.'Campbell-Davies adds: 'Maddox is definitely not the navy dark suit Annabel's brigade. It's not really a singles place either - people tend to know others from the same social group and they might go home with them, but it's not a place people show up on their own.'Mark Watts, an assistant manager at Maddox, says: 'We sell a load of champagne and our members are big vodka drinkers. We sell plenty of jeroboams of vodkas for around £800. Clients will often compete for the biggest drinks bill with the table next to them - like kids in a sandpit competing to build the biggest castle.'The big difference between the days of Noble Rot and today's Maddox is that there are more tables of wealthy Arabs, Eastern Europeans and Russians. It's a Eurotrash-meets-Arab crowd.Soren Jessen, the former owner who sold to Fred Moss last year, confirms that the club under his ownership was more a traditional Euro-society joint, with regulars who included his blue-blood pals Prince Nikolai of Denmark and the likes of fashion heiress Francesca Versace. 'We were more English and traditional Euro-society. We didn't have a huge amount of Arabs. But they are obviously very good clients. I know that Maddox is doing extremely well today.'As a member of Maddox's management committee admits: 'Yes, we do have a lot of Europeans, but if you take the word "trash" it suggests people who are not of good standing, and if you are not of good standing then you can't afford to come.'We are an expensive club. The truth is we don't want to be overrun by anybody - Italians, Greeks, Arabs, Brits - which is what makes us unique.'The tragic incident involving a young playboy leaving the club in the early hours with a beautiful European socialite could have taken place on any Thursday night at any of London's new band of chic Mayfair clubs.'This guy was a good friend, so it wasn't like she was picked up or anything,' said a Maddox representative. 'People get killed for all sorts of reasons, it just so happens she was last seen at Maddox - she could have been last seen having dinner at Cipriani. Sadly, that's just life sometimes.'