In the wake of the Rochdale and Jimmy Savile scandals, the Crown Prosecution Service announced it had to change its approach to people who claimed they had been sexually abused as children. Last month new guidelines were issued, stating that vulnerability could not be a barrier to justice for abused children.Back in March the director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, said "the pendulum had swung too much against the child", and that police and prosecutors should not discard accounts of abuse because the alleged victims were unreliable or had criminal records, or had drink or drug problems. After all, these factors made them more vulnerable to predators, who knew their victims were unlikely to be believed.Instead of just focusing on the victim's account, Starmer said: "We need to look equally carefully at the account the suspect is giving – look at the context, look at the pattern of behaviour, make the necessary links and think about how a case can be built." He revealed that a new panel would be formed to review old cases of sexual abuse that had not been pursued by police or prosecutors.Sure enough, post-Savile, a number of celebrities have been charged with sex offences in recent months – and a Freedom of Information request released this month reveals that there has been a 9% increase in the number of sex-offence allegations recorded by the police in the six months since the Savile revelations in the ITV documentary Exposure: The Other Side of Jimmy Savile. In June Stuart Hall was jailed for 15 months after pleading guilty to 14 cases of indecent assault, including kissing a 13-year-old girl on the lips and fondling the breast of a girl aged 16 or 17.While critics have suggested that the CPS might have done better trying to convict Savile for serial rape in the first place rather than nail his contemporaries for lesser offences, at least Operation Yewtree (tasked withwhich is investigating sexual abuse by Savile and others) seemed to be thorough.But then we came across a case that made us question whether other allegations were being investigated as assiduously as more high-profile ones.In April last year we reported on the shocking case of prison officer Neville Husband, one of the most prolific sex abusers this country has seen. For 16 years in the 1970s and 1980s, Husband abused boys on a daily basis at Medomsley detention centre, near Durham, where he was in charge of the kitchens. His victims were thought to number hundreds, possibly thousands.Husband was medically retired in 1990 and awarded the Imperial Service Medal. In 2003 he was finally convicted of sexually abusing five young male inmates between 1974 and 1984. In 2005 his sentence was increased to 10 years after new victims came forward and he admitted to attacks on four more boys. He was released from prison in 2009 after serving just over half his sentence. A year later, he died of natural causes.We knew Husband had not always acted alone. In 1985 police raided Medomsley and arrested Husband's friend Leslie Johnson, a storeman at the detention centre. Johnson was later convicted of abusing a young inmate, Mark Park, who, he said, had been "given to him" by Husband. One victim we interviewed, Kevin Young, said he was taken to Husband's house where he was "blindfolded, ligatured and made to lie on the stairs. Then three or four others raped me as well."We also knew Husband had taken boys to a local amateur dramatic society he belonged to and we believed they were abused there. But we could not stand that part of the story up, so we stayed with what we could prove.Following publication of our piece, a former detainee at Medomsley, Chris (not his real name), contacted us and said he was abused by Husband many times in 1983. He said he was also taken by Husband, on several occasions, to a local village hall, where he was raped by a male member of the drama group who made no attempt to conceal his appearance.When we showed Chris a picture gallery of players from the drama group, he immediately recognised his alleged abuser. Chris was interviewed at length by Durham police last November. The man he identified was arrested. He denied the allegations. The police told Chris, he says, that they intended to hold a press conference in the hope other victims would come forward, as happened in the Stuart Hall case. We told Durham police our investigation into Medomsley had revealed information we did not publish and that we were willing to pass this on to them. Chris says the police told him they intended to interview us. They did not, nor did they hold a press conference.Chris was recently told that the CPS did not intend to prosecute the arrested man. The decision is understandable; based solely on the word of Chris, it would be dangerous to proceed to trial on such a serious matter. But it would appear that Durham constabulary has made little or no effort to trace other detainees who may have been abused at the drama group. Astonishingly, police did not even get in touch with David Greenwood, the lawyer who has represented more than 30 Medomsley victims.Durham constabulary has history with regard to Medomsley. At least two of Husband's victims reported his abuse directly to this force, and both were ignored (one was warned about making false allegations). After our story was published, many observers called for a public inquiry into Husband's reign of terror at Medomsley. That call was rejected. The least the victims deserve is a thorough investigation into allegations that Husband passed some of these vulnerable boys around like cigarettes.In January the Metropolitan police and the NSPCC produced a joint report in which it was revealed that post-Savile there had been a surge in child abuse allegations, both historical and current. The NSPCC's Peter Watt, who co-authored the report, Giving Victims a Voice, said: "We are optimistic that this signals a watershed moment for child protection in this country. We must seize the opportunity if we are to make a lasting change." Given Chris's experience, there is still plenty of seizing to be done.