The following apology was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday 12 October 2011.Two of the finest cricketers in the history of the sport were dragged into the spotfixing trial at Southwark crown court on Monday. The names of Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis, the former Pakistan fast bowlers, were raised in connection with what was described by the agent at the centre of the trial as the "centuries"-old practice of fixing events at sporting matches."It's been going on for centuries," said the agent, Mazhar Majeed, in a recording made by an undercover journalist. "Waqar and Wasim, Ijaz Ahmed, Moin Khan, they all did it. They get paid peanuts, they have to do it."Majeed mentioned also "Australians" who were allegedly corrupting cricket matches, although he did not name names. Majeed, accused of cheating at gambling and accepting corrupt payments, is not in the dock, but his discussions with an undercover journalist form a key element of the prosecution's case against Pakistan's Mohammad Asif and Salman Butt, who are standing trial for the same alleged crimes. The pair deny any wrongdoing.At first discussions surrounded what was the journalist's cover story, which related to plans to set up a cricket tournament in the Middle East. But by the end of their first meeting and throughout their second round of recordings – which were played to the court – everything focused on how it might be possible to fix events for betting purposes. Majeed was a representative of several players in the Pakistan team that took the field against England at Lord's last year, when the prosecution alleges no balls were bowled to order by players under Majeed's "control".Tapes played to the jury showed Majeed telling the journalist: "The players need you to put your money where your mouth is. You need to put a certain amount up front. We're doing this constantly and over the next couple of months you'll see how constant it is." The sum being requested by Majeed was £150,000. "We've got one result already planned within the next three-and-a-half months: Pakistan will lose," Majeed said.Fixed Test matches would cost £1m, Majeed told the journalist in the taped evidence. "For results, Twenty20 is about £400,000. A Test match, depending on the duration, is £1m," he said. "We won't be doing any results for a few games because we want Butt to be captain long-term."Instead, according to tapes played to the trial, Majeed introduced the journalist to the "brackets" system, whereby matches are notionally broken down into sections during which the events are predicted for gambling purposes. During such "brackets", Majeed explained, the bowler can manipulate the opposition's scoring rate against the expectations of the betting market. "Let's say it's 33 runs [that the market anticipates during the bracket]," Majeed said. "At the sixth over, when he does a dead ball, they know that the eighth, ninth and 10th overs are going to go for more runs. Because they've kept the score down at the start but in the last three overs they let it all go and you make a killing. That's brackets."In the prosecution's opening statement, the court heard that Majeed told the journalist precisely the times that preordained no balls would be bowled. An expert witness, the senior cricket statistician for Sky Sports, Benedict Bermange, told the court on Monday these were some of "the largest no balls in terms of the front foot over the crease I've ever seen". When asked for the statistical likelihood of a correct prediction of the no balls bowled by Asif and his team-mate Mohammad Amir – who has also been charged for the same offences but whose absence the jury have been informed is "nothing sinister" – Bermange said it was "840,000 to one".The hearing continues.• This article was amended on 11 October 2011. The earlier version of this article and that in our print edition referred to Ijaz Butt, the president of the Pakistan Cricket Board, as having been accused in court of previous involvement in match-fixing. The "Ijaz" referred to was in fact Ijaz Ahmed, the current Pakistan assistant coach.