An “isolated” gamer has been jailed for more than two years after grooming two boys he met on Minecraft before asking them sexual questions and requesting indecent photographs.Adam Isaac, 23, from Merthyr Tydfil in south Wales, switched from Minecraft to Skype, text message and Snapchat to carry on communicating with the boys, aged 12 and 14.He was already on the sex offenders’ register after being cautioned in 2015 for possessing a “small number” of indecent images of children. Rachel Knight, prosecuting, told Merthyr crown court: “He bought them gifts via PayPal to use in the game, and the crown say he did this to win their trust, in effect grooming them.“During Skype conversations the defendant moved the conversation towards sexual matters and also asking them to send pictures over Snapchat.” The court heard Isaac, who lived at home with his parents, was apprehended when the father of one of the boys discovered the online conversations and alerted police.Isaac was arrested in January last year and was “entirely frank” with detectives, Knight said.“He described himself as a 22-year-old bisexual male who had never had a relationship with anyone,” she said. “He accepted that the swapping of pictures was for his own sexual gratification. He admitted sending gaming gifts to the boys but he denied he had any intention of meeting up with them in real life.”She added: “There was a significant degree of planning, there was grooming behaviour and there was a significant degree of difference in age.”Isaac pleaded guilty to five charges of causing or inciting child prostitution or pornography, one charge of causing or inciting a child in sexual activity, one charge of engaging in sexual activity in the presence of a child and one charge of possessing indecent images. In a victim impact statement read to the court, the family of the 12-year-old said he was still suffering from the grooming but it was hoped he would “eventually lead a normal life and return to the child he was”.The court heard that the indecent images – five pictures and three videos – were of a third boy who had also been playing Minecraft. He has never been identified.Sue Ferrier, defending, said Isaac was bullied at school and had been playing online games since he was 12. “He didn’t fit in and has been rejected from many different areas of life,” she said. “He found the online world more fascinating than the real world. The reality is that he does not have any good friends.“He is a young man who needs help and it is a shame that he didn’t receive that help when his offending first came to light as a teenager. He is isolated, he never goes out at all, he is always indoors.”Jailing him for two years and eight months, the judge Richard Twomlow said: “Over a period of five months you befriended two young boys aged 12 and 14. Contact was initially made because you all played Minecraft, which is a game that is very popular with teenagers. It is an innocent site concerning construction. You therefore knew that you were on a site that was very far removed from the conduct that you later engaged in.“This was clearly all a grooming process. These were serious offences over a period of time. They are aggravated by the fact in March 2015 you were given a caution for the possession of indecent images of children. People have to understand the seriousness of behaviour like yours and it will result in a prison sentence.”Isaac was placed on the sex offenders’ register for life and made the subject of an indefinite sexual harm prevention order, which places restrictions on but does not permanently exclude his internet use. An NSPCC spokesman said: “Isaac’s offences are serious involving the use of an online game played by millions of children to contact his young victims. Online safety is one of the major 21st-century child protection challenges as we know the internet is used as as gateway by abusers to commit hundreds of offences against children each year.” 