A free local newspaper in London is calling for women to be sterilised. Its leading article, "Some people should be banned from breeding", argues that "certain people should be banned altogether from producing offspring and possibly even neutered for the general good of society."It has been written by Andrew Parkes, group editor of the News Shopper, a title with several editions that are distributed across south east London and into Kent.He points to two stories that, in his view, justify sterilisation. One involves Linda Doran, a woman jailed last week for 30 months for perverting the cause of justice by providing two of her sons with a false alibi after they had murdered a man. A third son is serving a life sentence for murder, and a fourth was sentenced to prison for contempt of court.The second story cited by Parkes was very different in that there was "no brutality, no lying, no death, but you still have to question the parenting values." He continues:"An upset mum reported her child's buggy had been stolen, that's it. But wait for it, the buggy cost a mere £1,200. Now I know society is brand crazy and we always want to do the best for our children, but this is crazy and serves only to demonstrate all sense of priority has been lost.How can anyone justify spending more than a grand on a baby buggy? The child isn't even aware what it's being pushed around in at that age.You could buy it a second-hand car for that, or open a savings account for college. Seriously if we want our kids to develop into decent adults we've got to set a better example.Mind you, if I was stark raving mad enough to spend that kind of cash to push my kid around there's no way I'd have left it unlocked so someone could nick it."Can Parkes be serious? Was his comment meant to be a joke? On his past form he may well laugh it off, having described his 2011 call for the return of capital punishment as "just a bit of fun."I called him but he was "in a meeting" and, at the time of writing, has yet to reply to my message.The News Shopper is published by Newsquest, a company ultimately owned by the US newspaper giant, Gannett. According to the latest ABC figures, 128,000 copies a week of the Shopper titles were given away in Bexley, Bromley, Dartford and Gravesend during the final six months of last year.