One lunchtime, Yoga Liz asked me if I'd met John yet. She'd been up on the wing and heard him practising. "Marvellous," she said. "You know how big and echoey it is. He's in his cell, door open, and this sound just fills the wing. There's music everywhere. And nobody complains because it's proper stuff, not the usual damned racket."It wasn't long before he found his way into philosophy. He stood in the doorway a bit hesitant, dreads piled up on his head, round cherubic face. Then he started an argument with Lionel about mind-body dualism."Have you done this before?" I asked."OU," he said. "Doing music and philosophy.""Liz told me about the saxophone. Must be a bit difficult for the guys next door."He laughs, shakes his head. "They love it. I'm good I am. It's all I've done for 10 years and I've got all sorts of things worked out. Guys I used to play with, when I was just a honker, they come in on visits and they're trying to find out stuff I'm doing. Nothing, I tell them, nothing. Give nothing away. That's what they're doing, trying to steal my shit. I've been practising for 10 years, Al, and when I get out I'm gonna blow them away."Next lesson, John didn't show up. "Where's John?" I asked. Lionel said he was having a bit of a crisis and had volunteered himself to go to "seg", solitary."What? What for?""It's difficult, Al, sometimes it's difficult."At break, John came in looking sheepish and we all laughed at him and made some smart remarks about what a prick he was and made him smile. "I feel such a fool," he said. "You know, I'm playing my horn, playing for an hour or so, and I step outside my pad and it's like that, what do you call it, catharsis, and I want to talk to somebody and there isn't anybody."I brood a bit and that's it, fuck the lot of you I'm goin to the seg, be on my own. So I get all packed up, and then the officers start being nice to me. 'Are you sure about this John?' All nice and concerned, making my courage fail. I was weak. Everybody knows I was weak. All my soldier credit gone."But he got through it and his OU degree took him over. He got us into the intentionalist fallacy, made us focus on where it was that a work of art existed, and what things we might say about meaning, and how meaning only seems to be definite, and that saying what something means never closes the question of its meaning.A few weeks ago, Sue, the education manager, put her head round the door. "Can I have John?""What, what?" said John, "Has it come?" He got back a few minutes later with a big cardboard box. The guys made him unwrap it and we had a brief Christmas moment with John looking delighted and then embarrassed when he had to explain why the OU had sent him a keyboard. It was a small, black plastic keyboard, as basic as you can get, and he was knocked out.In pre-keyboard days, we had conversations about Mingus and Coltrane. But now it's not just jazz, it's Beethoven, Chopin, Schubert.I asked about his OU tutor, if he was any good. "Good? Good? He's pukka. He plays chords and I recognise them and he tells me my ears are really good. I'm learning the rules and I'm really getting on top, you know, in improvisation. He's given me this to learn; we're going to play it together. It's beautiful."It's an odd word to hear in the prison. He showed me the sheets of music: Elgar Opus 12 Salut d'Amour.