The Wales and former Sheffield United footballer Ched Evans has lost the first stage of his appeal against his conviction for rape.In April, the 23-year-old striker was jailed for five years for raping a teenager who was too drunk to consent to sex with him. His friend and fellow professional footballer Clayton McDonald was cleared of a rape charge.The trial at Caernarfon crown court earlier this year heard that Evans admitted he had sex with the 19-year-old woman following a night out at a seaside town in north Wales but said it was consensual.Evans's lawyers said a single judge at the court of appeal had refused his application for leave to appeal. But they said he maintained his innocence and would pursue a hearing by the full appeal court.Brabners Chaffe Street, a Manchester-based law firm that is representing Evans, said in a statement: "We have today received notification from the court of appeal that the single judge has refused Ched Evans's application for leave to appeal against his conviction for rape."We wish to confirm that Ched Evans continues to maintain his innocence in this matter and, as he is entitled to do so, he shall continue with his appeal to the full court of appeal where he believes that a comprehensive and objective analysis of the case will ultimately lead to his conviction being overturned." No further comment would be made while the appeal process continues.Evans was released by his club at the end of last season.At the conclusion of the trial in April, Judge Merfyn Hughes QC told Evans: "The complainant was 19 years of age and was extremely intoxicated. As the jury have found, she was in no condition to have sexual intercourse. You must have realised that."He told Evans he might have been used to receiving attention from women owing to his success but this case was "very different". The judge added: "You have thrown away the successful career in which you were involved."During his evidence, Evans, originally from St Asaph in north Wales, told the jury he had 13 caps for Wales and had scored 35 goals for Sheffield United. At the time of the attack he had been seeing his girlfriend for around 18 months and was still with her.Evans denied forcing the woman into having sex and insisted she was conscious. Asked what condition she was in, he said: "She had had a drink but she was not very drunk." He said she was "in control".But in a police interview the woman said she had no memories of how she got to the hotel. She had drunk wine, four double vodkas and a shot of sambuca.CCTV footage showed her falling over in a kebab shop. A receptionist at the hotel described the woman as "extremely drunk" and said she was "stumbling" and "slurring".At the time of his conviction, Evans indicated that he intended to appeal.Port Vale defender McDonald, 23, who also admitted having sex with the victim, was found not guilty of the same charge.