A man who killed his partner and two of her family members before turning a shotgun on himself had had his weapons temporarily confiscated by police in 2008 amid concerns over his mental state, it has emerged.Michael Atherton, 42, had his six weapons removed after his family in the former mining community of Horden, County Durham, expressed concerns that he had threatened to shoot himself three years ago and police revoked his gun licence. But the weapons were returned to him after he successfully appealed to police to overturn the decision.However, the government said it had no plans to tighten or review gun laws following the shootings, saying the UK's legislation on firearms is "arguably the toughest in the world". Downing Street said it needed to protect public safety and ensure gun controls are practical.Atherton, a taxi driver, apparently shot his partner Susan McGoldrick, 47, her sister Alison Turnbull, 44, and 24-year-old niece Tanya Turnbull before turning a shotgun on himself on New Year's Day evening after the couple had visited pubs in separate family groups. Police found a weapon next to his body.His stepdaughter, 19-year-old Laura McGoldrick, and several others escaped after the shootings began at around 11.45pm. She jumped from a bedroom window, and was discharged from hospital on Monday after suffering minor injuries.Easington Labour MP Grahame Morris, speaking at the scene, said that in 2008 the police took his firearms from Atherton and he later applied to have them returned. "Police made an assessment and they were returned to him," he said. Morris is calling for a review of the gun licensing laws in the aftermath of the shootings.Durham police confirmed the weapons had been taken as a precaution in 2008, but as there had been no threat to harm himself, they were returned. The property is in a economically and socially deprived area, following the closure of the Horden colliery in 1987.The decision to return the weapons followed national procedure, a force spokesman said. "It was one person's word against another," he said. "If there was no grounds for applying for the revocation of a firearms licence the guns would be returned to the firearms licence holder."The police investigation is expected to focus on why Atherton had been allowed to hold gun licences for six weapons – three shotguns and three "section one" firearms, such as rifles. Section one licences are subject to further scrutiny.Both types of certification are reviewed every five years, although fewer than 1% of applications to renew a shotgun licence were rejected in 2009/10. Owners must undergo checks designed to ensure they pose no threat to public safety.Any criminal record and medical conditions, including mental illness and treatment for depression, must be declared. The matter has been voluntarily referred by the force to the Independent Police Complaints Commission as a result of previous contact with the family in 2008.Detective Superintendent Paul Goundry, who is leading the inquiry, said the couple had been out drinking separately on 1 January. "We believe Mr Atherton and Susan returned to their home separately and shortly afterwards an argument took place."Mr Atherton produced a shotgun and in a matter of moments shot dead Susan, Tanya and Alison before turning the gun on himself."Detectives are not looking for anyone else in connection with the deaths.Friends suggested Atherton had been feeling miserable after a heart operation and another friend indicated the couple separated then reunited months ago.Keith Vaz, the chairman of the home affairs select committee, said he was writing to Theresa May, the home secretary, to ask what progress she had made in responding to his committee's call a year ago for codification of the 34 separate pieces of legislation covering UK gun law. He also questioned why the police had not been able to reach an agreement on how to consult with the medical profession on whether a gun licence applicant may become a threat to society.Morris said the police had been in an invidious position. He called for public to have patience and await the IPCC report.He praised the police for referring their decision to renew Atherton's gun licence three years ago, even though they were aware he had said he had suicidal tendencies.Morris said: "I am sure that will be one of the main focuses of the inquiry as to whether more could have been done to identify whether Mr Atherton was right to hold a licence." He described the current gun laws as fairly subjective. "The police are responsible for carrying out an assessment of whether an individual is a fit and proper person to hold a firearms licence. I also wonder whether it is reasonable to keep firearms in a domestic situation."Despite talks for over a year, the British Medical Association has been reluctant to sign an agreement with the police that could lead to doctors doctors being put in the position of judging whether someone is likely to be a threat to the community in the future.The BMA said it was willing to discuss the possibility of GPs placing electronic tags in medical records to indicate that the patient either holds a firearms or shotgun licence or has applied for one.Such a system could be appropriate and could act as a useful reminder to doctors that the patient has, or may have, access to a firearm.There has been some suggestion that such a flagging system on medical records might be in breach of information laws. The BMA has stressed such a system "could not imply that the GP practice has taken on particular obligations to monitor or oversee the mental health of individuals holding firearms licences. It would be impossible for doctors to predict if patients who own firearms could harm others in the future and it would be unreasonable to ask this of GPs."Vaz said he was not seeking tougher gun laws but his committee had called for the government to follow a Canadian example, whereby the partners of gun applicants are consulted before a licence is provided or renewed.He also criticised the fact the Home Office had taken nine months to respond to this original report, and still said it was consulting on some of its proposals.Vaz said: "I am not calling for tougher legislation, I am calling for the existing laws to be codified and clarified so they are understood."Home Office figures show there were 141,775 certificates on issue for section one firearms and 580,653 for shotguns as of the end of March 2010 in England and Wales. In 2009/10, 302 firearms and 1,076 shotgun licences were revoked by police.Just over a year ago, the home affairs select committee described gun legislation in England and Wales as a "complex and confused" mess and called for tighter restrictions on licences. It recommended people handed suspended jail terms, such as Derrick Bird, who killed 12 people in Cumbria, should have their firearms taken away.View Peterlee/Horden shooting, Jan 2012 in a larger mapBut the British Association for Shooting and Conservation warned against "any knee-jerk reaction". The organisation offered its sympathy to the victims but added: "No conclusions can be drawn from this case until the full facts are known. There has just been a comprehensive parliamentary review of firearms law in the UK and the facts in this incident need to be firmly established."