Detectives are looking into fresh allegations against disgraced public relations guru Max Clifford, Scotland Yard has said.The 71-year-old has spent his first night in prison after being jailed yesterday for eight years for a string of indecent assaults against young women. He was convicted of eight counts of historic abuse, carried out between 1977 and 1984, using his celebrity connections to lure women. Following sentencing a spokesman for Scotland Yard confirmed that other people had since come forward with allegations. The spokesman said: "We have received further information and this is currently subject to review." Passing sentence at Southwark Crown Court, Judge Anthony Leonard told Clifford his personality and position in the public eye were the reasons his crimes were not revealed earlier. Judge Leonard said: "The reason why they were not brought to light sooner was because of your own dominant character and your position in the world of entertainment which meant that your victims thought that you were untouchable, something that I think you too believed." He told the veteran media expert: "These offences may have taken place a long time ago, when inappropriate and trivial sexual behaviour was more likely to be tolerated, but your offending was not trivial, but of a very serious nature." The judge said that due to the age of the offences, that occurred between 1977 and 1984, Clifford was charged under an act from 1956, which set the maximum term for each charge at two years. Under later legislation passed in 2003, the maximum term would have been 10 years, and for the worst instances would have been charged as rape or assault by penetration, which attract a maximum life term. Clifford repeatedly shook his head as the judge made his comments to a packed courtroom, and later his solicitor said he may launch an appeal. The former celebrity agent, who branded his accusers "fantasists", remained defiant ahead of his sentencing, saying: "I stand by everything I have said in the last 17 months." A string of his clients have moved to distance themselves from him in the wake of his conviction, the first under the sex crime inquiry Operation Yewtree. During his trial, prosecutors portrayed Clifford as a well-practised manipulator, who promised to boost his victims' careers and get them to meet celebrities in exchange for sexual favours. 