A policeman died in hospital from a knife wound in the neck last night after four hours of rioting in Tottenham north London turned into the ugliest episode so far in Britain's recent wave of racial disorder. The death was announced by a spokesman for North Middlesex Hospital, which is in the borough. It was confirmed by Scotland Yard 45 minutes later. It followed the use of shotguns against police and bystanders, as well as stones, petrol bombs, machetes, and a hurled Stanley knife.  The disorder developed after the collapse and death of a black Tottenham woman, Mrs Cynthia Jarrett, on Saturday while police with a search warrant searched her home for stolen property.  Two policemen and three journalists were treated in hospital for gunshot wounds. One of the policemen was seriously hurt, with a stomach wound, and the other had slight head wounds. A Press Association reporter, Mr Peter Woodman, a BBC sound recordist, Mr Robin Green, and a cameraman, Mr Keith Skinner, were also hit.  By late last night 50 policemen had been injured - two seriously. One was seriously hurt by a concrete slab dropped on his head.  Relatives of Mrs Jarrett, aged 49, of Thorpe Road, Tottenham led an almost entirely peaceful march to Tottenham police station yesterday afternoon. But violence began after community leaders spoke to a public meeting on the largely black Broadwater Farm Estate.  People started throwing petrol bombs in Willan Road. near the estate, at about 7 pm and trouble quickly spread to nearby streets. Although police rapidly cordoned off the area the narrow streets hampered their efforts to fan out and disperse an estimated 400 rioters.  In a statement issued after he had heard rioting had begun Haringey's black mayor, Mr Bernie Grant, said: 'For the second time in a week, a black woman had been killed by officers of the state. Police behaviour is totally unacceptable. The force is out of control.  'The local police chiefs should resign immediately if any faith is to be restored. Haringey Council will ensure Mrs Jarrett's name is remembered as a victim of state oppression.'  Before last night's rioting relatives and friends of Mrs Jarrett had stopped traffic outside the police station in Tottenham High Road. The door of a car which tried to get through the crowd was kicked, and a bottle was thrown at one of the police station windows.  Among those outside the police station was the dead woman's son, Floyd, who was arrested on Saturday. He will appear at Tottenham magistrates' court next Monday charged with causing actual bodily harm to a police officer.  Mr Jarrett said yesterday: 'The police stopped me about a motoring offence. They charged me with an assault on a police officer which I know nothing about. Now I have heard that my mother has died, and for what?  'I am not happy. I want a public inquiry. I don't want a police inquiry. An inquiry doesn't bring back life. It doesn't bring back my mother.' He appealed to the people of Tottenham not to cause trouble.  Simon Grosset, a freelance photographer working for the Guardian who went to Tottenham said that he saw increased police activity from 7 pm onwards. By 8 pm police appeared to have sealed off the area. Police with shields were facing burning cars as 50 to 100 youths threw rubble and lumps of wood.  The shopping centre at the middle of the estate was being looted.  'I was stopped by five black youths, two masked. They threatened me with a Stanley knife, and took my watch and my friend's gold chain. One black guy recognised my friend and we were allowed to go on.  'Later, we went inside a flat where we found a terrified single mother with two kids under four. Eventually we left, climbing two fences and crossing the park with the mother and two kids.  'While there I heard reports from residents that 'several coachloads' of people from out side the area had arrived during the afternoon. The area had been very tense all day.'  Earlier in the day, police met community leaders and members of Haringey Council They told the delegation that the matter was now in the hands of independent police investigators, and Tottenham police said they would not be issuing any statement.  Scotland Yard said yesterday that Floyd Jarrett, aged 24, unemployed, was arrested on Saturday on suspicion of being in a stolen car in Tottenham. The alleged assault on the police officer happened then. Police later went to his home in Thorpe Road, with a search warrant to look for stolen goods. There is disagreement between the police and the family as to what followed.  A police spokesman said 'His mother, Mrs Cynthia Jarrett, was very cooperative but towards the end of the search another of her sons arrived home and began objecting strongly to the police presence. She collapsed and the officers were physically shoved out of the house.  'Eventually they persuaded the occupants to let them back in and one of the officers, trained in first aid, administered mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. but Mrs Jarrett was dead on arrival at hospital.'  However, Miss Cynthia Jarrett, aged 23, claimed that policemen involved in the search of the house pushed her mother aside and caused her to fall. Less than 15 minutes later she was dead, apparently from a heart attack.  Miss Jarrett, a student at Tottenham College, said: 'My mother weighed 20-odd stone and she lost her balance, stumbled and fell to the floor. She was gasping for breath.'  No stolen property was found in the house, and the vehicle Mr Jarrett was in when he was arrested on Saturday was not stolen either.  Mr Crawford described local reaction to Mrs Jarrett's death: 'Dismayed and depressed. It was only one week end ago one black woman was shot and badly injured - one weekend later another has died in her home, and the community is beginning to wonder what the hell has gone so terribly wrong in the Metropolitan Police force.'  The independent Police Complaints Authority, which was set up earlier this year, has already begun the inquiry into Mrs Jarrett's death.