Daniel Bear: Sometimes a crime map is just a crime map  Daniel Bear6,500 anti-social incidents a day across England, 34,463 anti-social incidents across London in December, and 44 violent offences last month on Glovers Court in Preston. These are stark numbers indeed. The new crime mapping initiative put forward yesterday by the Home Office creates transparency about the amount of crime in our neighbourhoods. It's also apparently quite popular, receiving a reported 18 million hits per hour yesterday, causing the site to crash for most of the day. But the government putting local criminal behaviour on your computer screen is only the first step towards better accountability and community policing.While undoubtedly a powerful tool, the primary debate surrounding the new map has been whether it is helpful or harmful. In particular, critics have focused on the potential of the map to decimate home values in areas labelled as problematic. This is a legitimate concern for homeowners. However, less detailed ward-based mapping has been available from the Met for some time now without any reported harm, and with the added ability to see trends in crime; a feature the new system currently lacks.Will it be a helpful tool, as the policing minister, Nick Herbert, believes when he says, "… we are giving people the information and power to hold their local forces to account and ensure that crime in their neighbourhood is driven down"? Possibly, but only if it's paired with real accountability measures. The home secretary wants people to, "challenge [police] about how issues are being dealt with". If the goal is truly accountability, the map fails to provide any useful information on actual police responses to crime. For example, it gives no insight to citizens concerned about the disproportionate use of stop-and-search powers on some communities. To live up to the quoted aspirations, the map needs to be built into a more robust tool showing solutions, not just tips on protecting your belongings.Questions of the map's helpfulness versus harmfulness fail to dig down to a bigger issue that Herbert and Theresa May are overlooking. They want to show you the scary crime numbers and give you the contact information for your local Safer Neighbourhood Team (SNT). However, crime occurrences aren't always about police inadequacy. By slashing the education and benefits packages that help have been shown to deter young people from criminal behaviour, the government risks a reversal in the decade-long decrease in crime. You need to combine your policing strategy with the social services and opportunities necessary to foster a strong community. Herbert has implicitly pointed the finger at police, when in fact, it's a much larger set of issues.So yes, knowledge is a good thing, and the community should hold police accountable. But this map doesn't do much beyond provide a facade of empowerment, implicitly blame the police for crime arising often from structural inadequacies, and prevent meaningful measures of accountability. Nobody really benefits from the map in its current state … and yet I stayed on the site for an hour and a half.• Daniel Bear is a PhD candidate at LSE, studying street level policing in LondonMurray Lee: Fear of crime bears little relation to statistics on the groundIf criminologists and crime prevention specialists wanted increased access to data they got it – and so did everybody else, with the launch of the Home Office's new interactive website. In many ways this is not surprising. Data about crime – and a whole range of social indicators – has become increasingly democratised since the 1960s when many western governments began to suspect that statistics might have more utility beyond the walls of their own agencies. Since this time the public has become ever more cognisant (and sometimes cynical) of official statistics. Numbers are powerful.Crime statistics are complex numbers and their generation is the result of a range of policing practices, the public's willingness to report a broad range of offences, and a plethora of legal categories and political and policy strategies. Moreover, much, if not most, crime is not reported. That means that crime statistics are inherently imperfect. Of course, that doesn't make them useless, it just means they need to be scrutinised with due care. Crime maps based on such statistics are equally complex and equally imperfect. The question then is whether this imperfect data is really useful to local communities and to what use is it likely to be put?We often see the police as the solution to crime problems and so it goes for the rationale of this new initiative. The assumption articulated by Nick Herbert seems to be that a well informed public will consult their local crime map and hold local police "to account" for crime. Assuming this is what occurs, this may have some interesting effects on policing strategies, perhaps leading to reactive rather than proactive intelligence-led practices. One irony might also be that detections could be pushed up as a result of intensive reactive policing practices resulting in the statistical perception that crime is actually rising in a locality.If this measure is aimed at reducing fear of crime and increasing public confidence in policing it's unlikely to have the desired effect. Research into fear of crime has constantly indicated that the link between crime fear and recorded levels of crime is spurious. Even when recorded crime rates fall a significant percentage of the public assume crime is on the increase. Indeed, the release of such data may have the unintended consequence of increasing fear of crime as more attention is drawn to crime in the neighbourhood. People almost always believe crime is worse "elsewhere" than their own neighbourhood. There is a chance this initiative might bring the crime problem back home in the public imagination.Criminologist David Garland has argued that the public is increasingly being asked manage their own risk of becoming a victim of crime – in criminological speak this is termed "responsibilisation". One only has to look at the expanding plethora of crime and safety instruction manuals produced by numerous agencies and organisation to find evidence of this. In many ways the public release of these crime maps is an extension of this individual or community responsibilisation. If crime is occurring in your street you'll be empowered (or responsibilised) to take the necessary steps to address it. That might be OK for well-heeled organised communities but is likely to fail in communities that might be less homogeneous or organised.Crime maps are wonderfully seductive. They reduce complex social phenomena to a limited number of dots or shading on a cartographic representation of space. They are not however representations of reality but sociopolitical artefacts. Democratising information about crime may well be desirable, but these maps are unlikely to be a magic bullet in the fight against crime. If there is a lesson to be drawn from a history of fear-of-crime research, it is that the more we attempted to measure and analyse fear of crime in attempts to allay fear, the more fearful the public became.• Murray Lee is a director of the Sydney Institute of Criminology