A cannibalistic killer who murdered three people and ate one of them had behaved "normally" before the attacks, two NHS inquiries revealed today.Despite the fact that Peter Bryan murdered an acquaintance only three hours after being allowed out of a mental hospital, one report concluded "there was no particular failure by any individual professional" that could have prevented it. But it suggested inexperienced staff had been put in unsuitable positions of responsibility.A second review, also published by NHS London, was more critical of the systematic failures at Broadmoor hospital that led up to the strangling of Bryan's third victim – a fellow inmate, Richard Loudwell.Both detailed reports, running to almost 2,000 pages, are published as routine procedure following killings by recently treated psychiatric patients.Bryan's complex mental condition, it has emerged, was a puzzle even to many of the experienced doctors who treated him. On occasions he was able to manipulate his care regime.He had not been a psychiatric patient prior to his first attack. In March 1993, Bryan, then aged 24, used a hammer to beat to death Nisha Seth, the 21-year-old daughter of his employer, in King's Road, Chelsea, London.Bryan was assessed at Rampton hospital but repeated mental examinations did not immediately show any signs of schizophrenia. After conviction, he was nonetheless returned to Rampton as a mental health patient.He was transferred out after seven and a half years to lower-security institutions. Allegations of sexual assault on a 17-year-old girl did not lead to his recall to high security, and in February 2004 he was moved to the Newham centre for mental health. He had been sent there for his own safety following threats from the girl's friends and family.Later that month he was allowed out for the afternoon as an informal patient. "He was acting quite normally and showed no obvious signs of mental disorder," the first NHS London report observed.Bryan, it said, had an "atypical" mental disorder. "He did not display the usual and expected signs of schizophrenia and appeared to behave normally even when seriously mentally unwell."Other than a couple of minor incidents during his early years at Rampton hospital, Peter Bryan had not displayed any signs of aggressive or violent behaviour since he killed Nisha Seth."On being let out from Newham, Bryan went to a Jewson builder's merchants to purchase a hammer, Stanley knife and screwdriver. He travelled to the home of an acquaintance, Brian Cherry, in Walthamstow, north London, and was let in.At 7.30pm a female friend arrived at the flat and pushed open the door. She found Bryan wearing no clothes on his upper body, sweating and holding what looked like a kitchen knife. He told her: "Brian Cherry is dead."When the police arrived they found him covered in dried blood. Bryan was described as being "calm, quiet and responsive".Cherry's body had been dismembered. On the cooker was a frying pan containing parts of Cherry's flesh that had been cooked. Bryan told the officer: "I wanted his soul."When charged with murder, he told officers: "I ate his brains with butter. It was really nice." After a short period he was transferred to Broadmoor hospital."If any single lesson can be learned," the report said of the Cherry killing, "it should be that responsibility for managing and treating patients [under section 37/41 of the Mental Health Act] should only be given to professionals who have sufficient experience and training to look after such individuals."The psychiatrist involved with Bryan had never dealt with a patient who had killed and the social worker had no training in mental health."There was," the report insisted, "no particular failure by any individual professional which directly precipitated the tragic outcome."On the killing of Richard Loudwell, the second NHS London inquiry was more critical of mental health services at Broadmoor hospital."There were," it said, "deficiencies in many aspects of the care provided to both Richard Loudwell and Peter Bryan and shortcomings at every level within the trust."Bryan had only been in the hospital for 10 days when he strangled fellow patient Loudwell with a trouser cord in an unobserved dining room of the high-security institution.Nine staff were on duty that day, 25 April 2004. "Staff could see out of the ward office into the dayroom but could not see into the dining room," the report said."Peter Bryan had intended to kill Richard Loudwell for some time before the attack and had been waiting for a suitable opportunity."Loudwell, 59, had been sectioned after sexually assaulting and killing an 82-year-old woman in 2002. He had been bullied by other patients on the hospital's Luton ward.The inquiry said there had been inadequate appreciation of the danger he faced in Broadmoor. "[His] relationship with his primary nurse was poor. The person who should have known him better than anyone else did not take his complaints of bullying sufficiently seriously."When Bryan was admitted he was put in seclusion initially. Medical staff, the report said, thought his case was "straightforward and that if he was compliant with his medication he would not be dangerous."By the time of the assault on Richard Loudwell, no doctor had carried out a mental state examination of Peter Bryan."Closer observation could have been kept on a patient such as Bryan about whom so little was known, the report said. "It was not appropriate that patients on Luton ward were allowed to be out of sight of staff whilst in association."The evidence tends to suggest that a weakness in the structure and performance of management at all levels may have contributed to a context which permitted the deficient performance in Luton ward at the time."NHS London confirmed that no disciplinary action was taken against any staff as a result of the two killings. The names of virtually all the professionals involved with Bryan were removed from the report at the request of the authority. The author of the second report said he had asked for the names not to be anonymised.