Seventeen years after he fled Britain Asil Nadir finally swept into a British court today flanked by besuited private security guards and trailing a wake of lawyers and journalists.The 69-year-old tycoon, who last week flew back to the UK from the breakaway Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, appeared at the Old Bailey accused of charges of theft from his Polly Peck empire.Despite his desire for a speedy conclusion to his case, he was told by judge Mr Justice Bean that any trial will not go ahead until October next year.Prosecution lawyers and Serious Fraud Office (SFO) investigators must now trace 183 witnesses, some of whom may have died since Nadir, facing allegations over the theft of £34m from Polly Peck, fled beyond the reach of extradition to his native Mediterranean island in May 1993.The businessman and Conservative party donor, once listed 36th on the Sunday Times Rich List, has made clear he will be attempting to get any case against him overturned, claiming abuse of process.In the meantime, he remains on conditional bail under curfew and, despite his lawyers' objections, electronically tagged.A £250,000 bail security has been deposited with the City of London magistrates, and he must reside at his £20,000-a-month rented Mayfair home, where he is subject to a midnight to 6am curfew. He must report each week to Chelsea police station, and has already surrendered his Turkish and British passports.Dressed in a dark suit, blue shirt and silver-grey tie with matching handkerchief in his breast pocket, he arrived outside the central criminal court in a chauffeur-driven silver Jaguar, accompanied by his wife, Nur, 26, and an entourage in two Mercedes and a black Range Rover.He smiled for the phalanx of photographers before entering the building and making his way to the glass-fronted dock of court nine.During the hour-long hearing he spoke only twice, to confirm his name and then to thank the judge as he was released from the dock. With the press benches and public gallery packed, he sat with arms folded and occasionally glanced at his wife, who was sitting in the public gallery.This was a preliminary hearing in the long-running case, which began when he was charged with 66 counts of theft and false accounting following the collapse of his business empire in 1991.Given the length of time that Nadir has been in exile, it has not yet been decided exactly what charges he will face. Apart from the number of witnesses, lawyers must also examine a 482-page statement from earlier proceedings.Suggesting it could take three or four months of work, Philip Shears, QC, for the SFO said: "There is a massive amount of work taking place at the moment to identify those witnesses, make contact with them and establish who may have died. And that is work of some weeks."But Nadir's barrister, William Clegg QC, argued for a "much tighter timetable", and asked that the exact charges and papers relating to them be served by the prosecution within 28 days. "Mr Nadir is very anxious to have this case heard as soon as possible," he said. "We are anxious, on his behalf, that the crown should not be given more time than is strictly necessary."Rejecting Nadir's request as "wholly unrealistic", the judge gave the prosecution until 3 December. "The facts of this case, as is very well known, are that in 1993 when a trial was pending Mr Nadir fled the country by air to the non-extraditable destination of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus," he said. "Seventeen years later he has decided to return to this country."The 17-year delay is not the fault of the prosecution, it is the fault of Mr Nadir".It emerged during the hearing that some defence papers were missing. "We have none of the papers of the original trial," Clegg told the court. "Solicitors are only required to keep papers for six months after conclusion of the case." He added: "At this moment in time Mr Nadir has some papers. As to how complete they are, we do not know."A hearing to check the progress of the case is scheduled for 15 October, followed by the first formal hearing in December. The abuse of process argument is expected to be heard in March 2011 and if that fails the trial is scheduled for October that year.Nadir returned to the UK on 26 August after being given a guarantee that he would be allowed bail while fighting the allegations.