The man accused of murdering the TV presenter Jill Dando bought a pair of inline skates so that he could follow women, the Old Bailey heard today.Barry George, 48, denies murdering BBC presenter Jill Dando, 37, who was shot through the head as she arrived home in Fulham, west London, in April 1999. A witness told the court that George, who lived 500 yards from Dando, would follow women home from a local park and, if they boarded a bus, he would stalk the bus wearing the blades. Susan Coombe said she was a fellow resident of a hostel in Kensington, west London, with George for six months in 1985, when he was calling himself Tom Palmer."Tom would tell us that he used to follow girls through the park, mainly Holland Park," she said. "He bought himself some Rollerblades. He would follow them on the Rollerblades. "Tom would follow girls from the park. If he liked a girl, he would follow her home in the afternoon or evening. If they got on buses, he would follow them on Rollerblades."She said he would also try to chat up women in two other London parks, Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens.  "If he liked them he would go back early the following morning and stand outside the house to see if they lived alone or had a partner." She said George would then approach them at a different time and strike up conversations by saying: "I know you - I know where you live".The prosecution has alleged that the defendant had a fascination with female celebrities and guns and that he stalked women. Some 4,000 undeveloped photos of women were found at his flat. Coombe said George told her he had been in the SAS but having initially believed him she changed her mind. She said he would discuss guns on a regular basis. "He said he went to a store in the North End Road, Fulham, which used to sell guns and knives," she said. "He said he used to have a friend from the army who dismantled guns and put them back together again." George had boasted of collecting guns and one night produced two guns. He gave one to another resident and kept hold of what looked like a rifle. "They were going around the room pretending to shoot people," said Coombe. On another occasion, she went into his room and he produced a "small, shiny silver gun" from a box. He also had army fatigues and a balaclava, she said. The case continues.