The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) yesterday announced that it will seek permission to prosecute BAE Systems for allegations of bribery and the press is alive with briefings and spin. Robert Peston's blog claims that BAE "would love to settle the case by plea bargain", essentially admitting guilt and paying a fine, but the company felt "that the sum of money being demanded by the SFO for a settlement – between £0.5bn and £1bn – is not warranted by the strength of the case." To put the fine into perspective it might be worth remembering that the potential £1bn fine is the same amount of money BAE allegedly paid Prince Bandar in bribes for a Saudi arms deal.Perhaps BAE would be more amenable to reach agreement and pay the £1bn were the SFO to offer them the contract to supply their office equipment in return. Or maybe they could call the fine a "commission payment".I wonder though if BAE is not so much worried about the size of any potential fine but by the loss of future business that an admission of bribery might bring under EU and US anti bribery laws, which could debar the company from bidding for future contracts.BAE has been running a PR campaign to emphasise how many jobs it creates in the UK. In this weeks New Statesman magazine the company claims to spend £3.5bn with UK suppliers – about 3.5 Suadi Princes worth of investment. It appears that BAE wants to build public and political support, one can only assume with the hope that this will force the SFO to drop the investigation ... again.The theme of job creation is taken up on the blogs and messageboards: the SFO should not prosecute BAE because it would mean a loss of jobs. But does the PR live up to reality? Is it really a case that "bribery protects British jobs"?First, BAE's economic benefits to the UK have been inflated in the past. The company won a contract to supply Hawk jets in India with massive UK government backing from Straw, Blair and Hoon, arguing for UK jobs. Yet nearly two-thirds of the contract was built under licence in India by Hindustan Aeronautics, a little reported fact that flies in the face of the British job PR onslaught. Likewise the press reported 50,000 Eurofighter jobs that were going to be lost as the result of the last SFO inquiry. This is a tad odd as Eurofighter PR and communications office quoted the number jobs it would create across Europe as 11,000 of which fewer than 5,000 would be in the UK. The PR claims simply don't add up.Second, I suspect that some of those who cry foul now are not that concerned with saving British jobs as they are with bashing anti-bribery laws and the SFO. Only two weeks ago BAE announced 1,116 jobs to be cut in the UK. Where were the voices of outrage then? Where were the bloggers and critics of the SFO when real jobs were being lost?Indeed where were angry denouncements seen among Peston's blog commenters – with all their faux patriotism – throughout the past 10 years, as BAE restructured its business to the extent that more than 50% of their employees are in fact American? It is an international arms company, rather than a British one.Third, BAE receives considerable support from the UK taxpayer; it is in effect a subsidised industry. The Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD) (under Lord Mandelson's empire at the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills) has provided BAE with billions of insurance cover over the years, (cover-funded from UK taxpayers at below the market rate) to the extent that in one year 42% of the entire ECGD budget went to provide cover for BAE Systems.In 2006 using a report from BASIC, the Oxford Research Group and Saferworld and updated government figures I calculated that the arms trade received about £852 million a year subsidy, not just from the ECGD but also trade mission support, R&D, ministerial support etc. At the time, the arms trade employed between 60,000 to 65,000 people in export-related jobs, which divides up as about £13,000 subsidy per worker. Campaign Against the Arms Trade calculated the figure at a lower rate of £9,000 in 2005. If BAE is getting public money to help it win contracts which it then secures with bribes, doesn't this make it corporate benefit fraud?Now I have nothing against subsidising industry, in fact I think we ought to do so – the Vestas wind blades factory on the Isle of Wight is a fantastic example of where the government should have intervened to save jobs and create long term benefit in the renewable energy market. Once again where were those voices now railing for bribery in the name of jobs to protest those real job loses?Fourth, those who claim bribery helps British jobs have failed to calculate that if you can bribe, you can be bribed against. Far from assuring jobs bribery does the opposite because it under cuts fairness and efficiency. In 2006 Control Risks surveyed industry on the issue of bribery and found "a quarter of UK based international companies said they had lost business to corrupt competitors in the last five years."But perhaps more importantly is the assumption that bribery is an act of consenting adults and is a victimless crime. Bribery "can kill" – those were the words of Hillary Benn. It takes money from the public purse and places it in private and corrupt pockets. In the developing world, budgets can be a real life or death matter.How can bribery be a victimless crime when as one of his last political acts in office Tony Blair intervened to stop the previous SFO inquiry into BAE? Where is the social benefit in the former PM acting as hired help to an arms company stopping the due process of the law? Hasn't our governance been corrupted? Why does there appear to be one law for benefit cheats and another for BAE Systems?