The Soham murder defendant, Ian Huntley, today admitted burning the bodies of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.As the prosecution case drew to a close, junior prosecution counsel Karim Khalil read out a series of admissions - the second set drafted this week by Mr Huntley's defence team.In them, Mr Huntley admits that he cut and removed the clothing from the girls, that he burned the girls' clothes in a bin before placing a bag over the garments, and that he "set the bodies alight and used petrol in the process." Mr Khalil reminded the jury that Huntley's fingerprints were found on both inside and outside of the bin bag. Earlier, the court heard a tape of Mr Huntley tearfully insisting to his mother that the girls had left his home alive on the night they disappeared.The covert recording was made while Mr Huntley was in prison awaiting trial. At one point, he tells his mother, Lynda Nixon: "I can remember them leaving the house ... I know why they came in the house as well, one of them had a nosebleed. I was on the doorstep brushing Sadie [his dog] and one of them had a nosebleed." He then appears to falter, saying: "I don't know, I don't know, I can't, I can't say." The jury also heard a secretly-recorded phone call in which Mr Huntley's then girlfriend, Maxine Carr, 26, tells Ms Nixon: "I don't understand why this had to happen." The jury was told that the phone calls were the only remaining piece of evidence in the prosecution case against 29-year-old Mr Huntley and Ms Carr.Mr Huntley, the former caretaker of Soham Village College, denies murdering the two 10-year-olds, but has admitted one charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr, a former teaching assistant at the girls' primary school, denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. In the tape of Mr Huntley, recorded at Woodhill prison on October 23 last year, the defendant tells his mother: "They want to restart the investigation because they have got nothing."He goes on to tell her that police had found only one fingerprint on a box of chocolates in the house, adding: "I do not know how the fingerprint on the chocolates came to be there, I really don't." He tells his mother that he is going to write to Ms Carr and ask her, because he was aware that she had got chocolates and cards from pupils at the end of term.They talk about what he could remember from Sunday August 4, the day on which the girls went missing, but Mr Huntley quickly turns the conversation to his state of mind.He says: "There's nothing I can do if the doctor said I am unfit. Like yesterday: I just shut down yesterday, mum. I do not know why, I cannot stop it. You know it is happening but cannot stop it." He goes on: "You've no idea what that feels like ... you find yourself huddled up next to a toilet on the floor." Mr Latham said that Mr Huntley then began crying. His mother says: "They cannot interview you when in a state." Mr Huntley says: "Believe me, there's nothing I would love [more than] to speak to them, there's so much I want to say to them." Later in the conversation, he says: "I remember what they said and everything, but I can't say too much."In another conversation, Mr Huntley says: "I haven't done it, I haven't done it. I remember them girls leaving my house, I'm adamant, I'm 100%. Remember them girls leaving my house." He also claims that someone could have been following the girls when they left his house in College Close, near the school, where Holly and Jessica's clothes were later found in a bin. He tells his mother: "I think someone's been following those girls, seen those girls at my bloody house, knowing full well they'd find some DNA at my house, buggered off and put the clothes at the school so they'll think I've done it." In the tape of Ms Carr's call, she can be heard sobbing hysterically as she tells Ms Nixon: "I don't understand, I don't understand why." Parts of the tape were virtually inaudible due to Ms Carr's sobs. At one point she breaks down, saying: "I want to speak to him so much, I don't know what I'm going to do ... They have just told me that Ian was there and I couldn't speak to him." Later, Ms Nixon says: "The police know you have not done anything, Maxine." Ms Carr, still sounding distraught, says: "I still do not know why it's happened." Ms Nixon asks her: "You know on the Sunday that you spoke to him, did you discuss lying?" Ms Carr replies: "No, not on Sunday, on the Monday." Ms Nixon asks: "Is there anything else you know?" Ms Carr says: "I don't know anything else. They wanted to ask me about the case, but my solicitor told me not to speak about it. I don't know what to think, Lynda. Something's wrong. Something happened, I don't know what." Ms Nixon says: "I asked him if any of the girls went in the house, he said he couldn't remember but it was funny, Maxine, I got this distinct impression he could remember." The jury has heard that Mr Huntley now admits that the girls died in his house. He claims that Holly died when she fell in the bathroom, where she had gone because of a nosebleed, and says that Jessica died when he tried to stop her screaming. The jury learned that Mr Huntley has also admitted to disposing of their bodies and removing their clothes and dumping them in the bin at the college.The jury has been warned to judge the case only on the evidence heard in court, and not on any of the surrounding publicity. At the end of today's hearing, trial judge Mr Justice Moses told the jury: "Remember the warning I gave you. It's going to be particularly important as the trial goes on."The case was adjourned until 10.30am on Monday.