On Saturday, 16-year-old Jimmy Mizen was murdered in an unprovoked attack in a bakery in London. Looking at the immaculate school photos of this wide-eyed alter boy, newspaper editors across the country must have smiled. It was perfect: an emotional tale of good and evil that could not fail to capture the public imagination.But in a surprising twist, Jimmy's mother has refused to have her son's story painted in black and white. On Sunday, she said she felt for the parents of her son's killer, "They haven't got wonderful memories for their son," she said, "all they can think about is the evil he's done."It's a risky business to acknowledge that there might be sadness on the other side. Those who challenge the media's framework of good v evil often find themselves demonised in the same way as the perpetrators.Of course, nothing can justify this murder. But we are quick to make the jump to saying that nothing can explain it. It is comforting for us to think that there is good, there is evil and there is nothing in between, because it is only in the grey area that society can question whether we might bear some responsibility for what has happened.If Jimmy's murderer was, for example, mentally ill and out of control, shouldn't society have stepped in earlier to prevent something like this from happening? I'm not saying that this is what happened; I'm simply saying that it is wrong to rule out these types of explanations before we have even found the killer.Another simplifying trend employed by the media is to join the dots. Jimmy's murder has already been linked to the 13 other fatal attacks on teenagers this year. We can rest assured that if his killer is confirmed as a "youth", we will hear more about the degeneration of society and "the state of our young people today". But we shouldn't forget that Jimmy was himself a young person against violence, refusing to fight his attacker when provoked. His brother, who cradled him as he died, is proof that young people can be carers as well as killers, and victims as well as perpetrators of crime.Nothing can change the fact that Jimmy's murder was a horrific and terrible thing, but we - and the media - should not forget that the story has some positive as well as negative things to say about human nature. We should learn from Jimmy's mother, who is brave enough to show understanding in the face of massive injustice, and Jimmy himself, who embodies so many of the reasons why our young people are worth protecting.