Bobbie Bellfield was 13 when her mother called her and her three younger sisters into the living room to tell them that their father had been arrested on suspicion of being a serial killer. She had watched the news and heard about the "hammer man" who had targeted women (usually blondes) in west London. "He was in our area and we didn't know who it was," she says. "Then Mum came in and told us it was Levi."Levi Bellfield, known to his daughters insistently as Levi rather than Dad ("He isn't a dad figure," says Bobbie's sister, Jessica), was last year convicted of the brutal murders of French student Amelie Delagrange and Marsha McDonnell, whom he killed with blows to the head, and the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy, whom he ran down with his car in Twickenham as she walked home from a night out. He is also the chief suspect for the murder of 13-year-old Milly Dowler seven years ago. At their home on a council estate in Feltham, west London, his family's sitting room walls are filled with photographs. There are framed pictures of Bobbie's mother Becky, now 38, with Peter, her boyfriend of eight years, and smiling portraits of her daughters but no photographs of the girls' father. Becky sits on the sofa with Bobbie, 18, and Jessica, 16, either side, while younger sisters Hannah, 14, and Jaynie, 13, jab at a laptop on the floor and keep a watchful eye on Hannah Montana on the television. How does a family come to terms with discovering a serial killer in its midst? Bobbie says she couldn't take it in at first. "But once it kicked in I felt angry, scared and worried about how people would treat us," she says. Within days of Bellfield's arrest four years ago, his daughters were being abused on the street. "People would walk up to us and shout 'Murderer' to our faces, like it was our fault," remembers Jessica, her legs crunched up towards her face. "Hannah got beaten up at school by three boys who locked her in a cupboard and gave her black eyes and a swollen nose. Whenever we complained to the teachers it was us who were taken out of class, not the people who had done it." That Becky had lived with Bellfield for five years and had four children with him was seen by some as complicity in his crimes; what made it even more painful for the family was that they had been among the earliest to suffer at his hands. Becky Wilkinson met Bellfield in 1989 when she was 19 and working as a barmaid. Before long she was pregnant, and already experiencing Bellfield's cruelty. "When I was in labour he wouldn't even ring my mum to ask her to come round. I had to walk to the phone box on my own in the snow to call her." Once Bobbie was born, the relationship worsened. "He pushed me down the stairs when she was three days old," Becky says. "During the time we were together he would hit me. I wasn't allowed to speak to my family or even see them." Becky speaks quickly but fluently and details her trauma in a strikingly matter-of-fact tone. All of this is said in front of her children, but they don't find it strange. "Mum has never hidden anything from us," says Bobbie. "She tells us it all up front. She is open with us even if it is hard to listen to what she went through." When Becky and Bellfield split up in 1994, Becky hoped that it would be the end. But Bellfield continued to terrorise the family. "I remember one time Levi came and smashed our windows and we all sat together in the bedroom trying to comfort each other," says Jessica. "I remember the curtains of my sisters' bedroom being set alight. Another time, he threw paint at our door. He had tried to run away but he'd trod in the paint so we could see his footprints going down to the end of the road." The girls suffered nightmares; Jessica would clamber into bed with Bobbie for comfort. Did they receive any counselling? "No," Jessica says. So they were left to their own devices? "Pretty much," she says quietly.Despite their experiences, it was still a shock when the children realised that the murderer who had been making headlines was their father. "I sat there and thought, that person we were all hiding from was him," says Bobbie. "I couldn't sleep all night, it just kept going through my head. Did he really do it? I had a gut feeling that he did, because I knew he was capable of murder."During his trial, Bellfield maintained his innocence so any explanations about what motivated him can only be conjecture. Born in Hounslow, he was one of three boys and a girl whose motor mechanic father died from a heart attack when Levi was 10. In June 1980 his then girlfriend, Patsy Morris, who was blond, was found strangled on Hounslow Heath. Some suggest that it was Morris's death that triggered Bellfield's violent obsession with blondes, others that she was his first victim. One ex-girlfriend claimed she found a magazine in which the faces of all the blonde women had been scratched out with a knife. "It does freak you out. Why would he go for blondes?" says Bobbie. "Was there a link? My mum's always been blonde and he has always been jealous of her. He always said that." Becky's hair is now dyed brown. Bobbie, Jessica and Hannah have all dyed their hair jet black, as if trying to erase any trace of their father in themselves. "When people ask for my name, I give my mum's surname," says Bobbie. Their father tried to get in touch recently. Bellfield wrote to Becky, claiming that he was at his lowest point, and asking for pictures of his daughters. The letter was ignored. Did Bobbie think she would ever confront her father, ever ask him for answers? "I never want to see or talk to him," she says firmly. "I will always wonder what made him do it but I will never go and visit him to ask him." Do the children feel any guilt about the murders? "I feel guilty and I do think about if there was anything we could have done to stop it," Bobbie says. "But I know there wasn't anything we could have done." She thinks there is one good to come out of it, though. "The things we have been through at such a young age mean we have been through the worst, so if anything bad happens to us, we will be able to cope".• First Cut: My Dad, The Serial Killer is on Channel 4 tonight at 7.35pm.