In the past week, we have had two significant stories about how doctors deal with people who are in the final stages of their life. One of them, reported in the Guardian, said doctors "very rarely help those who are terminally ill to die". The other, in the Daily Mail, said: "Some 2,500 patients a year are given drugs to accelerate their death in what critics claim is euthanasia by the back door." They are both, as you may have guessed, the same story based on the same survey and they are both, as far as they go, entirely accurate.It is hardly unique in the annals of journalism for newspapers to interpret the same story in different ways, but it illustrates nicely the division and confusion in this country in our approach to the profoundly troubling question of whether doctors should help people kill themselves.On the face of it, the law is clear. It is a criminal offence punishable by up to 14 years in jail for anyone - doctor or layman - to aid or abet suicide. Set aside the slightly surreal notion that it means you can go to jail for helping someone do something that has been entirely legal since 1961: the law is the law and that's that. Except that assisting suicide is seldom dealt with as a criminal offence.It's true that if Granny says she doesn't want to be a burden any longer and her grandson puts a pillow over her face after checking on her will, he will find himself in the dock and may well end up as a guest of Her Majesty. But he is most unlikely to do so if Granny suffers from a dreadful illness, asks him to arrange a trip for her to the Dignitas "clinic" in Switzerland, accompanies her on the flight and holds her hand as she swallows the barbiturate. When he returns, he may well be asked to call in at the local nick for a chat, but that will almost certainly be the last he will hear of it. It has happened more than a hundred times over the past few years and no one has been prosecuted. So what we have is that admirably British arrangement: a compromise that satisfies the sufferer and offends no one. Or do we? In truth, it satisfies no one. It cannot, by definition, satisfy those who take a strong moral stance, who believe that life is sacred and that the state should not condone anything that threatens that sanctity. It cannot satisfy those sufferers who have a progressive illness such as motor neurone disease because it means they must end their life sooner than they would have wished. If they leave it too long, they will not be able to make the journey to Switzerland.And least of all can it satisfy those who simply cannot afford what Dignitas has to offer. The middle-class granny with a network of relatives to help her has the resources; the old lady living alone on benefits does not. It seems curious that only the better-off should qualify. There are two solutions to this deeply unsatisfactory state of affairs. One is to enforce the law rigidly, but I wonder how a jury would have dealt with the case of Dan James. He's the young man who was paralysed from the neck down in a rugby accident, found his life unbearable and tried unsuccessfully to kill himself. He begged his parents to help him die and eventually, with a depth of grief it is hard to imagine, they agreed to take him to Switzerland. The director of public prosecutions decided, wisely in my view, not to prosecute. The other solution is to end the need for this gruesome form of death tourism by decriminalising assisted suicide in this country. This, as Patricia Hewitt has acknowledged, must be a decision for parliament: not the judges and not the DPP. Those who defend the status quo are afraid that once we allow any form of euthanasia or assisted suicide we are launched on a slippery slope. Before you know it, doctors will be knocking off every elderly patient who worries about becoming a burden on their family and destroying the sacred bond between doctor and patient into the bargain. The evidence suggests otherwise. In the Netherlands, which has the most liberal legislation in Europe, the number of people asking their doctors to help them die has been falling steadily, from 3,800 in 2001 to 2,120 in 2007. If the law is changed in this country, it will be along the lines of the legislation in Oregon and Washington State where the safeguards are stronger. In the first 10 years since the Oregon law was passed, 341 people were helped to die - fewer than 2% of all deaths. But in the end, it is not about statistics, it is about simple humanity and conscience. It was watching my father die that persuaded me we need to change the law. He lost the will to live with the death of my mother and, in the years that followed, set about trying to kill himself. His poison of choice was whisky, at least a bottle a day. When he finally collapsed and was on the brink of death, the doctors fought valiantly to bring him back. Why?They succeeded, but could do nothing about his developing dementia. He spent the remaining years of his life in a variety of homes, including one hideous Victorian mental institution. I am still haunted by the sound of that once proud, fiercely independent man shouting, sometimes for hours on end: "Help! Help!" In his final home, he had the help he wanted from an enlightened doctor who allowed him to die. He told me: "He has turned his face to the wall and that is his right." I hope that I have a doctor like him when my time comes and I hope that if I ask for help to end my life the law will allow it. • The Welcome Visitor by John Humphrys with Dr Sarah Jarvis is published this week by Hodder & Stoughton, price £16.99