Three days after the shattered body of Billie-Jo Jenkins was found in a pool of blood on the patio at her home, her foster father faced the media to appeal for help in finding her killer. "We don't understand why my daughter has been murdered or what the motive is," he said.As Mr Jenkins attempts to rebuild his life after spending six years in prison for the murder, that gulf in understanding is greater than ever. The failure yesterday of the second jury in less than a year to reach a verdict and the resulting formal acquittal of Mr Jenkins left Billie-Jo's natural family confused and angry.Maggie Coster, the dead girl's aunt, said the system had failed Billie-Jo. "We want justice for her, revenge is sweet," she said.Sussex police, who were last night fending off allegations of incompetence from Mr Jenkins, say the case remains open and a review will be carried out, but the question of who murdered the schoolgirl may now never be answered.Detectives have no new lines of inquiry in the murder investigation. The suggestion, made early on by Mr Jenkins, that his foster daughter had been killed by a prowler who had been seen around the family home, was investigated but police eliminated the only other suspect for the killing, a 52-year-old mentally ill man who they say has an alibi.For Sion Jenkins, the past nine years have seen him lose everything; his family, his reputation and his teaching career. Branded a violent husband by his former wife Lois Jenkins, he faces the future in the knowledge that his relationship with his four natural daughters, who now live in Tasmania, has been irrevocably damaged. The girls have seen their father just six times in the past eight years, always under the watchful eyes of social workers and police officers. Mr Jenkins said yesterday he thought of them every day. "I want to assure them of my total love for them, although they are on the other side of the world, not a day goes past without me thinking of them all."His time in Wakefield prison, where privileges were withheld because of his refusal to acknowledge his guilt, had been a "terrible ordeal", he said.Throughout the past nine years his parents, David and Megan, his aunts and uncles and the Rector of Aberystwyth, Stuart Bell, have all shown an unflinching belief in his innocence. "We have been absolutely resolute, completely convinced of his innocence," Mr Bell said last night. "I hope now that Sion is able to recover and live a very valuable and positive life."But allegations from Mr Jenkins's past came back to haunt him within hours of him leaving the Old Bailey with his second wife, Christina Ferneyhough, 55, a millionaire divorcee who wrote to him in prison. An account by his first wife, Lois Jenkins, to the court of appeal in 2004, in which she alleged she and her children had suffered years of domestic violence at his hands, was released yesterday after the lifting of a court order. The testimony has been withheld from all three of the juries who have tried Mr Jenkins over the years, despite changes in the law in 2003 to allow evidence of a defendant's character to be admitted. Mr Jenkins has never responded formally to the claims.Mrs Jenkins, a nurse and social worker, told a friend after the murder: "Why is it her, when it was always going to be me?" She alleged that Mr Jenkins, whom she met at a charity event in London, had started to hit her three weeks before they exchanged vows in 1982 at a Baptist church in Dorset. "He lost his temper and slapped me around my face," she told police. "A few weeks after the marriage he had a violent outburst and slapped me again. I was surprised at how volatile he was and felt frightened. When he lost his temper he never shouted, he would just lose it, snap and in a few moments he would be back to normal."The alleged violence grew worse over the years. "When we lived in East Ham, Sion hit me one night and pulled my hair, which was long then," Mrs Jenkins said. "It was the first time I was really frightened of him. I told him I was not going to put up with it any more. For the first time he admitted he had a temper, previously he had always blanked it out and refused to admit that he had hit me."Mrs Jenkins described life in a household which appeared to be a happy middle-class home. Often, she said, her husband was violent towards their four daughters. "Sion would use a stick or slipper. If I challenged Sion's discipline, he would lose his temper and sometimes he threatened me."But she told Newham social services in east London nothing of his past when they came to place Billie-Jo Jenkins with the family in 1992, after they answered an adoption advertisement. Mr Jenkins and his wife seemed ideal foster parents for the nine-year-old girl, whose mother, Deborah Jenkins, was a heavy drinker with a criminal record and whose father, Bill Jenkins, was in and out of prison.In 1993 Sion and Lois Jenkins and their family moved to Hastings when Mr Jenkins was made deputy head of the William Parker school for boys. But the whole edifice of the family's new life by the sea was built on his lies. He had obtained the job at the school on a false CV, in which 85% of his qualifications were faked, including a claim that he attended Gordonstoun school. Much has been made of this over the past nine years, but Mr Jenkins dismissed the altering of his CV during the trial, saying it had become "an albatross" around his neck.Two years after moving to Hastings his wife alleged that he had carried out his most severe attack, which put her in hospital. "He hit me around the face hard and my head was spinning with the force of it," she said. "I went upstairs and hid in the loft crying. Later I went downstairs and it was as if Sion had forgotten."In statements never read to the Old Bailey jury, Annie Jenkins, then 12, said her father had once punched her so hard in the stomach she had to lie down to recover. When asked by police about the beatings, she said: "But doesn't every family have a naughty stick?"Mr Jenkins was asked about allegations made by Billie-Jo's friends that he had been violent towards her. Holly Prior, then 13, told the jury in the latest trial that her friend had confided in her and asked her not to tell anyone that her foster father hit her: "She had scratches on her neck and bruises on her face and we asked how she had got them. She said Sion was smacking Buster, her dog," and when she objected he had "pinned her against the wall and scratched her face".Mr Jenkins denied this but has admitted that on one occasion he had slapped his foster daughter around the face. He believes his wife's allegations of domestic violence contributed to his arrest for murder a few weeks after Billie-Jo's death.Convinced of his guilt, Mrs Jenkins walked into Hastings police station three weeks after the killing and poured out her story. A week later her husband was charged and his nightmare began.700: Statements taken by police£10m: Estimated cost of the police investigations, two appeal court hearings and three crown court trials36: Days jurors spent deliberating on the case in three trials11: Days Sion Jenkins spent in the witness box2,188: Days he spent in prison158: Number of spots of Billie-Jo's blood found on his clothes, in what was to prove crucial evidence