There is still one day to go before the full Lawrence inquiry is published: judgment on whether the Metropolitan Commissioner should resign should await until then. But there is a wider issue which ought to be raised now before the report's damning conclusions on the police overwhelm news coverage: institutional racism is not restricted to the police. The faults of the police - brought out by the inquiry and detailed by the leaks - were numerous and grievous, but tomorrow is a unique opportunity for the Government to tackle prejudice across the board rather than restrict its response to a single service. Like the leaders of many other services and professions, the Metropolitan Commissioner resisted the idea of institutional racism in his force on the grounds it must mean his officers had been deliberately operating racist policies. But racism is far more complex than that. It has at least three quite separate strands: overt and intentional; disguised but deliberate; unintentional but adverse. The biggest threat in modern society is no longer the first category but the second and third. The challenge which ministers must meet is removing the second and third forms of racism within our institutions.  Over two decades ago Parliament established the right machinery for tackling such problems: a Commission for Racial Equality with the power to conduct general inquiries into institutions where there was no outward sign of discrimination. Almost half of its first 50 investigations fell into this category, which uncovered all manner of unintentional discrimination. Housing allocation was transformed by its report on the London borough of Hackney. But a legal appeal by a private employer, the Prestige Group, led to a drastic curtailment of this power. It was clear to impartial observers the courts had misread Parliament's intent but 14 years lobbying by the CRE has still not restored this crucial power.  Take the armed services. A succession of cases involving outrageous harassment of black recruits was dismissed by service chiefs as bad apples back at the barracks. It was only when a black soldier, denied a transfer to the Household Cavalry, won a court judgment on the discriminatory nature of armed services policy that the CRE could move in and demonstrate the systemic racism in operation. It has led to a revolutionary change of mind by the armed services under a new five-year programme setting out specific targets for the recruitment and promotion of ethnic minorities. The Chief of the Defence Staff told his senior officers in December they were engaged in a new war: fighting racism. All of this could have been achieved a dozen years earlier but for the erosion of the CRE's powers.  It was the Prime Minister himself in his address to the 1997 Labour Party Conference who raised the problem of the absence of ethnic minorities at the top of the judiciary, government, army and police. Cabinet Office figures at the time showed just two black or Asian people in the top four grades of the civil service and a mere 58 among the next 3,000 policy-makers. Even within the department responsible for promoting racial equality, the Home Office, an internal review last year found managers engaging in racist banter and bullying black staff. Ministers need to promote a pro-active affirmative action programme. We need a new definition of indirect discrimination and a new power to take class actions. Ministers could take as their text the view of the Chief of the Defence Staff, who declared his new policy was 'not a social experiment, not political correctness but plain common sense'.