The parents of a heavily pregnant teenager who was stabbed to death have appealed for help in finding the killer of their "beautiful" daughter.Nikitta Grender, 19, was found by firefighters when they were called to a blaze at her flat in Newport, south Wales, on Saturday morning.Despair at what appeared to be a tragic accident turned to shock and anger when police revealed that Grender, eight months pregnant with a baby girl who she had planned to call Kelsey-May, had been stabbed twice.Her parents, Paul and Marcia, said: "As a close family we are trying to come to terms with the tragic events which have led to the untimely death of our beautiful daughter Nikitta and granddaughter Kelsey-May."We wish to appeal for any persons with information to contact the police in an effort to find out why this has happened."Grender lived with her boyfriend Ryan Mayes, 18, who left a Facebook tribute to "my angels".Detective Superintendent Geoff Ronayne, of Gwent CID, said Grender was last seen at 1am on Saturday as she returned to her flat after an evening out with friends.He said: "We need to know who called at the flat after that time. Someone knows who was in that flat after 1am and later. We are appealing for anyone with information to come forward." Police said neighbours reported hearing the fire alarm from 5.30am.Ronayne said: "It is fair to say that she was looking forward to the birth of her child and there were no difficulties."The key to this is to find out the previous history and we are looking for anyone she was associating with which her family may not have been aware of."She was living with her boyfriend who was not at the address at the time. He is one of the individuals we have spoken to and he is obviously distraught as well."One shocked neighbour warned that anger in the community could lead to vigilante-style justice."I can see vigilantes coming in if the police do not find who did this," said Christine Tovey, a mother-of-four . "I couldn't blame them if anyone did. Emotions are running so high around here. Life isn't fair anymore."Grender had grown up in the area and was a popular figure, said Tovey."She had moved into the flat with her boyfriend about five or six months ago and was well liked," she said. "You couldn't miss her in the street because she was so pregnant. What has happened to her is disgusting."I took the children to school this morning and nobody was talking, there was no hello, no smile, just silence. It's not on, it's just not on. Everything is sullen, people just feel anger and disgust. They want whoever did this found quickly."She said her garden was one of many searched by the police yesterday as part of efforts to find the murder weapon.Officers were continuing house-to-house inquiries today in the Lliswerry area of Newport. Workers were also emptying out drains in the hope of finding the murder weapon, believed to be a knife.Police are continuing to appeal for anyone who may have any information to come forward.Ronayne added: "This is an horrific crime where two innocent lives have been lost. Nikitta was two weeks away from giving birth to a baby girl. This is particularly callous and something we very rarely see."When Nikitta's family should have been looking forward to the birth of her baby, they are now absolutely grief-stricken."• Anybody with information should call Gwent police on 01443 865562 or 01633 838111 or speak to Crimestoppers on 0800 555111