Police were today granted a further 36 hours to question John Darwin, the canoeist who reappeared last weekend after going missing five years ago.Cleveland police had until midday to interview Darwin but, at a closed hearing in Hartlepool, magistrates extended that deadline until midnight tomorrow.A police spokesman told reporters Darwin had given them a formal account, but refused to confirm whether or not he was still claiming amnesia.He said: "This is a complicated and protracted enquiry that will take some time and I'd prefer to keep that information to myself for now."Meanwhile, his wife, Anne, was said to be flying back to the UK from Panama to face her two sons, Anthony and Mark, who said they were "astonished" and angry that their mother had let them believe their father had died in a canoe accident when she knew he was alive.Police cannot decide whether to class Mrs Darwin as a suspect or not but urged her to get in touch when she returns to the UK. They said unconfirmed reports told them Anne Darwin was last heard of in north America.Her solicitor said she had left Panama, apparently with journalists from a tabloid newspaper, after a photograph showed her and her husband renting an apartment in the country five years after he was supposed to have died in the North Sea in 2002.Darwin, who walked into a London police station on Saturday claiming not to remember anything about the past five years, was last night being questioned on suspicion of fraud in Cleveland.During the day, the couple's sons, who have both left their jobs recently, issued a joint statement in which they said they had been the victims of a "large scam"."In the short space of time following our dad's appearance on Saturday, we have gone through a rollercoaster of emotion," they said."If the papers' allegations of a confession from our mam are true then we very much feel that we have been the victims in a large scam. How could our mam continue to let us believe our dad had died when he was very much alive?"The statement added that they had had no contact with their parents since Darwin's arrest on Tuesday night. Their mother has pleaded for their forgiveness, telling the Mirror: "Who can blame them? I lied to them, my own sons. What sort of mother am I?"Mark Darwin's flatmate described how the 31-year-old had returned to the shared house in north London in the middle of the night to clear out his room, leaving instructions for his girlfriend, Felicity Witts.The man, who did not want to be named, said many of the notes seemed to be written in code. "It's got stuff about going to phone boxes and not telling people your name ... I think there were references to Panama in it," he said.Cleveland police said officers had been in contact with Anthony during the day, but had not heard from Mark.Anne Darwin admitted helping her husband start a new life in Panama, and said: "I have been living my life as a lie, constantly looking over my shoulder."Asked why she thought he had returned to England, she said: "Maybe he wanted his old life back. I don't really know. I know he missed our sons tremendously."She insisted she had believed her husband was dead when he first disappeared in 2002, but would not reveal when she discovered the truth."It [going to Panama] was John's decision, but I went along with it," she told the Mirror, saying Darwin was waiting for her when she arrived.It was not clear when she was due to arrive in the UK, but police at Heathrow yesterday said they had not been informed of her arrival and there were no plans to arrest her.Meanwhile, a boat dealer in Gibraltar claimed he met Darwin two years ago when he attempted to buy a 60ft catamaran.Robert Hopkin said police contacted him after following a paper trail that led to his dealership. A £1,000 deposit was transferred from Darwin's wife's account, and he began the deal to buy the £45,000 boat with fake documents, calling himself John Jones, before eventually calling it off.According to local news reports last night, the police investigation was reopened in September after a colleague at the doctor's surgery where Anne Darwin worked overheard a series of suspicious phone calls conducted in hushed tones."There was some information which was reported to us three months ago to suggest that perhaps there was something suspicious with regards to his disappearance," Detective Superintendent Tony Hutchinson said.Darwin, a former prison officer and teacher, went missing after setting out by canoe near his home in Hartlepool. He was officially declared dead 13 months later.Last weekend, he walked into a London police station and told the desk sergeant: "I think I am a missing person." He said he could not remember anything about the past five years.Detectives said they always had doubts about the case. On Tuesday night, police arrested Darwin on suspicion of fraud.Six weeks ago, his wife sold two houses near Hartlepool and moved to Panama. When reports of her husband's reappearance surfaced at the weekend she claimed she was as surprised as anyone.However, when a picture emerged of them together in Panama City, she admitted the deception. "I don't want to live my life as a fugitive," she said. "I'll have to go back, because I won't have any life here."I should never have listened to John, but he can be very persuasive. Of course, I'm to blame too. I know I have done wrong. I just wish I had told the boys when I found out."