The disgraced BBC broadcaster Stuart Hall was jailed for 15 months on Monday for a string of historic sex attacks on girls as young as nine.Hall, 83, was described by the Crown Prosecution Service last month as an opportunistic predator after he admitted in April to abusing 13 girls between 1968 and 1986.Sentencing him at Preston crown court, Anthony Russell QC said Hall was known to the public for his genial personality but had a darker side."Those who admired you for these qualities and the general public now know that there is a darker side to you, one hidden from the public view until now, and a side which you were able to conceal, taking advantage of your status as a well-liked celebrity," the judge said."Several of these cases reveal an abuse of power by you because your status gave you an influence and standing which you abused."Hall confronted one girl in the staff quarters of a hotel within minutes of her being chosen to be a cheerleader on his television programme It's A Knockout. He kissed a 13-year-old girl on the lips after telling her: "People need to show thanks in other ways."Four months ago Hall, of Wilmslow, Cheshire, stood on the steps outside the court and dismissed the allegations against him as "pernicious, callous, cruel and above all spurious".But last month it emerged that he had changed his pleas to guilty after the prosecution decided not to proceed to trial with an allegation that he raped a 22-year-old woman in 1976.That charge will be allowed to lie on file together with three other allegations of indecent assault.Nazir Afzal, chief prosecutor for north-west England, said Hall was an opportunistic predator who had attacked his victims across three decades.Almost all of the girls had provided "strikingly similar accounts" to police, Afzal said. "Whether in public or private, Hall would first approach under friendly pretences and then bide his time until the victim was isolated."Hall attacked one of victim on her 13th birthday within moments of her being sick. Three girls were molested while he gave them elocution lessons; another after he invited her to sing at a supposed recording session at a BBC studio in Manchester. Another girl was attacked after being given a steak dinner and champagne.When questioned about the assaults during his initial police interview, Hall denied any sexual interest in children, describing his sexuality as "just normal". Asked whether all the girls were lying, he replied: "Well yes. Yes. Dreams and the light imaginings of men."The officer asked Hall whether that was his considered view on the matter. Hall replied: "It is my truthful, considered view of everything. There is a vendetta going on against people in the public eye, and people can come out of the woodwork and say what they want."The prosecutor told the court: "The publicity surrounding his arrest led to other complainants having the courage to come forward to disclose what had occurred to them and also in support for those who had already come forward and reported allegations. The motives expressed by these complainants was to demonstrate that the allegations that had been made were neither isolated nor unfounded."In May the BBC announced that an investigation into Hall's activities would be separate from an existing inquiry into abuse by the late presenter Jimmy Savile. But the findings of the Hall investigation will feed into the wider inquiry.On Monday the BBC said in a statement: "The BBC is appalled that some of Stuart Hall's crimes took place in connection with his work at the BBC and offer an unreserved apology to the people he abused. Dame Linda Dobbs is leading a detailed investigation into Hall's conduct at the BBC and her conclusions will be published as part of the Dame Janet Smith review later this year."