Last week Ireland (well, the southern part, anyway) was both shaken and stirred by a supreme court judgment,Tuesday week ago, that struck the offence of statutory rape from the statute book. That particular law was adjudged unconstitutional because it disallowed a plea of ignorance of the age of the young person involved on the part of the defendant.The law defining the terms of the offence was set in 1935, two years before Ireland established its first written constitution. Indeed, according to a dissenting judgment in a related case last July, that law was based on a previous common law judgment in England in 1876, R versus Prince, which itself drew from an even older statute, the Offences Against the Person Act, 1861. Most agree it was bad law, and needed changing.Indeed, Sunday Times columnist David Quinn laid out a reasonable argument as to why the supreme court's judgment was balanced and measured. Indeed he went much further, suggesting that Ireland's radically altered public attitudes to sex are sending confused signals to the young. He noted that almost 10% of Irish kids will have had sex by 15, implying that "statutory rape", as currently constituted, is relatively commonplace within the state.So far, so straightforward.Except, this week, the outrage went up a decibel or two when Mr A, a 41-year-old man who admitted knowingly raping a girl of 12 was released because the offence for which he was convicted no longer exists. In the words of one blogger, it was a crap day for Ireland.The minister for justice (the Republic's nearest equivalent to a home secretary), Michael McDowell, whose departmental team has since been drafting and re-drafting new legislation to close this gaping hole in Irish jurisprudence, has taken quite a hammering. Not least from the backbenches of his coalition partners, Fianna Fail, who in turn are taking serious heat from the negative publicity surrounding the release of an apparently self confessed rapist. And there may be worse cases in the pipeline.That hammering, as Mary Raftery pointed out (subscription required) in yesterday's Irish Times, arises from the question of whether the minister could have anticipated the need to redraft the law before it came to crisis:As minister for justice and law reform, Michael McDowell carries the government can for this. One of the straws at which he desperately clutched this week is that the Law Reform Commission never actually argued that section 1 (1) of the 1935 Criminal Law (Amendment) Act was unconstitutional. This is indeed true, but it is a somewhat slippery straw from the minister's perspective.What the Law Reform Commission [in 1990] did say was that there was general agreement that the law was "unduly harsh" and could lead to the "possibility of serious injustice".To describe a law in such a way is tantamount to saying that it may be unconstitutional. As it is a function of the constitution to ensure that laws are just, it must follow that if a particular law is considered unjust or unfair, then it may also be deemed unconstitutional.She goes on to charge that he simply ignored the problem until it was too late. A charge the minister emphatically denied when, on Wednesday night, he was called to make a statement to the Republic's upper house, Seanad Éireann:To publish and introduce legislation while defending in the supreme court a case that one has won in the high court would have been regarded by one's counsel as pulling the rug out from under him or her entirely. Second, it is not the practice of the Department of Justice, Equality and Law Reform, when it has won in the high court, to prepare emergency legislation against the contingency that it might lose a case in the supreme court, especially when that legislation could not re-convict or keep in custody any person who would be affected by a successful outcome there [my emphasis].McDowell, a bete noir for the Irish liberal left (not an uncommon distinction for any home secretary or minister of the interior), also noted that no one in any party in either house of the Oireachtas (parliament) had mooted or lobbied for a legislative change in the now defunct law between 1990 and the court's judgment last week.The shuddering jolt being felt throughout the Republic stems from the thought that the state's legislature may have left some (however small a number and for however short a time) of its citizenry vulnerable and unprotected.In truth, they were simply witnessing the harsh reality of a written constitution colliding with poorly legislated law. There is no contest. The lesser law simply drops from the legal firmament as though it never existed. The same process is repeated almost every week, though it largely goes through unnoticed.Indeed, Ireland has often relied on supreme court judgments for some of its most progressive legal changes. Contraception, for instance, only became legally available in the Republic through its determination that the then prohibition was unconstitutional. Something that many acknowledge could have taken Ireland's then (mostly) socially conservative and populist political class another 10 years to enact of its own volition.Today, politicians in the Republic are hoping to right the rocking constitutional ship by pushing the minister's draft legislation through all its stages (including the adoption of amendments) in a single day.For once, perhaps, the quiet finessing of the UK's unwritten balancing act between its judiciary and legislature may look to some currently frantic Dublin politicians like a form of married bliss. More importantly, some may also be asking themselves how enduring and fit for purpose can a law be that is so forcibly drafted upon the hoof.