How a severed leg led to a manhunt by Detectives Shaun Bartram and Nick WallenIn 2004 a severed female leg was discovered in Leeds. It was identified as belonging to 28-year-old Lyndsey Bourne. Detective Sergeant Shaun Bartram (above left) and Detective Inspector Nick Wallen were part of the team who investigated the murder and eventually took the confession of Lyndsey's killer, Stuart Burns. He was convicted of murder and sentenced to 19 years in prisonShaun A man walking his dog on Woodhouse Ridge found the leg, but it took time to identify Lyndsey as she hadn't been reported missing. She was a working girl, heroin addict, and had vanished before. She'd pick up a punter who'd keep her comfortable for a while and only come back after falling out with him. We'd missed the initial period of house-to-house inquiries, so a public appeal went out for witnesses.Nick Two ladies came forward who knew exactly when they'd seen the suspect because it had been one of their sons' birthday. They'd walked along Woodhouse Ridge to go to McDonald's for his tea and seen a man carrying a red-stained sack. He'd stumbled when he saw them and there were livid scratches on his face; they'd joked that if a body was ever found there, they'd know who'd done it. They gave us an e-fit artist's impression. The day that went out, in walked Stuart Burns. He said the e-fit was him, but that we'd got it wrong.Shaun Initially, everyone thought he was innocent. He said that he'd been on a night out, got drunk and got into a row with a lady who'd scratched his face. He was a painter and decorator and his friend was decorating so he'd been taking paint and dust sheets over, but en route he'd decided it was too heavy and dumped it, that the stains were red paint.Nick You have to appreciate that there were three or four suspects. If you're investigating the disappearance of a prostitute, people come into it who are unpleasant and weird.Shaun There was one guy who had created a weird sculpture with real pubic hair. Lyndsey's friends thought it had her belt buckle in it.Nick We were given Stuart's account to look at in detail. Detectives talked to his colleagues; we had copies of his time sheets. What we got was a picture of a man who'd been on the level, but around the time of Lyndsey's disappearance had become erratic and moody. He was arrested on suspicion of her murder and his home address became a crime scene.Shaun What stood out to the forensic team was that everything in his house had been decorated. Generally young men are not the tidiest of people, but the steps had been painted, laminate flooring put down. It was too clean.Nick The more he spoke to us the more incredible his story became. The problem was that we had no proof it wasn't true.Shaun You're trained not to latch on to clear lies, you tuck them away and come back to them later when you ask more questions and get him to lie about the lie. These guys think they can outwit you, but sometimes they talk themselves into a big hole. Stuart did. For example, he didn't have transport and he lived a good six miles from where the body was found. He kept saying: "How on earth would I get the body there?"Nick So you ask questions about that: "How do you get around then, Stuart? Do you use taxis?" He led us straight to the taxi driver he'd used. Stuart had asked if he could put a bag in the boot. It was starting to whiff, so Stuart told the taxi driver that said he shot at weekends and it was a bag of game, some rabbits. Unfortunately for him, the driver actually did shoot and engaged Stuart in a conversation about shot guns, so it was firmly fixed in his mind. We wouldn't have got that if it weren't for Stuart's bravado.Shaun We got an indication from the forensics team that there was some blood in Stuart's hall cupboard. We didn't know it was Lyndsey's, just a positive test for blood. We told him at the end of the day what the findings were and that we would talk to him about it tomorrow.Nick He couldn't wait to speak to us the next morning. We played a mind game with him: we left him to have a sleepless night. His account was that he had met Lyndsey in Leeds outside a club. They'd gone back to his, but he'd not been aware she was a prostitute. When she told him he became upset.Shaun He said she'd tried to steal money and they ended up in a tussle. He said he thought he'd strangled her. He also said he was drunk, she'd started the fight, he'd retaliated. He'd not deliberately strangled her… Then we got all this detail about what he'd done.Nick The way he told us will remain with me forever. I remember looking at Shaun and thinking I hope we're not so cynical because we've been in the police for so long that this will just be water off a duck's back. He told us in graphic detail in what order he'd dismembered her body in his bath.Shaun He had considered calling the police, but ruled it out. He realised afterwards that was the wrong decision. If he'd killed this lady and then rung the police that's one scenario. If you wait until morning and then tell them that's another. Chopping the body up and disposing of it is as bad as it gets as far as sentencing.Nick I remember it was the day of the 7/7 bombings. It was lovely and sunny. We went to Brian's fish and chip shop in Headingley and sat there in stunned silence.Shaun In the interview situation you are a police officer, you're professional. We came out of the room and put him in the custody area. You wait, you don't want the cell door to slam and for him to hear you say: "Bloody hell!"Nick There are people who confess to things they haven't done so you still have to investigate it. We had to go through this horrific account of the dismembering of Lyndsey's body.Shaun Part of our strategy is keeping things back that only the offender would know and we had the issue of how he got this body down to Woodhouse Ridge. It turned out he'd taken smaller sections, the limbs and the head, in a holdall on the bus; for the torso he'd ordered the taxi which was his downfall. He didn't like going through it again, though. He got very aggressive.Nick I had to sit and plead with him to tell us where Lyndsey's body was buried. We had to ask him to give her family closure, tell him how grateful they'd be. Really I was thinking: I don't want to sit in here and talk to you any more.Shaun After this enormous confession he tried for manslaughter.Nick I remember seeing Lyndsey's mother at court. She was so pleased there was this finality. That's when I know that what I think doesn't matter, we do this for people like her.Shaun One of the things I still can't get my head round is that we knock on the suspect's door, and say, "You're under arrest." From that point on Stuart never went home again. He had been waiting for that knock. He knew it was coming and I think he was quite pleased when it did.Nick He looked terrible when we interviewed him. His eyes were sunken, he hadn't slept. It would be interesting to talk to him now, but I imagine that what he felt afterwards was that he'd offloaded. Stuart didn't go out with the intention of murdering Lyndsey.Shaun There was a stigma when I joined the police, the idea that everyone was fitted up. I like being able to say that I will never appear in the appeal court with Stuart Burns saying I fitted him.Christmas drugs sting by Vanessa, lead investigator A few years ago, lead investigator Vanessa (not her real name) worked on a major drugs case which led to the seizure of 30kg of heroin and the arrest of four members of an organised gang. They received sentences totalling 49 years. The timing of the case meant Christmas was ruined for everyone involvedJust before Christmas we were working on an operation involving an organised gang and had intelligence to say a lorry was coming into Dover carrying drugs. We sat for three days and waited and waited. It was freezing and also pretty fraught because this particular Christmas was my first married one, and my in-laws were coming to stay. I had to make sure the house was at a certain standard, the washing done, that there was food, so I had to relay the whole list to my husband – the shopping, changing the beds and all the things we would have done together. He had to do them on his own, plus his own job.When the lorry finally came in we followed it to an industrial site in east London. People think it's easy to follow a vehicle, but it takes a team and a lot of thought. I defy anyone to just follow a car. Then, because lorry drivers can only legally drive a certain time before they have to stop, he bedded down for the night at 11pm, so we had to as well. It was hard to sleep.Finally the word was given to arrest, we jumped out and each arrested whoever was nearest. It's interesting to watch the suspects' faces. They're unloading drugs, then all of a sudden you can see that they know their liberty's going – it crosses their faces. Some are so shocked that they've been caught that they freeze – they're easy to arrest. Others are more quick-witted and that's when it can turn ugly. It can be good being female in that situation. If someone resisting arrest has a code that they don't hit women, you can get them under control.This was the afternoon of 24 December and my husband kept calling: "You will be home for Christmas, won't you?" I told him not to worry, but that wasn't what I was thinking, because once the arrests are done the work doesn't stop – searching, interviews, taking exhibits to labs. On this occasion I was assigned to searches at the home and business addresses of the people who'd been arrested. We had to knock at one home at 2am. The suspect's wife came down and wanted to know who we were. We explained what had happened and asked to search the house. She got so upset that the kids woke up. Then she called her mum and she came over and got upset. It was really emotional – importing drugs carries a big sentence and you don't know if the wives are aware of the situation. Because it was Christmas there were presents under the tree and we had to unwrap them all to make sure they weren't stashes of money or heroin. The kids were so confused, asking where Daddy was, where Father Christmas was, as we unwrapped their presents. It was difficult to leave them after we finished the search.I made it home in time for Christmas lunch – made by my husband who, bless him, isn't a great cook – but no one got poisoned. My in-laws know what I do and they're really understanding. You have to have that support otherwise you couldn't do the role. Criminals don't work nine to five, so why should law enforcement? A colleague was interviewing – even though it's Christmas Day you still have to go through the process, and he had to do the interviews because there are time limits on how long you can hold suspects. I had phone calls from him throughout the day and I drove to the office in the afternoon and took him mince pies.The next day it was back to work with court and time-critical inquiries that had to be done between Christmas and New Year. We charged them all, but had to make sure we got a prosecution case together. A couple of them went guilty on the day of the trial which is great – though you do think, "I wish you'd done that earlier." The others pled not guilty so we had the trial, which took two or three weeks.Watching people's mothers travel long distances to see the case is hard. When the jury found them guilty, one of the defendants was on bail and his counsel asked if sentencing could be delayed as his son had his first football match that day. But the judge just went ahead. Poor little boy, how awful – he'll be waiting for his daddy who's never turning up, who won't come home for 20-odd years. When the other defendant was sentenced, his mum collapsed.Just because these people have committed a crime, it's not for me to judge them, it's the court's decision. So whenever they're in my custody, I treat them as I'd treat anyone – fairly, kindly – and it is hard because some people have very desperate stories as to why they've got into crime, you feel for their situation. They're punished for what they've done, but it's not easy when the guy's girlfriend's sitting there, 17 and eight months pregnant.I didn't manage to relax at all that Christmas, but you do your best. I can categorically say that none of my friends and family know the full extent of what I do. You're always carrying a little secret. If my husband knew where I was going at 2am, he probably wouldn't sleep. When my children are old enough to ask where's Mummy going, that'll be hard. But if you didn't enjoy the job you couldn't do it. I enjoy domestic life and holidays, I can switch off. But when it's busy it becomes my world.The arrest of two dangerous paedophiles by Detective Superintendent Cath HannonIn 1998, West Midlands Police launched Operation Talkwell to investigate two sex offenders, Michael Williams and Paul Elkington, after discovering they planned to kidnap, assault and murder a number of children. Detective Superintendent Cath Hannon was the senior investigating officer. The two men were both sentenced to lifeIt was a lead from informants that started us looking at these individuals. We needed to find out if what we had were two sex offenders fantasising about children – unpalatable, but it's the nature of the beast – or if they intended to take the next step and actually commit abduction, rape and murder. It's not unusual for sex offenders to scheme about what they want to do, but it is unusual for individuals to get together and form a conspiracy.As senior investigating officer, my role was to set the strategy for what we were going to do. We had a team of officers from the paedophile and pornography unit and we used surveillance teams, but this work was not the norm for them – they were more used to armed robbers and burglars. Every person who works in child protection makes a decision about whether they have the resilience for it. Colleagues say they could interview a murderer, but couldn't handle a sex offender. There's no shame in that, you just have to know your limits.We had to be able to show in court that these individuals had intent to act, so we had to wait for an escalation in their behaviour. The investigation took a long time – Williams returned to prison for an 18-month period at one point – but we received good information from an undercover officer who posed as a child abuser and befriended Williams and Elkington, and also from our surveillance teams.When the men started purchasing items on their shopping list, that was a definite step – like a burglar buying a swag bag. They'd worked out different scenarios for attracting children, such as pretending they'd lost a puppy and needed help to find it. For that they'd bought a dog lead. Elkington came up with ties that would make it look as if they were holding hands with children rather than restraining them. They bought shoe laces and speaker wire to make these, and also superglue, which they'd spoken about using to seal the children's mouths to prevent them screaming.Their real window of opportunity came up around the Easter weekend of 2000. The deciding factor was the weather. If it had been torrential rain, children wouldn't have been out, but it was blazing sunshine so the men bought disguises and alcopops to stupefy the children.That week was so stressful that I broke out in a rash. But Williams and Elkington had made enough damning comments to the undercover officer about what they were going to do that I was satisfied we could convince a jury. Officers went in and arrested them.It's hard to go from investigation to preparation for court; you have a different mental focus. During the investigation I was up at 5am to brief the undercover officer and manage the day's business, and not home until 1am. There's physical pressure as well as mental focus. But it doesn't matter how good your arrest is, that's only one portion of what we do. The preparation for court is sensitive work, especially as we had to ensure the undercover officer's identity was fully protected.When we went to court, Williams and Elkington made guilty pleas. But as part of supporting our case, we'd gone back over tales they'd told about previous victims to see if what they'd said to the undercover officer was true. The idea was to show that if they'd told the truth about that then they were probably telling the truth about their plans to abduct children.We'd identified one woman who Williams had abused when she was a child. He'd stolen her off the street and sexually abused her. He'd then threatened her before taking her home and telling her parents he'd found her in this state and helped her. He then ingratiated himself with her parents and ended up renting a room in her house. He went on to abuse her from the age of three to eight. The victim decided she wanted to come to court and see him get his just desserts. But when Williams saw her he thought she'd come because she loved him, so changed his plea to innocent.In the meantime the judge gave us permission to report to the press on what had gone on. If Elkington had also changed his plea, both could have said that because of the publicity, neither would get a fair trial. There was a week when it was possible they'd be released without our evidence even being heard. We were horrified.Fortunately, the judge decided the trial could go ahead. Williams and Elkington were both found guilty. We received letters and cards from all over the country thanking us. One lady even sent us a lottery ticket and said she hoped we won. I've kept copies of all of them.I do have a resilience for child protection work, though there are cases that still stick with me today. As much as you broker personal relationships with the children you work with, you'll always be a representative of something unpleasant that's happened to them. When their case has finished they're looking to move on with their lives. Some youngsters do still contact me. But they all know where to find me if they need assistance.Dockside drugs raid by Tim, lead investigatorIn 2006, lead investigator and firearms officer Tim (not his real name) undertook his first case for the newly formed Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca). It was an investigation into a Colombian organised crime group. During the operation 203kg of cocaine was seized – worth more than £8m – and a crew of corrupt dock workers and Colombians received prison sentences totalling 84 years I've been doing surveillance work since about 2000, after I left the army, where I was a bomb-disposal engineer. I'd been working for Customs and Excise when Soca was formed in 2006. Operation Chocoholic was my first case in the new organisation. From February, we had been focusing on a large and sophisticated organised-crime group – a Colombian group which was importing cocaine to the UK.We knew the cocaine was coming, we just didn't know who it was coming to. That's always going to be a large-scale operation. There are a lot of technical elements; and you've got to find out where the money's going. It's all very well seizing drugs and getting criminals put in prison but we're also trying to prevent prisoners coming out and going to live on the Costa del Sol on their nest egg.We conducted a house search in September and within some paperwork found a coded container number. Why has this person in the flat got shipping container numbers? Because that's how they're bringing the drugs in. That number led us to identify the container, which led us to the trucks, which led us to the organised crime enterprise. It was a breakthrough moment and from that point the momentum really gathered. When you make that kind of discovery you know you've got a lot of work ahead. But knowing where and when the package was going to arrive is quite unusual – often we aren't privy to that sort of information so this was a fantastic opportunity to take down a criminal gang that we previously knew nothing about. And a collusive dock employee is a very good scalp for us because they're an arterial route for cocaine or heroin or whatever they're bringing in. It's an open wound.Before the drugs arrived in the UK they had been swapped for dummy drugs, because there are inherent dangers in a live drugs run. We've got friends all over the world, and the fact that in this case the drugs were in Costa Rica was no barrier to us. The switch was handled with the full co-operation of the Costa Ricans.We allowed the shipment to be delivered and we watched it for six days, 24 hours a day. We were waiting for the criminal group to decide that it was OK, that there wasn't going to be any police involvement. We gave them enough rope and they were kind enough to take it.We sit in our vehicle, and we watch and we wait. You start off with a huge sense of anticipation, and after a few hours you start to slow down a bit, and after a few days you've slowed down a lot. You've got to fight to stay alert because everything can matter. The silver car that drove past you two hours ago might be the silver car that's then going into the docks to pick up the product. With this level of criminality, when you're looking at the sentences that the perpetrators can face, a sniff that things aren't going to go right and they will leave the drugs on the dockside.I didn't get to go home at all in that six-day period. My wife knew where I was, to a degree – there are some things we don't even discuss with our spouses, because you wouldn't want to endanger them. If it's not necessary they don't know about it.On the sixth day they put their container on the back of a lorry, drove it out of the docks and took it to a slaughter point. At the same time, counter surveillance was following vehicles that we had picked up previously, and that gave us the identities of the people involved. Then there were various firearms warnings. There's always the chance that they'll be armed, and nowadays firearms are more prevalent.You've had six days sitting around doing very little and suddenly it's all kicking off. It's a charged atmosphere, but I wouldn't call it excitement: it's overdrive. You're thinking about every evidential opportunity, and has he seen me? Is this guy involved?For best evidence we need it to go as far as we can to see what they're up to. They could take it to a holding point and leave it another six days, and we have to be prepared for that. In this case they took it to an empty yard. It was only a couple of hours before they went to the slaughter, at which point the police did an armed interdiction, then we went forward and made the arrests and seized 80kg of cocaine.It was a reasonably quick result – with a job of this size you could be working on it for 18 months. The next few months putting together the casework was crucial. The first trial was in August the following year. It's never nice giving evidence you have to open yourself up to these attacks: you didn't see what you said, you didn't find what you found.The day of the strike itself will stay with me, but the best moment of the whole case was the guilty verdicts. We secured five convictions. For me personally it was a seminal case. It was an eye-opener. It really showed me what this new organisation meant, and what we could achieve. I learned what different tactics and opportunities were available to us – there are no criminals outside our reach now.