The self-styled "bobby lobby" arrived in Westminster yesterday as up to 5,000 off duty police officers staged their biggest protest against police reform since they packed out Wembley Arena 10 years ago.As buses bearing banners declaring "Fair Play for Police" rounded Parliament Square, rank and file officers expressed their anger over the plans of the home secretary, David Blunkett, to cut their overtime pay and share some of their powers with a new breed of community support officers. Ray Egan, a retired West Midlands officer, dressed as John Bull, said: "I have spoken to officers all over the country and morale is lower than a snake's belly." His placard read: "New Labour the boys in blue are sick of you - bullies don't scare us, we take them on." A few yards away three Scottish pipers heralded the arrival of the Strathclyde contingent. But even as thousands of police officers voiced their anger, the signs after meetings between the Police Federation chairman, Fred Broughton, and Mr Blunkett indicated that an agreement over changes to police pay and conditions was not far away.In the Commons the prime minister predicted that the conciliation process, which starts on Monday, would within a few weeks resolve the dispute. Mr Blair repeated assurances that the community support officers would not be imposed on any force that did not want them. At a press conference Mr Broughton agreed that most police officers might well be better off as a result of the new pay and conditions package but said they were still discussing how the extra money would be distributed and whether there was yet a Treasury guarantee that the extra finance needed would be made available. In past weeks Mr Blunkett and Mr Broughton have accused each other of "bullying tactics" in the run-up to the ballot in which rank and file officers rejected the reforms. But yesterday the language was much more moderate. Mr Broughton said he believed that policing was in crisis but said his meeting with Mr Blunkett had been encouraging. "We are getting a very positive feeling from ministers on what they are saying about pay and we are in conciliation and that's going to make progress in a week," Mr Broughton said. For his part, the home secretary was equally emollient. "I am deeply committed to making conciliation work, which means give and take on both sides," he said. But for many MPs the sight of police officers lobbying parliament only added to the growing public anxiety over the rise in violent street crime. Not everything went well on the £200,000 lobby. The New Orleans jazz band was banned from playing outside the Queen Elizabeth II conference centre, where much of the lobbying took place, because of a local byelaw the police organisers seemed unaware of. While Mr Broughton railed against the use of civilian community support officers, upstairs at the QE II private security guards were providing security and checking the warrant cards of all the officers trying to get into the conference centre. With all the police wearing plain clothes, overwhelmingly male, middle aged and slightly overweight, they were like any other lobby of trade unionists come to complain to their MPs about an attack on their overtime. A small group of "autonomous anarchists" turned up out of solidarity with the Lambeth police commander, Brian Paddick, with a banner that read "Anarchism is Attractive" and placards announcing that "All constables are special". They said they were there to support the police's right to peaceful protest. But just how many were on the demo? The organiser's estimate, issued before anybody arrived, put it at 5,000 but, in line with traditional police methods of estimating demonstrations, the anarchists claimed the numbers were only about half that - 2,500.