Total crime up by 4%, violent crime by 16% and detection down by 4% to a mere 25% of the 5.3m recorded offences in a year. Should yesterday's crime statistics prompt a "Come back, John Major" call - remember the previous prime minister's election pledge to reduce crime by 10%? Of course not. Remember the acerbic comment of Judge Tumim, former chief prison inspector, on that earlier pledge: a target is an aspiration, not a policy. But will yesterday's statistics reinforce the prime minister's big fear, that the public perceives Labour as soft on crime? Only if ministers - including the prime minister - fail to sell their excellent crime reduction policies.Take burglaries - one of the most feared offences. They are down again: domestic burglaries by 6% and non-domestic by 3%. Surely that was because of the tough new mandatory sentences - minimum three years for third offences - introduced last December, which the prime minister wants accentuated. No. The statistical year ended in March. Burglars would have had to have committed and been tried for three separate offences by then. The fall is because of the government's evidence-based crime reduction plan, targeted on the highest crime areas with the poorest people, helping them make their homes more secure. Labour should be celebrating its "what works" approach. But what about violent crime? This is serious. They may only represent 13% of all crimes, but this still involves 703,000 offences. Part of the rise is a new definition - two years ago the 194,000 common assaults would not have been included. Ministers should be congratulated for being honest enough to include them. Part of the problem is alcohol - more young men with money in their pockets, drinking too much. Researchers have suggested drink is involved in 40% of domestic violence, 65% of murders, and 75% of stabbings. Of course, most convictions for violence deserve a taste of prison, but prevention would be of even more help to victims. A new package will be unveiled next month, including stricter regulation of violent pubs, strengthened beer glasses to reduce the 5,000 broken glass attacks a year, stronger links between hospital emergency departments and the police. Ministers should ignore simplistic tabloid analysis. They are on the right course, except for their reluctance to sell it. They should trust people's common sense.