A father who killed his 11-week-old son by squeezing him and dropping him on the floor in a fit of anger has today been sentenced to life in prison and will serve a minimum of 11 years.Craig Goddard, 24, from Toll Bar, near Doncaster, South Yorkshire, admitted killing Alfie Goddard after "snapping" in May 2008 when he was unable to settle the baby.Alfie, who was described by a neighbour as "a really bonny baby", died in Sheffield Children's hospital two days later from a brain injury. A postmortem examination concluded his death was the result of injuries caused two days earlier.His mother, Lindsay Harris, 19, admitted perverting the course of justice after repeatedly telling police she found the baby at the bottom of the stairs. She was given 12 months' detention, suspended for two years, and ordered to do 150 hours of community service.Simon Jackson QC, for the prosecution, told Sheffield crown court Alfie had suffered injuries consistent with "squeezing by vigorous shaking followed by the child impacting on the floor".Jackson said Goddard had initially given differing accounts of what had happened. In one interview, Goddard told police his son had fallen after he had blacked out at the top of the stairs. In another Goddard told police: "I just got frustrated, I didn't mean to hurt him. I've just got this anger thing, I didn't mean to hurt him. I just lost my temper."Jackson said Goddard had problems with anger management and in later interviews accepted responsibility for the baby's death."He rocked him too hard and too fast and squeezed him too hard because of the pain he felt in his head. He dropped Alfie in shock when he realised how hard he was squeezing," Jackson said.The prosecution said Goddard had claimed he was in a bad mood that day and became frustrated when his son would not settle. The court heard that Alfie had been suffering from a stomach ache.Jackson said Goddard accepted that his earlier account of not intending to hurt Alfie was untrue. "He dropped Alfie to the floor intending to cause him really serious harm," he said.The court heard that Harris maintained she found Alfie at the bottom of the stairs during six interviews with police, even after Goddard was charged with murder. Jackson said she later pleaded guilty to perverting the course of justice having "deliberately lied to emergency services, police, medical staff at the hospital and in interview"."She lied to protect Goddard from the possible consequences of his actions," Jackson said.Peter Kelson QC said in mitigation for Goddard: "This is not a tragedy that could have been anticipated with the best intentions of social services or anybody else. It was a case of a parent doing the best he could, losing his temper at a difficult time."Sentencing Goddard to life, Mr Justice Beatson, said: "Alfie wouldn't settle and you became upset. You shook him, rocking him from side to side, and grabbed and squeezed him too hard, hard enough to fracture three ribs. Then, in a moment of anger, you dropped him from a height of five feet."Describing the death of the baby as "truly tragic", Beatson said social services were not responsible.A serious case review into the death of Alfie is due to be published as part of an inquiry into the deaths of seven children through abuse or neglect while under the care of Doncaster council's children's services department since 2004.