Tony Blair yesterday shelved plans for an all-out constitutional clash with the Lords over plans for a supreme court and instead sent out envoys to start talks with the Tories to get the changes through before the general election.A government source said: "Do we want to have a Punch and Judy show or do we want to get the bill? Well, we want the bill." The government was defeated in the Lords late on Monday night when peers voted to kick the bill into the "long grass" of pre-legislative scrutiny, raising the possibility that the government's legislation would not become law in this parliament. Peter Hain, the leader of the Commons, had been issuing threats, endorsed by Downing Street, to reintroduce the blocked bill in the Commons immediately and then invoke the Parliament Act to force it through the Lords. Instead Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs secretary, yesterday opened talks with the Conservatives to agree a timetable for the supreme court bill to be scrutinised and then to complete its normal Lords stages before being carried on to the Commons in the autumn in what is expected to be the final parliamentary session before the general election. Bills can now, by consensus, be carried over from one session to the next. "We were a bit surprised by the result of last night's vote and so were the Tories," one government source said. Ministers are now hoping to complete the pre-legislative debate before the summer. They are aware that some of the judiciary do not want the committee to unpick the judges' and Lord Falconer's concordat on the new system of judicial appointments. The government has also decided that it would not look good to have a big clash with the Lords over the degree of scrutiny a bill would receive. Tory sources said they were 99% certain they would reach an agreement. Alan Duncan, the shadow constitutional affairs spokesman, said the government had decided in the cold light of day it could not risk a clash not only with Conservative peers but also with cross-benchers and present and former law lords. "We are now going to get proper and serious scrutiny of the government's plans, including the funding of the supreme court and how it will relate to the new House of Lords," he said.Lord Lloyd of Berwick, a retired law lord, had suggested the early debate be concluded by a Lords committee by the summer recess, the bill being carried over into the next parliamentary session. Lord Falconer dismissed this timetable as fanciful, but appears to be backtracking. Some ministers are privately arguing that the Lords reform bill should be extended to restrict the length of time the Lords could delay a bill from one year to perhaps a month. In the next two weeks, ministers are to introduce the bill abolishing the hereditary peerage and setting up a statutory appointments commission. The bill creates a wholly appointed second chamber, pending further reform. But it has been decided that it must allow amendments for an elected upper house - opening up the possibility of revolt by those many Labour MPs who do back a wholly or partly elected second chamber.