They never wanted to draw attention to themselves, but my parents nevertheless helped to establish a browner Britain. Back in 1969 they thankfully ignored all the dire warnings about the evils of miscegenation, alienated friends and family, and, according to local folklore, wantonly lowered the tone of the neighbourhood to have me.Those who enthused about my birth were however, optimistic. This little coffee bean would surely grow up to be happily oblivious to race problems. But some 30 years later, my dogged failure to jump aboard the multi-culti love train spreading the "love sees no colour" message has provoked much anguish. Where did it all go wrong, they wonder. Why isn't she delving into Yahoo!'s interracial dating website, embRACE, for anything other than a good nose around? I have expressed a preference for black men because I do not believe that a white man can come close to understanding my reality as a black woman living in Britain. True love may be hard to come upon, and admittedly when it arrives it often blinds us. However, I need a person who has his eyes open. The ideal candidate must be able to guide me through the racial maze providing support and comfort along the way. But my preference does not stem from a physical dislike of other races. My occasional George Clooney moments - lustful, fanciful and gloriously sinful - are easily interpreted. Only a truly twisted mind could insist they couldn't possibly be attracted to members of another race. As a person of mixed race I've also been told that a dose of self-hatred has led me to deselect white men. Aren't I consciously aiming to negate my "white side" by choosing a black partner? Don't I just want a man who can sire a higher grade of "racially pure" child? Well, sorry to disappoint, but I have a fully realised sense of self, and the rancid dogma of separatism is entirely unappealing. As for the concept of racial purity, this is a complete misnomer. Is it, then, a question of culture? Sharing some disparate black British identity with my black partner is convenient in many respects. But a mutual appreciation of soul food and a propensity to slip into outdated black street slang is hardly what makes or breaks a relationship. As for cutting a fine figure together on the dancefloor: in a nutshell, we don't. Nor do I agree with the pessimists who insist mixed-race relationships never work. After all, without such a pairing I wouldn't exist. The widely held assumption that all mixed race couples are simply seeking to fulfil stereotypical racial fantasies doesn't hold much water either. The racial chasms that may occur in such relationships can be bridged if both partners are willing to engage in honest dialogue. Many of my friends and family are happy in mixed-race relationships and long may the ensuing bi-racial baby boom continue to sink the hearts of race purists everywhere. I wish them the best of British. I want a partner who has a full comprehension of what it's like to be black in a hostile environment. Not only must he have a handle on the complex politics of race, but he has to walk the walk as well. A man with whom I share this understanding will have a wider perception of me. As a heterosexual black woman, a loving relationship with a black man is the nearest thing I'm going to get to a near-complete comfort zone. Perhaps with the sole exception of South Park's Chef, black men are no more or less sexist, funny, intelligent, loving, backbreaking, rampant lurve machines than their white counterparts. But the honesty I can share with a black partner would be difficult to achieve with a white man. The irony is that black-on-black relationships are often seen as problematic, not just in the black community but at large. Convention has it that both sides carry too much baggage. To gain an at least cursory understanding of the gridlock, try scanning some contemporary R&B. The discourse is aired every day on MTV. Club anthems like TLC's No Scrubs and Destiny's Child are self-explanatory; Bills, Bills, Bills did not manage to strike such a chord with so many young black women simply because of their beats-per-minute factor. Alternatively, visit any of the internet's black chat forums and you will find such telling missives as The Drama of Asking a Black Women to Dance and Women Prefer Dogs to Nice Guys. Or how about the inflammatory Black Men, Who Needs Them?  With such damning evidence at hand, you'd be excused for thinking that all black relationships are a bloody battleground of unpaid bills and rent arrears. Yet a great many couples benefit - even thrive - from the understanding that a sense of shared adversity can bring. This works for interracial couples too, but I suspect in a rather different way. I don't want a partner whose sole ambition is to languish in the mire of racial politics. A love partnership borne out of a shared state of black rage would eventually secure me a place in a mental institution. Rather, I find comfort in someone who recognises race as the all-encompassing, insidious, tedious factor that it is. I rarely meet white people prepared to go the whole laborious nine yards on matters of race. I understand why. The reality isn't exactly agreeable. Take, for instance, the question often posed by the comic character, Ali G. The Staines homeboy often asks: "Is it because I is black?" Well, in all seriousness Mr G, it very often is. Broaching the subject of race will not worry my partner and me. No burden of proof is required, no heartfelt confessions of liberal guilt, no accusations of aggressiveness when my ghetto girl alter ego raises her belligerent head. The understanding we have of each other's racial existence will be unsaid for the most part. But knowing that empathy exists is reassuring. Like listening to the blues, it may be incredibly depressing, but it's also strangely consoling at times. In a society that is far from colour-blind, a little racial healing with the one you love goes an awful long way.