When I first started investigating murders and killings of disabled people in Britain, back in 2007, I found case after case where disabled men were accused of sexual crimes – always, I stress, wrongly – and then subjected to the violence of the lynch mob. I chronicled many in my 2011 book, Scapegoat: Why We Are Failing Disabled People. The first case to hit public consciousness – when disabled people themselves started becoming aware of false allegations – was when a woman, Jennifer Henry, murdered a popular disabled man, Albert Adams, in Greenwich, in 2005. She then phoned 999 and accused him, falsely, of raping her. A disability organisation in Greenwich had their suspicions of her and reported them to police who found his body hidden in his flat.There have been many more killings, over the years. In just over one year, in fact, I found five such killings related to false sexual offence charges, including paedophilia. These included that of Sean Miles, who was stripped, stabbed and drowned after being accused of being a paedophile. Steven Hoskin was similarly accused, tortured, targeted and murdered by so-called friends, who dragged him around on a dog leash before pulling him to a railway viaduct and pushing him off. Now Bijan Ebrahimi takes his place on that sad list of murders – a grim pattern of disabled men falsely accused of sexual crimes they didn't commit, and then killed with overwhelming cruelty by a lynch mob.The catalogue of murders that I and others uncovered, and growing pressure to do something about disability hate crime from disabled peoples' organisations, led to an inquiry by the Equality and Human Rights Commission, on which I and many other disabled people, academics and others served as expert advisers. Its report, Hidden in Plain Sight, declared that the false allegation of paedophilia against a disabled person was a clear and present danger to their lives. The report states: "Although most sexual abuse of children is carried out by adults that they know, often within their family or friendship network, the popular stereotype of a 'paedophile' suggests that they are very different to other members of society."It may be that perceptions of both disabled people and paedophiles as "different", leads to disabled people being falsely labelled as sexual offenders. It also seems that some people in the community may maliciously accuse a disabled person of being a paedophile to excuse their hostility to them and justify violence. Further research on the perpetrators of disability harassment, their motivations and offending patterns is needed.When I wrote Scapegoat, I wanted to see what similarities there were between offenders, locations, victims, to see if there was anything we could do to establish risk profiles that might help disabled people and organisations better understand disability hate crime. I found that many disabled people were attacked or murdered by so-called friends – what is colloquially known (somewhat controversially) as "mate crime" – rather than strangers or acquaintances, as is the case with many other forms of hate crime. I also found that, unlike other forms of hate crime, women seemed to be disproportionately involved and to motivate and instigate many attacks. Many offenders were young, poor and unemployed. These were, of course, preliminary findings, and during the Equality Commission's inquiry I, and others, successfully argued for analysis of perpetrators of disability hate crime to be commissioned. The results may well tell us much more about offenders' views and the horrifying false message about paedophilia that has proved so deadly to so many disabled people.Until we have this analysis, it is too early to suggest, as some commentators have done, that the lynching of Bijan Ebrahimi is a class issue. I am uncomfortable with that analysis, as it shows little understanding of the other factors at play – such as his disability. Disability hatred has motivated witch-hunts for centuries. The longest witch-hunt in British history, in East Anglia, started with the arrest and eventual hanging of a one-legged woman, Elizabeth Clarke, in the 1644. That, too, started with neighbours turning on disabled neighbours. One sympathetic witness said that the witches were "decrepit and diseased". Things don't seem to have changed much.