The chairman of the inquiry which will examine how Ian Huntley landed a job as a school caretaker yesterday vowed to make "sensible" recommendations to improve the way those working with children are vetted.At the opening of the inquiry Sir Michael Bichard said he would not shirk from criticising individuals and organisations who made errors which gave Huntley, the murderer of 10-year-olds Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells, the opportunity to kill. But he said he would not lose sight of the implications for all police forces and other agencies and would suggest practical changes that would allay parents' fears about vetting procedures. Sir Michael, who hopes to deliver his report by May, said: "I want to proceed with all speed so that those affected by these tragic events are able to look to the future in the knowledge that the lessons that are to be learned have been identified and translated into action as soon as possible." The inquiry was ordered by the home secretary, David Blunkett, in the wake of Huntley's conviction last month after it emerged that he had secured a job at Soham village college, in Cambridgeshire, despite being suspected of nine sex crimes, many involving underage girls. There was outrage when Humberside police claimed that the Data Protection Act had prevented officers from keeping details of the allegations against Huntley - made when he lived in Grimsby - because they had not led to any convictions. Cambridgeshire police were criticised after the force admitted officers had not checked both names the caretaker had used - Huntley and Nixon - when they consulted the police national computer. North East Lincolnshire council was also blamed for not linking five reports it held concerning Huntley's behaviour over three years. During yesterday's preliminary hearing, at High Holborn, London, Sir Michael, a civil servant, explained how he meant to run the inquiry. He said the "primary focus" was looking at how "information or intelligence was recorded, retained, used, stored and deleted within the framework established by the data protection legislation". He added: "My aim, quite simply, is to discover first what happened, secondly why it happened, and thirdly what lessons can be learned and what conclusions drawn and make recommendations to the home secretary." He said he had written to various parties, including the two police forces, the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, who is in charge of enforcing the data protection laws, and government officials. He had also appealed for any other parties who believed they had relevant information to contact the inquiry team. Sir Michael said he expected there to be a "substantial" amount of information. Once the parties have responded, witnesses will be called to give evidence at public hearings likely to begin next month. Witnesses are to be questioned by counsel for the inquiry. He indicated that "multiple teams of lawyers" would be frowned on (the number of lawyers on other inquiries, such as Bloody Sunday, has attracted criticism). Though it is unlikely that the families of Holly and Jessica will be called they will be kept up to date with the inquiry. Sir Michael said documents and transcripts would be published on a website. After the hearings and a draft of the report he intends to write to those criticised giving them a chance to respond. The chief constable of Humberside, David Westwood, thought to be the most vulnerable of the two police chiefs, has hired the QC Jeremy Gompertz, who represented David Kelly's family during the Hutton inquiry. Sir Michael added that he believed the public was so "shocked and dismayed" by the Soham case there would be no objections to money being spent on an inquiry which got to the truth and prevented such a case happening again.