The remains of a teenager believed to have been shot dead by her father were found in the debris of their burnt-out mansion in an area underneath her bedroom, an inquest heard today. Police believe Christopher Foster, 50, killed his 15-year-old daughter, Kirstie, and his wife Jill, 49, before setting their £1.2m house ablaze and killing himself. The inquest into their deaths was opened this morning at Shrewsbury magistrates court by the coroner John Ellery. A cause of death had yet to be established for Kirstie and Christopher Foster, the court heard. Jill Foster died from a gunshot wound to the head, and police were carrying out tests to determine whether a rifle found in the house was the murder weapon. Detective Superintendent Jon Groves, of West Mercia police, said DNA tests and dental records had been used to identify the bodies as the three members of the Foster family. No relatives attended the inquest, which Ellery adjourned until the police investigation had been completed. That was expected to take several months. Kirstie's body was the last of the three to be found as forensic investigators sifted through the shell of Osbaston House in Maesbrook, Shropshire, after it was destroyed by fire in the early hours of August 26. CCTV footage recovered from the house showed a man who police believe to be Foster firing a rifle at a horsebox blocking the gates as his house burned. The family's horses and dogs had also been shot dead. Police examined Kirstie's computer after it emerged she had been chatting on the internet to friends. Communication ceased abruptly at 1am, a few hours before the fire brigade was called to find the house, stable block and garages on fire.Foster's business Ulva Ltd, which supplied insulated pipes to the offshore oil industry, went into liquidation last year. Court documents revealed the company owed more than £1m to a supplier and £800,000 in tax. Earlier this year a high court judge branded Foster "bereft of the basic instincts of commercial morality" after finding he had stripped Ulva of its assets and transferred them to a new firm.