Ofsted has been told it must reinspect hundreds of local authorities in England after an excoriating government report said the watchdog’s failure to detect evidence of widespread child sexual exploitation (CSE) in Rotherham left its credibility “on the line”.The communities and local government (CLG) select committee said it was clear that CSE will have been missed in other parts of the country because Ofsted’s inspection procedures between 2007 and 2012 did not have the “vision and flexibility to spot emerging problems”. Ofsted’s credibility is now on the lineClive Betts MP “Given the inability of Ofsted to recognise organised child sexual exploitation until 2012-13, is it possible there are more Rotherhams waiting to be found?” asked Clive Betts MP, chair of the CLG committee, in a report published on Tuesday. “Ofsted’s credibility is now on the line,” he said.The Jay report last year revealed that at least 1,400 children had been sexually exploited in Rotherham between 1997 and 2013. Prof Alexis Jay, the former chief inspector of social work in Scotland, accused police and council leaders in the South Yorkshire town of “blatant” failures to protect these children, and yet numerous inspections by Ofsted during that time failed to pick up on the problem.In August 2012, two years before Jay’s acutely critical report, Ofsted deemed Rotherham’s child protection procedures “adequate”. Two months after the much-publicised Jay report last year, Ofsted downgraded the authority to “inadequate”, with inspectors reporting “widespread or serious failures that result in children being harmed or at risk of harm”.MPs mark down Ofsted on response to Trojan horse school allegations The report criticises Ofsted for following Jay rather than leading. It says: “We accept that Ofsted’s 2014 inspection of Rotherham was necessary and prudent in the light of the findings in the Jay report. However, Professor Jay had done the job for Ofsted. It was as if, having been told the answer to the question, Ofsted was bound to come up with the correct answer when it took the examination. Eventually coming up with the correct answer does not wipe out Ofsted’s past record.”The report points to an Ofsted inspection framework lacking sufficient focus on CSE and a reporting regime that risks offering false assurance to authorities across England that events in Rotherham are not being repeated in their localities.The committee recommends that Ofsted inspect all local authorities not already visited since the watchdog tightened its procedures in 2013. Ofsted has carried out 43 inspections under the current framework.“We have serious concerns that the shortcomings in Ofsted’s inspection arrangements until 2013 may mean that organised child sexual exploitation in other local authorities in England was missed. We are clear that Ofsted missed child sexual exploitation in Rotherham and, on the basis of the way it was operating from 2007 to 2012, we are also clear that it will have missed child sexual exploitation in many other local authorities. It should therefore inspect all local authorities in England,” wrote Betts.He added: “As a committee, we are concerned that Ofsted is too reactive, attuned to look for known types of failure rather than having the vision and flexibility to spot emerging problems in children’s social care. Ofsted needs to accelerate the progress of joined-up inspections to ensure they really get under the skin of what is happening in local authorities.”An Ofsted spokesperson said: “We welcome the report and the committee’s recognition that the changes we have made since 2012 strengthen our ability to uncover where children are at risk. We know we didn’t get it right historically in Rotherham and have apologised for those mistakes.”The committee also took evidence from Louise Casey, who was commissioned by the communities secretary Eric Pickles to inspect Rotherham council following the Jay report. Concluding that the council was not fit for purpose, she found an unhealthy culture dominated by bullying, sexism and whistleblower suppression. “Both today and in the past, Rotherham has at times taken more care of its reputation than it has its most needy,” she wrote in her report last month.The Casey report was lauded by the CLG committee, saying it “not only got under the skin of the authority but, in contrast to Ofsted’s findings, had a directness which could not be misconstrued”.The committee were less complimentary about Roger Stone, who resigned as leader of Rotherham council the day the Jay report was published last August, after 11 years in office. He gave evidence to the committee last week, defending his performance and complaining that Rotherham had been unfairly maligned, while criticising Pickles’s decision to impose commissioners to run the council.“I regret the demonisation of the town and the effect on local people. Great attempts have been made to portray Rotherham as ‘different’, both to justify the removal of the democratic rights of the people of the town and to avoid having to face the uncomfortable truth that if Rotherham isn’t different then the issue of child sexual exploitation is bigger than people think and that the challenges of dealing with it are also not being met across the country,” he wrote in submissions to the committee.He also denied being a bully and denied claims made during the session by Simon Danczuk, MP for Rochdale. Danczuk put it to Stone that he was rude and dismissive to outsiders asking questions, claiming one reporter had told him that “whenever he phoned you up during this period when you were leader it would come up as an undisclosed phone number on your phone; you would immediately answer the phone to this journalist – you would not know he was a journalist – saying, ‘Fuck off.’”  The committee also said South Yorkshire police would benefit from an inspection into its handling of CSE in Rotherham along the lines of that conducted by Casey. Such an exercise was announced last week by Dr Alan Billings, the South Yorkshire police and crime commissioner.