Britain was last week forced to confront two of the most shocking crimes committed on its soil. The serial killings perpetrated by Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, cast a permanent shadow over the 1970s, while the 1993 abduction and murder of toddler Jamie Bulger by two 10-year-old boys, Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, is burnt deep into our consciousness.But while Sutcliffe, 63, is behind bars, Thompson and Venables have been free since 2001, released on licence and given new identities at huge expense to the taxpayer, despite a vociferous campaign that they should remain in prison. This disparity was thrown into sharp relief when it emerged that Venables has been returned to prison for breaching his licence, allegedly for becoming involved in a fight.Sutcliffe last week launched a bid for freedom, on the grounds that the judge at his 1981 trial recommended he serve a minimum of 30 years, which was increased to 35 years by the then Lord Chief Justice, a tariff that can be amended by successive home secretaries. His claim that he should be eligible for release as early as next year has been bolstered, in part, thanks to the Bulger killers. Attempts by former home secretary Michael Howard to extend the length of their sentences wound up in the European Court of Human Rights that found on the side of Venables and Thompson, ruling that such extensions were illegal. Two years after their release, the Criminal Justice Act removed much of the power to set sentences previously held by the home secretary. From then on it was judges who were to have the final decision on sentencing lengths.Comparing the two cases throws up an unpopular and provocative question: why treat Sutcliffe differently from the Bulger killers? Admittedly, there are big differences between the cases. Sutcliffe is in Broadmoor and must prove he is sane before a parole board can even consider sanctioning his release. But his legal team claim this is now the case.He must also demonstrate genuine remorse and that he poses "little or no risk" to the public, something Venables and Thompson were able to do when they came before their parole boards.Jamie Bulger's estranged parents, Denise Fergus and Ralph Bulger, claim that Venables is now back where he belongs. To some extent they may feel vindicated by their warnings when the pair were released. Similar arguments will be made against Sutcliffe's release, not least by the families of his victims. But Sutcliffe's legal team believe they have momentum. Significantly, their client was not on a Home Office list, published in 2006, of 35 murderers in England and Wales who had been told by various judges and politicians that they should never be released.But, unlike Thompson and Venables, protecting Sutcliffe's identity if he were to be released would be near impossible. Almost blind, apparently diabetic and largely unable to look after himself after decades inside, he would need constant care. He would not be able to slink into a new life and would have to live in constant fear of reprisals. It would be a hollow sense of freedom. As with Venables, the past will never leave him.