Why should I trust you, Duwayne Brooks asks. I have no answer. Why should Duwayne Brooks trust anybody? It's six years since he was with Stephen Lawrence when he was stabbed to death by a white gang who chanted "nigger, nigger" before setting on him. Six years spent in the shadow of his murdered best friend.The Lawrence case grew from a lonely campaign into a tragic cause celebre. It eventually became the yardstick for measuring racism in modern Britain. While Lawrence became a martyr, and his parents Doreen and Neville won the sympathy and respect of the nation, Brooks just carried on his devastated way, trying to make sense of the incomprehensible. Last week he announced he was going to sue Sir Paul Condon and the Metropolitan Police over the handling of his case. The Macpherson report into the Lawrence case found that Brooks, who is now 24, was a victim of racist stereotyping by the Met - his evidence went unheard; he was called arrogant, violent, uncooperative and intimidating; he was accused of stealing a Coke from the police fridge; he was persistently asked if he and Stephen were in a gang, whether they had started a fight. The Met even regarded him as a potential suspect. Macpherson concluded: "We do not believe that a young white man would have been dealt with in this way." Brooks greets me with a handshake and a disapproving glance at the main headline of my newspaper, "Blacks lose out on 2000 funds". "That is so wrong," he says. "You never hear about whites do you? Blacks are black people, not blacks, right? Who writes these headlines?" He is dressed as he always seems to be in photos - beautifully ironed white shirt, formal tie and trousers. He could be on his way to church. He asks where I fancy going, and I suggest his house. Brooks smiles dismissively - I never let journalists anywhere near my house, he says. We settle on a cafe, and Brooks drives. The back of his car is bundled with Xerox boxes. After a couple of years on the dole and even longer suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, he now works as a photocopier engineer. Why has he decided to sue? "The police have been getting away with murder for too long." It sounds like a throwaway remark, but it isn't. "We waited on the report. We then gave the commissioner an extra six months to do something about the officers who were labelled racist and as far as he's concerned these officers have done no wrong. He hasn't done anything, and it doesn't look as if he's going to." I tell him I can't remember the last time an officer was prosecuted. "They prosecuted one for being cruel to dogs," he says tersely. What was the worst thing the police did? He talks about the disinformation, the half-hearted surveillance of the suspected killers, and finally the character assassination. "This is one thing the police are good at. When they know they're in the wrong, they try to destroy you first. They give out the impression to white middle England that 'He was this sort, it was all right to do this.' Do you know they investigated us more thoroughly than they investigated the boys." There is still a shrill note of disbelief in his voice. "Why? You see this was so hard for them because normally in a case where black people are involved, they have some dirt but they didn't have any dirt on us. We were squeaky clean." But even now, after all the years of personal slurs, what hurts most is the way the police failed to help Lawrence. "They had all the cars sitting there doing nothing... They could have put him in the back of the car and drove him up there. They could have administered first aid. We know now that he probably wouldn't have survived, but the point is they didn't try. They just left Steve there to die." It's shocking and touching when Brooks calls him Steve; a reminder that he was a real boy, not just the victim the rest of us know. At the cafe I start to light a cigarette. "No smoking,' Brooks says. "You are not smoking while I am here." He constantly reminds me that he's here on his terms. Brooks can be confrontational, but it feels like bravado, a coping mechanism. He tells me off for not having shorthand, for keeping real journalists out of a job, for running out of questions, for eating red meat, for drinking coffee, for drinking tea. At times he's puritanical beyond his years. It's like being scolded by a methodist granddad.  At other times he seems to be choking on his vulnerability. When he talks about Lawrence and their friendship and the unfairness of it all, the bossy bravado is replaced by a groping tenderness. "There was a group of us," he says, "and he was the softest person out of all of us. Not physically. He was strong, fitter than me, but his mind was softer. He would tolerate a lot of things that other people would lose their patience over." He says he often told him he was too trusting. The action against the Met refers to the psychological damage he has suffered. Soon after Lawrence's murder Brooks was charged with violent disorder at a protest march. The charges were eventually dropped. He has been regularly stopped and searched - more than half a dozen times this year. A while ago he was stopped under the prevention of terrorism act. "A black IRA bomber... I would love to see one," and he offers a rare laugh. In July the Met issued a press release saying that he had been charged with possessing a dangerous weapon. The dangerous weapon turned out to be a work tool, and the charge was dropped earlier this month. Did the police drive him to a breakdown? "I don't know. You'd have to speak to friends about that. As far as I'm concerned I didn't change. I was just more quiet, didn't really go nowhere. My friends noticed how my attitude changed, how my personality changed. But to me I was just sad." At the private prosecution he was summonsed as the main witness. He was introverted, scared and befuddled. A nervous wreck. His identification evidence was inconsistent and ruled inadmissable. The case collapsed, and some people blamed Brooks. I ask him if he's still in touch with the Lawrences. "Now why are you asking me a question like that?" he says sharply. "You know the answer." I tell him I don't. "You're lying... Well, I'm not in touch with the Lawrences. I've never been in touch with the Lawrences." He looks at a newspaper cutting which says he is seeking "substantial damages thought to be at least £50,000". "See all this crap?" he says. "Who said anything about money? I never said anything like this. Where d'you get this lot from?" Brooks says he feels guilty about Lawrence's death. He has often asked himself why on this occasion he allowed Lawrence to choose the route home when he normally took command, and why did his risk antennae not quiver when he saw the white gang 10 minutes before the attack. Then there was the trauma of having his evidence rejected?. "It was... destroying ." He says the word with such pain that it comes out slurred. "I shouldn't have been giving evidence at the time, but I was summonsed by the Lawrence legal team." He talks about the Lawrences' solicitor Imran Khan and barrister Michael Mansfield with bitterness. "They didn't speak to me at all about it. They didn't bother taking time out to investigate whether or not it would be a good time to do this." He wonders how they could have exposed him when he was obviously ill. "There was a report from a doctor saying I wasn't ready to give evidence, but you know how headstrong solicitors can be. And if I'd turned around at the time and said I'm not giving evidence and went wibbly-wobbly and collapsed, they would have blamed me again. I was stuck in a situation I couldn't get out of." I start a sentence, "Is it something that," and Brooks finishes it for me. "Pisses me off? Yes. Yes they blame me. 'Vital witness changes his evidence in court.' Wasn't that the headline? I just got muddled up and every chance I had to unmuddle what I was saying it was just getting worse and worse." He winces. He says he feels stronger today, that's why he has agreed to an interview. But you can see can see what the past six years have taken out of him. "Look at how skinny I am? Stress makes you forget to eat." Is the stress level falling?" No. It is higher because you have a feeling of helplessness. The government or police is there always there to clamp down on you. Despite everything I'm still in a position of helplessness." He says at least his work helps him forget. Does he still have nightmares about the killing? "No. I have nightmares about what might happen if I continue to campaign... That I might be found in the Thames." Of course, he says, true justice cannot be done now. Despite the Daily Mail running a picture of the gang of five and a banner headline "Murderers", the three most likely suspects cannot be charged again for Lawrence's murder. "I hate admitting it, but you've got to say they've done well because they played the system and beat the system, with the help of the system. They refused to talk at court, then they get a press opportunity and spill their guts. To the BNP and those kind of people, they are heroes." As far as Brooks is concerned the investigation may as well be wound up. "They're not going to get done for murder, they're not going to find any more evidence, nobody's going to speak. So stop wasting taxpayers' money." Is there anything that gives him hope? "No," he says citing any number of racist murders. "Look at Sarah Thomas who died in police custody. What do the police say? 'Oh she had cocaine in her system' She must have been taking cocaine for years. So what? That never killed her. But that's what they do, destroy character, destroy character, destroy character." "Why should I have any hope?" he fires back with crushing pessimism. Is that the Lawrences' view? "I don't know and I don't care either." He says all that's left for him is to sue the Met. "If the commissioner were to stand up tomorrow and say I accept legal liability [for racist officers] then it would all be over. And if the officers get disciplined that would be fine. I wouldn't even want one pence compensation." He scorns Condon's notion of "unwitting racism". "If I'm driving at 90 on the motorway and get stopped, was it unwitting, officer? What does this word unwitting mean? The officers are blatantly racist. Condon admitted to unwitting racism to keep his job. He doesn't want to be seen to have lost his job over a black death." What can Condon's successor do? "Dismiss officers that are racist, simple as that. They said they were going to do that. Why haven't they?" Brooks says there will never be justice while the police investigate their own corruption. He would like to be part of a team that tracks down racist officers. Suddenly he looks energised by the possibility of change. I ask him whether he ever tires of fighting. "No! How can I be tired. We aren't even near the finishing line yet. I can't be tired. There's a long way to go."