An appeal for information, to start. If you're a regular Tube user, do you now approach your journeys with a certain post-7/7 vigilance, scanning carriages for suspicious-looking bags and – though this never makes you feel great about yourself, I know – occasionally feeling anxious about some of your fellow passengers? Do you ever fret about crime, anti-social behaviour, and that in-built feature of Anglo-American capitalism whereby a rip-off or confidence trick may never be that far away? Might you have suspicions that, at the very highest levels of government, people are encouraged to package their policies – many of which are aimed at the denial of your basic rights – via carefully-formulated lies?Though it's not yet a matter of psychological meltdown, I personally answer "yes", "yes" and "yes" – which, if one of yesterday's Hay Festival events is anything to go by, makes me an exemplary product of "the age of paranoia".Daniel and Jason Freeman, who delivered a lecture-cum-presentation and then took the obligatory questions, are brothers: the former, a consultant clinical psychologist; the latter, a writer. Jason has already authored a self-help book entitled Overcoming Paranoid and Suspicious Thoughts; according to his own blurb, Daniel is "one of the world's leading researchers on paranoia". If you want a flavour of their work, have a look here, and bear in mind their definition of the condition that so concerns them: "the unfounded fear that others deliberately intend to cause us harm".Now, they haven't much – in fact, any – comparable historical data, but having conducted experiments, looked at the relevant statistics and cross-referenced them with no end of other information, they have come to the conclusion that paranoia is on the increase, and reaching unprecedented levels. We are, they say, twitchy and mistrusting in ways that previous generations were not – a development, say the Freemans, partly traceable to "urbanicity" (my spellcheck's not having that word, but it refers to the increasingly dominant experience of city living), victimisation (crime may have fallen overall in the last ten years, but it's way up on 1950s levels), an increasingly shrill and panic-mongering media, and the widespread exposing of conspiracies and cover-ups.A sample passage from the book they were hawking last night: "At any time, around a quarter of the population is having regular paranoid thoughts, with lots more people probably experiencing them occasionally. Our fears have gotten the better of us and the 21st century begins to look like a new age of paranoia." Really? How so? The first bit – especially the "probably" observation – seems pretty woolly, the second even more so. It's a matter of record that the UK was awash with mistrust in the build-up to both world wars, and for just about the whole of their duration. The cold war period, I'm told, was not exactly calm and collected; the era of witch trials was hardly level-headed. Give or take humanity's in-built propensity to fall into a mass panic, how have our fears now "gotten the better of us"? Yes, people worry too much about crime and reading the Daily Mail every day would probably make anyone completely mad. From time to time, our fears can turn ugly (as happened in the case of a steel band orchestra suspected of being terrorists, cited at the event). But these are genuinely anxious times: to take the Freemans' definition of paranoia head-on, it's the "unfounded" bit that seems misplaced. Some people do want to blow up airliners and/or fly them into tall buildings, and in the largest numbers possible. Not least in the current economic moment, there is always a chance that you may be defrauded, or unfairly fired. As proved by the ongoing economic crisis, large parts of the private sector have long been out of control. This government, among many across the world, does fancy taking away some of our most essential liberties. All this will occasionally make us feel anxious, and think we should be that bit more vigilant. But there's surely nothing pathological – let alone "paranoid" – about it.Towards the end, I asked the brothers Freeman about the thoughts I tend to have on Tube trains, and Daniel reckoned my vigilance is probably just about OK, unless it becomes "unhelpful", which told me what I already know: I think it probably has its uses, so I'm sticking with it. As I left, the creeping whiff of snake oil hung in the air, an impression only furthered by the purchase of the Freeman brothers' book, Paranoia: The 21st Century Fear – a lovely-looking little thing, retailing for £9.99, that contains no more than 15,000 words. It's probably a lucrative enough business, but from where I'm (anxiously) sitting, they seem to want to make us paranoid about paranoia.