Twin brothers were yesterday sentenced to nine years in jail for killing their step-grandmother on their 18th birthday. Robert and Jonathan Maskell and their 19-year-old friend Dwane Johnston, all from Edmonton, north London, were convicted of robbery and the manslaughter of 74-year-old Anjelica Hallwood last month, but cleared of murder.They killed the frail pensioner, whom the twins called Nana, as they ransacked her home searching for her savings.Sentencing the three at the Old Bailey to nine years for manslaughter and a further seven years for robbery, Judge Gerald Gordon said their "thuggery" had brought devastation to Mrs Hallwood's family. Their sentences will be served concurrently in a young offenders' institute, and all three must serve an extended license period of three years after their release.During the trial, the court heard how the twins excused themselves from their birthday party in January last year, suspecting that Mrs Hallwood had up to £3,000 hidden in her house.The three broke into Mrs Hallwood's home, where Johnston was staying after leaving prison the previous day, and stole more than £1,000. During the raid, Johnston hit Mrs Hallwood, who was just 4ft 10in, in the face, and put pressure on her throat as he pinned her to the ground. Before returning to the party, the Maskells spent some of the stolen cash on a mobile top-up card and a kebab. The pensioner's body was discovered the next day.Although the Maskells were not blood relatives, she had treated the twins as her grandsons and given their friend, Johnston, a home when no one else would. Robert and Jonathan were the sons of the former wife of Mrs Hallwood's son Peter.The judge said: "For reasons of pure greed you set out to rob her. You could so easily have arranged to steal while she was out and safe. It is difficult to imagine a more despicable crime."Detective Sergeant Derek Cameron said after the case: "The twins visited her regularly when they were children and lived nearby as extended family. She showed them nothing but kindness."The Maskells had been friends with Johnston - their half-sister's boyfriend - since they all attended a school for children with learning difficulties. The twins, who were unemployed, are said to have lived a fantasy life in internet chatrooms. In court, the Maskell brothers and Johnston tried to blame the killing on each other.