What is the last refuge of a prime minister in trouble? Grasping for something "tough but intelligent" on crime. Such transparent desperation rarely appeases the insatiable furies at their heels. David Cameron's eye-catcher didn't even last half a day at the top of the news, though it affects many lives.In his ceaseless search for tough law and order announcements, Tony Blair doubled the prison population at phenomenal cost, wasting money that might have reduced reoffending. Myriad new crimes were created, sentences were lengthened by law, and judges and magistrates tuned their punishments to his political messages. Only recently, for the first time in years, former justice minister Ken Clarke's good sense did bring down prison numbers a little, despite a blip in excessive riot sentencing – though they are rising again. The Office for National Statistics says the figures are not conclusive, but it looks as if crime rates are continuing to fall, whoever is in power.Michael Howard's notoriously mendacious "prison works" cry, Jack Straw's implementation of "three strikes and you're out" and cancelled early release schemes, David Blunkett and John Reid's ever harsher measures – all these sent prison numbers soaring, even though crime was falling. Counter-intuitive it may be, but there is little connection between crime rates and imprisonment. Across Europe and the US, crime has fallen, regardless of which states lock up a high or low proportion of offenders. Ministry of Justice research says prison cuts crime so little as to be utterly incommensurate with the £40,000 a year per prisoner it costs, money being better spent on prevention instead.Governments are running out of headline-grabbing tough measures, so Cameron's team re-announced old ploys and decoys. "Two strikes and you're out" was already passed in the recent Legal Aid and Sentencing of Offenders Act. Life sentences for gun-runners was announced months ago. Payment by results to private companies to cut re-offending was another re-announcement, but now it gives probation everywhere to G4S, A4e, Serco and the like, without waiting for the results of pilots. Cameron's spinners planted on the Mail on Sunday's front page a plan to abolish the meagre £46 prisoners get on release. Who thinks it a good idea to send them out without the price of a sandwich or a ticket home, if they have one? But that was just a dog-whistle which mysteriously vanished from Cameron's speech.With much posturing and positioning, Labour passed 50 criminal justice bills: compare that with just six between 1929 and 1945. The net result was self-defeating, as it will be for Cameron. If governments won't calm crime fears by trumpeting the fact that crime is dropping, few will ever hear that reassuring message. Pollsters show few voters believe there is less chance of being a victim of crime now than at any time in the last 30 years. The news will always wallow in fascinating crime horrors, and crime drama will always be compulsive viewing, but must politicians always join in this stirring of fear? Oppositions rarely resist – remember Cameron's absurd "broken Britain" rhetoric.Labour looks unlikely to break this pattern of political recidivism. New Labour was born the day Blair chose "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" as his recipe, his trade-off between illiberalism and egalitarianism. Is that the only way to power? Labour boasts it will only promote "what works", evidence-based crime policies, but as they refuse to condemn their era of evidence-free mass imprisonment, that looks doubtful. Politicians know quite well what works in crime prevention, but that's not the same as what they think works with voters. Some voters will relish Cameron's call for retribution, but many will know they are being treated as idiots. Contempt for politicians grows when people sense they are being treated with contempt.In three weeks Cameron will suffer the consequences of his opposition opportunism. Everyone in England and Wales, but not Londoners, goes to the polls to elect the police and crime commissioners he devised on the back of an envelope. He thought they sounded popular, but we shall see how many vote: creating hollow ballots can be dangerous. Already at odds with the police, Cameron has created a mechanism that will ensure forces can never be rationalised or reformed, while the police gain a tireless "democratic" advocate demanding ever more manpower and money, despite no close correlation between police resources and crime rates. (There is a link between numbers of police and the amount of crime reported – figures are treacherous.) Crimefighting money is far better spent on now-abolished youth services, on drug and alcohol programmes or housing, employment and treatment of offenders.Out campaigning, would-be commissioners focus on street crime, burglary and antisocial behaviour – all already falling. So who will push resources towards crimes the public worries about less? Domestic violence is rising, always an orphan in the fight for attention. Solving more white-collar crime brings the state extra income, but clever people studying accounts in back offices will lose out to bobbies on the beat as commissioners eye their re-election.Every half-alert politician knows the famous research showing each plod on the pavement will only come within a 100m of a crime once every eight years – and then probably won't see it. But you won't find Labour whispering such blasphemies. Astonished to find themselves unexpectedly well-positioned as the policeman's friend, Labour looks set to fight their way to the election decrying the shocking fall in police numbers – because that's what works with voters.Telling the truth may not always be the road to victory. Politicians dissemble for good reason, right to mistrust voters claiming to want hard truths. Will people choose honesty when confronted with awkward and unpopular counter-intuitive facts? Labour faces that dilemma on many fronts. Borrowing more to invest in growth and cut the deficit is Keynes's difficult "paradox of thrift". Closing some hospitals to improve NHS results goes against local belief. Cutting the police to spend better on crime prevention sits in that same difficult in-tray. At least Labour agonises over these, while such scruples rarely seem to trouble Cameron's sleep.