A man was jailed for life yesterday after he admitted killing a 19-year-old student on a busy train in what was described as an "entirely unprovoked attack".Thomas Lee Wood, 22, from Skelmersdale, Lancashire, was ordered to serve 21 years before being considered for parole.He stabbed Thomas Grant once in the chest in a packed carriage as the train passed through Cumbria in May.Tim Holroyde QC, prosecuting at Preston crown court, said Mr Grant had been returning home from university and had been waiting on Carlisle station when he had the "misfortune" to catch Wood's eye."The defendant plainly took exception to this," said Mr Holroyde. "He said to Mr Grant, 'What the fuck are you looking at? I'll stab you in a minute'."On the train, the court heard, Wood, who had already had an argument with his girlfriend, then upset a female passenger. A witness described him as "walking up and down the carriage as though he was stalking".Mr Holroyde said Wood then appeared with a large knife in his hand. He walked over to Mr Grant and stabbed him once in the chest. Passengers heard the teenager cry out, "I've been stabbed." The court heard that Wood then said, without emotion, "He's dead." A member of staff on the Virgin train managed to evacuate the carriage and lock Wood inside.According to witnesses, Wood "went berserk" and tried to kick the door down. Quoting the train manager, Mr Holroyde said: "He ... tried to tear the door open with his fingers. He then realised that he could not get through and I just froze and watched him. He went berserk and he was kicking the door that I had just locked, using his foot to kick backwards."He was then kicking the rubber between the two doors, going absolutely berserk ... He was just like a mad man. I was afraid he was going to kill me."When the train pulled into Oxenholme station, Wood escaped through a train window after smashing it with a hammer and throwing a fire extinguisher through it. He was arrested a short time later.After Wood had fled the scene, the court was told, passengers rushed to Mr Grant's aid but discovered he was already dead. The knife was found later by police, broken in half.Mr Grant had just finished the first year of a history and Arabic degree at St Andrews University and was returning to his family home in Churchdown, Gloucestershire, for the summer.Last night Mr Grant's parents Ken and Pat spoke briefly outside court. "[Thomas] had great potential to make a significant contribution to society, but this potential has been needlessly wasted. For us, the way ahead is dark, lit only by memories of our dear son, by the love and support of family and friends and by the spirit of Thomas's wonderful young friends and colleagues from school and university."