A convicted serial killer was found guilty on Friday of Scotland’s most notorious unsolved killings, in the country’s first case of double jeopardy. Angus Sinclair, 69, acquitted of murdering Christine Eadie and Helen Scott in 2007, was convicted at Livingston high court, becoming the first person in Scotland to be retried for the same offence following a change in the law governing double jeopardy. He was jailed for a minimum of 37 years.The 17-year-old girls disappeared from the World’s End pub in Edinburgh in October 1977. Their bodies were found the following day; they had been raped, battered and strangled with their underwear.Sinclair, a serial rapist and killer who has been in jail for more than 30 years, was accused of carrying out the murders with his brother-in-law, Gordon Hamilton, who died in 1996 without facing justice. The jury took less than two and a half hours to convict Sinclair, after hearing that the girls had been seen leaving the pub with two men after an evening out drinking with friends in Edinburgh.During the trial, the jury visited the remote locations in East Lothian where the victims’ bodies were found five miles apart. They heard that Scott had been forced to walk barefoot into the field where she was found dead, while Eadie had been punched and kicked in the head and her wrists tied behind her back.Scotland’s senior prosecutor, Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland QC, told the court the girls had suffered “terrifying, horrific and barbaric” deaths. He said: “Thankfully, justice has no sell-by date in Scotland.”Helen Scott’s father branded his daughter’s killer a “beast” and said the two girls could finally rest in peace after the jury’s verdict. Morain Scott, who gave evidence in the trial, said he was convinced that Sinclair may have other crimes to his name.Speaking outside the court, the 84-year-old said: “I wouldn’t call him an animal, because animals kill for food. He’s just a beast if anything else and I’m quite sure in my own mind there could be other crimes against him.”The jury was unaware that Sinclair was just 16 when he strangled Catherine Reehill, seven, in Glasgow in 1961. He admitted culpable homicide and served six years in jail. In 1982 he was convicted of a string of sex attacks on young girls, and in 2001, while still in prison for these crimes, he was given a life sentence for the murder of Mary Gallacher, 17, who was raped and stabbed in Glasgow in 1978.The World’s End case was reopened in 2006 after police used new DNA techniques to link Sinclair and Hamilton to the killings. But the case collapsed after a key piece of this evidence was withdrawn at the last minute, and the trial judge ruled that the prosecution had failed to prove its case. The decision was heavily criticised at the time.Tom Wood, the former deputy chief constable of Lothian and Borders police, who was in command of the case until his retirement in 2005, described the effect of the murders on Edinburgh. “When it happened in 1977, it was like the turning of a page. They looked like young women in their photographs but really they were little more than children. The nature of the crime, and the brutality of their deaths, meant that a real shock ran through this part of Scotland. People still remember it and have it as a point of reference.”The case haunted the police officers involved, said Wood. “As time went on, it was one of those cases that got under your skin. Over 30 years, hundreds of officers from Lothian and Borders police were involved in the investigation.“As each generation came up, they become infected with the determination to see this through. The officers who have devoted themselves to the case will see this as a debt repaid.”Describing the DNA advances that eventually brought Sinclair to justice, he added: “Unusually for cases at the time, the crime scene management and forensic retention was very good. It was remarkable that we were able to use the very latest forensic science to look back almost forty years.”Wood also praised Scottish justice minister Kenny MacAskill and Frank Mulholland who instituted a review of double jeopardy legislation following the dismissal of the original case against Sinclair in 2007. “They didn’t sit back, but changed the law and saw justice done. The World’s End legacy is that the Scottish legal system is in a better place, which balances between the rights of victims and the accused.”