A warning from the new chief inspector of prisons that the "culture of brutality" at Wormwood Scrubs prison, west London, could re-emerge because of management weaknesses has provoked her first serious public clash with the director-general of the prison service.In the 213-page report of an unannounced inspection of Wormwood Scrubs published today, Anne Owers, the chief inspector, said they found no direct evidence of brutality during their 10 days in the prison last December but that over the last two years progress had stalled, and had even gone backwards in some areas. In particular, she said the prison management had failed to eradicate a "deep and resistant negative culture" among some staff and middle managers who were still clearly resistant to change. Ms Owers said in her report that "much of the prison's time is spent in daily crisis" and senior managers who remained were in danger of being worn down by trench warfare on major and minor issues, with a lack of necessary support from prison service headquarters, particularly over staffing levels. These problems created management gaps "through which we feared that the old culture could re-emerge". The warning from the chief inspector that the old culture of violence could re-emerge brought an angry response from Martin Narey, the prison service's director-general. "I firmly reject the inspectorate's conclusions," he said. "The unacceptable treatment and the use of violence against them has been eradicated at Wormwood Scrubs, with officers dismissed and imprisoned. "The prison is now a safer and much more decent establishment. Of course, I would have liked to have seen even faster improvement but I am proud of what has been achieved and progress continues." Mr Narey said he was more critical of Ms Ower's press release and preface than the inspection report itself. "I don't think the report is unfair at all but the overall conclusion is unfair. She is entitled to make her views plain and we are entitled to disagree. We are disagreeing on this occasion." Today's report comes two years after an inspection - prompted by a dossier of allegations about assaults and brutality - led to 100-plus wardens being investigated. Some 27 officers were suspended and six eventually imprisoned for violence. Three of those who were acquitted have been told they will never work in the prison service again. The report said that while allegations of assaults by staff remained at the same low level as 2000, allegations of attacks by other inmates had nearly trebled. The inspectors found that the prison's anti-bullying strategy was ineffective and, in some cases, identified bullies who had been given jobs as cleaners, allowing them free access to others. While there had been improvements in the once notorious segregation unit, the physical condition of in-patient wards in the healthcare centre was appalling, with highly unsatisfactory patient regimes. The mattresses and bed linen were stained, toilets dirty, and in one case, vomit on the floor had not been cleaned up. Ms Ower said in her introduction that "on all four of our key tests Wormwood Scrubs was less healthy, or at best no healthier, than it had been 22 months earlier". "Our inspectors found themselves once again being provided with promises, plans and hopes, rather than achievements and outcomes." The number of prisoners at the Scrubs has nearly doubled from 600 to around 1,100, with foreign nationals constituting over two-fifths of inmates. The governor of Wormwood Scrubs, Keith Munns, said he was confident that the prison was not unsafe or unhealthy. "The staff and systems now in place will not allow any violent culture to emerge," Mr Munns said. Jason, a 29-year-old drugs offender who has served 18 months of a six-year sentence, agreed."When I found out I was coming here from court it frightened me a little bit but when I got here, it was very different to what I had expected. One of four inmates selected to speak to the media, he added: " If you treat staff with respect, I think they treat you with respect."