'The Cornish National Liberation Army is a new and sinister name in regional extremism," reckoned Wednesday's edition of the Western Morning News. "Although newly formed, its roots go back decades and, arguably, centuries."The war on terror's extension to the south-west of England may seem unlikely, but this week the hitherto-unknown CNLA has certainly grabbed plenty of headlines. In a "directive" issued on Tuesday, the organisation threatened to burn down Rick Stein's seafood restaurant in the Cornish resort of Padstow, declaring that even his customers' cars were legitimate targets, and went on to take aim at Jamie Oliver's new Fifteen restaurant in Watergate Bay, near Newquay. The missive also claimed "significant funding" for the CNLA from "other Celtic nations" (take your pick from Wales, Scotland, Ireland, Brittany and the tax-dodging Isle Of Man) and sympathetic Americans.The CNLA is apparently an amalgamation of two other militant groups, the Cornish Liberation Army and An Gof - which translates as "The Smith", and refers to Michael Joseph, a blacksmith who led a brutally suppressed Cornish rebellion in 1497. The selected highlights of An Gof's three-decade history include a bomb attack on St Austell's courthouse in 1980, a fire at a Penzance hairdresser's a year later (it was apparently mistaken for a branch of the Bristol & West Building Society), and what may or may not have been its small-scale equivalent of September 11: a 1984 arson attack on the Zodiac Bingo Hall in Redruth. It then went quiet until March this year, when it served notice that "any attempts from hereon to fly the hated and oppressive Flag of St George, which we know as the blood banner in our country, will result in direct action by our organisation".Cornwall has an alternative emblem: the Flag of St Piran, a black-and-white cross that denotes a mysterious figure who was supposedly tied to a millstone by unreceptive heathens in his native Ireland and magically washed up near Perranporth (hence that coastal village's name). Heightening the Cornish claim to nationhood, there is the language - a relative of Welsh that had all but died out by the 19th century, but was first revived in the early 20th century. Of late, its prospects have taken a distinct upturn: though it's spoken by only around 300 people, Cornish was given official EU recognition in 2002, and is about to be tentatively reintroduced in the county's schools.There is also a mainstream(ish) party of Cornish nationalism: Mebyon Kernow, which translates as Sons of Cornwall, and was founded in 1951. Spurning bingo-hall arson in favour of the ballot box, their focus is less on independence than a bold move towards Cornish devolution. "We need to be recognised - not as some quaint little county, but a very specific kind of place," says Phil Rendle, their Penzance-based deputy leader. "We're after something similar to Scotland: law-making powers, essentially. We get a lot of questions about how big a country ought to be before it qualifies for national democracy. Our answer is, 'The size it is.' There are plenty of states in the world smaller than Cornwall."A lot of what I'm talking about has to do with identity, language, culture and history, which everybody is imbued with down here," he says. "Once you've passed over the Tamar estuary, there's a real sense of it being a completely different place. Most people in London have no idea of what it's like."Needless to say, the metropolitan types who do regularly make the trip - it's 310 miles from London to Penzance - are often the focus of Cornish resentment. The transformation of coastal idylls such as St Ives and Padstow into upscale holiday towns has caused a property boom that sits awkwardly with Cornwall's pinched economy: the area is one of four in Britain that qualify for poverty-related grants from the EU, and houses on the coast are well beyond the reach of most locals. The CNLA can perhaps be dismissed as political freaks, but it's this issue that they're obviously trying to tap into: prior to this week's brouhaha, they had reportedly got into the habit of spraying "Burn second homes" on Cornish walls."These kind of things do flare up from time to time," says Andrew George, the Lib Dem MP for St Ives, who describes himself as "Cornish rather than English" and took his parliamentary oath in his native tongue. "The whole thing seems bizarre, but some people feel such frustration and alienation that they express themselves in ways that can only be described as certifiable. I'm not surprised that second-home ownership is caught up in this somewhere. But what I really don't understand is why they're picking on celebrity chefs".