More than 1,800 people have been charged with homicide under the controversial, legal principle of joint enterprise in the past eight years, according to figures obtained from freedom of information requests.The first, detailed assessment of how frequently prosecutors rely on the 300 year old, common law offence has been obtained through research by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism.There is widespread concern over the complex doctrine, which enables defendants to be found guilty of a killing even if they did not deliver the fatal blow. Those not even present at the scene of a crime, or merely on the periphery, can be found guilty of murder.Three years ago, the House of Commons justice select committee called on the government to "take immediate steps" to bring in legislation clarifying joint enterprise rules. It also expressed concern that there was no record of how many people were being prosecuted for such offences.In the Bureau's report, senior legal figures - including the former president of the supreme court, Lord Phillips, and the head of the Law Commission, Professor David Ormerod - call for the law, which has been progressively developed by the courts, to be reformed.According to the study, between 2005 and 2013 there were 1,853 people prosecuted in England and Wales for homicide in a charge that involved more than four people - prosecutions that lawyers accept almost certainly relied on the joint enterprise doctrine. That represented 17.7% of all homicide charges. The rate of convictions appears relatively steady.Over the same period prosecutions for homicide with two or more defendants amounted to 4,590, equivalent to 44% of all homicide prosecutions in those years. The information was derived from freedom of information requests.One sign of legal anxiety, the report suggests, is the number of Court of Appeal rulings involving cases that had an element of joint enterprise. In 2008, the proportion was only 11%; by 2013, it had risen to 22%."Joint enterprise is considered by many legal professionals as a vital part of the criminal justice system," the Bureau's report states. "It allows prosecutors to pursue a conviction for those who are genuinely culpable for their part in a crime, even if they did not strike a fatal blow. Joint enterprise was eventually used to convict Stephen Lawrence's killers, even though it was impossible to say who of those present had inflicted the fatal wound that killed the teenager in 1993."But the report notes: "In homicides involving four or more defendants it was more likely that a defendant would eventually be acquitted - suggesting people may be being scooped up into serious prosecutions without there being strong enough evidence against them. The impact this can have on an innocent person's life is huge."Lord Phillips told the Bureau: "Joint enterprise is capable of producing injustice, undoubtedly. You have to rely on juries and on the judge to more or less say who was involved and how. There is huge discretion on how it is used by prosecutors. "It's very complicated for juries and it falls to the judge to do his best to explain things to the jury. Some of the scenes of group violence are so horrifying they can leave a jury willing to convict anyone who was there."Professor Ormerod, who advises the government on criminal legal reform, said: "Unless the law is clear - and I'm not certain it is - then you increase risk of injustice. If the law is unclear, it can be applied in an inconsistent way. It's possible because of the complexity of the law that it has been applied incorrectly."Professor Graham Virgo of Cambridge University told the Bureau: "My main concern is that a defendant can be convicted for murder, with the mandatory life sentence, even though he or she did not cause death and did not have the intention to kill or to cause serious injury."For the past two years, the Crown Prosecution Service has been recording figures of joint enterprise cases. It shows that in 2013, 423 people were charged in murder and manslaughter cases which involved multiple defendants; the figure for the previous year, 2012, was 470.Responding to the research, the justice minister Damian Green said: "Joint enterprise law has enabled some of the most serious offenders to be brought to justice. It ensures that if a crime is committed by two or more people, all those involved can potentially be charged and convicted of that offence."Sentencing in individual cases is a matter for the courts. We have no plans to change the law in this area."