Vincent Tabak wept in court as he told for the first time how he "still can't believe" he killed Joanna Yeates.Yeates's family looked on as the killer told the jury how he panicked after she rebuffed his attempts to kiss her.He also confirmed he had her body in his car when he went shopping later in the evening at Asda."I can't believe I did that," he told the jury. "I was not thinking straight."The defendant tearfully apologised to Yeates's parents as he explained how he tried to cover his tracks by dumping her body.He told Bristol crown court: "I'm so sorry for doing that. I put Joanna's parents through a week of hell. I still can't believe I did that."He said he did not mean to take her life, telling the jury: "I got the impression she wanted to kiss me. She had been friendly."When asked why he put his hand to Yeates's throat, Tabak said: "I was panicking. I wanted to stop her screaming. I wanted to calm her down."The 33-year-old said he made a pass at her within 10 minutes of her inviting him in."She started to scream quite loudly. I panicked and I put one of my hands over her mouth. I said something like: 'I'm sorry, it's OK. Please stop'."When asked why he put his hand to Yeates's throat, Tabak said: "I was panicking. I wanted to stop her screaming. I wanted to calm her down."Tabak said he was "not 100%" clear of the sequence of events after he initially noticed Yeates through her kitchen window as he set off to buy "treats" at Asda."I think she was wearing the pink T-shirt," Tabak, speaking in a Dutch accent, told the jury.The defence barrister William Clegg QC said: "What happened?"Tabak replied: "I waved to her and she waved back."He added: "She was friendly, coming to open the front door."She invited me in."Tabak said he took his coat off before hanging it on the coat rack in his neighbour's hall in her ground floor flat in Clifton, Bristol.Tabak said: "We went into their kitchen."Clegg said: "I want you to take this very slowly" as he asked Tabak about his conversation with Yeates."I recall we talked about [how] my girlfriend was away at a Christmas party and I felt a bit lonely, bored," Tabak said.She made a reference to her partner, Greg Reardon, being away, Tabak added."We talked about the cat, which had come into our flat once," he said.He said they also talked about his recent work trip to Los Angeles.He said they chatted for roughly ten minutes before "I decided to make a pass at her".Tabak said he did not mean to kill Yeates.He said: "I still can't understand what happened."After strangling her for less than a minute "she went limp, she fell to the floor", Tabak said.Tabak told the court that he briefly took Yeates's body back to his flat to put her in a bicycle cover, adding: "I carried her with my arms. One hand was underneath her back, the other was under her knees."After taking the body to Asda, Tabak said he returned to his flat for 20 minutes.He said he started driving to Bristol airport when he stopped at Longwood Lane, Failand, where "I did something horrendous. I decided to leave her body there."The trial continues.