Detectives believe they have probably already spoken to an arsonist who started a fire that killed three guests at a hotel in Cornwall in the summer, it emerged yesterday.Announcing that they were treating the blaze at the Penhallow hotel in Newquay as a triple murder, detectives said the killer may well be among the hundreds of people they had already interviewed.They have spoken to everyone staying or working at the Penhallow when the blaze, Britain's worst hotel fire in 30 years, razed the Edwardian building in August.The fire claimed the lives of Joan Harper, 80, Peter Hughes, 43, and his mother Monica, 86. Mr Hughes, a teacher from Cheslyn Hay, Staffordshire, jumped from the third floor of the 54-bedroom hotel after trying to save his mother. He shouted: "I can't move my mum" and "I can't breathe, I can't breathe" before leaping.Harper, of Stoke-on-Trent, was also trapped, while her twin sister, Marjorie Brys, was one of more than 90 people who escaped.At a press conference police and relatives of the victims appealed for witnesses.Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Boarland, head of CID for Devon and Cornwall police, said that after five months of investigation experts had concluded that the fire was deliberately started on the ground floor. "The speed at which this took place, linked to some witnesses saying what they smelled and saw that night ... means that this cannot have happened as a result of an electrical fault or some other means."He would not say if an accelerant had been used and said he had no idea of motive. Police had taken 650 statements.He added: "These three deaths are tragic enough as it is but those who saw the ferocity and speed at which it occurred know it is an absolute miracle that with over 90 people in that hotel, many of them elderly, this is not a murder investigation into many more deaths."Detective Chief Inspector Darren Lockley, chief investigation officer, said it was possible they had already interviewed whoever was responsible. But he added: "We cannot rule out the possibility there is someone else we do not know about."Police said there had been a break-in five hours before the fire. They were not linking it to the blaze at the moment, though they had not caught the burglar.Pat Albutt, the daughter of Monica Hughes and sister of Peter, said the arsonists had committed "the ultimate theft".She added: "It says all that you need to know about Peter that he died trying to save our mum from the fire. Losing my mum and Peter feels like the heart has been ripped out of our family."Marjorie Brys described her sister, Joan Harper, as her "best friend". She said it was dreadful trying to come to terms with losing her in a fire she herself had survived. "I saw her every day and was with her during good times and bad," she said."I have simply lost my other half. To now learn that someone must now answer a murder charge has added to an already heavy burden."