A woman who tormented a psychiatrist and his fiancee in a hate campaign was jailed for nine years yesterday by a judge who described the case as the most serious he had ever encountered.Maria Marchese harassed Jan Falkowski, 45, and threatened to kill the woman he loved, Deborah Pemberton, a 35-year-old accountant.The Argentinian-born woman, who appeared at Southwark crown court, south-east London, for sentencing, showed no emotion as the judge told her she had been convicted for a "sustained, terrifying campaign of threats to kill and harassment".Marchese's attempt to break up the couple began in 2001 when Dr Falkowski began treating her partner in an east London hospital, and included an incident in which she broke into Dr Falkowski's boat and turned on all the gas taps, risking an explosion. She also bombarded the couple and their family with abusive text messages, phone calls and emails.The court heard how one message warned Ms Pemberton that she would be burned in her wedding dress and another suggested "dig your own grave".Marchese, 45, a former cheese counter assistant from Bow, east London, also warned that she had hired a hitman, with messages including "your life will end, gunman paid" and "bang, bang, bang is all you deserve".She also threatened to poison the food at the couple's wedding reception. The harassment prompted Ms Pemberton to contemplate suicide and ruined the relationship, the court heard.Having scuppered his marriage plans, Marchese accused the doctor of drugging and raping her in his hospital office. She retrieved a used condom from his dustbin and smeared her underwear with his semen to frame him. Dr Falkowski, a record-breaking powerboat racer, was suspended from his job, arrested, charged with the attack and then endured 18 months under the shadow of suspicion before he was cleared."Professional consequences were devastating," he told the jury during the trial. "I never realised somebody so evil would go to such a concerted effort to destroy my life and that of Debbie Pemberton."Passing sentence, Judge John Price said: "What you did to those two was dreadfully painful, dreadfully hard and caused them enormous suffering ... it is difficult to imagine a more serious case. The effect on the victims was dramatic."Marchese continues to maintain her innocence. Following her conviction it emerged she had previously stalked another couple, threatening to kidnap their baby. In a separate hearing, the judge ordered Marchese to pay £18,000 from her life savings, half to Dr Falkowski and the remainder to Ms Pemberton.