The Home Office is proposing to privatise the Forensic Science Service in a highly controversial move which police claim could leave them unable to afford to investigate certain crimes.The government-owned FSS provides the police with forensic experts at crime scenes and has been at the frontline of recent investigations into terrorism and gangland shootings in Britain. Documents passed to The Observer reveal the Government wants to sell over half of the FSS to a private company within the next two years, with the option of selling the entire service in the future. The move has been greeted with outrage from the Police Federation, backbench MPs and Prospect, the forensic scientists' trade union.Jan Berry, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said: 'We cannot see the benefit of giving control of the Forensic Science Service to a profit-driven organisation which will expect a return on its investment. Policing could suffer if forces are made to choose which crime investigations they can and cannot afford to fund.' Evidence from forensic scientists, such as DNA sampling, is increasingly important in criminal convictions from murder to burglary. Although the FSS is currently government-owned it charges the police for its service, but insiders claims a lot of extra work is done for free because of the public sector ethos. Mike Sparham of Prospect, who acts for hundreds of forensic scientists, said the move would lead to vital forensic work not being carried out because it would be viewed as too costly. He said: 'The work forensic scientists do is highly sensitive. They undertake a lot of high-profile work that might be considered unprofitable or labour intensive and our fear is that this would would either not be undertaken or be done in a way that reduces the quality.' This is a view backed by Andrew Mackinlay, Labour MP for Thurrock and former member of the Home Affairs Select Committee, who expressed 'deep concern' that such a sensitive service would no longer be government-controlled. Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said the potential sell-off would 'undermine the public's confidence in the justice system'. Hughes pledged to fight this 'unacceptable' privatisation. All sides accepts that the demands on the science service have greatly increased with the advent of DNA testing and the war on terrorism. According to an FSS release in 2001, the service has grown six-fold to 2,500 people in the past decade over a period where its revenue increased from £16m to £100m. The FSS said that in 2001, the demand for its services from the police increased by 32 per cent. Insiders admit that the laboratories and equipment used by forensic scientists are in need of major investment but claim this should be done through the public purse. The Home Office said it was not prepared to comment on leaked documents and said a final decision would not be made until spring. antony.barnett@observer.co.uk 