Criminals supplying unfit produce to the public have created a sophisticated "meat mafia", environmental health officers warn today.On the eve of Britain's first national conference on illegal meat, officials say the diversion of old and dangerous food for human consumption is now a highly organised operation, involving thousands of animals and reaping vast fortunes for those involved. At their meeting in Cardiff today, enforcement officers from around the country will say they get insufficient money from government and too little support from the courts to tackle the problems effectively. They are calling for stronger laws and better coordination before people die. They complain that the charge of conspiracy to defraud, the main weapon available to prosecutors, makes it difficult to obtain convictions because police have to prove intent. Data protection laws prevent agencies sharing vital information. Julie Barratt, director of the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health, said: "Illegal meat is a multimillion-pound trade that presents a major and growing risk to public health in the UK. The dangers are not widely understood, systems of detection are under-resourced and poorly coordinated and the law lacks the necessary teeth to bring perpetrators to book." Miss Barratt said people underestimated the scale of the abuse. "People think this is just a few farmers getting together and killing a few sheep but it is not, it is a hugely organised crime. You can't get 300 sheep every week for 10 weeks without being organised." She said authorities and the public also underestimated the risk: "No one is dying yet but you only need a small number of e-coli for someone to get very ill. Do we have to wait until someone dies before we act?" The conference, which will be attended by the Food Standards Agency, the Inland Revenue, meat industry representatives, farming groups and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, will be told that criminals consider food crime an activity with high rewards and low risks. A gang which made more than £1m selling poultry unfit even for pets was this year convicted of conspiracy to defraud and received jail sentences ranging from four years to 12 months suspended. The investigation was expensive and critics complained the sentences would have been much higher had the gang been peddling drugs. The ringleader fled abroad. There was also concern when a farmer caught with 100 carcasses near Carmarthen had a four-month prison sentence reduced on appeal. Last year eight men caught by environmental health officers in Wales preparing blowtorched sheep carcasses for sale as "smokies" in London received a total of 540 hours' community service. The carcasses were acquired for £1 each and were sold as ethnic delicacies for £100. In 2001 former slaughterman Ronald Jones was also caught preparing "smokies" on a farm in Brentwood, Essex. He was jailed for just three months. A spokesman for the Food Standards Agency said it had set aside extra funds to help local authorities investigating meat crimes but had so far had few requests for financial help. The prime responsibility for funding local authorities lies with the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. The FSA said it took the illegal meat trade very seriously but added: "Investigations have not revealed a widespread problem in terms of scale or food safety. But we and all the other agencies involved have learned lessons from recent scams."