One of the rites of passage into adulthood is the realisation that that news bulletin phrase "helping the police with their inquiries" does not refer, as we assume in childhood, to some do-gooder making themselves useful round the station, but a potential do-badder dragged in for interrogation.Since Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman went missing on Sunday, the question has arisen of how to help people to help the police with their inquiries. Newspapers, bringing the Wild West wanted poster into the internet era, have posted huge rewards: £1m from the Express, a seventh of that from the Sun/News Of The World. Able only to offer the reward of doing the right thing, the detective leading the case tried the different tack of appealing not to the pockets of possible informers but to the conscience of a putative kidnapper: pleading with them to surrender.Both these appeals for information have serious weaknesses as a detection technique. The apparent assumption behind the newspaper tactics - that people now need the possibility of profit to do the decent thing - is dismaying but, on closer examination, the motives are more complicated. While we all hope for that PD James moment - someone surprised to see a 10-year-old's clothing on the washing line of a bachelor neighbour - it rarely happens and there are by now few other circumstances in which the Express bank balance would drop by six zeroes. If, as the police believe, the girls are being held captive, then in the very unlikely event that the abductor or an accomplice dialled Richard Desmond's private line to give the address of the hideaway, the paper would be unable to pay them anything because of press code rules about payments to criminals. In fact, almost any substantive witness who came forward now would face tough questioning about a delay which might be seen as obstructing police inquiries. The tabloid bounty is therefore far more likely to be about making money - through publicity and raised sales encouraged by the largesse - than giving it away. The original reasoning behind cash rewards was that they might encourage figures in the underworld to break ranks for cash. But in such cases - mainly gangland killings or other murders - there's a logical appeal to a world which works on pay-offs. The kind of child abductors or paedophiles suspected in the current case have habits of extreme secrecy which are unlikely to be reversed by a tabloid bonanza for which they are almost certainly ineligible anyway by the nature of their actions. And, if the target of the rewards is a notional innocent witness, the snitch charities established as a place for tip-offs from civilians offer convincing evidence that public spirit is not driven by income. The British branch of Crimestoppers - which has cash on offer to anonymous canaries - insists that only 4% of its informants have ever required a reward. The American father organisation, Crimestoppers Inc, founded in 1976, admits to having paid out almost $59m of bang-up thank-yous in its history, but that must be measured against the almost 400,000 arrests achieved and the claimed $5bn value of assets recovered. Such figures suggest that public resistance to assisting the police with their inquiries is motivated not by irritation at locking someone up for free but by the fear of reprisals or the requirement to give evidence in a trial. Anonymity not avarice is the motivation activated by the charities. Any detective will tell you that many investigations are hampered by the fact that some potential witnesses are adulterers or moonlighters or malingerers who need to conceal their presence in that street on that day. In these circumstances, newspaper rewards are doubly miscalculated - approaching a leading tabloid would be an odd way of trying to keep your name out of the papers. While not morally suspect, the dramatic attempt by the Soham case detective to appeal directly to a presumed abductor - seeking to eyeball the notional villain through the television camera from the station steps - is almost certainly psychologically flawed. It's a convention of Hollywood thrillers and crime novels that the baddie follows the investigation on network TV - usually also making taunting phone calls to the cop in the middle of the night - but there's little evidence that actual psychopaths are so theatrical. Mocking phone calls to the head of the Yorkshire Ripper investigation - perfectly following Hollywood baddie practice - proved to be a hoax. And Detective Superintendent David Beck's direct address to the unknown suspect on Thursday strongly recalled a moment on one of the Crimewatch programmes devoted to the Jill Dando murder when the investigating detective suddenly caught her killer's eye through the screen and pleaded with him, insisting to Nick Ross: "I know he's watching." Yet there's no evidence that Barry George was watching and, even if he was, the cop's Al Pacino moment did nothing to speed his apprehension. It must also be suspected that Crimewatch UK, which doesn't pay rewards, would receive more useful information than any of the newspapers lucratively prosecuting the missing schoolgirl case. The existence of such huge cash inducements to do the proper human thing seemed at first this week to tell us something terrible about society, but it may rather be the case that these rewards confirm something awful about newspapers.· comment@theguardian.com