We are all used to tabloid newspapers and headline-seeking politicians complaining that sentences are simply not tough enough. It is rather more unusual to hear defence lawyers complain that the system has gone soft. One solicitor is quoted today as complaining that individuals who would in the past have faced court and a serious sentence are now getting off with a fine. I'm not sure that I'd want him representing me if I was facing charges.Underlying this is an apparent concern among some defence solicitors that work is drying up, with more defendants receiving on-the-spot fines and cautions rather than being brought before the court. "The bottom is falling out of the criminal justice system", one solicitor is quoted by the BBC as saying. "Workload in London courts is easily down by half."It is easy to dismiss such concerns as little more than bellyaching by professionals with vested interests. After all, if your business is defending people in court, reductions in caseloads are bad for business. But we should not be too cynical. One of the cornerstones of any justice system worthy of the name is that individuals charged with offences get a fair chance to defend themselves and prove their innocence. To be charged with an offence is not the same as being guilty of it.Underlying complaints about the increased use of cautions and on-the-spot fines is a more fundamental concern that the integrity of the justice system is being undermined by the government's move towards speedier, "administrative" punishments that bypass the court process. This move towards more administrative punishments is partly down to a belief in the government that lawyers and judges, legal checks and balances, are irritating impediments to the effective exercise of justice. Why go through the tedious business of taking a defendant to court if they can be given a fine, on the spot, by a police officer?But the government's obsessive targets culture is also to blame. Last year the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies published an analysis (pdf) of Labour's criminal justice reforms, which highlighted the way in which on-the-spot fines and cautions had increased under Labour. In 2002 the government set a target to increase significantly the number of offences recorded by the police that resulted in an offender being "brought to justice".This target was easily hit. Around a million offences were "brought to justice" in 2002. By 2006 it was around 1.3m. The number of successful convictions, however, declined between 1999 and 2006, while the number of cautions and on-the-spot fines rose dramatically. After some years of growth the number of community and prison sentences handed out by the court has started to fall in the last couple of years. Labour hit its target, but only by increasing administrative penalties.Does this mean that the justice system has gone soft? Not really. Average sentence lengths have remained largely unchanged over the past decade, while the number of life and "indeterminate", or open-ended, sentences has grown. Prison numbers are also at a record high.The real story of the last 10 years has been a general widening of the criminal justice net, with individuals who in the past would have been dealt with informally being drawn into the criminal justice system. Whether this process of increased criminalisation is in the interests of justice, or of wider society, remains in doubt.