In a small town in Ireland, Ann Boyle is living and breathing every moment of the disappearance of Madeleine McCann and praying that the little girl's parents will never have to make the fateful decision she made 30 years ago, when her own daughter vanished.Like the McCanns, Ann and her family were on holiday when Mary, their six-year-old daughter, disappeared. The family, the police and the army spent months searching a remote area of Co Donegal before the Boyles reluctantly returned home.'It was absolutely heart-rending,' Ann recalls, speaking from her home not far from Kincasslagh on Ireland's Atlantic coast. 'I know exactly what must be going through the McCanns' minds this weekend. When do you decide to pack up and leave? When you do think "I've got to go back home, I've got to get my other two children back to some kind of normal life, I can't stay here for ever". I remember the drive home from Ballyshannon and it was truly awful, even though I still held on to hope that Mary would be found. Sometimes I still do.'Mary Boyle disappeared on 18 March, 1977. She was at her grandparents' home at Cashelard, near Ballyshannon, for the St Patrick's Day holiday. Despite widespread searches by the Garda (the Irish police force) and the Irish Defence Forces, nothing was found to indicate what happened to the child whom her mother describes in the present tense as 'a bubbly, chatty, helpful little girl'. Divers searched all the main lakes and rivers around Ballyshannon, bogs were probed and vast stretches of forest were combed.'When Mary left the house to follow her uncle to a neighbour's house that day, around half past three in the afternoon, I remember she was wearing these wee ribbons in her hair,' her mother says.'I always hoped that the search teams would even find a fragment of those ribbons or even the Wellington boots she was wearing when she went outside that day - anything to indicate where she was last. But there was nothing found at all.' Ann, now 61, was transported back to the scene of her own child's disappearance the moment she heard about Madeleine McCann vanishing in equally mysterious circumstances in Portugal.She remembered feeling that something terrible had happened the moment that it was reported that Mary had gone missing.'There was this weird feeling that this was not right. She had gone off to a friend's house, but nobody had seen her on the road, even though it was only a couple of hundred yards away. I can't explain it, but I felt it.'For Ann Boyle, even though her home is more than 50 miles from the place where she last saw Mary, it might as well be the other side of the planet. 'The strange thing about that place where Mary disappeared is that in those early years I couldn't leave it. It was terrible getting up and going the first time after eight weeks of searching. But I kept going back all the time over the summer. We even held a search around the area on New Years' Day 1978. Yet today I can't go anywhere near the place. I can't bear being there any more. Unless they find something, I won't go back - and that place was where my parents lived.'So far the McCanns have refused to return to Britain, but Mrs Boyle says they may soon have to rethink not just about going home, but about their own state of mind. In the early days of Mary's disappearance, Mrs Boyle says she forced the entire household into a state of mourning. It was her late husband, Charlie, who made her rethink, mainly for the sake of their other two children, Patrick and Mary's twin sister, Ann.'In the months after Mary had gone, I wouldn't allow the TV to be switched on in the house. Eventually Charlie said to me: "Look we have two other children. They have to be allowed to watch the kids' programmes on the TV."'Because of what happened to Mary, I used to keep Paddy and Ann under my eye all the time. They were never allowed out of my sight. Again, Charlie - he was such a good, gentle man - he said to me: "We have to give the kids their freedom. They should be allowed to do normal things too." He was right. We had to let them live as normal a life as possible. It was Charlie who held us together, although the poor man never got over what happened to our Mary.'Unlike the two-year-old McCann twins, Ann's other children understood that their sister had vanished.'Paddy and Ann were sent back shortly after Mary's disappearance. My sister and in-laws looked after them. Eventually, when I got up the strength to leave the place where it happened and came home, I noticed how it was hitting Ann. Her handwriting at school started to deteriorate and her work was affected too. The two children started talking in riddles about Mary. They would say things like: "She has gone to live with someone else." I think they said that just to protect me, to give me some hope. That's something the McCanns' two children won't remember - the actual disappearance.'What happened to Mary Boyle remains a mystery. The original investigating team received no leads as to her whereabouts.'The majority of the detectives who first investigated Mary's case are now retired. But they still come up and see us every year. They haven't forgotten us or Mary. It's probably because at the time she vanished they all had young children too. The detectives, even the retired ones, have promised us that if there is ever any breakthrough they will go back to work and get to the truth. So I have no complaints about them.'Despite a life darkened by tragedy (Charlie Boyle died in a fishing accident off the Donegal coast two years ago), Mrs Boyle has clung to her deeply held faith. Like the McCanns, her Catholicism has helped her through some of the darkest days.'I never allowed it to shatter my faith. I drew strength from it. I just pray to God that he will give me what I want before I die: to find out exactly what happened to my Mary.'She regularly makes a pilgrimage to the place where the Boyles gather to mourn for Mary: a tiny grotto built into a stone wall at the back of St Mary's chapel, the church where Mary would have made her first Holy Communion.At the family home, Mrs Boyle is surrounded by the symbols of the faith she shares with the McCann family. There is a Sacred Heart of Jesus portrait hanging in the hall, two carved wooden crosses dangle over a hat stand, and on the fridge is a magnet depicting a little girl with blond hair, the same colour as Mary's, sleeping on a cloud.Mrs Boyle looks at a picture of her own daughter and says: 'I am praying for the McCanns. God help them because I know how they are feeling and my heart goes out to them. You are left wondering if your child is alive or dead, if your child is in another part of the world or has had another life. The unknown is terrible. God give them strength.'