The home secretary, David Blunkett, today announced plans for every neighbourhood in England and Wales to have a designated local policing team within two years.Making a statement to the Commons on a white paper being published today on police reform, Mr Blunkett said the plan would involve 2,000 new police community support officers (CSOs) being recruited, using £50m of newly allocated money. He said the neighbourhood approach would help officers tackle issues such as antisocial behaviour and build better links between officers and the communities they police. Some commentators have described the plans as seeking to recreate the style of policing shown in the 1960s TV show Dixon of Dock Green, which portrayed a respected "neighbourhood bobby". Residents would be able to contact named local beat officers on their mobile phones and by email to deal with their complaints. The home secretary said the white paper included a 10-point "customer charter" because it was important that when a member of the public contacted the police they were dealt with "politely and professionally". The white paper proposes guaranteed standards on issues such as the handling of phone calls. Victims would be better informed and police responses to reported crime would be improved, it says. A new three-digit number will be created for non-emergency calls to police, and local communities will be given new powers to demand information, consultation and action from police forces. Mr Blunkett warned that central government must still have the power to step in where police forces failed local communities, and he pledged not to "duck the duty to act where necessary".But he insisted the reforms would build a better police service "appropriate to the 21st century". The shadow home secretary, David Davis, questioned the government's record on cutting crime and said the white paper was a "reform of a reform of a reform" seven years after Labour had taken power. He said the changes were "little more than a taxpayer-funded PR exercise in the run-up to the general election", which is expected next year.Police forces were "already buried under Home Office initiatives", he said, mocking the creation of bureaucracy officers.Mr Blunkett admitted the officers represented the "tip of the iceberg" in cutting bureaucracy but said they had started to find ways of reducing paperwork. He said forces had to adapt and that modern technology could make the police more efficient. "Pagers and mobile phones should stop officers spending day after day in court," Mr Blunkett said, adding that the Tories had cut police numbers. Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: "The government are right to increase the links between local people and the police. "But these measures will only work if they are matched with a cut in the amount of paperwork and investment in modern equipment to keep the police out on the streets." Earlier Mr Blunkett and the prime minister, Tony Blair, visited a school at the heart of a community policing trial in Bexley, south-east London. Residents told Mr Blair and Mr Blunkett the "mayhem" that used to exist on the streets and housing estates had improved. Tom Cornish, who is in his 70s, said he had lived in the area for six years. He said: "Five and a half of those years were absolute hell. I have witnessed rape outside the flats where I live. I have witnessed a minicab driver being stabbed. "I have witnessed a fight involving schoolchildren where there have been 100 boys and girls in a circle, and one of them took a hiding that day. Now it has been turned around." Mr Blunkett said the idea was to go back "to a time when I was very young, when you expected the police to be part of the community and the community to be part of policing and where people were joined together in partnership, making it work".Mr Blair said: "The law-abiding citizen in the community should be in charge of the community, not the minority who want to cause trouble. There is still a majority who want to play by the rules and ensure that everyone else does." The neighbourhood teams will comprise one sergeant, two constables, three CSOs and, possibly, special constables and neighbourhood wardens.