Detectives yesterday launched a new investigation into one of the most brutal and controversial murders of the past 20 years - that of PC Keith Blakelock during the Broadwater Farm riots in north London in October 1985.The 40-year-old officer was hacked to death at the height of the riots. Winston Silcott was convicted of the murder in 1987 but cleared on appeal four years later. Scotland Yard now says it has significant new leads in the case, and although police chiefs refused to reveal details, warning that inquiries could be prejudiced, fresh DNA tests may be carried out and witnesses reinterviewed. Under the new criminal justice bill, which has yet to come into force, someone acquitted of murder could be retried if there was new and compelling evidence. Norman Brennan, the founder of the police campaign group Protect the Protectors, said he would not be surprised if previous suspects were investigated again. Mr Silcott told the Guardian: "It hasn't got anything to do with me. I don't make anything of it." His lawyer, Tony Murphy, insisted his client had nothing to fear. "A proper investigation into the death of PC Blakelock, untainted by police corruption, would be a welcome development," he said. Constables Blakelock and Coombes were attacked by a mob during riots on Broadwater Farm estate on October 6 1985. The violence was sparked by the death of Cynthia Jarrett, 49, who suffered heart failure during a police raid on her home. PC Blakelock died at the scene while PC Coombes was so severely wounded he never resumed active duty. Mr Silcott, then 26, Mark Braithwaite and Engin Raghip were all found guilty of PC Blakelock's murder but the court of appeal overturned their convictions in 1991. Two senior officers were cleared of fabricating evidence but Mr Silcott was given £50,000 compensation from the Metropolitan police. Mr Silcott, now 43, was released from jail two months ago after serving a life sentence for the unrelated murder of Anthony Smith, an amateur boxer who was stabbed to death at a party in east London in 1984. Mr Silcott maintains that he killed Mr Smith in self-defence. Police reopened the Blakelock investigation as a result of a three-year review started in 2000, in which they re-examined 6,000 statements, and after months of consultation with the Broadwater community and PC Blakelock's family. On the Broadwater Farm estate yesterday the news that the murder inquiry was being reopened was greeted with bemusement and some trepidation. Few of the 2,500 people who live there now were residents when shots were fired at police during the riots and PC Blakelock was hacked to death. Hurdle Clasford Stirling, a community worker, sees the new investigation as another hurdle for the estate to surmount. He and others fear it will bring back painful memories: "It is wearying on you to keep on having to go backwards to go forwards. "I'm not saying the police should not do their investigation, but I do worry if this will put it all back." Mr Stirling lived on the estate during the riots, and says Broadwater Farm has moved on in leaps and bounds: "It's not discussed," he said. Furthermore, the police who indiscriminately rounded up scores of people in the days after the murder alienated people to this day: "When they did their investigation they should have done it properly. People do not want to have anything to do with it." Just by the Tangmere estate where PC Blakelock fell there is a "remembrance garden" to all those who suffered and died during the riots. The community used to have memorial services, but after 10 years they stopped. "The community decided to move on," said Paul Dennehy, the council's neighbourhood officer. A Met assistant commissioner, Tarique Ghaffur, would not be drawn on the new leads, but said the decision had not been taken lightly: "Suffice to say that we believe this information is strong enough to merit further investigation." Mr Ghaffur, who heads Scotland Yard's specialist crime directorate, said: "I must stress this investigation is wholly focused on the murder of Keith Blakelock and attempted murder of Richard Coombes and not on any other incidents which occurred during the Broadwater Farm disturbances. "We accept that the decision to launch this fresh investigation will be difficult for some sections of the community. This was a brutal murder on an unarmed police officer who was protecting the local community. "This new inquiry is a mark of our commitment to protect our police officers and the people they serve and bring to justice those who seek to harm them." The investigation will be led by Detective Superintendent John Sweeney, overseen by Commander Andy Baker. Elizabeth Johnson, PC Blakelock's widow and mother of his three sons, Mark, Kevin and Lee, said she believed the killers would be brought to justice. Mrs Johnson, 52, who has remarried and lives near Sunderland, said: "I have every faith in the inquiry team that's working on this; they are totally dedicated people." "I understand it's the DNA technology that could make all the difference. Everyone is aware of this new technology that was not there 18 years ago so presumably they are taking advantage of that, but I really don't know what evidence they have got." Justice She added: "It does not matter to me how long it takes as long as the guilty people are brought to justice and I'm confident that will happen. When the guilty person, or people, are in prison or punished for what they did to Keith then that's the time I will be able to relax a bit." At Broadwater Farm, tens of millions of pounds have been spent on improving the estate. Once doorways reeked of urine and rubbish littered the streets. Now there is an enterprise centre, an opportunity centre and upmarket cars pepper the driveways. With the physical changes have come changes in the ethnic mix. In 1985 the estate was mainly Afro-Caribbean, white English and Irish. Since then people of Kurdish, Turkish, Somalian and west African origin have moved in, people to whom Winston Silcott is a name in the paper, rather than someone with whom they grew up. "For the community here it is not a burning issue," Mr Dennehy said. "The estate acquired this reputation on one night; it's been here for 33 years." Bishop Frimpong Manson, who chairs the residents' association, agrees: "The community want to forget about what has been happening. For 17 years we have been victimised. Some of the youths here now weren't even born." Keisha Smith, 17, has heard of what happened in the days after the riots as police hunted the killers: "I think the police were wrong for victimising so many people for that murder." She said Mr Silcott and the two others convicted for the murder had been "fitted up". One white man, 26, agrees: "Everybody knows Winston never killed him." Troubled caseOctober 5 1985 Cynthia Jarrett, 49, collapses and dies during police raid on her home in Tottenham, north London. October 6 Riots break out after peaceful demonstration by Mrs Jarrett's relatives. PC Keith Blakelock, 40, approached by mob, dies from machete wounds. October 13 Winston Silcott, 26, charged with murder of PC Blakelock. Engin Raghip, 19, charged on December 13 and Mark Braithwaite, 18, on February 10 1986. March 19 1987 All three convicted of murder and sentenced to life. November 25 1991 Appeal court overturns Silcott's conviction following doubt over police evidence. Silcott also serving life for stabbing to death amateur boxer Tony Smith and remains in jail. December 5 Raghip's and Braithwaite's convictions quashed by appeal court. July 26 1994 Former Det Chief Supt Graham Melvin and Det Insp Maxwell Dingle cleared at Old Bailey of fabricating evidence in Blakelock case. October 15 1999 Silcott receives £50,000 in out-of-court settlement with Met. Met does not admit liability. January 2000 PC Blakelock's murder under review by Met. October 17 2003 Silcott released after serving 17 years for Smith's murder. December 3 Met announces fresh investigation into PC Blakelock's murder, after new evidence comes to light.   Katy Heslop