Detectives are appealing for help in finding the killer of a 14-year-old boy who was stabbed to death in a daytime attack in a busy north London park.Police and an air ambulance were called to Ponders End recreation ground in Enfield at about 5.30pm on Wednesday. They arrived to find Leroy James fatally injured in the centre of the park.Attempts to resuscitate him failed and he was pronounced dead at the scene. Officers, who believe the boy was stabbed by another youngster, said there was no evidence his death was gang-related. Officers said the victim had been in an altercation with at least one other youth.The teenager's father – also called Leroy – visited the scene on Thursday to pay tribute to "a pretty quiet boy" and football enthusiast who would live on in his memory.Mr James, a 41-year-old scrap metal dealer from nearby Edmonton Green, said he found out about the attack when one of his son's friends called him."I was at home," he said. "[Leroy's friend] just said to me if I heard what happened. He said Leroy has been stabbed and he's been taken to the Royal Free hospital."But actually he was still in the park until 2am."Detective Chief Inspector Caroline Goode of the Metropolitan police appealed for more witnesses to come forward."We know from what witnesses have told us so far that Leroy was in an altercation with at least one other boy," she said. "I'm completely open-minded as to the motive at this stage."There's certainly no evidence or any intelligence at this time that this is a gang-related murder."Goode described Leroy as "a 14-year-old young man who didn't deserve to lose his life", adding: "People who were there will know who has done this. We want to hear from anyone who was in the park at 5.30pm and can help us … There will be a lot of people who were in the park and a lot of talk in the community. We plead with people to come forward."Darren Griffiths, who lives in a flat backing on to the scene, said he had seen police taping off the area at 5.30pm. "I knew it was something fatal," said the 39-year-old. "It's normally peaceful around here. They've just built an outside gym here which is where the kids hang out and where it's taken place."Last week, we had the kids walking through the park from the riots, but apart from that it's quiet."The murder – the 10th fatal stabbing of a teenager in London this year – was met with sadness and anger in Ponders End. But one resident said he was not surprised, adding: "Things happen in that park at night."Many in the area complained that the local police station, which is only 50 metres from the entrance to the park where Leroy was killed, had recently closed.Hazel Nelson-Williams, founder of an anti-youth crime group, the Nelson Williams Foundation, said it had been a mistake to close the station. "If that young man had had the opportunity to run away, where would he have run to?" she asked."In light of what's happened, cutting police numbers is so not the right thing to do."Enfield, which has significant areas of deprivation alongside streets of comfortable suburban homes, experienced a night of riots and looting earlier this month. The disturbances spread from the town centre towards Ponders End to the east.According to Scotland Yard figures, knife crime involving young people in London has risen almost 10% over the past year, with a bigger increase in the number of youths injured in knife attacks in the past few years.