Police numbers in England and Wales are higher than ever at just under 129,000 and Labour is on course to realise its manifesto promise of 130,000 officers well in advance of the next election. After the pay settlement last month, enrolment is buoyant.Even in London, where housing costs are critical, a constable's starting salary of just under £26,000 seems to be attracting new applicants by the hundreds. In the year to April the Metropolitan police recruited 1,050 officers. But if there is no general crisis in police recruitment, the diversification of the force is happening only slowly. Most recruits are white. The Home Office wants 7% of the force to come from ethnic minorities by 2009. On present trends that target will not be met. Between 2000 and 2001, ethnic minority officers increased from 3% to 3.1%: at that rate it would take 70 years to match the government's ambition. Despite some progress, ethnic minority recruitment is further behind schedule in London. The Met, with around 1,000 minority officers, 4%, is chasing its tail. The commissioner, Sir John Stevens, said he wanted ethnic minorities eventually to form 25% of his strength. Last year, ethnic recruitment expanded by 9%. But the number of Met officers is also growing, up this year to 27,650. That leaves the force nearly 6,000 short of target. That may even understate the problem. The Met also wants to recruit some 600 "community support officers". They, too, will be expected to reflect London's ethnic mix. About 20% of the capital's population classify themselves as of ethnic minority origin. Under current rules, the police can recruit people who are not UK citizens. Citizens of Commonwealth countries and the Republic of Ireland are eligible, provided they are permanently resident in the UK. Last year the Met started to allow Muslim women officers to wear the hajib on duty; turbans are also permitted. The Home Office has promoted television advertising for the police featuring Lennox Lewis and other black role models. Forces like Avon and Somerset have started "pre-joining" courses for young people from ethnic minorities.