Only 24-hour surveillance would have stopped James Bulger's killer amassing an extensive collection of child pornography, according to a Ministry of Justice case review published today.Probation officers are cleared of major errors in the supervision of Jon Venables, 27, who was jailed for two years in July after he was caught with images of young children on his computer.Venables - who murdered two-year-old James with Robert Thompson when they were just 10 - could have been given more therapy and more help to enhance his employment prospects after being released from jail with a new identity, the study suggests.The review, by Sir David Omand, says: "I am satisfied that those involved in his supervision kept the licence conditions in mind throughout in terms of the objective of safeguarding the public. Up to his offence being discovered there were no warning signs that would have led [supervising officials] to consider whether a licence condition … to permit the monitoring of computer usage would have been justified."In February this year Venables was arrested and recalled to prison over child pornography allegations. Evidence later emerged that he had an "extensive history of searching for and downloading indecent images of children using the internet".The justice secretary, Ken Clarke, welcomed the review: "Sir David has concluded that Jon Venables was effectively and properly supervised at an appropriate level and frequency of contact, having regard to the particular circumstances of his case. Sir David also concludes that no reasonable supervisory regime would have been expected to detect his use of the computer to download indecent images."Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation union, Napo, said: "The supervision of Jon Venables was always difficult because of his notoriety and the need for secrecy. The only way of detecting his visits to Liverpool, his drinking habits and his accumulation of child pornographic images would have been through constant police 24-hour surveillance. Over a 10-year period this would have cost over £5m which would have been impossible to justify."Fletcher added: "With hindsight it argues more could have been done with counselling and greater emphasis could have been put on employment issues. However, this could be said of the vast majority of the probation caseload. Unfortunately, it is simply not possible to cater for each offender's every need."Venables and his friend Thompson killed James in Bootle, Merseyside. They were jailed for life in 1993 and given new identities when they were released on licence in 2001. Extensive measures were taken to protect the pair from vigilantes and help them lead a normal life but after several years Venables became addicted to cocaine and mephedrone.The 27-year-old - who still faces death threats - appeared via videolink at the Old Bailey under unprecedented secrecy, with only the judge able to see him.One charge related to downloading 57 images - some of children as young as two - between February last year and February this year. A second count related to a technical offence that three images were made available while they were being downloaded in February this year.The third charge related to distributing images in February 2008 to convicted paedophile Leslie Blanchard, of Chelmsford, Essex. Venables told officers he had enjoyed the images of abuse and said he was "breaking the last taboo". He adopted an online alter ego as a married mother, called Dawn, offering to sell her eight-year-old daughter to a paedophile.Evidence from a laptop seized from Blanchard showed the two men had used Google Hello to send and receive messages, with Venables using his alter ego.Prosecutor Louis Mably said Blanchard gave a telephone number but Dawn broke off contact abruptly, telling him he would never meet or touch her daughter.In February this year, Venables contacted his probation officer, fearing that his true identity had been discovered. The officer arrived at his address and told him to collect his belongings, and he was found trying to delete files from his computer and to remove his hard drive with a tin opener.Venables was taken to a police station with the machine and it was later examined by officers, said Mably. Eight of the 57 images were at level four, the second most serious level, featuring sexual activity involving children, the court heard.The court heard that, in September 2008, Venables was also arrested on suspicion of affray after a drunken brawl and was given a formal warning by the probation service for breaching the good behaviour terms of his licence. Later the same year he was cautioned for possession of cocaine after he was found with a small amount of the class A drug, said to be for personal use.Venables was also put on the sex offenders' register for 10 years and banned from working with children for life. In a statement released after he was sentenced, he said he thought of the murder he carried out every day and was "genuinely ashamed" of his latest crimes.At the time James Bulger's mother, Denise Fergus, condemned the two-year sentence for pornography offences as "simply not enough".