A gang of would-be kidnappers were caught by police outside their intended victim's house with a gun-shaped cigarette lighter, glass cutters and hand-written instructions on how to carry out the crime, a court heard yesterday. As well as a list of "to dos" covering "acquiring cash" and "deposits in an unknown account", the instructions also included various threats that could be used, it was claimed. The step-by-step guide began with the word "blindfold" and then went on: "Ask him 'Are you Mr David Bodman?'" This referred to the intended victim, who, the court heard, had once acted as a "wealthy benefactor" to Carl Wiltshire, one of the alleged members of the gang. The list of prompts even suggested his likely answer: "Yes." Richard Milne, prosecuting, told Southwark crown court in London that the notebook said: "You had better come with us whether you like it or not. We are not going to hurt you but we will if we have to. We have been following you. We know where you work, where your close family and friends live." Milne told the jury: "This is the plan, set out page by page ... It was the complete plan of what they were proposing to do ... You may think it was a very important document - evidence of a conspiracy to kidnap and blackmail." The court heard that a rucksack holding bottles of de-icer and paint stripper allegedly found with one of the suspected gang members, Daniel Joseph. The barrister said the substances might have been sprayed into Bodman's eyes or used on a cloth clamped over his mouth and nose to make him "dizzy and drowsy". The gang allegedly also had a Scream mask, two further masks, duct tape, a small hammer and a length of material "which you, members of the jury, may think was to be put round Mr Bodman's head once he had been bound up". Milne said the trio of "hoodies" were arrested after being seen "loitering" by neighbours, who called the police. Wiltshire had claimed he was on his way to buy a kebab when arrested, Milne said.Wiltshire, 21, of St Albans, Hertfordshire, Joseph, 18, of Golders Green, London, and Pierre Joseph, 20, of Dagenham, Essex, deny conspiring to kidnap and blackmail Bodman on December 15 2007. They also deny two counts of possessing a "silver imitation firearm" with intent to commit those offences. The case continues.