Prosecutors investigating the 1982 death of Roberto Calvi, the Vatican-connected financier found hanged beneath Blackfriars bridge in London, have concluded that he was murdered.RAI state television said prosecutors believe the mafia killed Calvi, known as "God's banker" for his links to the Vatican, because he had lost their money and knew too much about their operations.Four suspects in the case, including an alleged mafioso, have been notified of the conclusions, but have not been indicted, the ANSA news agency reported. Their lawyers have 20 days to present any counter arguments, it said. Calvi's body was found hanging from scaffolding under Blackfriars bridge in 1982. He had bricks in his pockets and $15,000 (£9,326) on him. The discovery of his body came within days of the collapse of Banco Ambrosiano, of which he was president and in which the Vatican's bank held a significant stake. The prosecutors' report said Calvi was murdered by the Sicilian mafia and mainland Italian mobsters, the Camorra, as punishment for pocketing money they had asked him to launder. Last year, a panel of forensic experts also concluded that Calvi was murdered. A Rome tribunal appointed the experts to look at new evidence, including a re-examination of his body, which Italian authorities ordered exhumed in 1998. The forensic experts could not find any injuries to Calvi's neck such as those normally associated with death by hanging, news reports said. Calvi's family has long contended that he was murdered. A London coroner's jury could not decide if the death was suicide or homicide. When the Banco Ambrosiano collapsed following the disappearance of $1.3bn, the Vatican's bank eventually agreed to pay $250m to the Italian bank's creditors but denied any wrongdoing. Archbishop Paul Marcinkus, the top official at the Vatican bank, also denied wrongdoing. Rome prosecutors cited four suspects: alleged mafia money-man Giuseppe Calo, businessman Flavio Carboni, as well as Ernesto Diotallevi and Manuela Kleinszig, Mr Carboni's girlfriend. Investigations were ongoing and further suspects could be named, Italian news reports said. Prosecutors charge that Mr Calo had ordered the killing of Calvi, while the other suspects are accused of luring Calvi to his death in London, news agency AGI said. Mr Carboni's lawyer, Renato Borzone, denounced yesterday's conclusions, saying there was no proof Calvi was killed and that prosecutors were relying on phony testimony by mafia turncoats to make their case. "Today, a new battle begins to find the truth on Calvi's death," he said.