• Stefan Kiszko served 16 years in prison after being wrongly convicted of the 1975 murder of the schoolgirl Lesley Molseed in West Yorkshire. He was freed on appeal in 1992. Later, Ronald Castree's DNA was found to match samples taken from semen on the 11-year-old's clothes. He was jailed for life for the murder in 2007.• Stephen Downing was jailed for 27 years for beating to death the typist Wendy Sewell in Bakewell. His conviction was quashed in 2002 after a campaign by the then editor of the Matlock Mercury, Don Hale, who said Downing had been interviewed without legal representation and his signed confession had been written by a police officer.• Barry George endured two trials for the murder of the TV presenter Jill Dando and was eventually acquitted of the charge in August, eight years after he was jailed.• Derek Bentley, 19, was hanged for involvement in the murder of the police constable Sidney Miles in 1953. His family campaigned to clear his name, saying he had severe learning difficulties and a mental age of 11. In 1998, his conviction was overturned by the court of appeal because the trial judge had misdirected the jury on points of law.• Judith Ward spent 18 years in jail for the IRA killing of 12 people on board an army coach on the M62 in February 1973. Her conviction was quashed in 1992 after her lawyers argued the trial jury should have been told of her history of mental illness. Three appeal court judges concluded Ward's conviction had been "secured by ambush" and that government forensic scientists withheld vital information.• Winston Silcott was cleared of murdering the policeman Keith Blakelock during the Broadwater Farm riots in Tottenham in 1985, after new evidence came to light. He spent six years in prison for Blakelock's murder before successfully appealing. But he was not released as he was serving a second life sentence for the murder of a boxer in east London in 1984. He left prison after serving 17 years for stabbing 24-year-old Anthony Smith to death. He has always said he acted in self-defence.• Babysitter Suzanne Holdsworth spent three years in prison for murdering Kyle Fisher, a neighbour's two-year-old son, before she was cleared in a retrial last year. She had been jailed for life after being convicted in 2005 of killing the toddler by repeatedly banging his head against a wooden bannister at her Hartlepool home. The appeal court ruled her conviction was unsafe after new medical evidence emerged suggesting Kyle may have died from an epileptic seizure. She was found not guilty at the retrial.• Angela Cannings was jailed for life in 2002 for murdering her two baby sons, but freed the following year after her conviction was overturned on appeal. Cannings from Salisbury, Wiltshire, was convicted of murdering seven-week-old Jason in 1991, and 18-week-old Matthew in 1999. She always maintained the two boys died of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (Sids) or cot death.• The solicitor Sally Clark was jailed for murdering her two baby sons, and cleared by the appeal court in 2003. The mother, from Wilmslow, Cheshire, had always protested her innocence since being jailed for life in November 1999. She was convicted of smothering 11-week-old Christopher in December 1996 and shaking eight-week-old Harry to death in January 1998. In 2007, she was found dead at her home. Her family said she had never recovered from the ordeal.