For Michelle Clifford, one of Sky's senior news correspondents, today will be much like any other. The reporter will be in a familiar position, standing across the road from the Royal Courts of Justice at the top of the Strand in London, broadcasting live for the news channel on the latest developments of a criminal appeal. But, for the first time ever, Clifford will be able to illustrate her reports with video clips from the judge and lawyers, recorded with cameras installed inside the court. And in key moments during the hearing, such as the judge's final ruling, Sky will take a live feed from the court. It will all feel somewhat unreal, as none of the reports will actually be shown to ordinary viewers. Instead, they will form part of a consultation process, launched by the Department for Constitutional Affairs yesterday, to determine whether the law should be changed to allow routine filming inside the courtrooms of England and Wales for the first time. Along with reports compiled by the BBC and ITN, they will be shown only to a select group of senior judges and politicians, who will consider whether the introduction of television pictures will truly allow justice to be seen to be done. It is a moment of some significance. The restrictions are heavy, and the government's consultation document is couched with endless caveats, but for the first time, the principle has been conceded that cameras can be allowed into the courtroom. The bolt on the stable door has been lifted. "The time is right for a full public debate of these issues - technology and public attitudes have moved on since the legislation controlling photography in courts was passed in 1925," the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, said yesterday. An American-style free-for-all is still a long way off, but there is a very real prospect that a judge's decision in high-profile civil cases - such as those involving the rights of terminally ill young children - could eventually be shown live on air. "I'm not pretending that we've got everything we wanted. But what we are trying to do is get a foot in the door," says Simon Bucks, associate editor of Sky News, who has been working for three years with the other broadcasters to get this limited test scheme off the ground. So, as a Sky presenter will say many times today, over to Michelle Clifford at the Royal Courts of Justice. Clifford, along with journalists from the BBC and ITN, will be covering the case of Jim Speechley, a former leader of Lincolnshire county council, who was jailed earlier this year for misconduct in public office. Speechley was released in August pending the appeal to be heard by a court presided over by Lord Justice Kennedy. The appeal is against an 18-month sentence for trying to influence the route of a bypass to increase the value of land that he owned. OJ Simpson it is not. But, for the British media, the Speechley case is no less historic. For it forms the first stage in a process that broadcasters hope will lead to the routine televising of appeal court hearings, and eventually, criminal trials. In any case, there will be a degree of showbusiness to come: one of the hearings that may be included in the pilot scheme, in December, is the appeal before the master of the rolls, Lord Phillips, by Hello! magazine in its long-running privacy fight with Catherine Zeta-Jones and Michael Douglas. The test scheme is about as limited in its scope as it could possibly be. There will be four cameras installed inside the court, which will be allowed only to film the judge and lawyers. Broadcasters will not be able to film the dock, or the appellant, or any witnesses. Filming in the pilot scheme is limited to appeals, where witnesses rarely appear. The restrictions are intended to address the main concerns of the opponents of cameras in court: that defendants could be tempted to play to the gallery and that witnesses could be discouraged from appearing if they knew their faces could be shown on television. The broadcasters knew they had to accept these constraints if they were to have any hope of persuading the government and the judiciary to concede the principle. But, as far as the television companies are concerned, it is only the first stage in a long process. Bucks compares it to the gradual introduction of cameras to the Houses of Parliament. "If you think about what happened in parliament, first the Lords ran a pilot scheme, then the Commons allowed cameras in, albeit with some pretty draconian restrictions. Gradually, over the years, those rules were relaxed bit by bit. Similarly, as we show that we can cover things responsibly, I'm certain that the same thing will happen in the case of the courts." Jon Battle, head of compliance at ITN, who has also been a key player in persuading the judiciary to accept the pilot scheme, takes a similar view. He predicts that cameras could be seen in the high court - home of high-profile civil cases - within a decade. The most difficult issue will be the crown courts, the meat and drink of the criminal justice system, although Battle believes even this can be overcome. Broadcasters could agree to show only the opening statements, and sentencing, he said. "I see the pilot scheme as the first step in a long journey. This is a historic step. Getting cameras into crown courts is a long way off but it's encouraging that the Department for Constitutional Affairs has drawn the terms of the consultation pretty widely. It's not just about the court of appeal. It shows they are willing to look at the issues." Mark Stephens of media law specialists Finers Stephens Innocent says: "People need to know that the law is not all about wigs and knee-britches. There is much more that goes on in courtrooms. "Televised hearings could show that some of the complex decisions which are derided by some sections of the media do actually have a rationale behind them." The biggest obstacle to the introduction of cameras to criminal courts has been the OJ Simpson case. Before then, things had been moving in the broadcasters' direction. A pilot scheme had been allowed in Scotland in 1992, with moderately successful results. But the media circus that surrounded Simpson's murder trial sent judges on this side of the Atlantic grasping for their smelling salts. Broadcasters say the cause was put back 10 years. Things have moved on considerably since then. The advance of graphics technology means that broadcasters can now represent the inside of courtrooms quite convincingly. Cameras have already been allowed in a number of judicial inquiries. And in certain cases, such as the Hutton inquiry last year, actors have been used to recreate the courtroom scenes. Hutton also allowed the lawyers' opening and closing speeches to be broadcast. Crucially, too, courtroom filming is no longer just an American phenomenon; many judiciaries in Europe and the Commonwealth allow cameras inside their courtrooms to a greater or lesser extent. Judges here have changed their views as well. The argument in favour of openness is powerful; and they are also coming round to the view that cameras might help dispel the public image of them as ruddy-faced "men in tights" who are out of touch with the modern world. The deputy chief justice, Lord Justice Judge, said yesterday: "There are all sorts of views about the judiciary that might be changed if the public could actually see us at work, recognising that there is no simple answer to most of the problems that we have to resolve." There is a certain degree of inevitability about the process, and it seems that the days of the courtroom artist, who for so long has been the only glimpse into the gloomy corners of British justice, are finally numbered.