Two men were last night under investigation for possible homicide charges after a London-based fund manager died after she was hit by a boat while swimming on holiday in Sardinia.Alexandra Ciardi, 48, suffered fatal head injuries after being hit by a boat propeller as she swam to join her husband on a boat at Calle de Volpe, near to the "millionaires' playground" of Porto Cervo yesterday lunchtime.Examining magistrates named the men they were questioning on homicide charges as the owner of the boat that allegedly struck Ms Ciardi, Giovanni Mahler, and his Turkish mariner assistant, Suleiman Salvtak.An autopsy completed yesterday confirmed that Ms Ciardi had died of wounds after colliding with a tender boat.As the family returned home to Chelsea, her husband, Giuseppe, and the couple's three children - all of whom witnessed the tragedy - issued a statement. The family said they were "immensely saddened and grief-stricken. Alex was a wonderfully devoted mother and a loving wife, an extraordinarily generous friend to many and deeply committed to children's charities. She brought sunshine into our lives and will live in our hearts for ever."The family are considering launching legal action over her death.Ms Ciardi, whose maiden name was Morgan, came from a New York family. She worked as a banker in London for Goldman Sachs and, at the time of her death, for GLG Partners LP.In 1983, she married Italian financier Giuseppe Ciardi, who founded Park Place Capital, a hedge fund.The boat that crossed her path when swimming was an eight metre tender called Wally, which was attached to luxury yacht Tanit.The boat was carrying an Italian journalist, Maria Corbi, of the newspaper La Stampa, who was en route to an interview for an article she was writing about the resort.Ms Corbi said: "I got on the boat for work. I was sitting at the back and someone shouted 'we have hit something'. I turned my head around and saw the red trail in the water."We then turned around to help but by then another boat was there. There was a desperate rush to the shore."An ambulance arrived and then, later, a helicopter. But by then I don't think there was much they could do."Ms Corbi told the Guardian that the bay had been "a crowded chaos of boats, waterbikes, waterskis. And in the middle of all this, people swimming about."The American financier Tom Barrack, who has developed stretches of the Smeralda coastline, yesterday asked for a meeting with the authorities to discuss the incident and the crowding of boats and swimmers around resorts.Only last July, Italian authorities introduced new regulations governing the speed of boats close to shorelines, and codes for water where people are swimming.One of her last friends to see Ms Ciardi alive was Peter Mallinson, an asset manager in London, whose family had met up with the Ciardis in Porto Cervo, before leaving on Tuesday.Mr Mallinson said: "The bay was always crowded at this time of year with very many large boats, that also have big tenders, going to and fro. It is a crowded place, with jetskis and waterskis going around."He said that he and his family were stunned by the news. "Alex was a tremendous, gregarious and generous-minded woman," he said.Ms Ciardi was on the Full Stop national appeal board of the children's charity the NSPCC.Its director and chief executive, Mary Marsh, said last night: "Alex Ciardi was one of the NSPCC's most valued friends, a dedicated supporter who helped gain the commitment of others."Through her membership of the Full Stop national appeal board, she made an extraordinary contribution towards helping end cruelty to children."The world for children is a worse place without her. We are devastated. She will be greatly missed. Our thoughts are with her husband and three children."Two inquiries have been launched, one by examining magistrates and another by the coastguard authorities.