A "totting up" system under which persistent offenders will face more severe penalties for a wide range of minor crimes is expected to form part of a package of measures to be unveiled tomorrow as the launch pad for Labour's campaign for a second term.The package is the outcome a year-long review of sentencing policy. It will sound the death knell of the liberal philosophy behind the 1991 criminal justice act of making the "punishment fit the crime" and which was introduced to keep down prison numbers. Mr Straw will show he is prepared to drive up the 68,000 prison population when he announces to the Commons new sentencing powers to tackle the hard core of about 100,000 persistent offenders who are said to be responsible for half of all recorded crime. He will tell MPs that it is not good enough that there is no guarantee at present that a persistent offender will receive a more severe penalty when he appears before court for the fifth time than on his second appearance. He believes the focus of judges and magistrates on the specific offence for which the offender is before the court is "too narrow" and should reflect the needs of crime reduction and reparation as well as punishment. Currently, persistent offend ers with 10 or more previous convictions still have a one in three chance of being given a community sentence when they next come before the court. Some 80% of persistent offenders are reconvicted within two years of leaving prison. Mr Straw believes that such offenders should not be able to continually flout the law: "Persistent offenders need to know that if they persist in their crimes they will receive increasingly severe punishment," the home secretary told the Justice Clerks' Society in a speech trailing this week's announcements. The sentencing shake-up is the result of a review under the chairmanship of John Halliday, a senior Home Office civil servant. Among changes expected to be announced are: • A "totting up" system for a wide range of minor offences similar to the current penalty points system for motorists under which they lose automatically lose their driving licence once they hit a specified number of points. The review promises "a different and more sophisticated system" but one which will ensure that persistent offenders with recent and relevant previous convictions will face increasingly severe punishments which they will be able to predict. This reform will be linked to proposals later in the year to deal with an extra 500,000 mi nor offences each year by fixed penalty fines to free up the time of the courts for more serious crimes. • A "custody plus" system for the 44,000 prisoners a year who serve sentences of 12 months or less who are currently automatically released halfway through their sentences. The rest of the sentence is "dead time". Mr Straw now wants to follow the fixed period in prison with a further period under an enforced rehabilitation programme in the community. Those who fail to comply will be sent back to prison to serve out the rest of their term. The home secretary calls this "stay straight or go back to prison". • New powers for the courts to make offenders sentenced to community punishments such as probation to come back to court at specified intervals to report on their progress. For example, a drug offender might be ordered to stay off drugs. If he failed to provide evidence of negative drug test results the court might impose a more severe sentence. The precise impact of these anti-crime measures will be revealed tomorrow but unless they are combined with shorter sentences it can be expected that numbers sent to prison will rise sharply under a second-term Labour government.