During the public inquiry into the death of their first-born son, Doreen and Neville Lawrence fought a daily battle to avoid falling apart. Doreen would adopt a stony face as she walked the 20 yards from the inquiry chamber to the small room set aside for the family and their legal team. Visible in her eyes was the pain she was suffering hearing graphic detail about the death of her son. Neville showed his emotions more. Several times during police evidence he walked out, muttering under his breath 'that man's a liar'. As he heard, for the first time, details of his son's death being read out, Neville collapsed. For the Lawrences the last six years have been an emotional tightrope walk. Their campaign for justice for Stephen was something that they had to undertake, whether they liked it or not. In the years before their campaign attracted intense public interest, the Lawrences say they were dismissed, patronised and lied to by the police . 'At times it seems as if we're making it all up, that it really didn't happen. If you see what the police say, the CPS say, we're the ones why Stephen's killers weren't caught. We're the ones why the police couldn't do their investigation. We're the ones, because we took out a private prosecution, why the boys (the five suspects) can never be charged, so everywhere you look it always seems to be our fault,' said Doreen in an interview during the inquiry. Sir William Macpherson's report is their vindication. After years of being disbelieved and ignored, the Lawrences have proved, against all the odds, that the police failed to catch the racist murderers of Stephen because of their own prejudice. Six years ago it was a view held in the black community. Now it has the sanction of a judicial inquiry. To get to this point the Lawrences developed extraordinary courage and strength, and withstood a series of blows to their campaign. They have also had to deal with the breakdown of their marriage. Neville Lawrence was born on March 13, 1942, in Kingston, Jamaica. His father was a leather turner, his mother ran a restaurant. Aged 18 he came to London, aware that racism existed, but did not recognise it at first when he was its target. When some whites abused him and called him a 'coon' he thought it was a nickname. He met Doreen in 1970. She arrived in England in 1962 from Clarendon in Jamaica, aged nine. She and Neville married in November 1972 at Lewisham register office. Two years later Stephen was born. They watched with pride as Stephen thrived at school. He also developed a keen interest in art, was an accomplished athlete, and had taken the first steps to realising his dream of becoming an architect. The guiding principles for the family were education and self-improvement, with both parents going back into education. On the day Stephen was murdered Doreen was away on a field trip for a humanities degree. Neville was out of work and helped Stephen, his brother Stuart and sister Georgina get ready for school. Stephen, concerned that Neville's fruitless search for work as a plasterer was getting him down, asked: 'Are you sure you are all right dad?' Yes, Neville replied. That ended their final conversation. One of the lowest points during the past six years was the collapse of the Lawrences' private prosecution and the realisation that three of Stephen's killers could never stand trial for murder. According to a friend, Neville suffered 'an emotional meltdown', and returned to Jamaica for more than six months.  It was the catalyst for their separation. A close friend said: 'Doreen was also badly affected. She managed to hold it together in a way Neville just couldn't. Both were so focused on getting justice for Stephen that it left little emotional energy for anything else. They say the same things, they think alike. It's a shame they are not together.' Neville now lives away from the family home, where Doreen remains with Stuart, 21, who is studying for a degree, and Georgina, 16. Both parents guard the privacy of their children and are desperate to ensure their development is not overshadowed by their campaign for justice for Stephen. The Lawrences do not discuss their estrangement, but last month Neville told a Channel 4 documentary that the family had not come to terms with their loss: 'Stephen's sister Georgina has kept us going. At the time of Stephen's death she was still young so she seems to have dealt with it. But Stuart and Doreen haven't dealt with the death. 'She (Doreen) hasn't dealt with it because you can't deal with it until you start talking about it and she doesn't want to speak about it. People blame one another for the situation they are in and things sometimes get out of hand. But I am trying to see if there's any way I can stop my marriage breaking up.' Doreen works as a student welfare officer and is studying for an MSc in therapeutic counselling. Neville, unable to work since Stephen's death, is likely to take some kind of role campaigning against racism. Both will also have a role in the trust set up in Stephen's name, which will encourage more Afro-Caribbeans to become architects, and serve as a living memorial to their lost son.