We are here today for a very sad and tragic reason, unique and interesting as it may be from a forensic perspective. I am joined at this conference by Commander Andy Baker and Detective Inspector Will O'Reilly from Scotland Yard. I welcome them here but with a sadness and deep sense of the tragedy of the case that we are to speak about.The background is briefly the following and the two officers from Scotland Yard will be able to elaborate further during question time. As long ago as September 21 last year, the body of a young child was discovered floating in the Thames river in London. To date no one has yet come forward to identify the body or to provide the faintest inkling of information that can help to solve the murder.This is in spite of the fact that there have been extensive media appeals in the UK and Europe, and an offer of £50,000 has been made for information that can lead to solving the crime. The body is of a child aged four to seven years old. The body was naked except for a pair of orange shorts. What is gruesome is that the child's body has been dismembered with his head, arms and legs removed so that only the torso remains.The post mortem reveals that he died in a very violent manner. His neck had been cut in a very unusual way and he had a lot of loss of blood. What is even more gruesome is that the arms, legs and head had, according to the post mortem result, been removed in a very skilful manner. Scotland Yard's careful investigation, despite the lack of information, has pointed to this murder possibly having a ritualistic stance to it. It maybe that we are dealing here with what is often referred to as a Muti murder.Scotland Yard has appealed to us to add our voice to theirs, imploring people from around the world to come forward with any information that can help identify the young murdered victim and to track the perpetrators of this horrific crime, and I conceded to make this appeal without any hesitation.Scotland Yard informs me that the indications of their investigation are that the boy comes from somewhere in Africa and that he may have arrived in the UK only days before his murder. Establishing the true identity of the boy is crucial to a successful conclusion of the investigation being conducted by police. Hence, we appeal for all people in the UK and across the world to come forward with even the least bit of information that can help solve this murder and, as it seems likely that the boy might have come from South Africa and has been the victim of some ritualistic murder, I wish to direct my appeal even more specifically to the people of Africa.If anywhere, even the remotest village in our continent, there is a family missing a son of that age who might have disappeared around that time, 21 September last year, please contact the police in London either directly or through their local police. The South African police service and the South African pathologist have already made a sterling contribution towards trying to solve this terrible murder.The Metropolitan police service has dedicated itself to solve this murder. They are committed to bringing to justice the killers of this young boy who they have personalised in their investigation by calling him Adam rather than having him referred to merely as some unidentified body. I wish to direct my appeal to all the people across the world and specifically in Africa to come forward and help bring to justice the killers of this young boy. Such crucial wastage of the lives of our children and youth cannot be allowed to continue. I specifically ask for anyone out there who maybe the family of this tragically killed young boy to please step forward.