When it comes to behaving badly, Britain's teenagers are the best in Europe, according to a report by the Institute of Public Policy Research (IPPR).The report found that British 15-year-olds got drunk more often, had more fights and were more likely to have sex than their French, Italian or German counterparts.The IPPR, which gathered together several studies carried out over the past few years, reported that the UK's youth either topped the league tables or came close to the top, when it came to drugs, drink, violence and promiscuity.One study suggested that in 2003, 38% of British 15-year-olds had tried cannabis, as opposed to 7% in Sweden and 27% in Germany.British adolescents can be defined by how they spend their spare time, said the IPPR. While 45% of 15-year-old boys in England and 59% in Scotland spend most evenings with friends, in France that figure stands at just 17%.And in continental Europe, teenagers are more likely to sit down to a meal with their parents. In Italy, 93% eat regularly with their families, compared with 64% in the UK.Nick Pearce, director of the IPPR, told the BBC last night the figures pointed to an "increasing disconnect" between children and adults, with young people learning how to behave from each other. He said: "Because they don't have that structured interaction with adults, it damages their life chances. They are not learning how to behave - how to get on in life - as they need to."In response to the findings, a spokesperson from the government department responsible for young people, the Department for Education and Skills (DfES), said: "The IPPR's report raises important sets of issues to reflect on as we develop our future youth strategy. It is important not to lose perspective and think all teenagers are in crisis: they are not. The vast majority of teenagers are achieving more and enjoying more prosperous lives than ever before, as the report acknowledges."But the DfES spokesperson added: "[The] government is not complacent, and this report helpfully highlights some of the challenges ahead."The IPPR publishes its 67,000-word report, Freedom's Orphans: Raising Youth in a Changing World, on Monday. It will recommend that every child between the ages of 11 and 16 should participate in at least two hours a week of structured extracurricular activities such as martial arts, drama or sport.Last week the IPPR reported that Britain was in danger of becoming a nation fearful of its young people, with British adults the least likely in Europe in stop teenagers behaving antisocially. Just 34% per cent of Britons said they would intervene if they saw a group of teenagers vandalising a bus stop, compared with 65% of Germans and 50% of Italians.Attempts by the Government or other public bodies to promote marriage as a way of helping children succeed in life are "not realistic" and are instead "unnecessarily morally prescriptive", the IPPR said.It said stable and consistent parenting was more important than whether parents are married when it came to predicting how children would fare in later life. Its research showed that having a loving relationship with a parent could override the effect of living in a one-parent family, but the crucial factor was whether the lone parent spends quality time with the child. Children who spend less quality time with their parents are more likely to commit antisocial behaviour than others, the IPPR concluded.Nick Pearce, director of the IPPR, said: "We can't reinvent families or subsidise them at the expense of children growing up in poverty. But we can promote stronger bonds between children and adults, and more stable, consistent parenting."Government attempts to lower the rates of single parents, divorce, and people living together were not realistic, said the IPPR, because they were "socially and culturally driven trends". Financial incentives encouraging people to marry were unlikely to work, while focusing support on traditional family types would divert resources from those most in need. It cited the introduction of the Married Couples Allowance in the 1970s, which famously coincided with the biggest increases in divorce of the last century.Children are nowadays less likely to grow up with both natural parents. In the early 1970s, 7% of children lived with a single parent, but by early 2005, the proportion had risen to 24%.