A Thai detective who murdered a young British couple at the end of their dream holiday yesterday escaped the death penalty.Somchai Visetsingha, a sergeant, gunned down Adam Lloyd, 25, and Vanessa Arscott, 23, in Kanchanaburi, near the bridge over the River Kwai on September 9 last year. The couple's parents were in court to see him convicted of murder after a trial in which his claims that he did not kill the couple were shown as lies. The handcuffed policeman sat with his eyes downcast as the judge read a lengthy description of the crime before handing down the sentence. Judge Dilok Boonthawinat first sentenced Somchai to death, but reduced the penalty to a life sentence because the man had cooperated with the court, had a good police career record, and had originally confessed to the killings, although later he denied involvement to avoid execution. Mr Lloyd's father, Brian, who heard the verdict with his wife, Ms Arscott's parents and other relatives, at the back of the court via a translator, said he was pleased about the conviction and hoped life meant life. "We trust that the sentence given to the butcher will be served in full," Mr Lloyd said in a statement. "He showed them no mercy and cannot expect us to give him any mercy." Ms Arscott's father, Graham, said afterwards: "We feel this verdict recognises the cold-blooded and callous way he ended our children's lives with as much compassion as would be shown a rabid dog." Somchai has 30 days to appeal, which his lawyer said he would do. Mr Lloyd predicted the case would "drag on for many years", denying the families an end to the events. When he surrendered to police after a month on the run, Somchai admitted committing the double murder. He said he shot Mr Lloyd after an argument in which the Briton allegedly spat in his face. He ran down Ms Arscott, who was trying to block his escape by car, and dragged her along the road for about 200 metres before stopping, getting out of the vehicle, and firing three bullets into her as she tried to crawl away. The incident occurred at the end of the couple's two-month holiday in Thailand. They had planned to return home to Devon several days earlier but could not get a flight.During court hearings the defendant retracted his confession when he learnt he could still be charged with murder, a conviction that carries a mandatory death penalty. He claimed his original statement was made under duress and that the murderer was a person whose name he did not know. But Judge Dilok stressed yesterday that he believed the original confession. "The witnesses and evidence have convinced the court that the defendant committed the crimes of intentional killing of a person and killing another to avoid his first crime," he said. Among the evidence were photos showing Somchai being extremely friendly with the couple, contradicting his claim that he had not met them. While thanking the prosecutors, Mr Arscott was critical of the Thai police investigation. "Amazingly, he was able to go home, go to the local hospital and draw money from an ATM in Kanchanaburi hours after this heinous double murder of two young people, without coming close to being apprehended," he said. Thailand's police have a reputation for corruption and it was thought colleagues protected Somchai on the run. Ms Arscott's grandmother, Eileen Arscott, from Devon, said of the couple: "They were young people who had their lives in front of them."