From a distance, the five burly men hacking away at a patio in Slough yesterday might have looked like ordinary labourers. If they hoped that muddy boots and woolly hats allowed them to pass as builders doing a hard day's work, however, they were wrong. These were the first convicted UK criminals forced to wear controversial "vests of shame" - bright orange bibs designed as public reminders that offenders cleaning graffiti or laying pavements are being punished and not paid.Every labourer helping to lay a new patio at Slough's West Wing arts centre, the community service programme chosen to launch the scheme, was wearing a fluorescent orange vest emblazoned with the words Community Payback. "They're not medieval. It's not to do with the stocks. It's not to do with shaming," said the justice secretary, Jack Straw. "The shame the offender feels is the shame and humiliation of having committed the offence and then going to court and having a criminal record. What this is about is enabling the public to see that justice is being done. The more we can get across to the public that community punishments are effective and tough, the fewer people the courts will find it essential to send to prison," he said. They had ordered 10,000 vests at a cost of £22,000, he said, after research revealed that the public believes offenders should be identified.A Ministry of Justice press officer asked one offender, a reluctant-looking postal worker, to talk to reporters. "They're not going to name you or anything," she said. "They won't show your face." The 36-year-old explained he was completing 80 hours of unpaid work for refusing to give a breath sample to police after running through a red light. He had also been given a three-year driving ban. As for the jacket, he said: "Without a uniform, people can't identify who you are. I'm very comfortable. It's better than going to prison." Nearby, fellow offenders giggled at his apparent humiliation. "It basically says: that person's a criminal," said one, shaking his head. "It's not enough to do the work. I've got to show everyone why I'm doing it. It's not something I want my kids to see."Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation officers' union Napa, said: "There have already been a number of attacks. The use of high-visibility vests seems certain to increase the risk." Risk of vigilante attack was low at yesterday's launch, however, in an enclosed yard away from public view. "I'm not embarrassed," said another offender. "No-one's going to see us here, are they?"