Police are investigating the death of a 19-year-old woman who fell from a window on the third floor of a block of flats in Blackheath, south-east London. Rosimeiri Boxall, from Thamesmead in south-east London, was found lying under an open window at the flats at 6.30pm on Saturday. Police said they were treating the death as suspicious, but it was not a murder inquiry. Two girls, aged 13 and 17, were arrested yesterday after Boxall's death but were released last night on bail pending further inquiries.Boxall was taken to hospital with severe injuries, but her heart stopped on the way. A postmortem examination was carried out yesterday afternoon. A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "This is a suspicious death at this time. There are question marks over the circumstances, but it is not a murder inquiry."Police were called to Coleraine Road in Blackheath after reports of a teenager being injured after apparently falling from a window. She was found beneath an open window, having suffered serious injuries. A police spokesman later said: "Two females aged 13 and 17 arrested in connection with the death have been bailed to return to a south London police station in June, pending further inquiries." A spokeswoman for the London ambulance service said: "We were called by police at 6.30pm to reports of a fall from height. We sent two fast response cars and an ambulance. The female was taken to Queen Elizabeth hospital in a serious condition. She went into cardiac arrest." A post-mortem yesterday afternoon gave the cause of death as internal injuries, according to a police spokesman.The incident comes after a report from the Youth Justice Board last week which revealed a steep rise in the number of crimes committed by girls. There were 59,236 offences reported in 2006-07, up by 25% from 47,358 in 2003-04. A study by South Bank University in London said that the rise in reported crime could be due in part to heightened intolerance towards girls involved in low-level offences, and partly to a rise in alcohol consumption. Most of the violent offences were minor fights between girls, sometimes occurring in school playgrounds. Susannah Eagle, the author of the study, said: "We think that the response to girls by agencies - schools, police, other people - has changed, so girls are possibly being prosecuted for offences they weren't being prosecuted for before."Eagle said that this change could be due to a media focus on crimes involving girls and to a growing unwillingness among the public to intervene. "It is not just that girls are committing more offences," she said. "The population has increased, so you would expect to see more offences ... The other element is there may be some link between girls using alcohol and offences. But it is not the dramatic change the figures might suggest."