A retired company director who was devoted to his seriously ill wife shot her dead and killed himself after they apparently made “a pact to die together”, an inquest has heard.John Knott, 71, killed his wife Anne, 70, who had Alzheimer’s disease, before turning his shotgun on himself at the couple’s idyllic 300-year-old cottage in Herefordshire. The inquest was told that as well as struggling to cope with his wife’s illness, Knott had been concerned about plans to build a travellers’ site near their home and had led a campaign against it. Herefordshire coroner’s court heard that police discovered the couple’s bodies on the floor of their locked workshop at their cottage in August last year.Elizabeth Keatley, a close friend of the couple, told the hearing: “He [Mr Knott] would do absolutely anything for her within his powers and sometimes outside his powers. He did everything. He kept the house. He cooked. He cleaned. He nursed her. She loved him, too.” She said Mrs Knott had moved into a nursing home but hated it and returned to the family home. “He [Knott] said he lost his wife and she physically was not there. She was not mentally, emotionally there as well. He was lost without her. It is my opinion that some time ago they made a pact to die together.”Police said Mr Knott had expressed concern at the travellers’ site, which was planned 300m from their home. Detective Sergeant Tim Powell, of West Mercia police CID, told the inquest: “He did not agree with the planning permission. He had worked in construction and he set about a very professional and comprehensive argument against this planning permission.“It was to build a washhouse and some caravans for local families. I would say that, having looked [at] and examined Mr Knott’s circumstances, it was a concern to him. If you imagine a file about three inches thick, that was his file for the planning permission concern. But the file for the research he carried out on the care of his wife was probably one foot thick.”Powell said he believed Mr Knott shot his wife before turning his legally held shotgun on himself. Deputy Herefordshire coroner, Roland Wooderson, recorded a verdict of unlawful killing for Mrs Knott and suicide for her husband.He said: “Mr Knott was coming to the end of his tether. In Mrs Keatley’s opinion, Mr and Mrs Knott made a pact to die together.”Herefordshire council approved plans to convert a field near the Knotts’ home into a travellers’ site on 29 September last year.