A father and son have been jailed for selling unsafe DIY teeth-whitening kits that left some users with bleeding gums from chemical burns. The family business made more than £3m over a decade and meant Matthew Hargreaves, 44, and his father, John, 69, could live a lavish lifestyle. But Merthyr crown court in south Wales was told that their products contained dangerously high levels of hydrogen peroxide, which can be used as a bleaching agent. Father and son were each jailed for 18 months. John Hargreaves’ wife, Jean, 71, who was also involved in running the business, was jailed for six months but her sentence was suspended for two years.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Hargreaves is led into a security van after pleading guilty to fraud at Merthyr crown court. Photograph: Ben Wright/PAAn investigation, codenamed Operation Gleam, began when trading standards officers from Powys county council came across a company trading at the Royal Welsh Show in Builth Wells in the summer of 2013. Advertising banners claimed the product was “ideal for any age group” and was “used by leading dentists throughout the UK and Europe”. Officers bought a sample of the product and were shocked to find it contained up to 110 times the allowable level of hydrogen peroxide. They issued a public warning that DIY kits which breached safety laws could aggravate gum disease or even cause chemical burns to the mouth. The investigation, which cost more than £800,000, spread across the UK, with officers speaking to dozens of people who had used the product. Matthew and John Hargreaves admitted fraud. Jean Hargreaves admitted engaging in unfair commercial practice. Mark Wyeth QC, prosecuting, said: “Their activities caused serious harm to unwitting members of the public. It involved the sale of unsafe and dangerous teeth-whitening products across the British Isles and Republic of Ireland.“They ran a thoroughly dishonest and dangerous business placing members of the public in serious harm for a period of eight years.”The court heard the three lived in a large house in Cheshire and had seven luxury cars. Whenever the pressure from trading standards or complaining customers became too great, the existing company would be wound up and another one, which was already set up, would take over. They have refused to say where the product came from. Judge Philip Harris-Jenkins told the defendants they had shown blatant disregard for public safety in order to make a huge profit. “You placed personal greed before greater public safety.”Clive Jones, Powys council’s lead for trading standards and community safety, said: “We will be working with the General Dental Council (GDC) on future campaigns as we need to ensure that such sharp practices are stamped out.”Katie Spears, of the General Dental Council, said: “The GDC continue to work hard to proactively spread the message that tooth whitening is the practice of dentistry and that only registered dental professionals can legally and safely provide such treatment.“We are particularly proud of the collaborative approach taken here with Powys trading standards to promote patient safety and will continue to work with trading standards and other stakeholders to guard against the promotion of potentially dangerous illegal tooth-whitening practices.”