An office the size of a golf course, a hat-trick of minders in tow and the ready ear of anyone he fancies entertaining. It must be wonderful being home secretary. Jack Straw has agreed to talk to the Guardian about race. It's not so surprising - this is his subject.Race is home turf, where he feels confident. After all, it was Straw who demanded an inquiry into the killing of Stephen Lawrence following years of Tory indifference, Straw who masterminded the new race relations act and Straw who finally agreed to make indirect racism an offence. All notable achievements.There is barely time to register the camp pastel walls and family photographs before Straw is shaking my hand, apologising for being short of time. How important is race to his job? "It is the most important part of my job. If there's one thing I feel I've made the greatest difference in, it's setting up the Lawrence inquiry. It's one of the key things on which I want to be judged because you can't have a safe, just and tolerant society unless you've got a multi-racial, multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, multi-religious society." He doesn't even gasp for breath. Straw calls racism "a kind of madness" and says it is his job to change attitudes as well as policies. He is MP for Blackburn, a town with a large Asian population and an infamous racist heritage. He says it has been crucial in shaping his attitude to race, and sweeps back to pre-parliamentary life in 1976 when the British National Party fielded two candidates in Blackburn. "We had to work very hard to improve race relations." Today, Blackburn is hardly renowned for its racial harmony. What happens when he goes home and Johnny Racist tell him that "pakis" have destroyed their once great town? "On the whole, people don't." But when they do? "I ask them to describe their family and where they come from, and almost inevitably they come from somewhere else at some stage. I'll say, 'How d'you think Asian people turned up in this town?' Then I explain that there was a labour shortage in the 50s and Conservative mill owners were advertising in the Gujarat and the Punjab. Normally they go away thinking differently." He smiles at the happy result. But this is where Straw's race politics become confusing. While he talks with pride of the riches provided by previous generations of economic immigrants, he shows contempt for those seeking economic or political asylum today. He believes many asylum seekers are operating a "racket," he has labelled travellers "thieves". Last week the Wall Street Journal said that his unsympathetic response to the Afghan hostages mirrored the attitude of the Taliban. It's as if "Black Britain" and "asylum seekers" are mutually exclusive issues. Yes, we can be an all-embracing, multi-cultural society and yes, we can also turn our back on any number of people fleeing from persecution or poverty. Perhaps he feels, as many do, that the way of achieving racial harmony here is by keeping a balance. He recoils in his chair. "Well, not racially balanced. I wouldn't use that phrase. I want a society that provides equality between people of different races but also celebrates their diversity, and I think it's terrific that we are such a mixed society these days. But there is a limited capacity of any country to take in unlimited numbers. "Interestingly, I find some of the strongest support for our approach - a fair application to the 1951 convention on asylum which we apply very firmly to those who have unfounded claims - among my Asian constituents or other people's Afro-Caribbean constituents." He has a point. The last batch of immigrants are often the first to pull up the ladder. But surely the fact that black and Asian and Jewish people can be selfish and bigoted themselves is a shabby justification for an unforgiving asylum policy. When Straw was in Opposition, he criticised the Tory asylum package that included the voucher system. Now, of course, he is very much in favour of the vouchers which force asylum-seekers to shop at expensive supermarkets. Is it a deterrent? "Sometimes there are genuine asylum-seekers whose applications are not well founded. I had a chap from Kenya in my constituency who had a genuine fear of persecution, but it wasn't a well-founded fear. In the end he went back and he's been OK. But his fear was genuine because of what happened to him." It's a disturbing, open-ended story. I tell Straw of the survey in today's Guardian which shows that 53% of white people would not mind if a close relative married a black or Asian person. It's a massive step forward from five years ago. "Good. Great !" he says. And he does look delighted. So where were did these complex views of race develop? He talks about the all-white world he grew up in. "I think there was one black lad in secondary school. I remember my father bringing home an Iraqi and being slightly surprised at his different features. In primary school a quarter of the globe was pink, run by British men. "I remember being shown a film strip of natives, and we were told that they were 'the niggers' I thought it was odd at the time." He moves on to 1964 and the first election with which he was involved. "We had the Smethwick defeat of Patrick Gordon Walker with the slogan 'If you want a nigger for your neighbour vote Liberal or Labour.' We had Enoch Powell in the late 60s . . ." What would his mother have said if he had told her he was marrying a black woman? "She would have been fine. No question." Unusual attitude for the time? "Yes, she was a very unusual woman." And his father? "Ditto." And his grandparents? "Not sure about grandparents . . . not sure." Does he think we have become more racially relaxed? "Oh, yes. But there's still a long way to go, particuarly in employment practices. Take this place, the home office. Decent, liberally minded people running it for years and yet, when we surveyed the staff about 18 months ago, black and Asian people were very angry at how they had been treated. Although, in theory, the procedures were fair because there was no direct discrimination. In practice, black and Asian people who were talented were being held back." Incredible progress. Only, we still have the the racist killing of Michael Menson; at least 30 other inadequately investigated black deaths in 90s Britain; the disproportionate numbers of black deaths in custody; the fact that young black men are twice as likely to be unemployed as white, four times as likely to end up in jail; the fact that we can stop Neville Lawrence as a suspected robber, the fact that we can stop and search Duwayne Brooks, the friend of Stephen Lawrence who was with him when he died, any number of times; the fact that 47% of white people would still be distraught if close family married someone black.  Progress is one thing. A fair society another. Can black people have confidence in the police now? "They can have greater confidence in the police. I mean, the police service has been through a cultural shock as a result of Macpherson." At times Straw sounds a similar note to the police chiefs who complain their officers have been traumatised. In what ways should we not feel confident? "I'm obviously concerned about the disproportionate number of stop and searches of black people who appear to be wholly innocent." If we acknowledge that there is institutionalised racism in the police, why haven't the institutionalised racists been kicked out? "Let me finish," Straw says, before he has even begun to answer. "I've changed the disciplinary process for the police service so now the burden of proof is a civil burden of proof, not the criminal burden of proof, and where explicit racism is proved against police officers they are then the subject of a disciplinary process. And we've changed the criminal law as well. And there have been over 100 prosecutions since that part of the crime and disorder bill came into force." Perhaps unintentionally, he has given a classic politician's answer. Merging two distinct issues into one fug. The 100 prosecutions have been against members of the public for racially motivated crimes, not against police officers. When I later ask the home office how many officers have been disciplined for racism since Macpherson, it cannot provide an answer. The police complaints authority has no figures either. One can't help but suspect the figure would be similar to the number of officers disciplined in the Lawrence case - none. Straw returns to a favourite caveat. "Unwitting racism is much more difficult to prove because it is by definition people who themselves feel they are behaving perfectly decently . . . it is not about kicking people out, it is about changing people's attitudes." Many people believe the best way of changing attitudes is by showing racists zero tolerance. If race is the most important part of his job how important is it to keep in touch with black culture? "Black and Asian culture," he corrects me. "I do my best." What is the last black film he saw? " Bl-aaack . . . fiillm ? What was the last film I saw would be a bigger question. I mean, given the nature of my job . . . I read the Voice. . ." I apologise for the vague nature of the question. What is the last Spike Lee movie he saw? "The last who ? Who's he talking about?" he pleads of the minders. "I didn't . . . I've not seen a Spike Lee film, but I don't think I'm therefore disqualified from all this. Because if you go through a long list of pop stars . . . I was given an award the other day for spotting . . . It's not that I'm an old fogey, but I mean, you know, I'm busy. I have as much contact with black and Asian people and white people on the street, citizens, as I can. I happen to do a strange job in which I have to struggle hard to meet people in relaxed circumstances." Who'd be a home secretary?