Police were yesterday accused of failing to stamp out racism in the ranks after figures revealed that black Britons are eight times more likely than white people to be stopped and searched.A member of the 1999 Macpherson inquiry into racism within the police said that the situation had got worse for ethnic minorities since the report, when black people were five times more likely to be be targeted by police using the controversial powers. Police in England and Wales carried out 713,683 stops in 2001/2, an increase on the previous year of 4%, according to Home Office figures. But the Metropolitan police, saw a huge increase. Officers in London stopped 30% more Afro-Caribbean people and 40% more Asian people, compared to an increase of 8% for white people. Nationally barely one in 10 stops led to arrest, meaning that officers' suspicions of more than 70,000 black and 35,000 Asian people, were not borne out. Outside London 2% fewer whites were stopped, while there was a 6% increase of Afro-Caribbeans and a 16% rise for Asians compared with last year. Asians were three times more likely than white people to be stopped. The report, Race and the Criminal Justice System, also showed that ethnic minorities were over represented throughout the criminal justice system, but under represented as employees. Home Office minister John Denham announced a new unit to study the reasons behind the figures. He said: "Minority ethnic people are more likely to be victims of crime and have poor experiences in the criminal justice system. At the same time, they are more likely to be stopped and searched by police officers. "Where we are seeing the results of continuing discrimination, we must work together to root it out. If it is the case that certain types of crime are more likely to be committed by certain groups, whether they are white, black or Asian, we need to acknowledge this and work with those communities to tackle it." But the new unit was denounced as a "waste of money" by Neville Lawrence, father of murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence. He said the statistics revealed that police officers had returned to their old ways and were institutionally racist in their approach to crime. "We know what the problem is and we don't need another team to sort it out." Richard Stone, a member of the Macpherson inquiry which found the police to be institutionally racist,said: "There are still too many police acting in a racist way. Things are getting worse rather than better." The Macpherson inquiry concluded police should have to give written reasons for carrying out stops, known as recommendation 61. Mr Denham said the proposal would be piloted in seven areas - Merseyside, Nottingham, Sussex, west Midlands, west Yorkshire, north Wales, and the Met. The Police Federation had voiced fears the proposal would drown officers in more paperwork. But black police leaders have accused the government of stalling. Dr Stone said: "You need strong leadership from the top of the police and the government and we haven't seen that on implementing recommendation 61." Some believe that as well as racism, the rise may be due to an increased drive against street crime which the government has made one of its top law and order priorities. Marian FitzGerald, criminologist at the London School of Economics, said that stop and search was a flawed tactic in tackling street crime. The figures were supposed to be published in February. The Home Office said that it had delayed publication for nine months so they could be released with other statistics. Scotland Yard said the increase was due in part to more officers on the street after September 11 and because of its Safer Streets initiative.