Police officers found guilty of carrying out acts of domestic violence could be sacked under proposals unveiled today.If there is evidence of an officer abusing their partner, they could also face immediate suspension from duty, according to the Association of Chief Police Officers. Acpo spokesman Assistant Chief Constable Jim Gamble said the policy would send a clear signal to victims that the police could be trusted to take allegations seriously. "If people don't think we take this seriously enough, how can we convince them to come forward?" he said.He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme if there was prima facie evidence that an officer had committed an offence, a senior officer should decide on suspension. If they were found guilty, they should "not serve as a police officer any longer".He said the same should apply to officers found guilty of offences involving racism, homophobia, violence or dishonesty. Glen Smyth, from the Metropolitan Police Federation, was sceptical about the proposals. He said: "I do not think they are talking about anything new, I do not know why they are coming out with this really. "If an officer is convicted of assault in court, that's a criminal offence which is automatically subjected to discipline procedures. If you are guilty of a criminal offence, the chances are that you would be dismissed." Mr Smyth said suspension on the basis of allegation could not be automatic. "If you are going through acrimonious divorce proceedings and one partner makes an allegation - wholly untrue allegations - against their former partner, then that is not grounds for suspension. It has all got to be based on the circumstances." A spokesman for Acpo said the proposals being considered include dismissal following conviction of a domestic violence-related offence and schemes to encourage partners, relatives and colleagues to come forward if domestic violence is taking place. When an investigation is under way, officers may be suspended from duty, while the prosecution of police officers should continue even if the victim does not wish to pursue the matter. Under the new proposals, any police applicants will be screened to see if they have a history of domestic violence. In disciplinary cases where a criminal conviction has not been recorded, the option of dismissing an officer should still be considered. Mr Gamble said: "Forces do take allegations seriously, but we need to ensure a consistent and more pro-active approach amongst all forces in respect of our own officers."