Perhaps at any time in Britain the case of Munir Hussain would lead to calls for the law to change. But with an election in sight, it's bound to. The Buckinghamshire businessman was jailed last week for 30 months after causing brain damage to one of three burglars who tied his family up and threatened them with a knife. Now shadow home secretary Chris Grayling says householders should be protected by the law unless they react with "grossly disproportionate" force.The law on self-defence has only recently been clarified, in fact, and it's worth noting how friendly it already is to the victim of a burglary. It's long been clear that you are entitled to use reasonable force in defence of people or property. But section 76 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 spells out that whether the force you use is reasonable depends on the circumstances as you believed them to be – even if your belief was unreasonable. The jury must take into account that you cannot be expected to "weigh to a nicety" what you should do to defend yourself – and in effect, you get the benefit of the doubt if you only did what you honestly and instinctively thought necessary.What the law does not permit is disproportionate force; Grayling's proposal is that the ceiling on what a victim is entitled to do should be raised. But his response, making disproportionate force legitimate across the board, is itself disproportionate.Grayling has cited the example of Ireland, where the Law Reform Commission has recently proposed amending the law of self-defence to give victims of crime more protection. But the Irish proposal is much more cautious that Grayling's. It will simply make clear that a householder facing an immediate threat need not necessarily retreat if there is a safe opportunity to do so, but may hold his or her ground. It will remain the law that any force used in self-defence must be necessary and proportionate.There may be room for limited reform, although the Article 2 Convention right permits the taking of life in self-defence only where absolutely necessary. The requirement for proportionality could be dispensed where a victim causes relatively minor harm to a burglar.Perhaps even in more serious cases, disproportionate force could be taken into account as relevant to intent – which might have meant Munir Hussain was convicted of a less serious offence. Perhaps a Tory government would be tempted to turn self-defence into a positive right, on a par with the right to life. They need to find some content for their proposed "British bill of rights", and arguably framing self-defence as an enforceable human right could make the police and CPS even slower than they already are to prosecute cases like Munir Hussain's.But Grayling's solution is too blunt. The answer may not be for politicians to put forward yet more criminal law reform to endlessly refine, clarify and redefine, while obliging judges to deliver ever more convoluted directions to juries. Perhaps we should simply trust those who have heard all the evidence to judge what is and is not reasonable.