There's just no escape from university for a young person in today's Britain, it seems. Take Paul Faulkner, a 21-year- old from Darlington with three good A-levels. His parents wanted him to get a degree, but he wanted to follow his uncle into the police force.Two years ago he had taken a post as a police community support officer, working alongside the police on areas of anti-social behaviour. "This post was an eye opener and made me realise I wanted to be in the police force," said Faulkner. That's why he now finds himself in uniform alongside 27 other trainee constables ... in Teesside University. They are the first students on a two-year foundation degree in police studies, designed by the university with Cleveland police, to train recruits through a blend of theory and practice. For the first year, Faulkner and his colleagues are mainly in the classroom, with teaching from "civilian" lecturers, as well as police trainers. Next year they go out on to the streets of towns like Middlesbrough and Stockton, at first with an experienced officer and then independently, while still doing assignments and exams for the university. At the end of two years they should be fully functioning police officers - with the option of upgrading their foundation degree to a BSc Hons in investigative studies through further part-time study. "We've had a nice reaction from other students, and being able to mix with students from other courses in places like the canteen helps to break down barriers," says Faulkner, who does not expect to be making any arrests on campus while he learns the job. It looks an interesting experiment, although it will be several years before it is possible to judge whether it is an improvement on existing training methods, or whether the university's attempt to produce officers who are "aware of the bigger picture" has been a success. (It is also a symptom of the current rise in the status of the police - it is becoming a profession, while teaching is being downgraded to something you can learn on the job - but that's another article altogether.) "I'm looking forward to working on the forensic science elements next year and working on crime scene preservation in the university's crime scene laboratory," says Faulkner. "And my parents are pleased, as I've now gone to university!" Are Paul Faulkner and his classmates the future face of higher education? When foundation degrees were launched in England in 2001 they were billed as a central plank in the government's drive to get 50% of 18- to 30-year-olds into higher education, as well as providing a much-needed boost to vocational skills needed in the economy. Foundation degree numbers are rising. According to the Universities and Colleges Admissions System (Ucas) 8,582 started foundation degrees in 2004 - an impressive-sounding 48% increase. This meant 3,000 extra students over the number who started in 2003, but they were outweighed by 4,000 fewer students taking Higher National Diplomas (HNDs), the traditional two-year vocational courses, which continued their steady decline in England. In Scotland, which has not introduced foundation degrees, HNDs have held up better. Students, taking their cue from employers, have opted increasingly for the full monty rather than sub-degrees. There is little sign that foundation degrees are reversing that trend, although the introduction of £3,000-a-year fees from next year may make them more attractive to some students. If Teesside's new course is typical, it will not necessarily do much for the government's 50% target anyway. Faulkner is the youngest on the course. His colleagues, Yvonne Gamesby, 41, and 38-year-old Shane Kyme, are too old to count because they are over 30, although they show what a wide range of students a foundation degree can appeal to. Gamesby is already a graduate with a degree in librarianship and a postgraduate teaching qualification. A senior primary schoolteacher, she was inspired to follow her husband into the police following voluntary work with Barnardo's on a project concerned with vulnerable young adults in Middlesbrough. There she saw at first hand the close links between drugs and young sex workers. "Teesside is the third north-east university I've studied at," she says. "It's been quite nice to come back, I like the idea of being a student again." Gamesby, who is getting her children to help with her homework, likes the idea of combining academic and practical training, and learning about other agencies the police work with. "The police can't solve these problems alone - we need to work together." Shane Kyme, on the other hand, joined the Royal Navy aged 17, served for five years - tours included the Middle East and the Falklands - and then worked as a fire-alarm engineer for over 12 years. He was prompted to join the police by meeting officers in a local running team. Kyme was all set to go to the police training centre at Ponteland, near Newcastle, when he was told he would be going to university instead. "I felt a bit daunted when I found out about the foundation degree, as I don't have a particularly academic background. But I'm also excited as there's something to aim for. The good, sound knowledge we get from the degree will make us more community-aware police officers." Colin Dunnighan, director of the university's centre for applied socio-legal studies (CASLS) and a former detective inspector with Durham Constabulary, devised the course with Cleveland police, which is providing four experienced officers to deliver the more practical aspects of training. "The university will provide an academic context to the work the trainees will be doing. They are still being trained as police officers and the academic work complements that training. "The university work will be intensive, giving new recruits a broader perspective of the problems and issues they are likely to face on the streets - such as undertaking an arrest. This training will result in 'fully rounded' police officers, who can see the bigger picture of what's going on in the world," he says. Teesside is one of five pilot training schemes in England and Wales. There is another university-based one at Canterbury Christ Church University College, and three free-standing ones in north Wales, the west Midlands and with the Metropolitan police in London. The Teesside recruits get some criminology and sociology, which Dunnighan argues will give them a perspective on what they doing out on the streets. In their second year they will get opportunities to reflect on their work on the beat, through diaries and assignments. They are also introduced to the basics of forensic science, at the university's crime-scene house, learn ing to recover and package evidence. "At least they will have got the basic elements, instead of walking across and contaminating everything," he says. Teesside's foundation degree is typical of the wider picture, in that it has been taken up enthusiastically by the public sector - there are other thriving courses, training classroom assistants and early-years carers, for instance. According to Derek Longhurst, head of Foundation Degree Forward, which promotes the concept and aims to spread good practice, the armed forces are looking closely at how to adapt foundation degrees for a range of training, from engineering to facilities management, and even sport. Longhurst believes foundation degrees will help towards the 50% target, but says a bigger advantage is that they attract a more diverse range of students, and recruit more women than HNDs do. "The next stage is to get employers to use foundation degrees for their own workforce training, especially in the private sector." Success also varies by region - the south-west is particularly active with 270 foundation degree courses, helped by close links between Plymouth University and its faculty of 17 further education colleges. But, elsewhere, there are tensions between universities and colleges, which feel they are doing most of the work in these partnerships, but getting ripped off by universities. Plans by the exam board Edexcel to offer almost 100 "off the peg" foundation degree courses via colleges were abandoned last year after universities argued, successfully, that they would break the rules on academic quality assurance. More recently, the University Vocational Awards Council (Uvac) is hoping to offer a service to validate foundation degrees, which would not only be cheaper for colleges, but leave them free to set their own fees rather than being tied to a university partner. But these are second-order problems compared to the central question of whether foundation degrees will actually pull in the punters. Bahram Bekhradnia, director of the Higher Education Policy Institute (Hepi), says some foundation degrees, particularly part-time, updating courses for specific, often public sector, employees, such as the police or teaching assistants, are filling a need, but he is more sceptical about their future in general. "Employer demand is going to be the key - if employers show they value them, then students will demand them," he says. So far there is not much evidence of that. "Demand for sub-degree courses in general has been reducing steadily for the last decade or so and foundation degrees have largely replaced HNDs," Bekhradnia says. "The government is backing away rapidly from the notion that the majority of the increased numbers towards the 50% target would be met through foundation degrees. That was wishful thinking." The increase will come instead from more teenagers staying on to take A-levels - students who do go on to university whatever their social background. Hepi noted the rise in the proportion of students taking A-levels over the past two years, and figures due to be released later this month - on the numbers starting A-level courses in 2004 - will show whether this trend is being sustained. That is likely to translate into an increase in higher education participation rates, but these new students will probably opt for three- or four-year degrees rather than foundation degrees. But has the 50% target been abandoned anyway? Charles Clarke, during his time as education secretary, certainly put some distance between himself and the target he is "making progress towards". His last announcement was to pledge that the unit funding for teaching would be maintained in real terms throughout the next three-year period - that is the priority, not extra numbers. That was a relief to universities, which had feared being pushed to expand on the cheap, as happened during the 1980s and early 1990s. The education secretary's letter to Hefce said the government expects 33,000 extra students next year, 25,000 the year after and 24,000 in 2007-08. More students next year will simply keep the current participation rate steady at 44.5% of 18- to 30-year-olds because the numbers in that age group will rise. But the government expects that by the academic year 2007-08, participation rates should be 45.5%. That leaves just three years to make the leap to 50%. But just because the government is not budgeting for large numbers of extra places does not mean the societal pressures for degree education will slacken. The graduates of the 80s will expect their children to go to university as the graduates of the 60s and 70s did before them; the likelihood of getting a good job without a degree will decrease further. But with the pressure off universities to widen their nets, it is the non-traditional applicants who will lose out - the very group for whom foundation degrees were designed. No government, not even a Conservative one, would risk turning away large numbers of qualified 18-year-olds from a chance at university. "It is more likely that universities will recruit full-time school leavers, and the mature and part-time students will be neglected," says Bekhradnia. "If there is a squeeze that is where it will take place."