Sir Ian Blair mounted a fierce defence of his officers and his record yesterday as he insisted that persistent reports of his impending "demise" are premature.Amid growing speculation about whether the Metropolitan police commissioner can survive the forthcoming Independent Police Complaints Commission report on the killing of Jean Charles de Menezes, Sir Ian spoke out to address the controversies blighting his term in office, including the ill-fated raid in Forest Gate, east London, in which a young Muslim was shot. He said he would not be drawn into discussion about matters being investigated by the IPCC or the specific allegations by the family targeted in the Forest Gate raid, adding: "The police are restricted from providing an alternative account."But he said the silence will be broken. "We will give those accounts in due course. In the meantime, to paraphrase Mark Twain on reading his obituary, accounts of my demise are premature."Sir Ian again apologised for the "harm and disruption" caused by the Forest Gate raid, but he said it showed the force was determined to protect the public. "It did not work out this time but it did work out when we raided the mosque in east London and recovered enormous amounts of terrorist paraphernalia."The commissioner commended his officers for acting bravely. "We need to think that we actually have people, whatever happened in Forest Gate, who are prepared to go into those premises knowing what happened in other cities like Madrid where many police officers were killed."Sir Ian used a conference on crime in the US and Britain to set out his vision of how terrorism will be tackled. "The threat is very real," he said. "It is different in the UK than the US because it is very much a home-grown phenomenon. We should look very carefully at the identities of the 7/7 bombers and the fact that we had young men leaving this country to go and let off suicide bombs in Israel. None of those people had any connection with the intifada; none of them had any experience of repression. So they are dying for an idea." He said the only way that idea can be defeated "is through dialogue, through democracy and through coexistence".Sir Ian said he hoped to forge the same links with the Muslim communities as have been established with black communities to fight the now much reduced levels of gun crime.He told the conference, organised by the thinktank Politeia, that the establishment of localised safer neighbourhood policing teams throughout London by the end of the year would be the key to fighting crime. He said where teams exist there have been "electrifying evaluations" of their achievements, with crime and anti-social behaviour significantly reduced.