A schoolboy murdered a former girlfriend by battering her with a rock after he was promised a free breakfast if he carried out the killing, a jury heard.The alleged killer, aged 16, lured Rebecca Aylward, 15, to woods near Bridgend in south Wales where he attacked her, Swansea crown court heard. To divert suspicion, he told her to tell friends she was meeting someone else. But she did not follow his directions and revealed his identity to her mother, the jury heard on Tuesday.The boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, denies murdering Rebecca in October last year and blames his best friend.Greg Taylor QC, prosecuting, said the accused boy and Rebecca had briefly been in a relationship about a year before the murder and had kept in touch.The defendant used to meet friends at a local cafe for breakfast, the court heard. At one meeting, he openly discussed killing the girl. His friends assumed he was joking but, in a text,he asked one friend: "What would you do if I actually did kill her?" the court heard. The friend replied: "Oh, I would buy you breakfast."Two days before the killing, the defendant contacted his friend to confirm he would attend their breakfast date. He added: "Don't say anything but you may just owe me a breakfast." His friend replied: "Sick, sick boy."After the killing, the boy is alleged to have asked friends: "Do you know how hard it is to break someone's neck?"The jury heard that the boy told them: "She was facing away from me and I thought: 'This is it, I'm going to go for it.' I tried to break her neck. She was screaming so I picked up the rock and started to hit her with it. The worst part was feeling and seeing her skull give way."The jury was told the "academic" boy and Rebecca, also a bright child, had dated for three months and had a sexual relationship. Taylor said: "When they split up it was not amicable – all of their friends observed a love-hate relationship between them. They gave different reasons for the break-up."The boy said Rebecca tried to trick him into getting her pregnant. She told him she was on the pill and he found out that she wasn't and that she had lied to him. The boy was also telling people that Rebecca was going to go to the police and alleged that he raped her."Rebecca's version was that the boy refused to wear condoms and she asked him repeatedly to wear them but he refused." The boy allegedly told a friend: "Wouldn't it be easier if she wasn't here? I am going to kill her – it would be real easy."The jury heard another friend said the defendant claimed he would "kill her, cover it up and not get caught". He also allegedly claimed he would make "a poison" out of foxgloves and kill her using that. The trial continues.