Police hunting an armed thief who shot a policewoman in the leg after terrorising pub staff in an "exceptionally violent" raid have arrested a man on a nearby railway line.Detectives are questioning him and a 40-year-old man, who was caught earlier, about the shooting on New Year's Eve.Both men are being held on suspicion of attempted murder outside the Hospital Inn at Bamber Bridge, near Preston, where two raiders in balaclavas seized a "significant" five-figure sum in takings after beating up the chef.They were challenged as they fled by PC Katie Johnson, who had been alerted by an alarm call from the pub. She was immediately shot at close range.The head of the inquiry, Detective Superintendent Neil Hunter, revealed yesterday that Johnson's colleague, PC Ian Tinsley, had then confronted the man.Hunter said the raider was joined by his colleague and both threatened to shoot Tinsley as they had Johnson, who was lying on the ground with 12 pellets in her upper leg. "It was very threatening and very violent." said Hunter.The men, both from Manchester, were held after police swamped the small village on the outskirts of Preston. Much of Bamber Bridge was sealed off and residents were ordered to stay indoors after the 40-year-old man was caught within three hours of the early-morning raid.The search then focused on the East Lancashire railway line, which flanks the Hospital Inn and was closed to trains all day. The second man, aged 37, was arrested on a stretch of track bordered by scrub late on New Year's Eve.Hunter said Johnson was making a good recovery at home. She was treated at Chorley hospital for the removal of the cluster of pellets, which caught her just below her protective body armour.The inquiry team has started to interview her and Tinsley, both experienced dog handlers with the Lancashire force.Detectives are also talking to three women staff at the Hospital Inn, including the licensee, who were corralled in a bathroom after the raiders burst in at 8.15am. The licensee's partner, who is the pub's chef and responsible for its growing local reputation, was severely beaten, threatened and dragged from room to room by the men as they demanded to know where the takings were kept.He is recovering from his injuries in Chorley hospital and will be interviewed later.Police were concentrating on sightings in recent days of two cars found near the pub, thought to belong to the raiders. One is a red Vauxhall Vectra, registration N396 RHO, which was parked in the Hospital Inn car park, and the other a silver Peugeot 406, registration V778 HOL, which was left outside nearby shops.Hunter refused to say whether the inquiry was looking for getaway drivers or anyone else in connection with the raid, and said that information about the cars was now the priority. Police have a detailed description of one man fleeing the scene who was briefly stopped by a passerby who did not know about the raid and asked what was going on.