What an unpredictable government this is. Its preference for crowd-pleasing soft options had seemed cemented by recent events when, suddenly, it chooses the hard, high road. Yesterday the Home Office said it wants to recalculate crime. "Crime" - reported incidents - will inevitably increase: that is the very point of the reform. The intellectual case for such a revision is impeccable. It will provide a much sharper picture of what the public is registering as troublesome behaviour and - critically - how effective the police are at responding. But this is political masochism. After so many instances when ministers have sought to avoid trouble or gone with the populist mainstream, they are doing the right thing without counting the tabloid cost.Crime used to be only what was reported to the police. Then the British Crime Survey - a Thatcherite innovation - started asking people. Although the BCS and official figures are in step, much of what the public experiences as crime is not picked up by station logs. And what one force regards as "crime" is not necessarily the same as another's. For the sake of a more reliable picture, there is a strong case for making data collection more transparent and uniform. It will include, as the Macpherson report recommended, all racial incidents, not just those which subsequently get classified as crimes. Only, says the Home Office paper, by comparing tallies of incidents and formal crimes worthy of investigation can we get a handle on how police officers work. The government does not want to frighten the horses (the Police Federation, for example). But new data from this revision will be used to assess the efficiency of officers and their managers: are they even dealing with what the public says is crime? The reform puts a mighty premium on equipping them with information technology. Those witness statements written out in laborious longhand by constables will have to go; data flows between forces and Whitehall will have to speed up - which might cause civil liberties misgivings.Charles Clarke, the Home Office minister, is modest, reminding us that there is no such thing as a complete picture of crime. He and his successors will need to be politically astute. Home Office statisticians know that not all recorded incidents are crime. Opposition politicians and those commentators who make a living out of statistical ignorance will not bother with the distinction.