Parliament's spending watchdog called today for a new Europe-wide legal framework for tackling VAT fraud. It said attempts by Customs to beat criminal gangs had failed to stem losses costing the exchequer billions of pounds a year.In a report on so-called missing trader fraud, the Commons public accounts committee said Customs would be unable to beat "resourceful" and fast-moving fraudsters on its own and warned Brussels that the system for cooperation across the European Union was inadequate.Edward Leigh, the Tory chairman of the committee, said: "Missing trader fraud - a scam by organised criminals exploiting arrangements for purchasing goods from other EU countries at VAT-free prices - is continuing to cost this country a colossal sum each year. The estimate for 2005-06 is some £2bn to £3bn. This is despite the department's efforts over the last six years or more to stem the flow."The criticisms were rejected by Revenue & Customs, which said the government's "comprehensive and robust" strategy was having a significant impact. Ministers were already committed to an EU-wide approach, the department said.The report said criminals were engaged in a large-scale attack on the VAT system in the EU. In its most serious form - carousel fraud - gangs contrive a series of bogus transactions within and beyond the EU to claim back VAT fraudulently. Although there are no reliable estimates of the total cost, Europe's tax commissioner has said it could amount to £40bn a year.Gordon Brown, as chancellor, persuaded the EU to make VAT on the most frequently targeted goods - computer chips and mobile phones - payable only by the final customer.Mr Leigh said criminals would find new ways to make money. "The UK applied for and is now allowed by the EU to apply the so-called 'reverse charge' mechanism, whereby VAT is removed from the business chain as cash and therefore cannot be stolen," he said. "However, it is ridiculous that this mechanism applies only to transactions involving mobile telephones and computer chips because the criminals can simply switch their attentions to other kinds of high-value goods."There has to be more coordinated working between EU member states," he said, "but nothing short of a new legislative framework in the EU for administering VAT will enable us to prevent these gangs from stealing public money."A Customs spokeswoman said: "The government's strategy has had a significant impact ... statistics suggest that MTIC [missing trader intra-community]-related trading activity has fallen by over 90% since this time last year."Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrat's Treasury spokesman, said: "It is utterly scandalous that ministers have been working on this issue for six years but still the losses mount."