Tony Blair's ministers distanced themselves yesterday from a scheme to prevent passengers drinking alcohol on trains, buses and planes after police, train companies and rival politicians poured scorn on the proposal.Faced with a leaked paper from last month's brainstorming session with No 10's "respect" team at Chequers, the Home Office confirmed that a ban - which could include domestic flights - was one of a range of proposals being considered. "Nothing has been ruled in or out at this stage. A paper will be published shortly outlining our proposals," a statement said.In reality the proposal, opposed by John Prescott, is highly unlikely to feature in the forthcoming safer communities bill, which seeks to nurture better behaviour on troubled estates and the wider public space, threatened by yobbery especially at weekends. In separate television appearances, John Reid, the defence secretary, and John Hutton, the Cabinet Office minister, confirmed the drinks option with an equal lack of enthusiasm at a time when the government has been criticised for moving to curb smoking and drinking while extending pub and retail licensing hours. Sources said the police had not been consulted, nor had they asked for such powers since they believed the train-operating companies already have the power to ban drinking."News of these proposals is very surprising and seems like another example of the Labour nanny state going completely over the top," said Theresa May, the shadow culture spokeswoman. "If Labour really wants to do something about alcohol-fuelled violence, the government should drop their controversial plans to allow 24-hour drinking."The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said there was a growing problem of "drink-based violence" on trains and buses, but accused ministers of "trying to put an Elastoplast" over it. The Liberal Democrats spokesman, Mark Oaten, called Labour's positions "contradictory and confused" in a party "obsessed with banning things".The Chequers meeting involved Louise Casey, Mr Blair's progress-chaser on antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) as well as the wider "respect" agenda. Among 40 other ideas floated, according to yesterday's leaked paper, are a new offence for parents whose children play truant; a suggestion that people who breach asbos should lose their council homes and be sent for rehabilitation; and the appointment of community "sheriffs" to police their own neighbourhoods.Hassard Stacpoole, spokesman for the Association of Train Operating Companies, said existing laws allow some carriers to operate "dry" trains. Parts of the network in Merseyside and trains operated by the company CTC have a ban on alcohol being drunk on trains. He said: "Operators can enforce a blanket ban on alcohol if they want to, they can enforce a ban as part of their conditions of carriage."