A mother who forced her 12-year-old autistic son to drink a cup of bleach after social workers threatened to take him into care, pleaded guilty to manslaughter .Satpal Kaur Singh, 44, said she had heard voices telling her, "It's time. It's the end. God's calling us" after refusing to co-operate with council staff who were concerned about her parenting skills.The Old Bailey heard that just hours after a meeting with social workers at Barking and Dagenham council, she dialled 999 and told the operator: "I've just murdered my son and I've tried to kill myself."She denied murder and prosecutors accepted her plea of guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility after psychiatrists assessed she was suffering a mental condition.She was remanded in custody to be sentenced on 13 December.Describing the case as a "great tragedy", Richard Whittam QC, prosecuting, said Manchester-born Singh feared her son, Ajit, who was "dependant on her for all his needs", would be taken into care after social services decided to apply for an interim care order and invited her to attend a meeting on 9 February this year.The boy could not speak and had difficulty getting around outdoors. "He could not tolerate crowded places or noisy environments," Whittam said. "He would cover his ears and scream." Because of his severe disability, he was known to social workers, and he was the subject of many child protection conferences.The court heard that after her arrest Singh told police she thought of killing herself because she could not cope with her son being taken away and a voice in her head said: "You have to do it. Go for it, it's come to an end now." The voices became louder as she got two cups of bleach from the bathroom, the court was told.Singh, of Barking, east London, had made complaints against a number of people, including her neighbours, various members of the social services and taxi drivers."A neighbour who has known Satpal for over 10 years describes her as blowing everything out of proportion and not being capable of talking reasonably with anybody," Whitam said. "It was as if everyone was persecuing her."She had also made allegations against her husband, which were unfounded.Singh aparently refused to co-operate at the February meeting, saying she had "no difficulties with her parenting ability" and only she understood her son.She was calm throughout and no one at the meeting had any concerns about her immediate behaviour, the court heard. However, she was "upset and crying" when she rang her sister later, saying there was "bad news" and social services were going to take her son away.Moments before 10.30 that night, she made the 999 call saying she had murdered her son, and she had herself drunk some bleach "but nothing is happening".Police who arrived at the house found the smell of bleach "overpowering".His mother was lying on the floor, holding a mobile telephone to her ear with a cup of bleach and a knife next to her. She told the officers: "I've given him bleach to drink. I couldn't cope any more".Singh told paramedics that she had been thinking about "doing this" for four years. She later told a doctor: "It's been going on for the last 12 years. Then adding: "I gave bleach to my child, he just drank it, he is 12, he is autistic. Today I just couldn 't take it any more. This shouldn't have happened to him.".In a suicide note found at the home, she said she had killed herself and Ajit because they had been "scrutinised and hounded by social services". Another note requested the bodies of herself and her son be burned together.A spokesman for Barking and Dagenham council said there would be a serious case review, due for completion early next year.