 4.19pm GMT Afternoon summary• Ed Balls has revealed that Labour will go into the 2015 general election promising to ringfence NHS spending. (See 3.55pm.)• Alex Salmond has dismissed warnings from his predecessor as first minister, Jack McConnell, that this summer's Commonwealth Games could be politicised by the Scottish independence referendum.• Eric Pickles, the communities secretary, has suggested that English landlords are more "civilised" than their Scottish counterparts when dealing with tenants on benefits. He made the comment in a debate on housing, after Labour's Sheila Gilmore, MP for Edinburgh East, said that adverts in an estate agent's window in her constituency suggested nearly 70% of landlords were refusing to accept tenants on housing benefit. Pickles replied: "I'm shocked to hear that that's the situation in Scotland but in England we have a far more civilised way of dealing with these matters." (There was probably an element of humour in his reply, given Pickles' taste for faux indignation, but you can never be entirely sure.)• The Conservative MP Penny Mordaunt has revealed that she is taking part in the ITV reality show Splash!That's all from me for today.Thanks for the comments. 3.55pm GMT Ed Balls interview - SummaryEd Balls, the shadow chancellor, has given an interview to the New Statesman. There are two good news lines in it.• Balls revealed that Labour will go into the 2015 general election promising to ringfence NHS spending. He did not put it quite as explicitly as that, although that is the only conclusion you can draw from his comments. Here they are. I always think in politics revealed preferences are a very powerful indicator of future actions and, at every stage, Labour has ring-fenced and supported ring fences for the National Health Service. I would be staggered if we are anywhere other than wanting to ring-fence the NHS going forward in 2015-2016 and in the future.• He indicated that he would not object to serving in a coalition government with Nick Clegg. In September 2012 Balls said it would be "very difficult" to form a coalition with Clegg because of the decisions Clegg has taken. Last month Clegg seemed to reciprocate, telling LBC that Balls was the only politician with whom he feuded personally. But, when asked if he would be willing to enter coalition with Clegg, Balls told the New Statesman that he would. I think what you always have to do is deal with politics as you find it . . . I saw that subsequently he made a further statement to one of the newspapers that these things weren’t about personalities, and I think he’s right about that.Balls also said that he had no reason to doubt Clegg's integrity and that he understood why Clegg entered a coalition with the Tories in 2010. He also claimed that his own relationship with Clegg was good. I had a friendly chat with [Clegg] a couple of hours ago in the House of Commons. I’m not saying where, but the kind of place people pass in the House of Commons. We had a nice chat about how things were going. I think it was the first time I’d had a conversation with him for a really long time . . . I can say, with my hand on heart, the only conversation I’ve had with Nick Clegg in the last 18 months was very friendly and warm. I may disagree with some of the things he has supported but I have no reason to say anything nasty about him as a person.Reading between the lines, it sounds like they met in the gents and had a brief chat. Given that this was their first conversation for 18 months, it is clearly not a "friendly and warm" relationship. But it is still striking that Balls does not any more want to present Clegg's leadership of the Lib Dems as a potential obstacle to a possible Labour-Lib Dem coalition.  Ed Balls Photograph: Paul Childs/Action ImagesUpdated at 3.57pm GMT 3.24pm GMT Here is a round-up of the blogs that have been written about today's PMQs.• John Rentoul at the Independent says today's consensual PMQs worked well for Ed Miliband. The new approach worked well for Miliband. He comes across so much better when his tone is quiet, serious and consensual. One or two Labour MPs had not heard the quiet word in the ear. Emily Thornberry, MP for Islington, was shouting and heckling like it was 2013. On the other side, Matthew Hancock, the junior Business minister, and the Tory whips were sitting on the gangway steps on the Government side and trying to make as much noise as usual. But Hancock kept being caught out, like the loud person at a party when everyone else coincidentally stops talking.New Year, New Ed. I quite like it. I wonder how long it will last.• But Kiran Stacey at the FT's Westminster blog wonders if there is any point having a quiet PMQs. There was a point to all the aggression. First of all, the prime minister knows if he is going to have his weaknesses ruthlessly exposed by the leader of the opposition, he had better be across everything that happens in the government, and able to defend it – something any leader should be able to do. Secondly, the session is a useful chance for each party leader to boost the morale of their troops and leave them feeling united – for a week at least.So what would be the point of a calm and studied PMQs? Surely the best possible outcome would be that questions actually get answered and new insights gleaned. Did that happen today? To a certain extent – we learned, for example, that the prime minister thinks Labour has a point about FOBTs, and that he blames energy distribution companies for being slow to restore power to flood victims.But questions still go easily evaded. To another question on welfare, for example, Cameron simply refused to say whether the £12bn benefits crackdown announced by George Osborne earlier this week would mean people with disabilities being affected.• Mark Ferguson at LabourList says PMQs was restrained because of the death of Paul Goggins. It was suggested by the BBC’s Nick Robinson afterwards that today was, perhaps, the first PMQs of a new, more mature, more statesmanlike style. It was even suggested that the two leaders might have come together over the break and agreed to take the temperature out of proceedings. I very much doubt that.No, this was something altogether simpler but more visceral. This was a group of people, many shocked and saddened, who decided that today was a day for mourning, not a day for caterwauling. It spoke well of the man Paul Goggins was that he could bring calm to where there is normally such anger. He will be missed.• Isabel Hardman at Coffee House says PMQs "turned, strangely, into a contest between the prime minister and Ed Miliband about who was better at banning things".• George Eaton at the Staggers says Cameron's most interesting answer at PMQs was about pensioner benefits.• Andrew Gimson at Coffee House says that Cameron dominated PMQs, and that dull professional competence could win the election for him.• Sally Gimson at Progress Online says Cameron was advocating "the philosophy of the workhouse" in one answer.• Anoosh Chakelian at Total Politics says PMQs was particularly subdued. 2.16pm GMT Lunchtime summary• David Cameron has signalled that the government will take action to curb the spread of fixed odds betting terminals (FOBTs) in betting shops. Later today MPs will vote on a Labour motion saying the government should "put local people before the interests of betting shop operators" and give councils new powers to block FOBTS. In a notably consensual exchanges, shorn of the usual partisan mudslinging, Ed Miliband asked Cameron if he shared Labour's concerns about these machines. Cameron said that he did, and that a government review was already underway. He hinted that this would lead to action when it reported in the spring.  Fixed odds betting terminals were introduced in 2001 after the Labour government relaxed gambling regulations. The second fact is there are actually now fewer of these machines now than there were when Labour were in office and of course to the point you have just made - councils already have powers to tackle the issues and I believe that councils should make full use of that power. I'm not arguing that is job done, there may well be more to do, but we have a review under way, this is an issue for the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, if you have ideas I'd ask you to put those ideas into this review. But as I say, you might want to listen to your own shadow minister [Clive Efford] who as recently as November said there's no evidence to support a change in stakes and prizes for fixed odds betting terminals. So there does seem to be something of a change here but if you have got extra evidence put it into our review and I think we can sort it out.• Cameron has said that he thinks the recent bad weather that has hit Britain could be linked to climate change. He was responding to a question at PMQs from the Lib Dem president Tim Farron, who asked: You will know that the science is clear that the extreme weather conditions affecting our communities, including around the Kent estuary, are a destructive and inevitable consequence at least in part of climate change. Now given that you have said that this should be the greenest government ever, will you now agree to support carbon reduction targets so that we can take real action to protect people and property?Cameron replied: I agree with you that we are seeing more abnormal weather events. Colleagues across the House can argue about whether that is linked to climate change or not. I very much suspect that it is ...As for carbon reduction targets, this government is committed to carbon reduction targets. We worked with the last government to put the Carbon Act into place. It wouldn't have happened without our support. We also have the Green Investment Bank up and running in Edinburgh and it's going to be investing billions of pounds in important green projects.• Cameron has hinted that the Conservatives will go into the 2015 election promising to protect benefits like the winter fuel allowance for wealthy pensioners. At PMQs he said getting rid of them would only save "a very small amount of money".• Cameron has admitted that his popularity in Scotland is limited. At PMQs the Labour MP Ian Davidson said that, while he agreed with Cameron in opposing Scottish independence, he did not think Cameron was the right person to make that case in a debate. Without seeking to give offence to you, can I tell you that the last person Scots who support the No campaign want to have as their representative is a Tory toff from the home counties, even one with a fine haircut?Cameron said he agreed. I humbly accept that while I am sure there are many people in Scotland who would like to hear me talk about this issue, my appeal doesn't stretch to every single part. But the key point you are making is absolutely right. The reason the Yes campaign head and the No campaign head can't seem to get a debate is because those who want to break up the United Kingdom, they know they are losing .• Miliband and Cameron have led warm tributes from across the political spectrum to the former Labour home office minister Paul Goggins, who has died after suffering a suspected brain haemorrhage while running on 30 December.• Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, has described allegations made by a whistleblower over the fiddling of crime statistics as a truth "we need to hear". As the Press Association reports, James Patrick - a serving Metropolitan Police officer, who is currently awaiting disciplinary proceedings - told the Commons public administration committee last year that massaging crime figures to hit performance targets had become "an engrained part of policing culture". Today Hogan-Howe told the same committee that ensuring crime statistics were accurate was a "constant challenge". Asked if Patrick's claims were accurate, the Met chief replied: Some of them are worthy of further investigation, together with him, we need to hear more detail. Some of them are incomplete, I think he gives one side of the account and you would want to hear a bigger account before you accepted his judgement. On occasion there might be some inaccuracy but I think on the whole there's a truth there we need to hear.• Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, has told MPs Northern Ireland politicians must waste no time in finding a way forward on the three key issues in the Haass talks.• The Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude has played down reports of a row with the Department for Work & Pension over the implementation of universal credit.• The Metropolitan police wants water cannon ready to be used on the streets of mainland Britain by this summer, official letters have revealed. 1.18pm GMT PMQs - Verdict from the Twitter commentariatAnd here are some comments from journalists and commentators on today's PMQs.Benedict Brogan (@benedictbrogan)Noticeable use of 'our people' from Dave. A theme for the new political year #pmqsJanuary 8, 2014tom bradby (@tombradby)Ed Miliband leads off PMQs on flooding, with a very quiet, sober voice. A new tone for a new year?January 8, 2014emily m (@maitlis)Feels as if punch n Judy tone of pre Xmas has gone from pmqs today. Lots of mutual "thanking" ... So far .. #pmqsJanuary 8, 2014Nigel Morris (@NigelpMorris)Five mins into #pmqs and David Cameron has already pledged to "learn lessons" five times. Can't we ban politicians using this cliche?January 8, 2014Adel Darwish (@AdelDarwish)Chamber quiet .. Opposition & Cameron in agreement .., yawn yawn #pmqsJanuary 8, 2014Tim Shipman (Mail) (@ShippersUnbound)9 minutes into #pmqs and no political punch has yet been thrown. Lobby getting very twitchy in the gallery.January 8, 2014Christopher Hope (@christopherhope)Commons is so subdued today we can clearly hear individual heckling from Matt Hancock and Emily Thornberry up in the Press Gallery #PMQsJanuary 8, 2014Jason Groves (@JasonGroves1)PMQs roundup: Cameron links storms to climate change, reveals his wife's step-gran was a codebreaker and hints at gambling machine actionJanuary 8, 2014Ian Birrell (@ianbirrell)Very good to hear him say it @benedictbrogan Freak weather linked to climate change, Green Dave says. Big statement in Tory land #pmqsJanuary 8, 2014Harry Cole (@MrHarryCole)Boring Snoring PMQs reaction: http://t.co/jNmRWxnj8AJanuary 8, 2014Gaby Hinsliff (@gabyhinsliff)That was an infinitely less grumpy PMQs than usual. Hopefully a New Year's Resolution, not just because of the death of Paul Goggins.January 8, 2014Jane Merrick (@janemerrick23)Presume this is who David Cameron was referring to - Sam Cam's step-gran was codebreaker http://t.co/a1kBxkZupAJanuary 8, 2014Andy McSmith (@andymcsmith)Cameron has just claimed that labour did 'absolutely nothing' about murder suspect Abdul Aziz. Not what it says here http://t.co/ozKLvFHhCMJanuary 8, 2014Tom McTague (@MirrorMcTague)Noticeable Cameron is trying to shoehorn attacks on Labour spending into every answer. How long will this discipline last?January 8, 2014Updated at 1.18pm GMT 1.10pm GMT According to Guido Fawkes, the Tories are saying there has been no "deal" on making PMQS more consensual. (See 12.54pm.)Guido Fawkes (@GuidoFawkes)Tories Deny PMQs Deal: “You brief people you want calmer, more dignified when you are losing.” http://t.co/SO5gE5CTQyJanuary 8, 2014But Labour says Ed Miliband would like PMQs to be more serious.norman smith (@BBCNormanS)Team Miliband say Labour leader wants more serious tone to #pmqs. IE more PMQs like todays fairly restrained sessionJanuary 8, 2014 12.54pm GMT My PMQs verdictPMQS Verdict: On the BBC's Daily Politics Nick Robinson has just floated that idea that David Cameron and Ed Miliband have privately agreed some sort of PMQs truce, and that that explains the low-key nature of today's exchanges. He admitted that he had no evidence for this theory (and, to be honest, a full-scale truce would be unlikely to last long), but it would be one explanation for what happened today. Miliband started with flooding. He could have politicised this - Maria Eagle did on Monday, when she tackled Owen Paterson on the subject - but he chose not too, and instead he adopted a neutral, consensual approach. When he sat down after three questions I thought he might adopt a more combative approach in his next round of questions. This time he chose a more partisan subject, fixed odds betting terminals, the subject of a Labour motion being debated today urging the government to "put local people before the interests of betting shop operators". But he started with a soft question, and Cameron responded in kind (essentially saying he agrees with Labour, and will do something, but just not quite yet). They both sounded grown-up, constructive, statesmanlike. Ironically, Miliband was far less critical of the Tories than Nick Clegg was at his press conference on Monday.I rather liked all this. But I don't suppose it will last.   David Cameron at PMQs Photograph: /BBC ParliamentUpdated at 1.35pm GMT 12.38pm GMT Labour's Ian Davidson says Alex Salmond won't debate the leader of the Better Together campaign in Scotland. In politics as in shipbuilding, empty vessels make the most noise. As a supporter of the no campaign, Davidson says he wants to tell Cameron that the last person he wants speaking for the no campaign is a "Tory toff".Cameron finds this funny. He says he accepts that his appeal in Scotland does not extend to every part. 12.35pm GMT The SNP's Angus Robertson says the Better Together campaign is encouraging those outside Scotland to take part in the independence debate. So why won't Cameron debate Alex Salmond?Cameron says the nationalists are losing the debate. The TV debate in Scotland should be between the leader of the in campaign, and the leader of the out campaign.  12.33pm GMT Sir Alan Beith, a Lib Dem MP, says there has been a fire involving waste carpets in his constituency running since September. The fire service cannot tackle it for fear of polluting the water.Cameron says he will look into this.  12.32pm GMT The DUP's Nigel Dodds says Paul Goggins was a great friend to Northern Ireland. He welcomes Cameron's triple lock commitment. If Cameron wins the 2015 election, will he retain the winter fuel payment?Cameron says he can only make this commitment on the triple lock because the pension age is going up. On winter fuel payment, he will set out his plans in his manifesto. But not paying this would save only "a very small amount of money". 12.30pm GMT Labour's Tom Blenkinsop asks Cameron why is his still ducking the question over whether a Conservative councillor he met in Downing Street should return to Pakistan to face legal action. Cameorn says there is a limit to what he can say about this because legal action is underway. But these allegations date from the time that the councillor involved as actually a Labour councillor. And Labour did nothing about them, he says. 12.28pm GMT Labour's Paul Blomfield asks if there will be no further cuts affecting the sick and disabled.Cameron says he has put more money into the health service. It could do so because it cut welfare costs, he says. 12.26pm GMT Iain Stewart, a Conservative MP, welcomes the pardon for Alun Turing.Cameron also welcomes it. One of his wife's family worked as Bletchley Park, he says. They speak very highly of what Turing was like. 12.25pm GMT Labour's John Mann says the police in Bassetlaw are using public transport to go on patrol because of cuts. What should they do if they arrest someone and want to take them on the bus?Cameron says crime is down in Bassetlaw. Every Labour MP, like Mann, is asking for more spending. It may be the new year. But it is the same old Labour party.  12.24pm GMT Tim Farron, the Lib Dem president, says the extreme weather is at least in part caused by climate change. Will Cameron support carbon targets?Cameron says there is more extreme weather. He very much suspects this is related to climate change. He says that he supported the carbon act, and that the government has set up a green investment bank.Updated at 5.33pm GMT 12.22pm GMT Labour's Nick Smith says Cameron promised a year ago to get multinationals to pay more tax. But recent figures in the FT show they are paying less.Cameron says Smith is being unfair. He made progress on this at the G8 summit. 12.21pm GMT Cheryl Gillan, a Conservative, asks about Buckinghamshire. Firms in the county need long-term certainty. Will Cameron promise to stick to his economic plans?Cameron says he will. Keeping corporate tax rates low is particularly important. Labour would put up corporation tax, and put a closed sign over the economy.Updated at 12.22pm GMT 12.20pm GMT Labour's Debbie Abrahams says the government has cut £1.8bn from the social care budget. Why isn't Cameron being honest with elderly people about the care costs they will face?Cameron says the government has protected the health budget, and put some of that money into social care.  12.19pm GMT Good point on Twitter from Gaby Hinsliff.Gaby Hinsliff (@gabyhinsliff)Just tuned into #pmqs to hear a Conservative prime minister attacking deregulation (on booze, gambling, banking). World turned upside down.January 8, 2014 12.18pm GMT Cameron says Labour's plans to change the temporary agency workers' directive would lead to fewer people being employed. 12.17pm GMT Snap PMQs Verdict: A rare consensual PMQs, with Miliband being constructive, rather than hostile, and Cameron responding in kind, and both figures coming out rather well.  12.16pm GMT Miliband says Labour's idea are in its motion today. These machines are clustered in deprived areas. When will the government decide whether to act?Cameron says the review will report in the spring. The government has addressed the problems caused by the deregulation of drinking laws. Problems have been caused in the gaming industry, and in banking too, he says.  12.15pm GMT Ed Miliband asks if Cameron shares Labour's concerns about fixed odd betting terminals.Cameron says there are concerns, and he welcomes the debate today. There is a government review underway, he says. If they work together, they can sort it out.Miliband says legislation does not go far enough. There is evidence these machines are causing problems. Shouldn't councils have the power to decide whether or not to allow them.Cameron says Miliband is making a reasonable point. But FOBTs were introduced under Labour. And there are fewer of them than there used to be. Councils have some powers to tackle this, he says. But he is not saying the job is done. As recently as November, a Labour shadow minister said there was no evidence to support a change. But if Labour has ideas, it should submit them to the government's review. 12.12pm GMT George Hollingbery, a Conservative, asks why students should avoid debt, but not the government.Cameron says Labour want to spend more, tax more, and borrow more. 12.11pm GMT Labour's Diane Abbott asks what Cameron says to hardworking families who are losing their homes because of housing benefit cuts.Cameron says he would say he is cutting their taxes.But the housing benefit bill must be cut, he says. It is £23bn, he says. 12.10pm GMT Tobias Ellwood, a Conservative, asks what more can be done in the long term for flood defences.Cameron says many local councils have good plans. But not every one. He says he would like to hear from Ellwood what more could be done. 12.09pm GMT Miliband is splitting his questions. He has finished for now. 12.09pm GMT Miliband asks if Defra will report to the Commons by the end of his month on the state of flood preparedness. Cameron says he is happy to make that commitment. Money is going into flood defence. In early December 800,000 homes were protected by previous flood defence work. As well as government money, ministers want to lever in council money, and private money. 12.07pm GMT Ed Miliband also pays tribute to Richard Holloway, and sends his condolences to those killed in the helicopter crash. And he says Paul Goggins was "one of the kindest, most decent people in this House". And he was a man of principle. He earned the respect of all sides in Northern Ireland. Labour has lost one of its best.He asks about the floods. How many people have been affected? And what is being done to ensure people get the help they need?Cameron says this is an extremely difficult situation. Seven people have lost their lives. There are 104 flood warnings in place. That means more flooding is expected. Flooding could come at short notice. These threats could last for several days to come. The national response is being coordinated by Cobra.Miliband says some people felt response times were too slow. Why did it take energy distribution companies so long to restore power over Christmas?Cameron says there are always lessons to learn. Some firms did not have enough emergency staff. He saw that in Kent. The government will be looking at what lessons can be learnt. 12.03pm GMT Simon Burns, a Conservative, says Goggins was a "good, decent man". The BCC says manufacturing exports are growing strongly. Does this show it is crucial the government sticks to its plan?Cameron says the BCC report is welcome. It found manufacturing balances are at an all time high, and that exports are growing strongly. 12.02pm GMT David Cameron starts with a tribute to Captain Richard Holloway, killed in Afghanistan, to those killed in the American helicopter crash and to Paul Goggins. Goggins was a "kind and a brilliant man" who believed in public service. He was liked and admired right across the House, and always treated everyone with respect, Cameron says. 11.59am GMT Sophy Ridge (@SophyRidgeSky)Gearing up for the first #pmqs of 2014 - Cameron is scribbling notes, glasses on, looking seriousJanuary 8, 2014 11.54am GMT Cameron at PMQsPMQs is starting soon.Simon Burns, the Conservative former minister, has the first question.You can read the list of MPs selected to ask a question on the order paper (pdf). 11.44am GMT And here is David Cameron on Paul Goggins. David Cameron (@David_Cameron)My thoughts are with the family of Paul Goggins-who have been left heartbroken by his death. He was liked and respected by MPs on all sides.January 8, 2014 11.42am GMT Here is an excerpt from John Bercow's tribute to Paul Goggins. Whether working for the rehabilitation of prisoners or striving for peace in Northern Ireland, [he] was always the same - principled, eloquent, tireless, unfailingly courteous, measured and respectful. He always played the ball, never the man or the woman. An outstanding public servant who came into politics for all the right reasons, whose passing is a loss on so many levels. The House has lost a valued colleague, his constituency a faithful representative, his party an outstanding ambassador, and above all his family a loving husband, father and grandfather.  11.36am GMT In the Commons John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, is paying tribute to Paul Goggins. I will post the quotes shortly. 11.34am GMT And here are some more tribute to Goggins from MPs from other parties in the Commons.From ConservativesMichael Fabricant (@Mike_Fabricant)So sad to hear abt the death of Paul Goggins. He was a quietly effective MP,without malice,& liked by colleagues on both sides of the HouseJanuary 8, 2014Julian Smith MP (@JulianSmithMP)Devastating news about Paul Goggins MP. An exceptionally kind man - always helpful and supportive and warm.January 8, 2014Stephen Crabb MP (@SCrabbMP)So sorry to hear Paul Goggins has died. One of Labour's finest MPs. Decent and in it for all the right reasons. Thoughts with his familyJanuary 8, 2014Nicky Morgan MP (@NickyMorgan01)Very sad to hear of death of Paul Goggins. He led group of MPs to meet on a regional issue just before Xmas & was a pleasure to speak toJanuary 8, 2014Andrew Griffiths MP (@agriffithsmp)Very sorry to hear of the sad death of Labour MP Paul Goggins. My thoughts are with his family.January 8, 2014Chris Heaton-Harris (@chhcalling)RIP Paul Goggins MP. A decent man taken too soon. My thoughts are with his family and friends.January 8, 2014Mark Field MP (@MarkFieldMP)http://t.co/y1jGyhHMwI A tribute to Paul Goggins-friend, valued ISC colleague & passionate enthusiast for life,Man City & his beloved familyJanuary 8, 2014From Liberal DemocratsJohn Leech (@johnleechmcr)Just heard the terrible news that Paul Goggins has passed away. My deep condolences to his family and friends. He was one of the good guys!January 8, 2014Julian Huppert (@julianhuppert)Very sad news Paul Goggins has died. We didn't agree on everything, but he was a very decent & principled man http://t.co/qNfK7M3AYL #fbJanuary 8, 2014From the DUPNigel Dodds (@NigelDoddsMP)Very saddened at the passing of Paul Goggins. He was a fine, honourable and decent man. Deepest sympathy to his wife and familyJanuary 8, 2014 11.30am GMT Paul Goggins was one of the key figures campaigning for the mesothelioma bill, which cleared the House of Commons last night.At the start of the Commons debate yesterday Mike Penning, the Conservative disabilities minister, and Kate Green, his Labour shadow, both paid tribute to Goggins.  11.23am GMT Here's a tribute to Paul Goggins from Tony Lloyd, the former Labour minister and now the Greater Manchester police and crime commissioner. I have lost a good friend, and the world has lost a man of enormous decency and human kindness. But of course Paul’s wife, his children and wider family have lost someone who was at the centre of their daily lives and my thoughts go out to them. Paul’s own personal faith and moral conviction operated as a guiding light in everything he did, both before he entered politics and as a local councillor, member of parliament and Government minister.Manchester has lost a great son. Those who are dispossessed and those who are vulnerable in an increasingly unfair society have lost a great champion.The only thing Paul and I ever disagreed on was his view, wrongly held, that Manchester City were the better of the two Manchester football clubs. 11.20am GMT And here are more tributes to Goggins from Labour figures.John McTernan (@johnmcternan)Paul Goggins was a good and decent man. So sorry to hear that he has died. Politics will miss his humanity.January 8, 2014Paul Richards (@Labourpaul)So sad that Paul Goggins MP has passed away. He was one of the good guys. RIP.January 8, 2014John Denham (@JohnDenhamMP)So sorry to hear Paul Goggins has died. Wise, kind, deep values and loyal and supportive friend to colleagues.January 8, 2014Debbie Abrahams (@Debbie_abrahams)My sincerest condolences to Paul Goggins' family. He was a lovely man who didn't flinch from asking difficult qus. 1/2January 8, 2014Jim McGovern (@JimMcGovernMP)My heart goes out to the family and friends of Paul Goggins. A great colleague who will be missed greatly.January 8, 2014Alison McGovern (@Alison_McGovern)Devastating news that we have lost our Paul Goggins. A truly good man, a friend to so many. All love and comfort to his family.January 8, 2014Sophie Linden (@SophieKLinden)So sad about Paul Goggins. Such a lovely principled man who served with compassion and sincerity. Thoughts and prayers with his familyJanuary 8, 2014cathy jamieson mp (@cathyjamieson)So sad to hear the news that Paul Goggins MP has passed away. Thoughts are with his family.January 8, 2014Iain Wright (@IainWrightMP)Truly dreadful news that Paul Goggins passed away last night. Well liked and respected colleague by all in the House. Will be really missedJanuary 8, 2014Jim Knight (@jimpknight)Very sad to hear that Paul Goggins has died. One of the nicest MPs, with huge integrity, generosity & core Labour valuesJanuary 8, 2014Simon Danczuk (@SimonDanczuk)Very sad news . A genuine, decent man #RIP > Labour MP Paul Goggins, 60, dies in hospital http://t.co/46075dQwQU via @MENNewsdeskJanuary 8, 2014Chuka Umunna (@ChukaUmunna)So sad to hear the news of the death of Paul Goggins MP. A big loss. Paul was such a lovely guy. Thoughts and prayers are with his family.January 8, 2014Mark Ferguson (@Markfergusonuk)Paul Goggins was a good man. Very sad to hear of his passing. We’ll be running tributes to him on LabourList todayJanuary 8, 2014Stewart Wood (@StewartWood)Paul Goggins was a Labour MP who brought passion, principle & decency to his work in Parliament & in government. He will be missed very muchJanuary 8, 2014Gavin Shuker (@gavinshuker)I've been in so many places in parliament in the past few days in which we prayed for Paul Goggins and his family. Says so much.January 8, 2014Parmjit Dhanda (@ParmjitDhanda)Sad to hear about Paul Goggins. Don't think I've worked with a nicer bloke, in or outside of politicsJanuary 8, 2014Iain McKenzie MP (@InverclydeMP)Sorry to hear the news of the death of my colleague Paul Goggins MP. My thoughts go out to his family and friends at this difficult time.January 8, 2014John Prescott (@johnprescott)So sad to hear of Paul Goggins passing. Our thoughts are with his wife Wynn and their childrenJanuary 8, 2014John Mann MP (@JohnMannMP)Paul Goggins one of the MPs who treated everyone as true equals. A big loss to Parliament and politics RIPJanuary 8, 2014Janet Royall (@LabourRoyall)Deeply saddened to learn of Paul Goggins' death. A lovely person. It is a pleasure and an honour to have worked with such a fine man.January 8, 2014Ben Bradshaw (@BenPBradshaw)Really sad about the death of my colleague Paul Goggins. One of the nicest, most decent people in the Commons.January 8, 2014Matthew Doyle (@doylematthew)Thoughts and prayers with the family and friends of Paul Goggins. Principled, generous and optimistic, he will be much missed.January 8, 2014David Lammy (@DavidLammy)Very sad to have lost Paul Goggins MP. A very kind generous man.Strong in his faith and socialist conviction.One of the really decent guys.January 8, 2014Conor Ryan (@conorfryan)Really sorry to learn of the death of Paul Goggins. A good minister and really decent MP. Westminster is the poorer without him.January 8, 2014Mark Lazarowicz (@marklazarowicz)Devastated by news of death of Paul Goggins. A decent honest and committed MP. Terrible news. My condolences to his family & v many friendsJanuary 8, 2014Mike Gapes MP (@MikeGapes)So sorry news re Paul Goggins a great friend and colleague Served with him In Home office 12 yrs ago. Thoughts with his family. RIP.January 8, 2014Mary Creagh MP (@marycreagh_mp)Farewell Paul Goggins. I shall miss your calm sense, your good humour, and your tenacity on behalf of your constituents. Rest in peaceJanuary 8, 2014Jack McConnell (@LordMcConnell)Terribly sad news of the death of Paul Goggins MP. A loss to his family, his constituency and to Parliament.January 8, 2014Ed Balls (@edballsmp)Paul Goggins was such a good & wise man. Our loss is great, but small compared to that now suffered by Wyn & his children, to whom much loveJanuary 8, 2014 11.10am GMT Here's the statement from Paul Goggins' family about his death. Last night Paul Goggins, our dear dad and husband, died in hospital in Salford with us by his side. We are completely heartbroken. He had been very ill since collapsing last week. The way in which he has been cared for at Salford Royal has been such a comfort to us and we can't thank the staff enough for this. We have been overwhelmed by the support and good wishes we have received from so many people - a real sign of love and a reflection of the sort of person Paul/Dad was. We would also like to thank the media for continuing to respect our privacy at such a difficult time.  11.07am GMT And here is a statement from David Blunkett, the Labour former home secretary and one of Goggins' closest friends. All of us are literally in shock. This was someone who was in a different mould to the rest of us. Never in the whole of the years I knew Paul did he ever say anything unpleasant or hurtful about any other human being. He was the kind of person against whom you would benchmark your own values, and personal and political behaviour.When someone dies there are often eulogies paid to them that would never have been thought in their lifetime. This is different. What people feel and think now, they thought about Paul Goggins when he was alive.We will miss him terribly, but so will public life given the enormous contribution that he made in the Home Office, in Northern Ireland and above all for his constituents and his tireless work in persuading others to do the right thing. There is nothing more that can be said. 11.04am GMT Here's a statement from Ed Miliband on Paul Goggins. Paul’s family is devastated and heartbroken by his death. They are not alone. The Labour Party has lost one of its most dignified, humane, wise and loyal MPs.People from all sides of the House of Commons had the greatest affection, admiration, and genuine respect for Paul. We are deeply saddened by his passing.Our thoughts and our deep condolences go out first and foremost to his wife Wyn, and his children Matthew, Theresa and Dominic. They have lost a husband and a father for whom family was at the heart of everything he held most dear.Paul was a man of deep faith whose commitment and strong values shone through everything he did. As a social worker, councillor, MP and Minister, attending to the needs of the most disadvantaged was always at the core of his particularly thoughtful and dedicated service. He was held in great affection by the people of Northern Ireland for his real understanding of the challenges they faced in the aftermath of the Good Friday Agreement.I know Paul’s family have been profoundly moved by the outpouring of support, love and affection they have received since Paul fell ill last week. The Labour Party has lost one of its very best and one of its own. We mourn him deeply.Updated at 11.06am GMT 11.01am GMT Paul Goggins had a majority of 7,575 at the last election over the Conservatives. The Lib Dems were in third place and the BNP and Ukip both put up candidates, getting 3.9% and 3.4% of the vote respectively. The full figures are here. Those numbers suggest that Labour should be able to hold the seat quite easily in the byelection, but Ukip might be able to fight a strong campaign. 10.52am GMT Conservative MPs have been paying tribute to Paul Goggins too.Tracey Crouch (@tracey_crouch)Desperately sad news that one of the nicest MPs Paul Goggins died last night. My thoughts are with his family. May he rest in peace.January 8, 2014Caroline Nokes (@carolinenokes)Very sad to hear about Paul Goggins, sat on the Rehabilitation of Offenders Bill Committee with him, lovely man who will be missed greatlyJanuary 8, 2014Damian (@damiangreenmp)Really sad news about Paul Goggins. A very decent and honourable man.January 8, 2014Jason McCartney MP (@JasonMcCartney)Awfully sad news that Paul Goggins has passed away. Worked together on the Contaminated Blood campaign. My thoughts are with his family.January 8, 2014Therese Coffey (@theresecoffey)Sad news on Paul Goggins. RIP.January 8, 2014 10.49am GMT Here's the Guardian's story about the death of Paul Goggins. 10.47am GMT Here is the PA snap on the death of Paul Goggins, the Labour MP and former minister. Labour MP for Wythenshawe and Sale East Paul Goggins has died, his family said in a statement. And here are some Twitter tributes from Labour colleagues in the Commons.Chris Bryant (@ChrisBryantMP)Really really sad to hear of Paul Goggins' untimely death last night. A true gent, clever, warm and dedicated.January 8, 2014Michael Dugher (@MichaelDugherMP)A prayer for Paul Goggins: Eternal rest, grant unto him O Lord and let perpetual light shine upon him. May he rest in peace. Amen.January 8, 2014angela smith mp (@angelasmithmp)So sad to hear of Paul Goggins' passing. He was a great colleague, hugely committed to his political values. My thoughts are with his familyJanuary 8, 2014Dan Jarvis (@DanJarvisMP)Terribly sad to hear that Paul Goggins has died. A brilliant bloke. Thoughts are with his family.January 8, 2014Kate Green (@KateGreenSU)Terribly sad to hear of the death Paul Goggins last night. A dear friend & neighbour, & principled and dedicated MP. Thoughts w/ his familyJanuary 8, 2014Kerry McCarthy MP (@KerryMP)Very sad news about @paulgogginsmp, genuinely nice and decent man, did great work on looked-after children amongst many other thingsJanuary 8, 2014Pat McFadden (@patmcfaddenmp)So sad to hear about the death of Paul Goggins. A very good man who fought for the right things in politics.January 8, 2014Peter Hain (@PeterHain)Terrible news about Paul Goggins. Great Minister, MP and friend. Sympathies with Wyn & family.January 8, 2014Sadiq Khan MP (@SadiqKhan)Paul Goggins really was a thoroughly decent, courteous, intelligent, knowledgable and wise man. It is heartbreaking to hear of him passing..January 8, 2014Updated at 10.52am GMT 10.38am GMT Back to the committee.Q: Do you accept that there is a conflict between your 20/20 targets (20% fall in crime, 20% increase in confidence in the police). If people have more confidence in the police, they will report more crime.Greenhalgh says he does not accept this. Cutting crime and increasing confidence in the police are both important.Since 2011, crime has gone down, and confidence in the police has gone up.  10.35am GMT Breaking away from the committee for a moment, the Manchester Evening News is reporting that the Labour MP Paul Goggins has died. He fell ill last week after collapsing while running. 10.28am GMT Greenhalgh says the Met does not just need to focus on cutting crime. It is important to improve public confident in the police. This was important in 2011 (at the time of the London riots), he says.  Stephen Greenhalgh Photograph: /Democracy Live 10.25am GMT Flynn turns to Greenhalgh.Q: You are having an audit of crime figures. Is this a regular thing, or is it new?Greenhalgh says it is a first. It is something he initiated in March.Q: Do you accept that whistelblowing procedures in the Met are ineffective?Greenhalgh says there is a process that allows officers to raise complaints with the mayor's office, or the IPCC.But he needs to have another look at this, he says. 10.22am GMT Q: How many of ACPO's officers are on performance-related bonuses related to reducing crime?None, says Hogan-Howe.There was a bonus system. But that has been stopped.Q: When was an officer last disciplined for manipulating crime figures?Hogan-Howe says he does not know, but he can find out.Q: Are you aware of the ACPO report from 2011 on understanding crime reporting?Hogan-Howe says he would have been aware of that at the time.Q: The report is bureaucratic, and does not pay much attention to victims. Is that typical of ACPO's approach?Hogan-Howe says it was not his report. 10.19am GMT Q: How much importance to you attack to Lord Stevens' comments?Hogan-Howe says there are important. He respects Stevens and his opinions.  10.19am GMT Labour's Paul Flynn asks about what Lord Stevens told the home affairs committee yesterday.Q: What Stevens referring to the past? Or to the present?Hogan-Howe says he was not there. He has only seen the Telegraph report.Flynn says he was there. Stevens was talking about the present.Hogan-Howe says he takes this issue seriously. 10.17am GMT Q: Why are more rape cases being categorised as crime-related incidents?Hogan-Howe says he cannot give an answer yet because the Met is still investigating this.Q: So in three to six months you will come back to the committee and tell us whether PC Patrick was right to say that 25% of the figures were inaccurate?Yes, says Hogan-Howe.Q: What level of inaccuracy is acceptable?Hogan-Howe says he said earlier that a 3% inaccuracy figure would be understandable. But he does not want to give a figure. Clearly 90% would be unacceptable. And 20% would be unacceptable. But whether the figure should be 10%, or 5%, or 3% - he does not want to say. 10.13am GMT Q: You told the home affairs committee that you would revisit crime figures. What progress have you made?Hogan-Howe says the police were concerned that, if they returned to victims whose offence had been "no-crimed" and asked them why, those victims might resent that. They might be in a new relationship, and might not have told their partner.Q: So are you not going back over these crime figures?Hogan-Howe says he would like charities to be able to help. But they have some doubts. He would like to do this, but it's a sensitive area.Q: There are allegations of significant inaccuracies. So when will you clear this up?Hogan-Howe says it may take six months to find out if there is a real problem. 10.09am GMT Alun Cairns, a Conservative MP, is asking the questions now.Q: How confident are you in the data for serious and sexual offences?Hogan-Howe says the data is better than it was 10 years ago. But there are still some concerns in this area.With sexual offences, consent is a big issue. It is known that many sexual offences are not reported.The Met is inviting academics to help it improve the way it records sexual offences.Q: What do you make of PC Patrick's claim that up to 25% of these crimes are being kept off the books?Hogan-Howe says he wants to get to the bottom of this. The Met, auditors and HMIC are looking at this.Recorded rape figures are going up. 10.05am GMT Greg Mulholland, the Lib Dem MP, is asking the questions now.Q: Have you responded to what Tom Winsor said about crime figures? (Winsor told the home affairs committee at the end of last year that it was almost certain crime figures were being manipulated.)Hogan-Howe says he has written to Winsor. He is happy to give that letter to the committee.Q: How do you explain the discrepancy between him saying figures are fiddled, and you saying figures are reliable?Hogan-Howe says Winsor and he may have different view as to whether an 11% problem rate is a cause for some concern, or for serious concern 10.02am GMT Q: To what extent to you recognise that there habits that make crime figures less reliable than they should be?Hogan-Howe says this is a constant challenge.Q: How accurate do you think James Patrick's allegations are?On the whole there is a truth there that we need to here, he says. Some of his allegations need more investigation. But some are not accurate. 9.59am GMT Greenhalgh says one problem is related to technology.There is one system for recording crime-related incidents. And another system for recording crime. A crime-related incident involves report from a third-party. That is why it does not count as a crime.Q: What has the Met done to train staff in relation to crime recording?Greenhalgh says auditors have been trying to identify the risk areas.Hogan-Howe says the Met will consider whether more training is needed.The Met has 50,000 people, and about 10,000 leaders. Hogan-Howe can address them.If more training is a priority, the Met will do it.  Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe Photograph: /Democracy Live 9.54am GMT Lindsay Roy, a Labour MP, is asking the questions.Q: It sounds as if the registrar is quite detached.Hogan-Howe says that is why is is going to start seeing him regularly.There is a case for simplifying some of the rules, he says. 9.53am GMT Hogan-Howe says the Met's crime registrar meets commanders regularly.He has not been having regular meetings meetings with the crime registrar himself personally yet.But, as a result of the committee's inquiry, he is going to start meeting him twice a year. They met yesterday, ahead of today's hearing, to arrange this. 9.49am GMT Hogan-Howe says that he can accept an error rate of around 3%. People make mistakes. But once the error rate rises to about 10%, that's a cause for concern. 9.46am GMT Q: You said HMIC said your crime figures were reliable. But HMIC said there was some cause for concern.Hogan-Howe says he was quoting from a report he wrote for HMIC. He was quoting from the executive summary. But, in the body of the report, there was mention of causes for some concern. Before he gave evidence to the home affairs committee, he only read, or re-read, the summary. There was some disparity between the summary and the full report. There was no intention to mislead anyone. 9.43am GMT Jenkin says the committee wants to get to the bottom of Patrick's complaints, perhaps in a further inquiry.Q: Why did you say Patrick was complaining about old data?Hogan-Howe says, when giving evidence to the Commons home affairs committee, he said some of Patrick's complaints were historic.He is particularly concerned about what has been happening since he's been in charge, he says. 9.42am GMT Q: How concerned are you that a complaint by an officer, that he wanted to go to HM Inspector of Constabulary, was blocked?Hogan-Howe says, if the complaint is genuine, it should go to HMIC. He could take it there.Jenkin says he meant the Independent Police Complaints Commission. Hogan-Howe says the same applies.He would expect the force to get to the bottom of Patrick's complaints. 9.39am GMT Q: Have you spoken to James Patrick, the Met whistleblower who gave evidence to the public administration committee in November last year about crime figures being fiddled?Hogan-Howe says that there is an internal disciplinary action against him, which has complicated thing. And, when after his appearance before the committee, the committee suggested that the police might be trying to silence him. The Met have not spoken to him about his crime figures claims yet. But they will speak to him in due course.Jenkin says the police seem to be treating the disciplinary hearing as more important that the whistleblower claims.Hogan-Howe says he will not comment on the details of the misconduct allegations. 9.34am GMT Bernard Jenkin, the committee chairman, starts.Q: Is the concern about the legitimacy of crime statistics a genuine concern?Yes, says Bernard Hogan-Howe.Victims need to know that crimes are recorded accurately. And the police need accurate figures if they are going to bring down crime.Stephen Greenhalgh, London's deputy mayor for policing, agrees.Updated at 10.25am GMT 9.27am GMT You can watch the hearing here on Democracy Live. 9.25am GMT Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe questioned by MPs on crime statisticsThe public administration committee hearing with Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, is starting soon.Here is some background reading.• A short issues paper issued by the committee about its inquiry (pdf)• The Telegraph story about Lord Stevens saying the police fiddle crime figures• A report of a committee hearing in November which features officers telling the MPs that police forces routinely manipulate crime figures. 9.14am GMT You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.As for the rest of the papers, here's the PoliticsHome list of top 10 must-reads, here's the ConservativeHome round-up of today's political stories and here's the New Statesman's list of top 10 comment articles.And here are four stories I found particularly interesting.• Tom Newton Dunn in the Sun says the government could raise the national minimum wage by up to £1.  DAVID Cameron is looking at radical plans to force up the minimum wage by as much as £1, it has emerged.The inflation busting move could push up the lowest legal hourly pay from its £6.31 level today to as high as £7.30. • But the Financial Times (subscription) says George Osborne is not yet convinced. A cross-section of the governing party is pressing the chancellor and Downing Street to commit to a big rise in the minimum wage ahead of the 2015 election to debunk a perception that the Tories are the party of the rich.But the chancellor has so far refused to back the plan, fearing it could destabilise the labour market and damage the coalition’s record on job creation.“I think David Cameron would like to do it but he is cautious and I think he would defer to the chancellor on it,” said one person involved in Downing Street’s policy unit. “ . . . Unemployment has been a good news story for the last two years and we don’t want to rock the boat a year out from the election.” • George Parker in the Financial Times (subscription) says the Lib Dems will escalate their attacks on the Tories this year. Less than 18 months away from the next general election, the junior member of the UK coalition has stepped up its attacks on its Conservative coalition partner in a bid to reassert the party’s identity.Although Nick Clegg insists Liberal Democrat ministers will remain in post until the planned polling day in May 2015, his criticism this week of chancellor George Osborne’s “extreme” welfare plans marks a new discordant phase in coalition relations.With the Lib Dems polling at about 10 per cent – less than half their tally at the last election – the deputy prime minister has embarked on a nine-month campaign of detachment from the Tories that will culminate in the party’s pre-election autumn conference in Glasgow.• Jason Beattie in the Daily Mirror says jobseekers are being lectured on how to look good at interviews – by a website run by Michael Gove’s wife that sells £230 face cream. The Department for Work and Pensions’ Facebook page includes a link to Get the Gloss under a post advising how to “dress for success”.Get the Gloss was co-founded by the Tory Education Secretary’s beauty journalist wife Sarah Vine.It offers products such as Creme de la Mer serum at £230 and Gypsy Water perfume at £130. 8.51am GMT Today we've got the first PMQs of 2014. But, before that, there is what could be a good committee hearing on crime statistics. The public administration committee is looking into this issue and the Telegraph says Lord Stevens, a former Metropolitan police commissioner, has told it that the police regularly fiddle the figures. Lord Stevens of Kirkwhelpington, who ran the Metropolitan Police for six years, said officers on the ground had warned him that massaging of crime statistics is the “biggest scandal coming our way”.He called for an urgent investigation into the way every force in Britain records crime figures.Giving evidence to the Commons' home affairs select committee, Lord Stevens said: “Ever since I’ve been in police service there has been a fiddling of figures. I remember being a detective constable where we used to write off crimes.”Asked by Keith Vaz MP, the committee chairman, if it was still going on, Lord Stevens replied: “Of course it is. In certain forces. “I was in a session with police sergeants nine months to a year ago in Cheshire talking about what their feelings were about the police service.“All of them said the biggest scandal that is coming our way is recording of crime.” This morning Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the current Met police chief, will face the committee. I will be covering the hearing in detail.Here's the agenda for the day.9.30am: Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Metropolitan police commissioner, gives evidence to the Commons public administration committee about crime statistics. He will be appearing with Stephen Greenhalgh, London's deputy mayor for policing. At 10.30am Tom Winsor, HM Inspector of Constabulary, will give evidence.12pm: David Cameron and Ed Miliband clash at PMQs.2.30pm: Alistair Carmichael, the Scottish secretary, gives evidence to the Scottish affairs committee about the independence referendum.2.45pm: William Hague, the foreign secretary, gives evidence to the committee on arms export controls.Afternoon: Peers are due to vote on an attempt to block key provisions in the anti-social behaviour bill. I'm not sure yet when the vote will take place, and it may be out of my time.There is also a debate and vote in the Commons on a Labour motion saying councils should have new powers to object to fixed odds betting terminals. But it will not start until about 4.30pm, and the vote will be at 7pm, and so it will be too late for me. Today I will be covering the public administration committee hearing and PMQs in detail. But, as usual, I will also be flagging up any breaking political news, posting summaries at lunchtime and in the afternoon with a round-up of all the day's developments and highlighting the most interesting political articles on the web.If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.Updated at 10.26am GMT