A school caretaker who sent seven letter bombs to science labs and offices had turned his bedroom into a bomb factory, a court heard yesterday.A jury at Oxford crown court was told that police who raided Miles Cooper's home in Cambridge at 3am one morning early this year found three further devices "assembled, packaged and more or less ready to go".Cooper, 27, of Cherry Hinton, Cambridge, admits sending bombs constructed out of party poppers and nails or broken glass to three forensic science labs, a security company, the headquarters of Capita, the company that administers the London congestion charge, a speed camera company and the DVLA in Swansea.He claims he sent them because "of an overbearing and over-intrusive surveillance society". But he denies seven counts of causing harm to people with explosives, two of using explosives to cause harm, one of making an explosive, and one of possessing an explosive.Prosecutor John Price said the letter bombs had caused "widespread public alarm and sparked a large-scale police investigation" when they were sent in January and February this year. The first was opened by a receptionist at an Oxfordshire forensic science laboratory, Orchid Cellmark, on the morning of January 18.Michelle Evans, the jury heard, found an envelope addressed to "Orchid Cellmark Supervisor, DNA Sample Reception Unit". The return address read "Dr Barry Horne, RIP"."Barry Horne was a notorious animal rights terrorist and took his own life several years ago by hunger strike during a long sentence," Mr Price said. The envelope also bore the logo "ALF", a reference to the Animal Liberation Front. Ms Evans found a piece of paper was stuck in the envelope and turned it to her face to see if she could free the contents."Taking it away from her face, fortunately, she held it at arms' length and tugged," said Mr Price. "When the envelope exploded, Ms Evans shrieked and dropped it."On the same day LGC Forensics in Abingdon, Oxfordshire, and the Forensic Science Service in Birmingham received similar devices. A fourth device was addressed to Alpha Security at the home address of the company boss in Kent.A fifth was received at computer company Capita's London office days later on February 5, and a sixth arrived at Vantis, which is concerned with the administration of speed cameras, on February 6. The final device arrived at the DVLA in Swansea later that week. The trial continues.