A police traffic officer who moonlighted as an electrician between shifts is to be jailed for killing a schoolgirl as he chased a suspect car at 94mph without his blue lights or siren on.PC John Dougal was told by a judge that prison was "inevitable" after a jury unanimously convicted him of causing the death of 16-year-old Hayley Adamson by dangerous driving.The verdict came after only an hour-and-a-half following a five-day trial, which had heard that Dougal, 41, was driving so fast in a built-up part of Newcastle upon Tyne that he was effectively "a passenger in his own car". A camera on the front of his high-powered Volvo showed the collision in detail, as the schoolgirl tried to run out of the way while crossing the road in a 30mph zone. She had been out with friends for the evening before GCSE exams last May.Dougal claimed in his defence at Newcastle crown court that he was in control and remained satisfied that his driving had been safe. He said that he had not used his "blues and twos" - the lights and siren - to avoid alerting the suspect car.But police driving standards expert Gordon Robertson told the jury that it was unimaginable to drive so fast without lights and siren at night in a 30mph zone. He accused Dougal of "surrendering the car to physics" and having as much control over it as a passenger would have done.The trial also heard that the officer and a colleague had spent the morning before their night shift working as electricians, which they did regularly. Dougal, who has 12 years' experience of high-speed patrol cars, denied that this had made him tired.He was remanded in custody by Judge David Hodson, who told him: "You must appreciate that the inevitable outcome of a conviction of an offence of this nature is custody." Sentence will be passed on 1 May.The judge added: "I am sure everybody who has sat through this case will be acutely conscious of the grief there has been to the Adamson family. I think it is right that the court should express its condolences to them." Relatives in court welcomed the verdict with cries of "Yes!" A statement from her parents described her as "a happy, bubbly person who was loved by everyone." She was planning to study childcare at university and worked voluntarily with children. A youth club was launched in her memory earlier this year, named Hayley's Den.Outside the court Hayley's aunt, Elizabeth Broom, said: "It has been truly devastating for the whole family. We have coped with it as best we can but it was just a terrible, terrible tragedy."