The government was embroiled in a fierce row last night with mobile phone firms ahead of the publication of official figures that show muggings for phones have soared fivefold in just two years.Home Office Minister John Denham has said the industry must do more to protect customers by making handsets less easy to use once they have been stolen. His comments follow last week's shooting of a teenage girl in east London by a mugger who took her mobile, and reflects anger at the perceived resistance of some network operators and manufacturers to adopt expensive security measures. But the industry hit back angrily last night, accusing the Government of trying to distract attention from its failure to control street crime. Mobile phone users have been advised not to use their phones in the street. A Home Office report, to be published next week, will show that robbery involving mobile phones has risen from about 5,000 reported cases in 1998-99 to 25,000 cases in 2000-01. Leaked intelligence reports seen by The Observer also show that the street price of a gun has fallen to as little as £50 in some areas, with the use of firearms by criminals up by a third last year. Denham said the mobile phone industry 'must also play its part' in improving safety. 'Some operators have already agreed some early measures to set ways of putting stolen phones out of action,' he said. 'They have also agreed to improve security as investment takes place in new systems. 'A start has been made - but more needs to be done. We are also looking to handset manufacturers to show more interest in the security of the phones they are selling to British consumers.' Half of mobile phone robbery victims are under 18 and the Home Office says the industry has a duty to help, just as the car industry has co-operated with making cars harder to break into. A Home Office source said: '[The industry is] making profits and rightly so, but the 600% increase in mobile ownership is giving extra opportunities for crimes and the industry must share some responsibility for preventing those.' But Jack Wraith of the Mobile Industry Crime Action Forum, which represents networks and some manufacturers, said it was 'convenient' to blame firms. 'This takes the spotlight away from the root problem and the root problem is street crime. That's what we should be addressing,' he said.Ministers are focusing on the possibility that the phone's unique serial number could be used to block stolen handsets, a better alternative than blocking the missing phone's 'Sim card' or memory chip. Thieves often swap Sim cards to carry on using the handset, which is the valuable part of the equipment. The serial number system can be operated by newer networks like Orange and Virgin, but older operators such as Vodafone and Cellnet are believed to have argued they will not have the technology for up to two years. But Wraith said there was no 'magic bullet': a phone could not be blocked from all networks, and some thieves had duplicate numbers.