I was sitting in an American hotel room in November last year when the sensational news of a plot to kidnap Victoria Beckham was broadcast. My eyebrows went up at the mention of one particular phrase: the crime had been "foiled by the News of the World". Surely, I said to myself, this has to be the work of the paper's notorious investigations editor, Mazher Mahmood, the fake sheikh, the man reputed to have put 200 miscreants behind bars in the past 10 years. It was no surprise yesterday when the case against the five alleged kidnappers collapsed.Once I read the original story - by Mahmood, as I suspected - I discovered that it raised more questions than it settled about the so-called international terror gang supposedly responsible for the plot. As is so often the case with such News of the World stories, this one clearly relied on an "underworld informant" (though he should more properly be called an informer). Nothing necessarily wrong with that because exposing crime in the public interest is one of journalism's highest callings and therefore, occasionally, it is justified to take extreme measures. But it all seemed so neat. Could we believe that five men who had been in Britain for only a short time, some without a criminal record, at least one with professional qualifications, had suddenly, of their own volition, decided to kidnap one of the most famous people in the world? So I began to investigate further, asking what role the informer - or, in this case, two informers - had played in the alleged conspiracy. By January, having read the voluminous transcripts of the audio and visual tape recordings made by the News of the World, my suspicions had been confirmed. None of the evidence indicated to me that these five men had been involved in a dastardly plot. There were no plans, just vague conversations, during which some of the "gang" appeared to be treating it all as an elaborate joke. I was convinced, on the basis of what I read along with my extensive knowledge of similar News of the World "investigations" in the past, that the accused men were the dupes of a sting operation. The transcripts would suggest to any reasonable, objective observer that this so-called gang were largely a bunch of not very bright people living on the margins of society who were being manipulated. At every turn, the key speaker is the sinister figure who is sitting down with them while secretly recording what they say and filming them through a tiny buttonhole camera. After hours poring over the documents I think it entirely justifiable to argue that one man acted as an agent provocateur. It is he who first suggests the kidnapping, he who provokes the discussions about it, he who produces a gun for one of the men to hold, he who leads them to the gates of the house where the Beckhams live. That visit to the Beckhams also produces one of the most farcical - but, seen from a different perspective, most serious - moments in the whole sordid saga. The informer, who is wired up, is told by one of the News of the World team hidden in a nearby van to move aside so that the paper's photographer can get a clear view of the "gang" to take a picture. I couldn't publish my findings because of the law of contempt, even though I believe my revelations would have shortened the ordeal for the men who were wrongly held in custody, and that it would have been in the wider public interest to expose the newspaper's activities. The sad truth is that the News of the World and Mahmood have been operating for too long in a journalistic and legal grey area. There have been too many cases - including those involving the actor John Alford, the Earl of Hardwicke and the Newcastle United directors - in which there have been doubts about the paper's methods. Several judges have raised questions about the thin line between exposing crime and stimulating it. Sometimes the ends may be justified by the means, but this alleged kidnap conspiracy is not one of them. The fact that the judge stopped the case because the central witness had been paid by the News of the World shows how cavalier the paper has become. It flouted the editors' code of practice. The clause outlawing payments to witnesses could not be more specific, yet the paper happily paid £10,000 to its informer. Doubtless it will argue that the payment was authorised before the story was published, and therefore it could not be certain he would be a witness. In fact, Mahmood's request for his payment, marked urgent, was made just three days before publication and the men's arrest in an operation where the police worked hand in hand with the News of the World. The man was not only going to be a prosecution witness; he was bound to be the main witness. I am delighted that the judge has asked the attorney general to consider the matter, though I don't hold out any real hope that anything radical will occur. The paper will proclaim that the freedom of the press is being threatened and it's unlikely that the News of the World and Mahmood will face a police investigation. The Press Complaints Commission could well take a closer look at what happened and just might even issue one of its censures. But the News of the World editor at the time, Rebekah Wade - who vehemently defended Mahmood when he was criticised by detractors last year - has moved on to the Sun. It is all very unsatisfactory. Five men have spent six months in jail, public money has been wasted, and to what end? A tawdry "scoop"; a few extra sales; another squalid episode in the annals of popular journalism. · Roy Greenslade is professor of journalism at City University roy.greenslade@theguardian.com