Yesterday I was asked by a group of enthusiastic feminists if I would like to take part in a bit of direct action and help desecrate Jimmy Savile's grave. In my youth I did a fair bit of spray-painting and the like and, as a political activist against violence towards women and children, I am well aware that when all else fails, we do as the Suffragettes did and get our hands dirty.However on this occasion I declined to take part, because a) I do not believe in disrespecting a space where grieving loved ones go for comfort, and b) it is a waste and time of energy. What we need the Savile legacy to be is a major rethink and overhaul of police and other criminal justice agencies responses to reports of child sexual abuse.Since this story broke we have heard much about who is to blame for the fact that the rumours and allegations about Savile did not lead to action by the police and subsequently the courts. Why wait until he was dead, ask many. Why did the girls not report at the time? How come the tabloids did not publish what they "knew"? That would have not been possible at the time as the newspapers would be subject to libel laws that, rightly, prevent the publication of unsubstantiated rumours that would harm the reputation of the person involved.The fact is, had the police and crown prosecution service acted robustly enough in 2007, when women who allege abuse by him at the Duncroft Approved School reported to Surrey police, those alleging abuse could have had their evidence tested in court, and justice may well have been done. But the allegations were investigated, and the CPS decided there was insufficient evidence to take any further action.A year later, police in Sussex were contacted by another woman alleging that Savile had abused her as a child, and again, nothing happened. During the time Savile was still alive Jersey, Northamptonshire and West Yorkshire were all aware of allegations that had been made against him.Why do we keep getting it so wrong when dealing with these crimes?Ian Huntley, the man who murdered two 10-year-old girls in Soham in 2002 was accused of raping an 18-year-old as she walked home from a nightclub in 1998, but, although he was charged, the CPS decided not to proceed due to an "unrealistic prospect of a conviction". When Huntley was 21 he was accused of having unlawful sex with a 15-year-old. A year later he was accused again of sex with a different 15-year-old, and again nothing happened. Then came accusations of crimes against a 13-year-old, then an 11-year-old, and then of four rapes in 15 months. There was not one single court case throughout the time of the eight reported sexual assaults. He went on to murder the 10-year-old girls.One of the victims of the recent Rochdale scandal has spoken of how, while she was disclosing the most serious sexual violence perpetrated against her by up to 20 men, the male detective interviewing her yawned loudly. He also made plain his bafflement that after being assaulted once, the girl had "allowed herself" to be sexually abused several more times by the main perpetrator and his cohort.If police do not take children seriously when reporting heinous sexual crimes, it is no wonder that the CPS often makes the decision that the witness is "unreliable". And when the CPS does proceed, and the case gets to court, the jury and even judges can be awash with prejudice and a tendency to blame the victim. Earlier this year a man who had sexually assaulted 7-year-old girl was given a non-custodial sentence because the judge decided she had actually initiated sexual contact with the adult, claiming she had "flirted with him".This is war, but it is not war against a dead man who can no longer do any harm, but against the police and the rest of the criminal justice system who appear to keep getting it wrong. I will be using my energy not to daub a headstone (if it were there any more) with slogans but to campaign against police complacency and poor decision-making by the CPS. It has to stop, and no amount of shouting at Savile's grave will bring justice to victims.