Fresh concerns about the risks of prison overcrowding are raised today in a report which shows that inmates as young as 18 have been housed with sex offenders who may have "groomed" them for abuse.Inspectors carrying out an unannounced visit to HMP Holme House on Teesside this year found a number of serious shortfalls in the regime but reserved most criticism for the housing arrangements of some of its young adults. At the time of the inspection, the men's jail, one of the largest in England and Wales, was holding 39 young adults on remand. Some of the 18- to 20-year-olds were housed in the vulnerable prisoner unit (VPU) alongside convicted rapists, child abusers and other sex offenders. This was condemned as "inherently unsafe" and should "cease immediately". The inspectors' report, published today, says: "Staff on the VPU alerted inspectors to a situation where they believed that a young prisoner was being groomed by an adult prisoner on the wing. We do not believe that remanded young prisoners should ever be held in VPUs. "The practice of holding young prisoners, particularly those who are vulnerable and may previously have been exposed to abuse, on adult prisoner units is inherently unsafe and should cease. Risk assessments should be conducted to ensure that they are protected from potential harm associated with their location with adults." A Prison Reform Trust spokesman, Enver Solomon, said there were serious questions to be asked about why 18- to 20-year-olds were put in this sort of unit. "At the time of the inspection, overcrowding may well have forced the prison to use inappropriate accommoda tion for this age group. Unconvicted young adults should in no circumstances be housed in a VPU," he said. Holme House witnessed four days of serious disturbances last August during which 34 cells were damaged beyond use and 43 inmates had to be transferred to other jails. The prison service admitted at the time that overcrowding and staff shortages were partly to blame for the outbreak of violence. Today's report said Holme House, like all local prisons, was operating under considerable pressure of numbers and urgently needed to develop its safety and activity standards to meet the needs of these increased numbers. The inspectors also found that about half of all inmates had no allocated work and spent most of the day locked in their cells. This was in part because there had been no additional resources provided to support activity places for the increased number of inmates. Anti-bullying strategies also needed to be improved, especially as staff believed bullying was on the increase. The chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, conceded that the report was in many respects critical, but she emphasised that the jail was now at a turning point. "The governor and staff face a difficult task as they tackle some longstanding and fundamental problems, particularly in the face of a growing and increasingly volatile prison population," she said. The director general of the prison service, Phil Wheatley, said: "As Anne Owers rightly recognises, the new management team in place at Holme House is working hard to address the issues she raises. I feel confident that the prison is making good progress and that it will continue on that upward curve."