It could be a run of the mill family get-together: a devoted sister and her husband calling in on her brother to update him on the recent graduation of their children. They sit in comfortable chairs around a small table and, over coffee, proudly show him pictures of the event.But this is no ordinary family gathering. The meeting is part of an odyssey that began 16 years ago and will continue until the prisoner, Eddie Gilfoyle, is cleared of a crime he says he did not commit; a crime which his supporters say was never a crime in the first place. In a twist of fate, the brother-in-law, Paul Caddick, is a former police sergeant who spent a career building up cases against criminals. He has now used the last decade-and-a-half dismantling the evidence that convicted his wife's brother of murder. Gilfoyle was jailed for life in 1993.In the evening of 4 June 1992, 33-year-old Paula Gilfoyle was found hanging from a beam in the garage of the family home in Upton, Wirral. She was eight-and-a-half months pregnant. Her husband, Eddie, had earlier returned from work to find Paula missing and a suicide note in the kitchen. The marriage had been through a difficult period and, believing the note to mean Paula was leaving him, Gilfoyle drove to his parents' house to seek advice. He returned with his parents and Paul Caddick who, finding the keys to the garage, made the gruesome discovery.When other police officers arrived at the scene they had no doubt the death was a suicide. A detective constable cut the rope and laid the dead body on the floor. He later told investigators that his action was taken to "preserve her dignity". Whatever the reasons, the officer's actions prevented an accurate reading of the body temperature being taken, which could have established the time of death, a factor that was later to be crucial. A subsequent police review of the response to the death criticised the cutting down of the body, stating that the action possibly destroyed valuable evidence. The report also criticised the lack of photographs of the body and the scene.Following Paula's death, members of her family approached the police saying they did not believe she had taken her own life. In particular, two of her friends said that Paula had told them that her husband was doing a course on suicide at work – he was a hospital technician – and he had asked her to write suicide letters, which he dictated. No such course existed and Gilfoyle has always denied telling his wife that it did. Gilfoyle was arrested and a murder investigation began.The hearsay evidence of Paula's friends was not used in court, but there is little doubt that it influenced the police to treat the death as murder.They took the suicide note to Professor David Canter, a pioneer of criminal profiling in the UK, who considered that it contained characteristics that were consistent with both Eddie and Paula's writing styles. Although Canter's evidence was not put before the jury at Gilfoyle's trial, it formed part of the prosecution case – and was used in the opening address by the crown. Canter believes his opinion influenced the CPS. Following Gilfoyle's conviction, Canter spoke to Paul Caddick and others and looked at other notes between Eddie and Paula - which he hadn't seen before the trial. He also conducted further research into suicide notes and now believes his original opinion was wrong. He now says the note was "written, unaided, by Paula and is consistent with a very real determination to kill herself.*At 11am on the morning of Paula's death, a wine canvasser, Maureen Brannon, called on the Gilfoyles. She left the house at 11.20am. Whatever happened afterwards, there is no doubt that Eddie Gilfoyle was at work – an eight-minute drive from home – at around 11.30am, when two of his workmates recorded seeing him arrive. He had alibis for the rest of the day and the prosecution's case was that he killed his wife before leaving for work.Nineteen days after Paula's death, on 23 June, a forensic scientist, Phillip Rydeard was at the Gilfoyle home with the police. In a later statement, Rydeard said he discussed the possibility of finding other significant evidence, "such as ropes". Later that day a piece of rope was discovered tied into a slipping noose in a drawer in the garage. This, the prosecution said, was a "practice noose" used by Gilfoyle. On the same day, a local woman, Maureen Piper, told police she had spoken to Paula in the local post office at 12.40pm on the day she died.After the murder conviction, a member of the Merseyside Police Complaints Authority reported concerns over the force's handling of the case and a detective chief superintendent from Lancashire police, Graham Gooch, carried out a reinvestigation. He interviewed PC Cartwright, who conducted a search of the garage four days after the death and reported: "PC Cartwright is adamant that the rope was not there at the time. He recalls looking into the drawer in which the rope was subsequently found and it was not there."A Trial and Error documentary on Gilfoyle's case was shown on Channel 4 in 1996, and the programme-makers were then sued for libel by a police officer. The case came before the high court in 2002 and Channel 4 mounted a defence based on their belief that the Merseyside police investigation into the murder of Paula Gilfoyle was fundamentally flawed. The case was settled out of court. Channel 4 accepted that the officer had not behaved corruptly.Afterwards, the two barristers who acted for Channel 4 wrote to the Criminal Cases Review Commission expressing their concern at the conviction. Desmond Browne QC and Matthew Nicklin wrote that the failure to allow the jury to consider the evidence of Maureen Piper, in itself, "renders the verdict unsafe". They listed nine alleged flaws by Merseyside police in their investigation into the death and expressed their "real and substantial concerns about the safety of Gilfoyle's conviction".In a report to the CPS, dated 13 July, DCI Baines, the officer in charge of the investigation, wrote: "a witness claims to have seen Paula in the post office at Moreton on the afternoon of her death. However, it was Paula's sister, Susan, who was in the post office." On 9 October, 1992, the CPS wrote that they had put Piper's evidence in the unused material because "the police believe she is mistaken and that it was indeed Susan Dubost in the post office. Accordingly, it appears Piper is mistaken in regard to her recollection."Piper did not give evidence at Gilfoyle's trial. But she is still adamant that she saw Paula Gilfoyle the day she died. She says a friend was with her at the time and confirms her conversation with a pregnant woman. Piper also told two other friends, the day after the death, that she "saw her yesterday in the post office".Speaking to the Guardian in 2005, Piper said the idea of her mixing up the two sisters, as suggested by the police, was ridiculous. "I have known them all their lives and, in the first place, they don't look alike and second, one was eight-and-a-half months pregnant," she said. "How could I be mistaken?" In his first police interview – before Piper came forward – Eddie Gilfoyle told police that his wife was intending to go to the post office that day.Despite her certainty about the sighting, Piper believed Gilfoyle to be guilty at the time of her interview. She had heard rumours that he had left his place of work during the day and believed he had killed his wife in the afternoon.Former police officer Caddick believes other people may have seen Paula that day, either in the post office, or the Upton and Moreton locale. "Paula had an antenatal appointment, which she failed to keep, at a clinic yards away from the post office; other people may have seen her, without realising the significance of the sighting," he said. Caddick urges anyone who saw Paula Gilfoyle on the day she died to come forward, even if they have already spoken to the police.Dr Bernard Knight is a retired professor of forensic pathology. He says that, with the single, possible, exception of the Roberto Calvi case, he had not come across an instance of murder by hanging in 38 years' practice. He says it would be virtually impossible to hang a conscious person against their will without leaving marks indicating a struggle. There were no such marks on Paula's body.Gilfoyle's case has twice been referred back to the court of appeal, but his claim to be a victim of a miscarriage of justice has been rejected.Alison Halford was deputy chief constable of Merseyside when Gilfoyle was convicted. She retired soon after and now advises the Conservatives on home affairs. She has taken an interest in Gilfoyle's case and has visited him in prison. She says his case has been "screaming out for justice for over 16 years" and says she will continue to work for his release and to find out "why Merseyside police treated him so shabbily". She also calls for "those responsible for his wrongful conviction to be called to account". Ironically, Halford was responsible for promoting Paul Caddick to sergeant and describes him as a "fine officer who has lost a career because of the Gilfoyle case".Gilfoyle's lawyer, Matt Foot, believes his client has been let down at every stage of the criminal justice system and that there is nothing safe about his conviction. "The more you look at his case, the more doubt emerges and his case is one of the oldest miscarriages of justice," he said.Gilfoyle says the worst factor of his wrongful conviction, and the 16 years he has been in prison, is that he has never been allowed to grieve for his wife and unborn child. " I loved my wife and it torments me to know that people believe I could have harmed her. Our child, a daughter, would have been 16 now and every day I wonder how she would have turned out," he said.• This article was amended on 20 October 2009. The paragraph marked with an asterisk was replaced to give more detailed information about Professor David Canter's involvement in the case. The original paragraph said that he judged the letter to be a fake before the trial, but Professor Canter said that this was an oversimplification. 