There is, it seems, no shortage of people who are willing to take on the job of investigating the police - more than 13,000 people have applied to become investigators for the new Independent Police Complaints Commission, which opens its doors for business next April.The IPCC is the body that will bring to an end the police monopoly on investigating complaints about the force. Its first chairman, Nick Hardwick, who until six months ago was the energetic chief executive of the Refugee Council, is busy building up the new organisation from scratch.Hardwick was surprised by the response - there had been fears of a shortage of applicants with the right experience. Now the recruitment consultants must whittle down the 13,000 candidates - 700 of them ex-police officers - to the 150 investigators who will eventually be employed."We will end up with about 25% of our investigators from a police background, 50% from other sorts of investigative backgrounds, and about 25% new in the profession. These are not quotas but how we think it will shake out," says Hardwick.The credentials of the applicants with "other investigative" experience belies the critics who claimed that nobody outside the police had sufficient expertise to conduct such investigations. There are customs officers, solicitors, insurance investigators, financial experts, even investigative journalists. All will have to demonstrate that they can collect and analyse evidence and test its credibility.There will, however, be no shortage of police service expertise in the organisation. The IPCC's director of operations is Roy Clark, the former deputy assistant commissioner at the Metropolitan police who was responsible for setting up Scotland Yard's professional standards unit. One of the five regional directors will be an ex-chief superintendent. But the commission will not be made up of the usual collection of the great and good. At the other end of the spectrum, John Wadham, the former director of human rights organisation Liberty, is one of the IPCC's two deputy chairs and one of the commissioners, Mike Franklin, made his name as a community representative in the Lambeth police consultative group.Hardwick points out that all the investigations into complaints against the police must by law be supervised by a commissioner who does not come from a police background."The original plan was that we would go all singing, all dancing from April with 150 investigators. Now it looks as though, the way the money will work out, they will be phased in over the next year. That is not a bad thing as it means we will be able to focus our expertise on a smaller number of cases and make sure we do the job well," says Hardwick. "The quality of our investigations will be key to the credibility of the organisation as a whole. We will build our capacity over a period of time."The investigators will be expected to tackle everything from a death in custody or a police shooting to breaches of police codes of conduct. They will have considerable powers - the equivalent of a constable - to issue instructions about what should happen at a crime scene, to seize evidence, and access will be guaranteed. Budget negotiations will be resolved by the end of this month but it seems probable that the IPCC will conduct about 50 full independent investigations in its first year.The police complaints authority (PCA), which the IPCC replaces, does not carry out independent investigations but has a supervisory role in the 3,500 complaints that it examines each year. Hardwick has faced criticism for ensuring that the new body is not involved in this process of "signing off" police investigations that it does not have a direct hand in. But he defends the change: "In the worst cases the fact that it was the PCA that signed things off enabled, in some cases, the police officer to say, 'This is out of my hands, boys, let's all go down the pub.' It places the responsibility to set standards of behaviour back on the police."Sir Alistair Graham, chairman of the PCA, pushed for the revision, arguing that it means the police will now have to explain themselves directly to the people who have complained about their behaviour instead of everything being mediated through the PCA. If the public do not like the outcome they can appeal to the new body."It will be more like how other ombudsman bodies work. I accept there will be a small number of cases where, in order to preserve public confidence, we will have to get involved at a much earlier stage but I don't think that the measure of our success will just depend on how we investigate the most serious cases. It will also be the extent to which we are able to influence how the lower level, and more typical cases, are dealt with."There are 18,000-plus complaints against the police each year. The biggest single category is minor assault (4,600), followed by failure in duty (2,900), incivility (1,830), oppressive conduct or harassment (1,300) and unlawful arrest or detention (1,150).Most will still be investigated and resolved by the police locally. Where there are mistakes, apologies will be made direct to the person involved, but if still unhappy, a complainant can appeal to the IPCC. Some investigations will be carried out by police under the direction of the IPCC, but the most serious cases may be subject to full, independent civilian investigations.The IPCC will be much better resourced than its predecessor and Hardwick believes its new "guardianship role" - to raise standards right across the police service - will prove a more significant difference than its independent investigative capacity.The IPCC was born partly out of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry and the determination of former home secretary Jack Straw to beef the police complaints system.Hardwick is convinced that the change is justified: "The current system, where the police investigate themselves, means that, no matter how well they do that, there will always be mistrust."He believes it is possible to make the whole process more efficient and questions the time it takes - five years - to investigate a police shooting. But it is important also, he says, that there is more openness - in IPCC investiga tions everything will be disclosed and concerned parties kept informed.To many observers Hardwick's move from campaigner for refugees and the homeless to a role entrenched in the establishment appears to be too big a jump. He disagrees: "The organisations are of similar size and both are about delivering high pressure services under a lot of scrutiny. In both there are groups of stakeholders with very contradictory aspirations about what you do but where you need to maintain support across the spectrum if you are going to make any progress."In a regulatory role, you need the confidence of the public. They must believe you will pursue injustice with rigour and not be nudged off course. I won't look for scapegoats. I understand that people who never make mistakes, never make anything. I don't want to create a risk-adverse police force."The CV Age 46  Status Married with a son  Lives Kilburn, north London Education Epsom College; BA English literature, Hull University; Honorary doctorate, social ser vices, Wolverhampton University Career 1980-86: youth training manager, offenders resettlement charity Nacro; 1986-1995: chief executive, homelessness charity Centrepoint; 1991: seconded as special adviser on rough sleepers to Tory environment secretary Michael Howard; 1995-2003: chief executive, Refugee Council Committees 1994-99: social security advisory committee; 1999-2003: chairman, European council on refugees and exiles; 2003-present: member, Holocaust Memorial Day Advisory Group Interests walking, Spain