The government yesterday announced further details of a watchdog designed to curb the exploitation of labourers by licensing the gangmasters who supply cheap and informal labour to the agricultural industry.The Gangmasters Licensing Authority (GLA), which is to begin work in April, will develop and operate a licensing scheme, set licensing conditions and maintain a register of licensed labour providers in the agriculture, shellfish and related processing and packaging sectors. It was founded under the Gangmasters (Licensing) Act, which came into force last July. It will be illegal for anyone to act as a gangmaster without a licence and it will also be illegal for anyone to use an unlicensed gangmaster. Offenders face up to 10 years in jail. The body will be chaired by Paul Whitehouse, a former chief constable of Sussex who is vice-chairman of Nacro, the crime reduction charity. Michael Wilson, a major general on the Defence Intelligence Staff who is currently chief executive of the Defence Vetting Agency, will be chief executive. Although both men were named to their posts yesterday, their appointments will not be confirmed until March, when parliament is due to adopt the regulations underpinning the GLA's operation. The food and farming minister, Larry Whitty, said yesterday he was confident the authority would "operate effectively, with zero tolerance for those who abuse workers or flout the law". The appointments were welcomed by the Association of Labour Providers and the National Farmers' Union. "The ALP has always stressed the importance of enforcement in dealing with the problem of supply and use of illegal labour and is therefore particularly pleased that such a prominent chief constable is willing to take on the role of chairman," said Mark Boleat, the association's chairman. The move comes in the wake of a major Guardian investigation which uncovered widespread exploitation of labourers as well as suggestions that many gangmasters allegedly collect tax and national insurance contributions from the workers under their control but fail to pass them on to the Inland Revenue.