HMP Pentonville, the London prison selected to be the first jail to be visited by a serving prime minister, is not one of the "hell holes" - its last report from the chief inspector of prisons was glowing.There was little danger of Tony Blair being pictured shaking hands with one of Britain's more notorious inmates as none of Pentonville's 1,070 prisoners is in the high risk category. Instead, when the prime minister visited yesterday he mingled with inmates who had improved their reading and writing, had taken a maths exam while on remand, or were taking part in the jail's "job club". He was shown into the foundation English class where he sat at a tiny plastic desk before hearing from the prisoners about their experiences. In return he told them about the new "custody to work" scheme to help offenders get jobs on release. He admitted it would take time for employers to accept the idea of employing more ex-prisoners. One inmate, Terry, 36, from Enfield, said he believed it was a good idea for Mr Blair to visit but did not think he was given a realistic look at jail conditions. Sir David Ramsbotham in his last inspection report on the north London jail said the staff had "a refreshing 'can do' attitude" compared with other large, overcrowded, under-resourced prisons, and wondered why it was not in evidence elsewhere. The chief inspector particularly praised the "constructive atmosphere and friendly relationships" between staff and inmates. He also liked the variety of workshops, gym sessions and classes, including some for dyslexic inmates, that are not generally available in other local prisons. Sir David was also impressed by the race relations work in Pentonville. But he also found significant failings at the prison. More than 60% of Pentonville inmates were using heroin at the time of their admission. There was a good drug detoxification and rehabilitation programme but, the chief inspector said, it could not hope to take on all those who needed treatment. The prison's greatest problem however was the lack of a proper health care centre. Sir David has called this a disgrace which should never have been allowed to happen. The last health care centre was demolished in 1995 and at the time of the inspection a year ago had yet to be replaced because of spending cuts. The number of mentally disordered inmates means the jail runs one of the largest medium secure units in the country yet it has to operate in antediluvian conditions and with gross understaffing.