A millionaire architect was today jailed for seven years after being convicted of killing his wife when she was trying to divorce him.An Old Bailey jury found Michael Morton, 67, guilty of the manslaughter of his 40-year-old wife Gracia. Jurors cleared him of her murder. Gracia Morton, a former violinist, disappeared without trace eight years ago after going to her estranged husband's house in Notting Hill, west London, to discuss their impending divorce. Despite extensive searches, her body has never been found, and police believe Morton, using his professional knowledge of building work, could have disposed of it locally.Jailing Morton today, Judge Jeremy Roberts said if the architect had been able to accept what he had done he might have been able to make a considerable reduction of the sentence. However, Morton's denial had "resulted in years of agonising on the part of his wife's family on what had happened to her", the judge said. Mrs Morton disappeared on Wednesday November 12 1997, a few weeks before the couple's divorce was to go through. She had told her solicitor she was going to see her husband about the divorce, and the prosecution said it was an argument on a "boiling cauldron" of issues that led to her death.Morton was not charged until October 2003 after detectives built up a case against him following accusations from his wife's close-knit Argentinean family.In a crucial breakthrough in 2003, officers discovered CCTV footage in 2003 of Morton making a secret visit to his wife's flat in Kensington, west London, using her keys. The court heard she had been "obsessed" with keeping her new address secret from him. When she disappeared, her car, containing her mobile phone, had been left parked outside Morton's £800,000 home. Morton told police she had asked him to look after the car and their four-year-old daughter.Judge Roberts told Morton today that he was sure the killing had happened because of a "sudden flare-up brought about by a disagreement about schooling about which you felt strongly".The court heard that the estranged couple had argued about their daughter's education, with Mrs Morton insisting she should go to a fee-paying school. Morton had a hatred of boarding schools because of his own unhappy experiences, and was said to dislike "posh little schools where little girls went around in straw hats", the court heard. As the divorce proceedings became increasingly bitter, Morton accused his wife of trying to steal his money - particularly £480,000 which he said belonged to him.Morton was convicted in the second trial he has faced over his wife's death. A jury at an earlier trial in November last year failed to agree on a verdict.However, at this trial the prosecution was able to introduce "bad character" evidence showing that Morton had been violent to his wife in the past.The court heard that the architect, who was said to be "besotted and still in love" with Gracia, was devastated when the former violinist left him nine months before he killed her. He had a number of other girlfriends, but the court heard he had not coped with the end of their relationship and had begged her to return. On one occasion, he had attempted suicide. Gracia had found a new partner and home and was looking forward to a new life with her daughter, the trial heard. There was evidence that Morton was in a state of emotional turmoil when the killing happened, but it was "still an unlawful killing," Judge Roberts told him. He showed no emotion as he was led down to the cells.Speaking after Morton was jailed, Detective Chief Superintendent Hamish Campbell, who was in charge of the case, said he would be seeing Morton in prison to ask him where his wife's body was."Our only regret is that we have never been able to recover the body of Gracia which would give proper rest for her family," he said."Morton represented domestic violence at its worst. He was a bully. He was verbally violent and, now we know, physically violent to Gracia. This death was the culmination of his domestic violence and aggression."