Britain's biggest bookmaker warned staff not to mention the words "children", "smashed" and "money laundering" in company documents for fear of exposing the scale of underage gambling and criminality in betting shops, a former company executive has said.Paul Pearce, who was with Ladbrokes for 48 years and worked in the security team overseeing 2,000 shops from the company's London headquarters, contacted the Guardian after the paper's investigation into how high street betting shops were being used to launder drug money."The instructions came from the director of security and were to be careful about certain terms because they were discoverable," said Pearce, who thanks to his intimate knowledge of the industry also wrote the official history of the company. "The idea, I believe, was to make sure in the future it'd be harder to assess the scale of money laundering or children illegally betting in the shops."Pearce, 67, said the objectives of the Gambling Act – to protect the vulnerable, prevent crime and allow fair wagering – were widely flouted: "The industry just looked the other way. We had children gambling. We had a lot of violence. By the time I left it was 30 shops a week with machines being vandalised. We were supposed to protect the vulnerable to stop them becoming addicted. But we did next to nothing. It was immoral."Pearce said the industry had become riddled with "commercial conflicts" since the arrival in 2001 of fixed-odds betting terminals in bookmakers. These allow for high-speed, high-stake casino games to be played on the high street. Punters can bet £100 every 20 seconds on roulette, and it has emerged some drug dealers use them to launder the proceeds of their crimes.The former executive said: "The industry changed overnight. In my view it became immoral. You had shop managers who got paid a bonus or commission for increasing takings. So tell me, would you stop a punter from putting in thousands of pounds of cash into a machine when your pay depends on it?"We had a guy in the Midlands putting a grand or two in the machines every day. He wasn't cashing out, he was collecting receipts. Seemed obvious he was not just another punter. But he was just profit to us."Pearce said that the recent case where the industry regulator, the Gambling Commission, fined Coral bookmakers £90,000 in profits it made from one drug dealer who had laundered almost £1m in its shops could have occurred in "every bookmakers". The commission, he said, warned that operators should "ensure commercial imperatives do not crowd out management of regulatory risk"."But that is exactly what has been happening. The commercial side has crowded out everything," said Pearce.The former security manager warned the industry had become increasingly paranoid. Pearce had worked with Israeli security experts to sweep director's homes every year and said the company put in place a policy to stonewall the police if they ever raided the company headquarters. "We were given boxes with detailed instructions on where to store things and not release anything until a senior director arrived."He said he left in disgust in the summer of 2011. When he resigned, he wrote to Ken Clarke, the then justice secretary, with his concerns. He was also interviewed by the regulator in 2012 about "what was going wrong with the bookies".Pearce said that he ran 7,000 CCTV cameras, allowing him to dial in and see what was happening – either live, or historically, but that these would only be accessed if a betting shop rang up with a complaint.The problem says Pearce is that shop staff were told that if anything happened to call the head office first – not the police. "If it was a break in, a shop being smashed, anything. We told shops don't call the police unless the person smashing the machines was going to stay."Adrian Parkinson, a former regional machines manager at the Tote, now with the Campaign for Fairer Gambling, said he was "astounded at the degree to which Ladbrokes have tried to hide the horrendous issues taking place in betting shops because of FOBTs. This more than anything shows how big the problem is and the industry is now struggling to keep a lid on things."The prime minister has assured Tom Watson, the MP and former Labour party chairman, that the government would take a "proper look" at the machines. On Monday Watson said the whistleblower's revelations were "utterly shocking and the social impact of this alleged cover up so great that it demands immediate political attention".A company spokesman said: "Ladbrokes records all incidents and works closely with both the police and regulator on all issues. This employee raised no concerns during his employment and we reject any suggestion that the company does not take underage betting or crime seriously. We continually seek to be at the forefront of tackling crime and will continue to develop and improve our approach in conjunction with the regulator and police."We have no record of such an email and if brought to our attention we would ensure it would have been rectified. Our processes are constantly updated and have moved on substantially since Paul's time with the company and we continually review and update them."A Department for Culture, Media and Sport spokesman said there was a duty on gambling operators to be alert to money-laundering attempts and to report such attempts to the police. "The government takes concerns about fixed odds betting terminals and their potential harm very seriously and we consider their future to be unresolved following our consultation."