A teenager and her parents were jailed yesterday for a fatal firebomb attack which killed the couple whose daughter she had bullied at school. Michael and Jane Connor, 40, from Manchester, plotted with their daughter Natalie, 18, to pour petrol through the letterbox of Lucy Cochrane's home and set fire to it with a match.Within two minutes, there was a vortex of flames in the hallway and the temperature reached 1,000C. Lucy, who has learning difficulties, suffered horrendous burns in the fire that killed her parents, Alex, 54, and Maureen, 45.At Manchester crown court yesterday Jane and Michael Connor were jailed for life and told they would have to serve a minimum of 32 years before they were eligible for parole. Their daughter got 11 years for double manslaughter.The judge, David Maddison, the recorder of Manchester, said: "These dreadful offences had their origin in no more than hostility that developed at school between you, Natalie Connor, and Lucy Cochrane. Nothing can begin to justify or explain the extreme lengths to which you - Michael, Jane and Natalie Connor - went on those days."The 18-month feud began after Natalie developed an obsessive hatred of her classmate because of an apparent slight. The dispute between the two families, in which Natalie falsely claimed she had been bullied by Lucy, came to a head when Michael bought two litres of petrol and poured it through the Cochranes' letterbox. A heavy drinker, he was goaded by his wife, who plied him with alcohol before the attack early on January 12 this year. Five days earlier, Mrs Cochrane discovered what appeared to be a flammable liquid on her front door and found that someone had tried to uproot a tree from the garden. She called the police but no sample of the liquid was taken.Connor and his wife were convicted last week on two counts of murder. Their daughter was found guilty of manslaughter and attempting to cause grievous bodily harm to Lucy. Alistair Webster QC, prosecuting, had told the jury during the six-week trial that Natalie had developed an obsessive enmity towards her classmate that eventually led to her and her mother inciting Connor to start the fire.Mrs Cochrane, a gardening centre assistant, managed to make a 999 call before being overwhelmed by the fire. Her husband, a baggage handler at Manchester airport, scrambled out of the house but died in hospital three days later.Mr Webster described the incident as a tragedy of epic proportions. "A vulnerable young woman lost her parents and suffered serious injury herself. It arose from, and was motivated by, such a trivial and nonsensical cause."The two girls had transferred to the same city college after being together at Newall Green school, Wythenshawe, for a number of years.After his arrest for murder, Connor told police: "I regret what I've done. I never meant to harm anybody or kill anybody. I just meant to scare them so they would leave my family alone."Thomas Williams, Mrs Cochrane's father, said that the Connors were a "moronic, mentally and morally corrupt family of misfits. We feel a great anger towards the Connor clan. This was every parent's worst nightmare."