Under changes to the murder laws announced this week, the defences available to women on trial for murder who have killed a partner as a result of domestic violence are to be widened and clarified; whereas men who kill their wives claiming that they were provoked into it because of her "nagging" or alleged infidelity will find that they have far less sympathy from the courts. These are welcome reforms but for many women, including my friend Emma Humphreys, it's come much, much too late. It's exactly 10 years this month since the day when I walked into Emma's flat and discovered her dead in her bed. She was 30 years old. I'd got to know Emma six years earlier when she had written to me at Justice for Women, a feminist law reform campaign set up to challenge the murder convictions of women who kill violent men. At the time she was in prison, having been convicted of murdering Trevor Armitage, her abusive partner and pimp, when she was just 16. As a child, Emma had witnessed her mother being beaten by her stepfather who, in turn, sexually abused Emma. When she was 12 Emma ran away, and was abused into prostitution on the streets, where she slept rough.When she met Armitage, a punter on the streets of Nottingham, Emma was drinking heavily and self-harming. One night, when Armitage had threatened to rape Emma yet again, she stabbed him. Too traumatised to take the witness box and represented by lawyers with little understanding of the effects of sexual violence, Emma was convicted and sent to prison "at her Majesty's pleasure", effectively a life sentence for under-18s. Emma wrote to me seven years into her sentence, and for three years I, and many others, campaigned for her release - claiming what the government appears this week to be accepting, which is that where abused girls and women kill the men who have dominated and hurt them, they should not be regarded as murderers. Finally, on July 7 1995, Emma was released from the court of appeal, her conviction overturned. The following day, most national newspapers carried front-page stories on Emma's campaign, showing a smiling young woman leaving the court surrounded by hundreds of cheering supporters. But the story didn't end there; it never does. Many women who suffer in the way Emma suffered die prematurely. Some are murdered by the men they're trying to leave; some take their own lives; some overdose on drugs and alcohol as a way to escape their pain. The three years following her release from prison were hard for Emma, in some ways even harder than her time inside. She was in and out of prostitution; she regularly overdosed on her prescribed medication; she cut herself; she was thrown out of her supported accommodation for "disruptive behaviour"; she was anorexic; she drank heavily. But there were also happy times. Eighteen months after she left prison she was given her own flat, close to my partner Harriet and me in Crouch End. Every Sunday Emma would come over and Harriet would make her milk shakes, laden with cream, to try to build up her weight. But there was always a sexual predator waiting to pounce on Emma, and to take advantage of her vulnerability. A few weeks before she died, Emma was raped again. For her, it was the last straw. Deciding to report it to the police, Emma spent the next few weeks taking too much medication and drinking in an attempt to calm her nerves about making a statement. One morning, having not been able to contact her by phone, we went to her flat. Getting no answer, we let ourselves in. There she was, curled up in bed as if asleep, surrounded by scores of pill bottles. Dealing with Emma's death was hard, especially coming after the stress we had endured trying to keep her safe and alive during her three years of freedom. The inquest into her death, two years later, revealed that Emma had died of an accidental overdose of her prescribed medication and had ingested 23 times the recommended dosage. For me, Emma had died because of men's violence. She was using the medication to block out her pain. I felt tremendous guilt at having failed to keep her alive. Harriet pointed out that, cruelly, Emma had been safer in prison than on the outside. But death, however painful, can galvanise campaigning. I had promised Emma that I would always try to make people understand the horrors of prostitution. In the years since her death, I have devoted a lot of my time to campaigning against the sex industry. Emma's life is used as an inspiration far and wide for those working to end violence towards women and children. Having discovered a suitcase full of Emma's writing, from her time in care as a child, through to her life after prison, Harriet and I co-edited a book called The Map of My Life: The Story of Emma Humphreys. The Emma Humphreys Memorial prizes, awarded annually to women and groups who have done exceptional work to combat violence against women and children, celebrates its 10th year this October. I am not the only campaigner to have had to work through a death, and to carry on. Criminal defence lawyer and feminist activist Bridget Irving's life was profoundly affected when, in the early 90s, she was representing a woman charged with the murder of a neighbour. Then her client killed herself in a cell weeks before her appeal was due. Though Irving had lost other clients, including children, no death had touched her as deeply as this one did. "She had opened up to me, telling me the most horrendous details of her childhood, which was filled with sexual abuse, violence and sadism," says Irving. "When I heard she was dead I became hugely upset and angry. I thought, 'What a waste of a life', and cursed all those who had harmed her and let her down." Irving went on to successfully defend other women on trial as a result of male violence, such as one 18-year-old woman who killed her violent boyfriend in self-defence but was subsequently charged with his murder. I heard a similar story from Sandra, a counsellor who has been working with victims of rape, sexual assault and child abuse for 16 years at South Essex Rape and Incest Crisis Centre (SERICC). Several years ago Janet, a client of Sandra's who contacted SERICC for help in dealing with an historic case of child sexual abuse, was strangled by her husband. "Like many of the partners of these women, this man did not want Janet to be in contact with us and appeared to make numerous attempts to sabotage the support she received here," says Sandra. Working with other women who use the service, and trying to help them turn their lives around, is the only way to channel the hurt and anger when someone dies, she says. "When you work with women who've experienced sexual violence, you constantly wonder whether they are going to live or die. When they survive, it's a bonus." After counselling a distressed client, Sandra often ends the call wondering if the caller will still be alive by the next session. "The dread becomes a daily reality. A lot of the women have suicidal thoughts as a result of what men have done to them," says Sandra, "but the majority of women do survive, despite being exposed to the most extreme levels of sexual violence." Another campaigner who has had to deal with clients' deaths is Diane Martin, manager of Trust, a community project supporting women in prostitution in south London. Several women with whom Martin has worked have died while being in regular contact with the project. "Sometimes I am amazed at how few women have died during my time here," says Martin. "But I remember all of their birthdays, and the anniversaries of their deaths. I have some sort of internal calendar." One woman, Shona, had been receiving support from Trust for a number of years. At the time she died, of an accidental overdose, she had been rehoused and was working to get her drug use under control. "For once she could imagine a future for herself," says Martin, "She had achieved some stability, and was full of hope for what lay ahead. It hurt that she died before she could turn her life around." What about those so-called boundaries professionals are trained to adopt? Do boundaries protect from the feelings of pain and grief when someone dies in terrible circumstances? For the women I spoke to, it is not as simple as that. "Emotions always come into it, because you see the human being behind all the chaos," says Martin. "For many of these women, you are the closest thing to family they have ever had." These days, I only rarely cry about Emma. I remember her, though - and in weeks like this week, when change happens for the better after a long fight, I remember her especially. And I keep in mind that the most I can do for her, now she's gone, is to work to create a world where women no longer die as a result of men's violence: the world Emma deserved in her lifetime, but didn't have.