Detectives investigating the death of the skydiver Stephen Hilder, who fell 4,000 metres (13,000ft) to his death after his parachute cords had been cut, said yesterday that there had been a "significant" forensic development in their inquiries.Hilder, a 20-year-old army cadet, died while competing in a national skydiving competition over Hibaldstow airfield, North Lincolnshire, last July. A Humberside police spokeswoman said: "We can confirm there has been a significant development in the forensic side of the investigation and forensic scientists are now conducting in-depth tests on various items in order to obtain more results. "These tests include work both on DNA and fibres. At this stage, although the forensic tests have provided useful information to the inquiry, they are by no means conclusive, and until such time that further results are returned to us we are not in the position to elaborate." Weekend press reports suggested that officers were working on the theory that Hilder had committed suicide, speculation which the police have criticised as "unhelpful and distressing" to his family. The spokeswoman said: "The extensive forensic tests are likely to take six weeks to be completed, and unfortunately until this time we will not be able to discuss them at any greater length. "In the meantime, speculation about suicide is both unhelpful and distressing to Stephen's family." She added: "We must stress that the case is still active and all aspects of Stephen's death continue to be investigated. "Detectives working on the inquiry are keeping an open mind and are continuing to gather information about the circumstances surrounding the skydiver's death." The Humberside police have interviewed nearly 2,500 people and taken nearly 800 written statements in their inquiries into who tampered with Hilder's parachute. In January a conference in Scunthorpe gathered senior investigators from a number of forces - including detectives who led the inquiry into the murder of Soham schoolgirls Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells - to review the investigation. The police said they believed that witnesses were withholding vital information, and promised to "keep digging". The investigation has been featured on the BBC's Crimewatch programme, and detectives have pursued leads as far afield as Russia, Cyprus and South Africa. Two army cadet colleagues, who studied with Hilder at the Royal Military College of Science in Shrivenham, Wiltshire, were arrested by the police and questioned about his death. Both were on the jump with him when he died.