A record number of Britons are behind bars in foreign countries, according to a report published yesterday by the support group Prisoners Abroad. It is believed that the increase is mainly due to the growing number of women being arrested for trafficking drugs, especially in the West Indies. Prisoners Abroad said it was dealing with 1,543 British nationals in jail overseas, compared with 1,327 last year and 1,193 in 1999. The number of the charity's female clients rose by 20%. The charity said: "More Britons than ever before are spending the holiday season abroad, hundreds of miles from loved ones. The numbers are steadily increasing." The highest proportion of the charity's clients is in the US, followed by France, Spain and Australia. But the number of prisoners it is helping in Jamaica has tripled from 23 in December 1999 to 70 this month. The charity believes women, some with young children in tow, are being offered large sums of money and free holidays to carry drugs from the country. It gives as an example the case of 24-year-old Geraldine, the mother of a three-year-old son, who was arrested in Jamaica last year after her boyfriend persuaded her to carry drugs back to the UK for him. She received a one-year jail sentence and a big fine. The charity said she was being held in Fort Augusta prison in Kingston, where the food is poor and cells are infested with cockroaches and rats. Older women are also being caught. A 57-year-old woman, Irene Campbell, was arrested in March last year in Venezuela for drugs trafficking and is serving a seven year sentence in the notorious San Antonio prison. Jail conditions in Venezuela are among the harshest in the world. Prisoners have to pay for everything from extra cell space to food, and shootings are common. A British woman, Sarah Langton, 25, of Northampton, died in March after falling into a diabetic coma while in jail in Venezuela for smuggling cocaine. While the figures do not account for all the prisoners abroad but only those being dealt with by Prisoners Abroad, they are seen as a good indication of the trends. In October, government figures revealed there were 129 Britons held in Jamaican jails, 674 in the US, 421 in Spain, 382 in France and 220 in Germany. The number of women prisoners in Britain is also on the increase, again partly because of the number of women being caught involved in the drugs trade. In the three months to the end of September the number of women prisoners rose by 7% to 4,045.