Britain's prison population will hit a record high this year, according to internal Home Office estimates that predict there will be 83,500 inmates by the start of the summer.The new figures show that the department's plans for containing the prisons crisis are unlikely to hold beyond July. According to private Home Office estimates shared with The Observer, the record will be broken when the prison population increases by another 3,498 inmates. The estimates assume that all 800 foreign nationals held in the prison system and awaiting deportation will be removed by July.The revelation comes after the prison population rose by 627 to 80,002, one of the biggest weekly increases on record. '627 is a massive rise in just one week; it may even be unprecedented,' said William Higham, head of policy at the Prison Reform Trust. 'The Home Office has reached crisis point with regard to prisons before even the end of January, when the population doesn't usually peak until well into the year.'The Home Secretary, John Reid, has pledged to find 8,000 more places, but it will be years before all of them come into operation. Since 5 January this year, almost 1,200 more offenders have entered the prison system.Last week the Home Secretary provoked a furore when, along with the Attorney General and the Lord Chancellor, he wrote to judges urging them to consider alternatives to prison sentences. The move - seen as an attempt to alleviate the overcrowding crisis - prompted allegations the Home Secretary was meddling in the affairs of the Judiciary.But last night Reid was thrown a lifeline by the country's most senior judge. The Lord Chief Justice stepped in to calm the bitter row between the judiciary and the Home Office that has followed Reid's comments, declaring it was 'appropriate' for judges to consider the state of prison overcrowding when passing sentence.Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers said the Home Secretary had not sought to instruct judges to stop imposing prison sentences on offenders.In a statement, he described Reid's advice on sentencing as a 'helpful summary of the present situation'. But in a barbed conclusion to his statement, Phillips added: 'There is no need for me or the sentencing judge to comment on the current state of the prisons as the Home Secretary has already described it as highly regrettable.'Last night, Reid's opponents kept up the heat on the Home Secretary. 'Despite all his rhetoric, John Reid's intervention has clearly caused judges to change the way they sentence people,' said shadow Home Secretary David Davis. 'We have seen child sex offenders who would otherwise be in custody being released and even the Lord Chancellor has admitted this is inevitable.'Today, Tony Blair will defend his Home Secretary, arguing that the growing number of foreign prisoners has placed pressures on the prison system.'Of course there's been huge problems in the Home Office,' the Prime Minister will tell the BBC's The Politics Show. 'But... we're down to the lowest chance of become a victim of crime for almost 25 years.'