The former girlfriend of an internet stalker jailed on Monday for posting sexual images of her online in a year-long campaign of harassment said his sentence "will never make up for the hurt he has put me through".Shane Webber, 23, from Nottingham, was jailed for four months at Southampton magistrates' court after admitting he harassed Ruth Jeffery by posting the images on social networking sites and tagging the photos to draw them to the attention of her family and friends, including her parents, unbeknown to her.He also tried to implicate one of his friends, Lee Evans, by putting the posts in an email address bearingEvans's name, leading to his arrest.He was only found out when Jeffery's family made their own inquiries and the emails were traced back to him.In passing sentence, district judge Anthony Callaway said the offence was a "gross violation of Miss Jeffery's privacy".Outside the court Jeffery, 22, said that even if Webber had got the maximum jail sentence magistrates can give – six months – it would not have made up for the hurt she had been caused.She added: "I am extremely pleased with the outcome. I am pleased I can now put it behind me. I was absolutely devastated when I found out it was him. I could not believe it was Shane. I did not want to believe it." Jeffery said her family suspected it was Webber but she could not comprehend how he could do such a thing.Webber started the campaign in April 2010 when Jeffery aborted their child and he became angry. He posted 10-12 images of a nude or sexual nature of his girlfriend and also of himself with her on to sites such as Facebook, MySpace, Tumblr and Google Picasa, the court heard.One batch in April 2011 was called Nude Jeffery and was sent to many close friends and family of the computing science student at Loughborough University.Frank Richardson, prosecuting, said: "She had no knowledge that Shane Webber was sending these images to her friends."Webber told Jeffery that Evans, who knew nothing about what his friend was doing, had stolen the explicit images from his computer. To make the deception even more elaborate he pretended to be Evans online when Jeffery contacted him about the harassment and he even told her that he, Webber, was having affairs.Richardson told the court: "That was manipulation, that was control, that was mind control."In a victim impact statement which was read out, Jeffery said: "I have been absolutely devastated by the fact the person I shared everything with caused me so much hurt and harm."The court was told that the pair had met at school and got together at an early age before Jeffery moved with her family to Southampton. The relationship with Webber continued when she started at Loughborough University. The court heard that Jeffery's family suspected that Webber was behind the harassment but Ms Jeffery did not believe them, causing friction in the family as she defended him.Eventually her father, Gordon, made his own investigation and traced the postings to a site registered to Webber and he was arrested and interviewed by police."He could not give a reason why he did this," Richardson said: "He was more angry with her [Ms Jeffery's] mother and father for telling her to abort his child."In mitigation, Janet Grey said that Webber had Asperger's syndrome and he and his family had suffered from abuse, including his parents' house having the words "sicko" and "psycho" daubed on it."He has been having a nasty time since this hit the tabloid press," she said. "He seems to have realised he has received a dose of his own medicine. He realises, for the first time, the devastating impact this has had on Ruth and her family."Callaway said the offence and its breach of trust and privacy was so serious that only jail would be appropriate. He also imposed a five-year restraining order on Webber not to contact his former girlfriend or post images of her online.