Yesterday's crime statistics were published alongside announcements about a massive shake-up of the Home Office and yet more punitive measures to "re-balance" the criminal justice system. Neither will make any long-term difference to the level of crime. But both may have been calculated to distract attention from the fact that this particular set of crime figures calls into question the government's overstated claims about reducing crime; and they are a serious personal indictment of a prime minister who doesn't need any more banana skins at present.Since 1997, the government has twice changed the way the police record crime. The second was intended to bring the police figures into line with the British Crime Survey (BCS), such that, as one senior officer put it to me: "Nowadays, trying to work out what's going on from the police figures is a bit like reading tea leaves." For, until now, ministers have relied on the BCS to support their claims that the public are safer than they had been for decades - although, perversely, the BCS also suggested that the public didn't believe them. Part of the reason it provided them with good news, is simply that - like other surveys - it has found it increasingly difficult to reach the people who are most likely to be victims of crime - and violent crime in particular. This is especially true of young men living in high crime inner city areas; but the BCS also misses out other increasingly important categories of victims including the homeless, people who don't speak English and anyone aged under 16.Despite the government's faith in the survey and its attempts to reconcile the police figures with the BCS, the two continued to contradict each other. But this year it is the BCS which is starting to show an increase in crime while, as the tea leave settle, the police figures are showing a slight fall.Some of the confusion between the two may be resolved in the autumn when the Statistics Commission publishes its long awaited review of the crime statistics. What both sources agreed on yesterday, though, was that last year saw a rise in street robberies which the police put at 8% while the Home Office dismissed the BCS figure of 22. Wherever the balance lies, these figures are important since they call the prime minister's personal legacy seriously into question.In 2002 Tony Blair flew in the face of all the best advice and serious analyses of the causes of the recent rise in robberies. Effectively it was due to an extension of traditional bullying in an age when, as well as dinner money and bus fare, young people were increasingly carrying other items which were eminently nickable. The difference was that it was impossible to keep it from their parents if these had been stolen; and their parents were reporting these thefts to the police. Tony Blair nonetheless chose to respond to tabloid depictions of the problem conjuring up images of old ladies with knives to their throats. He insisted on making it his personal mission to get street crime down in quick time and to achieve this by treating the issue as if it were a national emergency. True to form, arbitrary targets were set, a lot of additional (but short term) resources were thrown at the problem; and the solutions were seen almost exclusively in terms of tough action by the criminal justice system. The police forces concerned were subject to micro-management and forced to prioritise street crime over all else - often at the expense of issues that were of greater priority to local people.Now, the underlying factors are still at work but the political pressure is off, the targeting of resources was not sustainable and the extra funding has run out; so the problem is coming back. Almost certainly it's coming back in a more violent form for, while robberies involving firearms are known to have increased, there has almost certainly been an even larger increase in those involving knives.To their apparent surprise ministers have discovered the problem is no longer old ladies with knives to their throats but young people stealing each others' iPods; but this is still providing them with a further pretext for ever more punitive criminal justice policies. Especially in the context of street crime, their bluster rings hollow. The prime minister has been there, done that, and would do better to bin the T-shirt than lend it to John Reid.