The Police Federation today increased pressure on the government by applying for a judicial review of its decision not to backdate officers' pay awards.The decision to challenging the government's decision to go against the recommendation of an independent arbitration panel came as more than 22,000 police officers marched through Whitehall in central London, the federation's first organised march in its history. The federation's chairwoman, Jan Berry, accused the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, of showing "a total lack of respect" for the police by introducing their pay rise from last month rather than backdating it to September, effectively reducing the award from 2.5% to less than 2%.Addressing a meeting of MPs and police officers in the House of Commons following today's march, Berry said the home secretary had "crossed over the road to pick a fight with the police".She added: "The home secretary has broken her promise. She has not played fair with the police. We will make it clear later that the ability to overturn the decision of independent arbitrators has to be removed from the home secretary." Berry also attacked Gordon Brown, telling the crowd in Westminster central hall that the prime minister had made "'the pride of wearing the uniform that little bit heavier".She added: "He has just crossed over the road to pick a fight with the police." Speaking about the relationship between the police and the government, Berry added: "Prime minister, and I do not say this lightly, you have broken that trust." The police officers' demonstration proved an irresistible target for counter-protesters. The slow-moving throng of police were heckled along the route by several small groups.The Metropolitan Police, which put the total number of marchers at 22,500, said one woman - thought to be a counter-protester - was arrested along the route for a public order offence.The federation, which represents 140,000 rank-and-file police in England and Wales, had told officers to show restraint towards counter-protesters.After the march, thousands of police were taking part in a "mass queue" outside the Houses of Parliament to lobby their MPs. Berry will present a petition to No 10 and will later meet the home secretary.In December, police from across the UK passed a vote of no confidence in Smith and agreed to ballot members about whether to seek a change in the law to allow them to strike. This ballot is due to be held by an independent polling agency within a month.Officers in Scotland have received the full 2.5% pay award, as have police civilians including community support officers.Asked whether Gordon Brown had a message for the marchers, the prime minister's spokesman said today: "We have made our position on this very clear. Obviously the prime minister and home secretary think that police officers do an excellent job, but we have had to take some tough decisions in relation to last year's pay settlement."We staged that settlement, as we did for a number of other settlements. That was obviously to keep inflation down, to keep inflation on target, and it enabled the Bank of England to cut interest rates."The spokesman said Brown had no plans to meet police representatives.A hardline gang of mainly young men from Class War marked the beginning of the march in Park Lane. They jeered and booed the officers and shouted "scabs" when a convoy of marked police vehicles raced past with sirens on and blue lights flashing.Holding a makeshift banner marked "Cop Rentamob", member Ian Bone said the police had no right to more money. He said: "We remember what they did for other workers in the 1980s - the printers, dockers and miners."The Liberal Democrat candidate for London mayor and former Metropolitan police deputy assistant commissioner, Brian Paddick, was taking part in the march. "The police pay deal is a cynical attack on police officers because they cannot strike. These brave men and women put their lives on the line for us every day and they deserve to be treated fairly," he said."With Scottish police officers and all police support staff getting the full rise, all the arguments that the home secretary is using to restrict the police pay rise to 1.9% are blown out of the water. Give the police what the independent pay review says they are worth."Further along the route at Hyde Park Corner, a group known as the Space Hijackers had set up some stalls. One member said they were offering to help the police and give them advice on how to stage an effective protest.The counter-protesters tried to give out cloth face masks made of material in police issue black and white check. One member, who would only give her name as Koshka, said the demonstration was met with good humour.