A police bonus scheme which last year paid out £157m to officers in recognition of duties as apparently routine as arresting criminals, attending crime scenes and travelling abroad, has been attacked as ineffective and divisive.The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) said the system which applies to all ranks is "an inappropriate way of rewarding public services" and "does not lead to improved performance".According to lists of bonus payments released under the Freedom of Information Act, officers across the UK have received payouts for the "good arrest of [an] armed criminal" as well as dealing with badly decomposed bodies and fatal road accidents. The average officer's annual bonus payment ranged from £273 in Fife to £1,206 in Staffordshire. Mike Craik, the chief constable of Northumbria Police, shared £47,000 with his deputy and three assistants.The payments were introduced between 2002 and 2004 with the aim of improving efficiency and rewarding officers with particularly difficult jobs. Most of the bonuses come under schemes for competence-related threshold payments and special priority payments. Some £3.4m was paid out last year under the bonus scheme with payouts of £50 to £500 for unpleasant work or particular dedication to duty.According to a list of bonuses published by the Metropolitan police, one sergeant was paid £500 for "the removal of a 30 stone male in advanced stage of decomposition". Two constables and a sergeant together received £455 for attending the scene of a fatal motorcycling accident.But other bonuses were paid out for work that is less horrific. One officer was handed £250 for being a "problem solver" and had worked above their rank and a constable in Brent received £200 because they "undertook the setting up of [the] borough gym". An inspector involved in Operation Trident, the anti-gun crime initiative, took home an extra £500 for attending the party conference season and two constables detailed to protect the royal family shared £1,000 because they were regularly deployed overseas and met high-ranking people.Supporters of the scheme insist that the bonuses are often fair compensation for traumatic work. "There is nothing worse that having to deal with a decomposed body," said Russell Watson, the chairman of the Police Federation in Northumbria. "The psychological trauma that any human being goes through ... can have not only a significant impact on their working life but also within their family life."But Craik, Acpo's spokesman on workforce modernisation, said handling traumatic situations is part of a police officer's job and should not lead to bonuses.Others believe the payments should be diverted to help fund a greater increase in basic pay. "The current bonus system is divisive and unfair," said Paul McKeever, chairman of the Police Federation in England and Wales. "The fairest mechanism of reward is to abolish the bonuses and special priority payments and have fairer national pay across the board."A Home Office spokesman said the bonus scheme is not under review: "We think the present system works well because it allows forces to reward unpleasant, demanding or important work."