The local bobby is back on the beat. By 2007, every neighbourhood in London, and by 2008, every neighbourhood in England and Wales, will have its own dedicated police team. The six-member units have been tasked to work with and for the local community to combat issues at a ward level.As a policy direction it is broadly welcomed. The public never warmed to the "intelligence based model" of policing, which was perceived as too detached, and there has been a groundswell of opinion in favour of a more hands on approach to crime.This now seems to be bearing fruit in the polls. The 6th Annual London Survey this year showed satisfaction with the police had risen by 13%, prompting the mayor to exalt the virtues of the new approach.However, there are problems with community policing and they go beyond public perception. The issue is that the government asked itself what people wanted from their local law enforcers and then proceeded to give them only half a solution.Yes, people do want visible local policing. But they also want accountable and effective local policing. There are big question marks over whether community policing can deliver this under current arrangements.First of all, community policing is a poor substitute for the accountability engendered through local elected representatives. Currently, Safer Neighbourhood Teams are tasked to engage with their communities by drawing up a list of priorities.Almost mirroring political canvassers, they are required to get out on the streets to undertake postal surveys, public meetings, open days, street briefings, focus groups and even door knocking. Their priorities are then drawn up and reviewed every three to six months.The process is managed independently of local councillors. The teams are reliant on two monthly meetings, normally attended by only a small microcosm of the community, as a means to set their priorities.While the Home Office guidance suggests they should undertake outreach surveys, this is often off their own backs and in wards of up to 5,000 households. It is almost impossible to justify as an effective use of police time.Although councillors are by no means perfect, they provide a conduit to the wider community. The immediacy of the action instilled by electoral accountability does not exist in these new policing arrangements and while partnership workings are encouraged, they are not rigorously compelled. The silent majority remain untouched by the new policing structures.Another problem is churn. Already in my own ward, the Safer Neighbourhood Team has changed personnel.One of the key assets of community policing is meant to be personalised contact with your local bobby. However, resources are determined centrally and gaps are filled where they are most urgently needed, which has a detrimental effect on local community ties. People begin to assume officers will move on after several months and therefore are not as receptive to proposed partnership initiatives.Contrast this with elected representatives who serve a minimum four-year term. Unless they quit early, there is ample time for them to build up a knowledge and understanding of their local landscape. Their accountability is dependent as much on their interface between the locality, as it is on the wider fortunes of the council. If they are not good enough, they are removed by local residents. The continuity of contact is patchy with Safer Neighbourhood Teams, but it is explicit with elected representatives.Ultimately, no matter how grassroots focused community policing may appear in principle, the Chief Constables they report to are accountable to the Home Office. And with this reporting structure comes a confluence of revenue pools, performance indicators and targets.Whitehall seems determined to persist with this centralised approach to policing strategy, contradicting the values behind community policing.Only last week, Tony Blair announced that councils will lose funding if they fail meet certain targets on tackling anti-social behavior. Duly, councils will respond by funneling more resources into meeting this target, often to the detriment of other more pressing needs in their particular area.There is light at the end of the tunnel if the government has the will to grasp the challenge. With community policing now in place, electoral accountability can be built around these new teams.This will necessitate a move away from specific targets to a more responsive relationship with elected representatives overseeing delivery of strategy. The principle of operational autonomy of the police would be maintained, but with the general character steered by the public through elected officials.There are a number of ways this can be achieved in practice: through an elected sheriff model as pioneered in the US; through a strengthened role for elected police authorities; or finally, through council leaders having powers to revenue raise a substantive amount of the local policing budget. This would compel local police forces to work much closer with town halls, and would also ensure the police were able to tackle freely the complex nuances of crime which vary greatly from area to area.The government realises that successful policing is much more than simply locking up burglars. It is also about instilling a sense of pride in people's local areas.But to do that effectively and boost participation within local communities, triggers need to be put into place so that the community has a real say in shaping strategy, and a real say if the strategy appears to be failing. Local policing at the moment may be visible, but visibility is no panacea.&#183, Nick Cuff is a councillor in the London borough of Wandsworth and works for the Local Government Information Unit