The FBI is coming to Yorkshire, where it is looking for 3,000 volunteers to have their faces scanned, using technology pioneered in the Matrix films, and entered into a unique crime-fighting database.The US intelligence agency is sponsoring a new $1m (£580,000) facial recognition research project at the Magna science centre in Rotherham, which will help to identify suspects from closed circuit television footage. "When an offender is captured on camera, it is notoriously difficult to determine their identity," said Martin Evison, a forensic scientist and facial reconstruction expert at the University of Sheffield, who is leading the research. "We hope to devise better means of identifying facial features and distinguishing between faces." From today, visitors to the Magna centre will be offered the chance to participate in the research. Those who agree will have a gantry of eight digital cameras fitted around their head, each of which will take a 2D image from a different angle. Computer software will then pick out details such as points on the nose that appear in two or more images and build the still photographs into a 3D model of their head. This is the same trick that makers of the Matrix films used to create their "bullet time" shots. The scientists will use these virtual models to analyse distinctive features and facial measurements such as from the bottom of the nose to the top of the mouth for each of the 3,000 volunteers. The information will be used to build up a database that the FBI and others including the British police will draw on when trying to compare suspects with CCTV images. "The FBI has realised that there is very little science on which to make these comparisons," Dr Evison said. "We are trying to say not only do these faces match in shape, but that the frequency of that shape is 1 in 25,000 or whatever." CCTV images used in court are often poor quality. Forensic experts already try to derive facial shape measurements from footage and say that there is a certain chance of them matching the defen dant, but there are concerns that this practice is leading to miscarriages of justice. In March, the court of appeal warned that there was currently little or no scientific basis for these comparisons. By taking the measurements of 3,000 people, the scientists say the new research will give them a much better idea of how often certain shapes and characteristics appear in the general population. "This data will then be admissible in court to confirm or exclude a suspect from the scene of a crime," Dr Evison said. If a suspect refused to be photographed for CCTV comparisons, then standard mug shots or even stills from video taped interviews could be used. The project is expected to last two years and the scientists say all information about the volunteers will be kept confidential, and destroyed if they subsequently withdraw from the project. Christine Melia, Magna's managing director said: "We are delighted to be involved in such an important scientific study. Magna is about bringing science to the people, and in this instance I hope Magna will actually bring the people to the science."