Last week I hosted a public meeting at City Hall with the Metropolitan police to allow the public to express their views about the request the police have made to use water cannon. Boris Johnson has said he is minded to support the police but we want to listen to Londoners as we are doing until 28 February, before the mayor gives his views to the home secretary, who will ultimately make the decision.The City Hall meeting and the many other forms of engagement we have conducted on this matter have revealed to me that the debate about introducing water cannon has become mixed up in two ways. It is seen either as a move to restrict the freedom of protest or as an escalation in the use of force by the police. Both views are wrong.First, water cannons are tools for responding to serious public disorder, not for policing protest. Since the riots of 2011, the police have identified on a number of occasions that there is a gap in their current response to serious outbreaks of extreme or violent public disorder which, they think, water cannon would be a useful tool to fill.The strict criteria for use could not be clearer. The police will only be able to use them in those situations where there is a significant risk of widespread destruction of property or the loss of life. Water cannon is neither a toy for the cops to bring out as a show of strength nor a tool to deploy at normal protest or public events.The Met polices over 1,500 public order events every year, with the vast majority passing off peacefully. However, if and when legitimate protest is hijacked and turns into violent disorder, the public rightly expect the police to have the necessary tools to restore order and safeguard life.Second, water cannons are not about an escalation of force. They are civilian vehicles, rather than armoured military machines. They are less harmful than a metal baton at close range, far less dangerous then firing baton rounds and more discriminating than horses charging into a crowd of people – all tactics that the police can lawfully use now.Water cannons are not a panacea, but as Sir Hugh Orde, the former chief constable of Northern Ireland, has said, water cannons buy the police valuable distance and can help avoid the use of more extreme force. Their use in Northern Ireland has led to no reported injuries to date and the same rules of engagement would apply in London.Will water cannons undermine confidence in the police? Clearly the improper use of police powers can undermine public confidence, but it is the absence of a proper police response that does the most damage.When the police lose the streets, they lose the confidence of the public and Londoners' confidence in the Met plummeted by 11 points after the 2011 riots. And those who indulge in violence and wanton criminality – such as those who attacked Millbank Tower in 2010 – undermine the majority exercising their lawful right to peaceful protest.Boosting confidence in the police is vital, and Boris Johnson is the first mayor to challenge the police to increase public confidence by 20% by 2016, because cutting crime is not enough.Under the leadership of commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe the Met has done much to change its approach to disorder, both by training more officers and working harder with communities so that trouble is less likely to flare up in the first place. Performance on stop and search has improved, and the deployment of more officers in local neighbourhoods is helping restore the bond between the public and the police.As a result Londoners' confidence in the police is now rising, but we know that this is a fragile state of affairs and the risk of riots has not gone away. We need the Met to continue to police protest in a proportionate way and not to escalate its use of force. But there is a need to ensure the police have the tools at their disposal to do the job we all require of them.