Michael DonovanBorn Paul Drake, he is one of nine children who had a generally happy upbringing on the Woodsome estate in Batley, not far from the flat where he and Shannon were found. He was part of a large extended family which includes the Meehans - Craig Meehan, Karen Matthews's partner at the time Shannon disappeared, is his nephew.He was regarded as the baby of the family into his teens and attended special school before leaving home at 16 and not returning. He has two children from a failed marriage, but was described in court as inadequate and a man who only just gets by amid the complications of the modern world.Scarcely known to neighbours, he was nicknamed "Weirdo" locally. His sister, Maria Harper, recalls him as a fantasist. He changed his name to Michael Donovan, after the hero of the 1980s science fiction TV mini-series V, despite objections from one of his brothers who is also called Michael.He was given custody of his daughters when his marriage collapsed, and is described as devoted to them. He was upset when they were taken into care two years ago after he was involved in a traffic accident and needed lengthy hospital treatment.Fifteen months before he was found with Shannon, he collected his older daughter, then 11, from school and disappeared with her. Police traced the pair to Blackpool and Donovan was charged with abduction. The case was withdrawn before reaching court, following social workers' reports.Donovan strongly denied mistreating Shannon, telling the court that he had taken her shopping and for twilight walks in a local park. But media reports of the leash used to restrain the child led to an attack on him in Armley prison while he was on remand and he suffered a fractured jaw.Karen MatthewsShe was born in Dewsbury, one of a family of six, and her parents Gordon and June, who still live in the town, say that she was a good mother when she left school at 16 and had the first of her seven children.The father of her oldest son, now 12, is unknown and left while the child was still a baby. Matthews took up with Leon Rose, the father of Shannon and her 11-year-old brother, but that relationship lasted only a little longer. They split up before Shannon was born and Matthews took up with Paul Hooker, father of another of her sons, now eight, and then with a fourth man, William Marshall, with whom she had a daughter who is now six. There was another son, now five, before Matthews met Craig Meehan and moved to the Moorside estate and a house next to Craig's sister Amanda Hyett and her husband, Neil. Matthews's parents disliked Meehan, who earned £16,000 a year as a fishmonger at Morrison's in Dewsbury.She has not worked and at the time of her arrest was receiving an estimated £400 a week in benefits, with four of her children at home with her. The others live with their fathers.Her sister Julie disputes that Karen has ever been a good mother. She described in a statement to court how a six-month-old nephew would be offloaded on her by Karen for babysitting "with a carrier bag or towel taped to his bum. Instead of spending money on nappies, she spent it on stuff like crisps, sweets and pop."