"Victims' rights will be enshrined in law," Chris Grayling announced on Monday. "Next year," added the justice secretary's statement, "victims' rights to tell the court how their crime has affected them will be set out in statute."And who could possibly object to that – apart from news outlets to which the story was not leaked a day earlier? We all want to support victims, even though some of us take the old-fashioned view that it's better to regard them as complainants until a defendant has been convicted. Although there is usually little doubt that people who look as if they have been robbed or burgled are victims of crime, others who report a theft or assault may sometimes be less sinned against than sinning.But it seems like only last year that the government held a consultation on improving the code of practice for victims of crime, leading to an updated code for victims that has been in force for less than a year. Is it already out of date?Apparently not. What's changing is that the code's "key entitlements" will be put into primary legislation. But why? Aren't the courts paying attention to it already? The government's policy document, which is laid out in a very large typeface, does not say.And when will these changes take effect? Next year, as the government's announcement implies? Not quite: "legislation will be introduced in the next parliament". Leaving aside the paper's assumption that the present coalition will still be in power after the general election, that could be at any time in the next five years. The earliest that any act could take effect is 2016.And what will the legislation say? Last month, a judge chairing a panel of the parole board was heard to comment that so-called victim personal statements could make no difference to the board's assessment of whether it was safe to move an offender to an open prison in preparation for release on licence. The judge came in for much criticism even though his remarks, which were not intended to be heard, were no more than a summary of the existing code. That tells victims: "You should not include views on whether the prisoner should be released. This is because the parole board's decision will be made on the risk the offender currently presents."It is at the sentencing stage that victim personal statements are better established. There seems to be no intention that their status will change once the code is put into statutory form – and nor should it. Of course, judges must take into account the impact of a crime when passing sentence. But an offender should not receive a lighter sentence simply because the victim cannot face making a personal statement or happens to be particularly forgiving. A victim's views must never be determinative.Under the government's proposals, victims would have the right to make personal statements but not the right to insist that statements are read out in court: they could merely "ask". And that is as it should be: courts must be able to control their own procedures. More to the point, though, it's what happens under the existing code. So why legislate?It is hard to avoid the conclusion that this is another of those bills that is not intended to change the law. That was how I described Grayling's social action, responsibility and heroism bill here in June, before it was published. Sir Edward Garnier QC MP, the former Conservative law officer, said in July that he could not find any "practical difference that the bill will make to the current law" and could not support it. And, as Owen Bowcott reported last week, those concerns were reinforced during the "Sarah" bill's committee stage.There is, of course, more to Grayling's announcement than a pointless change in the law. There'll be a new information service and helpline. The much-derided police and crime commissioners will be made to do something useful. By 2018, victims will be able to track the progress of their cases online, rather like a parcel delivery service. There will be more locations at which vulnerable witnesses will be able to give evidence. The whole thing looks and sounds very much like an election manifesto. Labour are planning something similar. But one proposal that requires further attention is a new requirement that "publicly funded advocates must have undertaken approved specialist training on working with vulnerable victims and witnesses" before they can be instructed in cases involving serious sexual offences. I can see no problem with making this a requirement for prosecutors. But I am not persuaded that the state should interfere in this way with a legally aided defendant's right to instruct defence counsel of his or her choice.I am also bemused by the proposal to make offenders pay compensation to victims "up-front" instead of "as and when the offender is able to pay". As compensation orders are made on or shortly after conviction, "up-front" presumably means before the defendant has been found guilty. How can an innocent offender be ordered to pay compensation? And how can money be extracted from a defendant before he is "able to pay"?No doubt there are answers to these questions. I am old enough to remember when the lord chancellor would have given them at a press briefing. Such days are long gone. But Grayling and his officials are very welcome to join our debate below the line.