Police recruits should be allowed to join above the rank of a junior constable, bypassing the traditional rite of passage of walking the beat, in a shakeup demanded by Tony Blair to shore up police numbers.Fast-track promotion and entry into the service at middle management level from other professions are regarded as controversial but necessary strategies, and have been tentatively backed by Sir John Stevens, the commissioner of the Metropolitan police. The prime minister believes fast-track promotion for outsiders may open up police culture and make the service more receptive to new ideas and management techniques. Moves to dismantle the current recruitment structure will be strongly opposed by the Police Federation, the trade union representing rank-and-file officers. The federation has already withdrawn from talks on the future of the police, overseen by the home secretary, Jack Straw, claiming they breach internal negotiating procedures and represent a secret agenda to undermine the police in the name of greater efficiency. Sir John has also mooted the idea of short-term contracts that would allow recruits to sign up for three or five years' service. Similar to fixed-term army commissions, the contracts could help to attract high calibre graduates who are currently being put off by what Sir John has called "a legacy of outdated rules, regulations and redundant practices". Although the police service has an accelerated graduate recruitment scheme, everyone who joins must serve two years as a constable, mostly on the beat. They then have to spend a year as a sergeant and two years as an inspector. The relatively slow promotion procedure is seen by some officials as a barrier to recruitment from a wider range of backgrounds. The prospect of early promotion might also ease the recruitment crisis facing the po lice, as public bodies struggle ever harder in a tight labour market to win recruits. The Association of Chief Police Officers has acknowledged it is considering proposals to increase the number and quality of recruits. But the Police Federation believes the plans would "destroy safeguards against the abuse of managerial powers that are embodied in the present regulations". Fred Broughton, the federation's chairman, said: "Policing works most effectively when officers have had a firm grounding on the beat and experienced the sharp end of service delivery. We are alarmed by proposals to encourage direct entry to specific roles without this familiarity." He said it had been tried before and failed. "Police leadership requires talented all-rounders who have 'walked the talk' and gained the confidence of colleagues. He described short-term con tracts as "undesirable and not in keeping with the vocational nature of the profession". Allowing recruits to sidestep a spell as a "beat bobby" would turn police culture on its head. Current police recruitment literature states: "This probationary training period is important, especially if accelerated entrants are to reach managerial positions with a proper understanding of how policing works, and of what officers think, feel and need. "The role of constable is fundamental to the service, it is at the heart of policing and provides early responsibility." Previous attempts at police reform have foundered on rank-and-file opposition. The issue will have to be handled sensitively since ministers will not want a drawn-out fight with the Police Federation during an election campaign in which law and order will again be a prominent issue.