Harold Shipman, the family doctor charged with 15 counts of murder, diagnosed two of his alleged victims with heart disease a matter of hours before they died, he told the jury in his trial yesterday.A third patient died on the same day as he diagnosed her with lobar pneumonia, he said. On the second day of his defence at Preston crown court, Shipman, 53, of Mottram, Greater Manchester, claimed that Bianka Pomfret and Winifred Mellor complained to him of chest pains on the day of they died. Joan Melia complained of a severe cough on the day she died. Shipman told the court that he advised Mrs Pomfret and Mrs Mellor to see a cardiologist and that he suspected they had angina. He had prescribed antibiotics to Mrs Melia. It is alleged that Shipman murdered all three women, and 12 others, by morphine injection. He denies the charges as well as one of forging a will. Shipman claimed that backdated computer entries made on Mrs Pomfret's and Mrs Mellor's medical records helped him to research the effectiveness of treatments. The prosecution alleges that he changed the records to cover his tracks after murdering the women. Questioned by Nichola Davies QC, defending, Shipman said Mrs Pomfret, 49, rang his surgery twice on December 10 1997 asking if he would visit her. He saw her at her home around 2pm, when she described the symptoms of angina. He said he then established from Mrs Pomfret, a German national, previous occasions on which the pain had occurred. He said it was a painstaking process as she was "a very poor historian in English". Shipman said that at his surgery he made three backdated entries to Mrs Pomfret's records. "It showed the progression of the illness, something that went back six months or eight months," he said. "I wanted to make sure the story was right." Asked if he was aware that his computer made an audit of entries, he said he was. Later Shipman was called to Mrs Pomfret's house because she had collapsed. He pronounced her dead. "I believed she'd had a coronary thrombosis because of what she told me earlier in the day," he said. He told the court that Mrs Mellor, 73, a regular visitor to his Market Road surgery in Hyde, called complaining of chest pains on May 11 1998. He diagnosed angina, advised her to see a specialist, and asked her to call him later in the day. When she did not call he visited her home. He saw her through the window slumped in a chair. He got a key from a neighbour and on examination pronounced her dead. The neighbour had previously given evidence that she saw Shipman at Mrs Mellor's home earlier that day, but he denied that visit and that his manner had been abrupt. Mrs Melia, 73, visited Shipman at his surgery on June 12 1998 complaining of excessive catarrh and a bad cough. He diagnosed a serious chest infection, but later that day he was called to her house, where he found her dead, he said. "I believe she died from lobar pneumonia. A small percentage of elderly women die very quickly." Asked separately if he had given morphine or diamorphine injections to the three women, or if he had murdered them, he replied: "No, I did not." The case continues.