October 1 2001 was the start of a very different existence for me. I was 17, in the first year of my A-levels. Even now I find it hard to remember what life was like before. It was the day my dad, a respected local solicitor, was arrested for embezzling funds from his business. The following February he was sent to prison.To the outside world, our family must have appeared happy and well off. We lived in a four-bedroom semi in suburbia; we went on holiday to France and played Trivial Pursuit at Christmas; I went horse-riding and skiing with the school. We did all the things that "normal" middle-class families do - we were not the sort of family that finds the head of the household banged up in prison.The day of Dad's arrest, I came home from school about 4pm, let myself in with my keys and made myself a sandwich before switching on the TV. Not long afterwards, the phone began to ring. Several times. It was odd. Each time the caller asked either my mum, or myself - rather cagily - if we had spoken to Dad. He had not turned up at work that day, and after about the third or fourth call, Mum began to suspect that something was up.A family friend popped over, followed shortly after by Dad, fresh out of the police station, having been bailed. After this, it's all a bit of a blur. I was told very matter of factly what had happened, and decided it was best if I made myself scarce so my parents could talk. I remember being upset and driving off to see my friend - we went for a drink, and afterwards I went home, but even then I never really talked to him, or indeed anyone, about what happened. It was a kind of self-defence I suppose; if I didn't acknowledge it, it couldn't hurt me.Dad pleaded guilty so everyone was spared the ordeal of a trial, but the four-and-a-half months between his arrest and his court appearance dragged on. It was unbearably tense in the house. We'd been told to expect a custodial sentence, and Dad was obviously scared. It was bizarre him being at home all the time, and he filled the hours reading and watching TV. By the end I just wanted it to be over and done with. It was like waiting to go to the dentist - you know it's going to be painful, so it's better to get it over with as quickly as possible.When the day of sentencing finally came, it was a relief. In the morning, Dad popped his head around my bedroom door. We hugged each other and he said he was sorry. I think I mumbled something like "see you soon" and went off to school as normal. Mum went to work - she found it all too painful - and a family friend went to court with Dad. We didn't know at that point how long he was going to prison for - it could have been anything from one year to seven.Arriving home that evening, everything seemed eerily normal. Dad often worked long hours and did not get home until late. It was just like any other evening - hard to believe my dad was at the start of a two-year prison sentence.We were never particularly close as a family. When I was young, my parents were strict. I had two older brothers, who had both left home, so by the time I hit adolescence my parents were pretty laid-back. I was allowed out with my friends, and as long as I was back when I said I would be and I didn't betray their trust, they were happy. Dad didn't really have a lot to do with me. He and my brothers shared a love of sport, but it was always Mum who showed an interest in my life and came to all my school events. It was only in the days and weeks that followed Dad's imprisonment that it began to sink in that he wasn't around and wouldn't be for a while.The local papers ran the story with relish; a former local Law Society president banged up for abusing his position of trust. Friends who offered support to my mum at first gradually ebbed away, leaving a select few. My parents had always been sociable and had a large circle of friends, but most now seemed embarrassed to be connected to us. We had become pariahs.My school was very good about our situation. If I ever wanted time off for visits then I could have it, no questions asked. My friends were fantastic too. No one ever made fun or was nasty to me - just sometimes there was an awkwardness or embarrassment if the subject came up. In the end, I rarely talked about what was going on, so I didn't have to witness their discomfort. And I couldn't bear being pitied. It really irritated me. After all, I hadn't done anything wrong.We kept in touch with Dad. We sent him letters and cuttings through the post. He wrote back. When I got my A-level results later in the year, he sent me a prison-made congratulations card. I've kept all his letters. And I'll never forget the prison visits. Our personal belongings were searched for drugs and weapons. When we finally saw him we sat making falsely happy conversation - amid all those other families struggling to create some normality in that dingy visiting room - while inside I despised him in my stroppy teenage way for making my life rubbish.Dad always got upset when we left. But I think prison did him good in many ways. He got to meet people from all walks of life; something he was sheltered from before. He worked with disabled children, helping them read. He gave other inmates legal advice, played on the cricket team and worked in the hospital wing, sometimes alongside the prison's most famous inmate, Jeffrey Archer. One of my most surreal moments was visiting Dad while on the next table Michael Portillo was paying a certain someone a visit.When Dad was allowed out on day release, we went to the nearby town and would occasionally bump into other inmates on day release. One day we stopped to chat to an attractive young guy who winked at me."Who was that, Dad?" I asked."That was Westy.""He seems nice, and he's fit!""He's not that nice," said Dad."Why, what did he do?""He cut someone's throat a few years back."Not ideal boyfriend material then ...At home we struggled to cope financially. Mum, who had always worked as a medical secretary, became the main breadwinner. Food shopping was cut to the essentials; haircuts were out, and even trips to the dentist. Our cats had to be rehoused because we couldn't afford them. At car-boot sales we flogged anything we didn't need to make ends meet. I don't think people realise the financial implications for the families that prisoners leave behind.I was a teenager. I wanted to have all the latest things. But I had to grow up fast. I got a job baby-sitting after school so I wouldn't have to ask Mum for money, and sometimes I felt like I had to be the grown-up when Mum was really down. She'd cry on my shoulder and we'd watch TV and drink wine. One minute I was the defiant head of the household, the next a miserable little girl who'd lost the family she knew. Sometimes I became hysterical. I became a typical drink and drugs cliche. I had to accept things were never going to be the same. In time I did.Dad was released after serving a year of his sentence, then for the next 10 months he wore an electronic tag. When he first came out he stayed with friends, before moving back into the family home. Things are still hard. Finding work has been difficult for Dad, and financially it's a mess. For a while, my parents lived under the same roof, but now they are separating, and I'm hoping it means a fresh start for everyone.My dad and I have a better relationship since he went inside. He's become a lot more domesticated; he's a lot more humble. I think I understand him more as a person, but however well we get on now, I can't forgive him. I still don't think he realises the impact it all had on our family and I find it hard to respect him after what he did.I can't accept his excuses. He says he did it for us, to make sure that we did not go without. But it was just wrong. Even now, six years on, I don't believe a "good" father would do what he did just to get out of personal difficulties.My experience has made me wonder how remorseful prison really makes people. There is too much time to think about and justify actions. Many of the letters he sent me from inside were selfish and deluded. Even now, he is able to justify what he did to himself.The experience has made me stronger. It changed my life. Nothing fills me with fear more than going to prison, having seen what it's really like. And it changed the course of my relationship with Dad. I didn't know him before, and I don't think he knew me. We could have just drifted on like that for ever. We still have not sat down and talked about it, but we do get on now. It's something he finds hard to talk about. Maybe some day we'll be able to.