Police were last night hunting the driver of a white van after a teenage girl was kidnapped from a street and put through a 'horrendous' 15-hour ordeal.Kelly Marie Davies, 15, from Wrexham, north Wales, was snatched in her home town on Friday afternoon and found 70 miles away. Detectives said she was 'extremely traumatised' by the abduction and is now back with her family and receiving medical treatment.Police say they want to trace Alan Grant from Stockport, who also uses the name Alan Weston, in connection with the kidnapping. They have warned the public not to approach him under any circumstances as they are 'very concerned about the level of threat posed by him'.Officers are now concentrating their search for the teenager's kidnapper on the southern areas of the town of Bangor where she was found. Detective Superintendent Peter Chalinor of North Wales Police, who is in charge of the investigation, said: 'We need to speak to Mr Grant as soon as possible. We do not - I repeat do not - want the public to approach him, but to call 999. We are trying to protect the public.'He appealed for Grant to give himself up by calling 999 or going to a police station. But despite appeals for information, a police spokesperson admitted: 'We've had very few calls from with regards to sightings of Mr Grant/Weston.'No details about the girl's ordeal have yet been given but Chalinor continued: 'The girl's family are obviously extremely relieved to have her home. She is extremely traumatised after a horrendous ordeal but she is now receiving medical treatment and a family liaison officer is supporting the family.'The teenager was found shortly before 7am yesterday. She was seen by a member of the public apparently being forced into a white LDV van near Summerhill Road in the Highfield area of Wrexham about 4pm on Friday. The van, which is registered to a Greater Manchester address and has the number R474 GNB, was found yesterday, also in the area.A police spokesman said that detectives took the unusual decision to release Grant's name because there was such a high level of concern about the girl's safety.