It was, quite frankly, a high price to pay for dropping a match on the ground: £135. And Gary Colbert is livid. He was among 42 people summoned to appear at Liverpool magistrates court this week as a result of the city council's zero-tolerance campaign against people who drop litter. "It's ridiculous," said Mr Colbert, 31, of Seaforth, Merseyside. "I have been fined £135 for dropping a match on the ground. It's a joke. People get away with all sorts. I throw a match on the ground and end up having to fork out £135 I don't have." The majority of the offenders were prosecuted for dropping cigarette butts. The prosecutions followed a day-long coordinated swoop by environmental health officers in June. In addition to the 42 people in court for dropping litter, 17 people were prosecuted for allowing their dogs to foul the pavement. One woman who was fined for throwing a cigarette butt on the ground was equally indignant. Charlene Taylor, 24, from Garston, said: "Being fined like this is totally pathetic. We see bins everywhere for rubbish, but there's nowhere to put your cigarette ends. Where are we supposed to put them?" Mirella Foster, 34, from Bootle, who was also fined, said: "I do not understand; all I have done is throw a small cigarette end down and I have been fined £135. There was nowhere else to put it." But Marilyn Fielding, the council's executive member for neighbourhood services, said: "These prosecutions were the result of a drive by the city council to make Liverpool a cleaner place. The message is clear - if you drop litter of any sort then you stand a very good chance of ending up in court. "All the evidence is that the majority of people in Liverpool want us to take tough action against those who litter our streets. "I'm pleased the courts have recognised that this is a serious issue by the level of fines they have imposed." "Litter is litter and that includes matches," said a city council spokesman. "Research from Encams, the charity that runs the Keep Britain Tidy Campaign, shows that cigarette-related litter makes up 40% of street litter. We spend £6.8m a year on picking up litter, which means £2.7m of that goes on cigarette ends, empty packets, matches and other such debris." Wardens will be patrolling the streets to hand out £50 on-the-spot fines to those who drop litter. Another 30 cases relating to either litter dropping or dog fouling have been adjourned.