Instiutional racism is still rife in police forces across Britain five years after the inquiry into the death of black teenager Stephen Lawrence, which ordered senior officers to root it out.A report from the Commission for Racial Equality to be published tomorrow will show that all but one of the 43 forces and authorities in England and Wales are failing in their legal duty towards ethnic communities. The results will be devastating for the police, still struggling to recruit non-white officers and win the confidence of Britain's ethnic communities. CRE chairman Trevor Phillips set up the inquiry after the BBC made an undercover documentary, The Secret Policeman, which revealed a culture of racism at Bruche police training centre near Warrington. In one scene a recruit wearing a Ku Klux Klan-style hood acted out how he would beat up an Asian. The findings of the inquiry, chaired by former Director of Public Prosecutions Sir David Calvert-Smith QC, could lead the CRE to mount prosecutions against the forces concerned. One source who has seen the report said the reaction to its findings within the anti-racist watchdog was 'worse than disappointment' and that it showed forces were still not taking race seriously. Introduced in 2000 in response to the Lawrence report, the Race Relations (Amendment) Act placed a duty on public bodies to actively promote racial equality. As a result, each police force was asked to produce a detailed Race Equality Scheme. As a first step in the inquiry, all 43 chief constables and police authority chairs were asked to submit their polices on race and diversity to examine how they matched up to the 2000 legislation. With one exception, all had failed to put the relevant checks in place to eliminate racial discrimination or intimidation against suspects, the general public and officers from ethnic minorities. Civil rights lawyer Imran Khan, who represented the Lawrence family said: 'If this is what they have discovered, then the CRE has to take action against the police. It's the only way they will learn. If they instigate proceedings the impact on every other public body will be phenomenal. The fear has always been that this legislation was not taken seriously.' When Phillips took over the CRE last year he found the organisation seriously in debt and unable to take legal action against public bodies seen to be in breach of race relations legislation. But it is now thought the organisation is in the black. A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers said it was aware of the criticisms in the report but would not comment before its publication. Greater Manchester, the force at the centre of the row over The Secret Policeman, is also likely to receive severe criticism as a result of the publication of the police inspectorate's first 'baseline assessments' of performance. The 16 key areas include operational performance, hate crime, roads policing, leadership and corporate governance and diversity and forces will be judged as poor, fair, good or excellent in each area. Avon and Somerset Chief Constable Steve Pilkington took the extraordinary step of publishing his results ahead of the report last week after local media speculation that he was to lose his job. Home Office sources have confirmed that Pilkington will be commended for the improvements made by his force. However, Humberside and Cambridgeshire, which received severe criticism over their failure to identify the danger posed by Soham murderer Ian Huntley, are likely to come out badly in the assessments. The Home Office's Police Standards Unit has the power to take over failing forces, although it has yet to use it. But it is already advising several forces thought to have shortcomings - including Greater Manchester, Humberside and Cambridgeshire.