Andrew Bridges declares, with more than a hint of pride: "I'm a probation insider." We are discussing his work over coffee in his Westminster office. "I've had a career of more than 32 years related to probation, although that is both the strength and weakness of my position, being an insider on the one hand, but having crossed the line from being part of the people who do it, to becoming the representative of the taxpayer to say whether probation is doing a good job or not. I hope it's clear that if I feel the need to be uncompromisingly critical, then I'll do it."It was the first of the recent high-profile murder cases catapulting the probation service into the public consciousness that gave Bridges the opportunity to prove he was as good as his word. In his damning report into the case of Damian Hanson and Elliot White, both of whom were under probation supervision when they murdered financier John Monckton in November 2004, Bridges concluded that there were "serious deficiencies" and a "collective failure" in the way probation staff managed the two men.But his report, published in February, also added that "it would be wrong to suggest that the mismanagement of these two cases reflects a poor standard that is currently widespread among probation staff". Unfortunately, equally dreadful cases hit the headlines soon afterwards. The man convicted of murdering Robert Symons, a teacher, and four of the six men convicted of the rape and murder of teenager Mary Ann Leneghan were also under probation supervision when the crimes were committed. The subsequent media and public perception of a serious crisis in the wider probation service was inevitable.Inevitable too, that the issue would be raised at a political level. The Conservatives have blamed the failings on a shortage of probation staff and the creation of the national offender management service (Noms). The government has argued that the failure was in the quality of risk assessments and the monitoring and tracking procedures that apply in high-risk cases. Nevertheless, the Conservatives were adamant the three cases represented "the shocking consequences of the government's policy of allowing dangerous criminals out of prison".Tiny numberBridges has little time for the "lock them up for ever and throw away the key" approach. Setting aside the moral and ethical implications, the effect of this in real terms would be minimal, he argues. "Of course, it is natural for a victim of crime to be highly distressed and upset if a further serious offence was committed while the offender was under supervision. I would feel the same. But in percentage terms we're talking about a tiny number."How many? "Of about 200,000 offenders under supervision at any one time, about a hundred in a year will commit a further serious offence, that's less than half of one per cent."So probation is working then? "Well you couldn't use that argument as a rational case for saying it's failing, but as an emotional case, every one of the 100 is bound to be experienced as an extremely distressing failure. And it would be wrong to play that down. But when one is saying 'surely probation can stop people from doing this?', you have to know that of those 100 offences, about 20 will have been committed by people from the 7%, the 15,000 who were assessed as high or very high risk."So ... locking up all 15,000 for ever would only stop 20 serious offences. That still leaves 80 offences from people who were not previously assessed as being high or very high risk of harm - people who are doing this sort of thing for the first time. So if you put yourself in charge of the probation service tomorrow, you know that out of 185,000 people of low and medium risk of harm 80 of them are going to do something dreadful in the next year. It's not an easy task to try to identify which ones they are."I mention the school of thought which argues that changes in the culture of probation over the past 10 or 15 years - from a stated purpose to "advise, assist and befriend" to a more hardline approach - have led to a loss of direction in the service. "The starting principle of probation is still that you aim, hope, to achieve change in the people you are supervising. When you have someone under supervision who does not want to change, then you have to take all steps in your power to keep to a minimum their opportunity to be a risk to others. You do need to behave a bit like a policeman. Yes, there is a real control side to supervision that has grown up in the last 10 to 20 years. The new language of offender management is punish, help, change, and control."Do those notions sit comfortably together? "Well, 'punish' may sound a bit emotive but all it means is to make sure they abide by the order of the court and conditions of the licence. 'Help' and 'change' are positive things, they are not that different from 'advise', 'assist' and 'befriend', except they are designed to be a bit more focused."ContestabilityMany people in probation are concerned about the introduction of contestability, another Noms watchword, into the service (though reports this week suggest ministers have cooled on this in the wake of widespread opposition, preferring instead to vigorously review the performance of each board in England and Wales).Can it work with probation? "In terms of probation, I think it is a particularly difficult thing to do, but I don't think it can be ruled out. I hope it will be about how much value can be provided for a fixed price."So it's all about cost? "Well so much of probation work is based on how an officer relates to, engages with, the person under supervision in the room they are in at the time. You don't chuck that away. But you know that probation practice is being done in some areas better than in others. You can't eliminate the possibility of using competition as a way of encouraging improvement."Who would provide it? "It might be a voluntary or a commercial organisation. But we shouldn't rule it out on ideological grounds. What one is looking for is a what can be of most benefit to the individual and to society."A bill going through parliament proposes to merge the five existing inspectorates for courts administration, crown prosecution service, police, prisons and probation into a single body. A good idea, says Bridges, perhaps surprisingly. "If you want a criminal justice service that works together and is well coordinated, it makes sense to inspect it in a coordinated way." Nor, he says, at £20m a year, would it be prohibitively expensive (Ofsted, which inspects schools, costs £200m).Bridges, I sense, is still an old-school probation officer at heart. I ask him if the service is in crisis, and he answers as if he were still one of their own. "One of the things I remember from my time in the service is that every year people say that probation is at the crossroads. It is fair to say that we are definitely at yet another turning point ... And it is undoubtedly challenging to be so much in the spotlight and under so much scrutiny, and to have one's very credibility doubted in the current way. That is very tough indeed. But people I talk to always have positive stories to tell about the work they are doing. Trying to do good, trying to get people to move away from crime. There is every reason to be optimistic."Age 54  Status Married, with two grown up sons from previous marriages Lives Reading Education York University, BA History; Bristol Polytechnic, MA Historical Studies; University of Bath school of management MPhil Career April 2004: chief inspector; 2003: deputy chief inspector; 2001: joined the probation inspectorate; 1998-2001: chief officer in Berkshire; 1989-98: assistant chief officer in Berkshire; 1983-89: senior probation officer, Gwent (including, 1983-86, a secondment to Usk prison); 1975-83: main grade probation officer working in Wiltshire (including, 1981-83, a secondment to Earlstoke prison); 1973: joined the probation service as a trainee Publications Research at the University of Oxford Probation Studies Unit, published in 1998 as Improving the Employability of Offenders: A Study in Probation Service Effectiveness Interests A Reading FC season ticket holder for 10 years