A rescue operation was under way last night to save nearly 100 horses, ponies and donkeys believed to be the victims of "horrific" cruelty, after more than 30 animals were found dead in a field.Animal welfare workers said they had rarely seen such cruelty, with survivors "emaciated and poorly treated". Others described the apparent mistreatment as unprecedented.RSPCA officials discovered the gruesome scene at what is believed to be a horse-dealing business in Amersham, Buckinghamshire, on Friday after a tip-off from a member of the public. James John Gray, 44, was arrested the same day on suspicion of causing criminal damage and assaulting a police officer. He has been charged and bailed and will appear before Aylesbury magistrates on Monday.The RSPCA found 31 animals dead and shot three more because of their condition. Fourteen horses thought to be most ill were taken away by police on veterinary advice while the remaining 84 were transported last night in horseboxes to secure locations, several in the East Midlands and Norfolk. Postmortems are expected to be carried out as RSPCA inspectors gather evidence for a possible prosecution.The site included a large barn and open-sided enclosure with hay on the floor, while a massive mountain of spoil, believed to be horse droppings and straw, was piled in a field alongside dilapidated farm buildings.Other animal charities have been helping the rescue, with more than 35 staff involved, most from the Norfolk-based Redwings horse sanctuary. Its chief executive, Lynn Cuttress, said: "I have spoken to my senior welfare vets who have been assisting at the scene. Many have said that they have never seen anything of this horrific magnitude in the last 10 years. I have been told some of the surviving horses are in a very bad condition. They are going to need a lot of looking after."Redwings provided eight horseboxes and trailers for the rescue. Nicola Markwell, its communications manager, said: "Our expert team have travelled to rescues on many occasions and provided a home and/or transportation from the place of rescue, but one rarely sees cruelty so far advanced that equines are seemingly forgotten and literally left to die."Redwings are hopeful that a prosecution of the owner will follow for both the deceased equines and those surviving that were considered to be in an unacceptable condition, but it is too early to comment on this in full."She said extra donations were already coming in following news of the rescue.The RSPCA, which is leading the investigation, would not give details of the condition of surviving animals or how the others might have died. "The incident may be subject to possible prosecution following a full investigation," it said in a statement.A spokeswoman, Sophie Wilkinson, added: "The surviving animals will need specialist care. Each animal is being assessed individually ... it is too early to say if some will require regular treatment."Lee Hackett, welfare senior executive of the British Horse Society, said: "Mistreatment on this scale is unprecedented in Britain. Clearly there needs to be a full inquiry into the circumstances behind this case. We must use these terrible events to make sure this kind of carnage never happens again."