As excuses go, it was pretty feeble: "I won it on the bingo and was a penny-pincher."Janis Gabriel's modest pebble-dashed council home near Burnley was described as a palace. It had a whirlpool bath, swimming pool, four-poster water bed, sauna, luxury fitted kitchen and 42in plasma television screen. There was also £18,450 in cash stashed around the property - mostly hidden under the water bed. But she had no source of income, other than benefits and the proceeds of criminal activity. Yesterday Gabriel, an unemployed mother of seven, was jailed for six months. The family had been evicted from their luxurious property last week. Burnley crown court heard that 49-year-old Gabriel's only source of income was £2,000 a month in benefits she received for herself, her children and her disabled husband, John. They had built a cupboard under the stairs to store their stolen goods - which included DVD players, video recorders, a home cinema system and numerous CDs. The living room boasted a large decorative mahogany fireplace with a £1,000 stone inlay. In the kitchen there was a £900 walk-in fridge-freezer unit, and a new tumble dryer and washing machine. The family also owned two cars, a scooter, several bicycles and a number of camcorders. Gabriel could produce no receipts for any of the items when questioned by police. She described her possessions to the jury as "something everybody has in every home". She had been convicted of two counts of being in possession of criminal property at an earlier hearing. The jury did not believe her assertion that she was exceptionally lucky at bingo and a prudent saver. Mr Recorder Conrad sentenced Gabriel to six months in prison for each count and told her the sentences would run concurrently. The family were evicted from their home after 21 years of antisocial behaviour. They had not paid any council tax or rent on the property. "These were substantial sums of money, and one aggravating feature is that after the first police raid you continued to be in possession of criminal property," the judge told her. He told Gabriel that her family had received a "substantial income in benefits". He said it represented an income of which an honest, hard-working family might be envious. "You were greedy and became involved in the possession of criminal property. I view this as a serious case and only a custodial sentence can be justified." Gabriel, wearing a blue top and clutching a bottle of cola, showed no emotion as the sentence was read out. At an earlier hearing, she told the court she collected £514 a week from the Post Office after claiming income support, disability allowance for her husband and three of her teenage sons, carer's allowance and family allowance. When police first raided the house they found thousands of pounds under the mattress of a four-poster water bed. In a second police raid, two months later, officers found £670 stashed in an air rifle case. Hilary Manley, defending, told the court that Gabriel had already been punished by her eviction from her home in the Padiham area of Burnley. She said: "She has been subject to verbal abuse after all the press coverage, and effectively stripped of her cash and her home. This is a woman who has always had heavy responsibilities, ever since her father committed suicide when she was 11." Miss Manley said Gabriel's teenage sons had behavioural problems and her husband could not cope without her. She added: "Her husband requires something not far short of round-the-clock care. He has threatened to commit suicide and will not accept care from anyone else. "This defendant has been branded a scrounger, at best, and has had to suffer public outrage at that."