After 50 years of carrot it's time for some stick, remonstrated the Mail on Sunday. Have the riots hardened the public mood towards law and order, or is this the easy bombast of the headline writer and the politician scuttling home from Tuscany?When people are being killed, homes destroyed and shops looted, it is no surprise that politicians mock concern over civil liberties. At best they are a distraction, at worst they are at the root of our "sick" and "feral" society. Or to adapt the old line: if a conservative is a liberal who's been mugged by reality, the 2011 variant is a small shopkeeper who has seen their livelihood destroyed by rampaging thugs. Anybody who cares about liberties and rights must acknowledge the anger and bewilderment at the sight of law enforcement seemingly powerless to intervene.Emergencies such as these follow a familiar pattern. Immediately after the 7/7 London bombings, Tony Blair declared the "rules of the game have changed". He was responding to the shock and the fear of worse to come. Many of the measures he pledged were purely playing to the gallery. Many have not been implemented. But the political mood encouraged him to talk tough.For that same reason, David Cameron instantly denounced "phoney concerns about human rights" the moment he returned to "take charge". He followed this up with a call for "zero tolerance" and the appointment of Bill Bratton, a US police chief-cum-gangbuster, as his unpaid adviser.Ed Miliband has been careful not to fall into what he believes to be a trap – denunciations of criminality must come first, second and third. Any attempt to explain or analyse must follow distantly behind. Any attempt to wean Labour away from the authoritarianism of the Blair-Blunkett era is on indefinite hold.As for Nick Clegg, this is another difficult moment. The Liberal Democrats' role in the coalition is to tame the rougher edges of Conservatism. But how can they do that now?There are two areas to focus on. Cameron's reference to "sick" parts of society has been confined to the rioting youths. Yet an atmosphere of impunity has been fostered from the top. Two weeks before the riots I signed up to a statement by the Compass pressure group calling for Britain's "feral elite" – bankers, media phone hackers and MPs on the take – to be held to account. If any "clampdown" is to be carried out, it should not be confined to the so-called underclass.The second area liberals need to influence is policing. It is unhealthy, particularly at moments such as these, for relations between police chiefs and ministers to be as tense as they are. The specific measures that the home secretary, Theresa May, and the prime minister have called for so far are long on rhetoric, short on practicality. Police already have the power to force protesters and others to remove hoodies and headwear preventing identification.As for blocking instant messaging and other forms of technology, I am told that when this was first raised at the Cobra emergency group, police chiefs, security officials and cabinet ministers made it clear this was unenforceable. Entire mobile networks would have to be taken down. William Hague, the foreign secretary, said this was the sort of the thing the government protested about when tried (unsuccessfully) by the Egyptian and Tunisian regimes. In situations such as these, the gulf between self-professed civil libertarians and authoritarians is narrowed.Efficiency is an important element of criminal justice policy and public confidence in it. Everyone has their own stories about their frustrations with the police. When, a few years ago, I had the window of a ground floor bedroom smashed by a local teenager, I was happy to identify him. I was told by the coppers that it wasn't worth their while taking him in; he'd be out on the streets hours later. Instead they dispatched the forensics, followed up two days later by a "trauma counsellor". Multiply such stories around the country, and confidence in the criminal justice system erodes. The door is then left open for authoritarian hyperbole.As we found after 7/7, targeted and intelligent anti-terrorism measures often receive wide public support. When they creep and are abused – for example, to stop people protesting against arms fairs or nuclear power stations, or to eavesdrop on the phones or computers of people who fail to clear up dog litter – an environment is created of security forces working for the state rather than the community. New Labour's authoritarianism years were based on a wilful misreading of the requirements of public order. Individuals protesting with loudhailers might be inconvenient; they are not a threat.Policing by consent must not be dismantled. But it must be robust. It should not mean fear of causing offence, or refusing to tackle gangs. The police deserve stronger public support. They should get it, as long as they, and politicians, focus on the needs of the communities they serve and not the needs of an overbearing state.