A man who threw an egg at Nigel Farage during a campaign visit by the Ukip leader has been given a 12-month conditional discharge and ordered to pay £200 costs.Frederick Glenister, 33, pleaded guilty to a charge of common assault at Nottingham magistrates court. On 1 May he threw an egg as Farage arrived in Wheeler Gate, Nottingham, to rally support in the East Midlands for Ukip candidates in the European elections.The politician quickly got back into his chauffeur-driven car, abandoning a planned walkabout in the city, and went to a nearby pub, the Bell Inn, where he spoke to the media and supporters over a pint.The prosecutor Robert Carr told the court that the Ukip leader was shocked by the assault but suffered no pain or discomfort. Carr asked for compensation for the cost of dry-cleaning Farage's jacket. An exact figure was not given to the court.  Nigel Farage after being hit by an egg in Nottingham. Photograph: Joe Giddens/PAThe court heard that Glenister had no previous convictions apart from a caution for a dissimilar matter in 2003.Louise Wright, defending, said Glenister had not planned to carry out the assault and had been in the town centre by coincidence. "Mr Glenister was going about his business and saw supporters and that they were for Ukip," she said. "Mr Glenister is a man of conviction and who stands for his convictions."She said he went to Tesco and bought some eggs before going to join the crowd gathered for Farage's arrival. "This is a democratic country with a long tradition rightly or wrongly for members of the public to throw eggs at politicians as a political stance," Wright said. She told the court that the Labour leader, Ed Miliband, was egged last year and his attacker was not prosecuted."Mr Glenister is before you for expressing a political stance. He is a man of good character who has admitted his wrongdoing," she said. She told the court that the case should have been dealt with by way of a caution. "This is a drama trial. It would not have happened if the victim was not Mr Farage."Asking the magistrates for an absolute discharge, Wright said: "It [the case] is here at a cost to the public when Mr Glenister should have received a caution." She said Glenister had no remorse for his actions, which had been intended to "take media attention away from the campaign and highlight Ukip's dangerous policies".The chairman of the bench, Peter Dextor, told Glenister: "We have carefully considered all that we have heard from the crown and your defence. We do not consider your behaviour to be acceptable. We have looked at our guidelines and we have decided there is less harm and lesser culpability."Dextor said the panel had noted that Glenister had no previous convictions. "It was a single blow. It was an isolated incident, and you are of previous good character," he said. But he said the assault had been carried out for "gratuitous degradation".The £200 costs order included £100 compensation to the victim.