The home secretary, Charles Clarke, will face another day of calls for his resignation tomorrow when he updates MPs about the police and home office investigation into the foreign criminals deportation blunder.After demands from the opposition for a Commons statement today on the investigation into the whereabouts of 1,023 released foreign criminals the Speaker, Michael Martin, confirmed that Mr Clarke had assured him he would make a statement on Wednesday after prime minister's questions. Mr Clarke will also be called in the near future to give evidence to the home affairs select committee which announced it would investigate how the offenders were released without their deportation being considered. Tony Blair, who faces his regular half-hour question time grilling tomorrow, again expressed confidence in his home secretary but conceded that his government had made mistakes. "The whole point about government is that there are challenges. No government ever fails to make mistakes. No government ever fails to encounter difficulties," Mr Blair told a union conference in Blackpool.After yesterday's revelation that Mr Clarke did not tell the prime minister about the extent of the deportation blunder for three weeks, Mr Blair's spokesman today said the delay was "entirely understandable". The spokesman said: "The Home Office have explained that during that period they were putting together the full facts and therefore it's entirely understandable that you don't want to present half a picture, you want the full picture." In an indication of the fevered climate surrounding Mr Clarke and his chances of political survival it was reported earlier that the Home Office was investigating whether the suspect wanted for the killing of PC Sharon Beshenivsky, who was gunned down in Bradford city centre in November last year, was one of the missing offenders.Such news could have proved fatal for Mr Clarke's career. But it emerged later that Mustafa Jamma had been considered for deportation after an earlier robbery conviction but could not be removed because his country, Somalia, was deemed too dangerous for him to return. Mr Cameron though said it was time for the prime minister to sack Mr Clarke as he demanded the home secretary inform MPs how many of the missing foreign offenders had been re-arrested.The Conservative leader told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "Most of all, he needs to explain what has happened to the 1,023 prisoners that were released on to the streets and not deported. "We haven't had a full breakdown of who they are, where they are and what's happened to them. "I think there is a massive failure in the Home Office in terms of competence and administration, but there is also a huge concern amongst the public about public safety, and we need our home secretary at this time to provide that reassurance, to provide the figures and to answer all those questions.Revelations over the weekend that Mr Clarke waited three weeks before informing the prime minister and the police of the problem with foreign offenders showed that "this can't be the man who can lead the Home Office at this time and restore some competence to its administration, so he has to go," said Mr Cameron. "I think the prime minister should bring forward his reshuffle and make these arrangements and say goodbye to Charles Clarke," he said. A retired judge today added to the pressure on Mr Clarke over what he called an "absolutely shocking mess" at the Home Office that has seen the department repeatedly fail to deport offenders. Gerald Butler QC challenged the home secretary's explanation of the affair, insisting that judges would normally recommend deportation where appropriate when passing sentence, rather than recommending that deportation be considered on completion of the prison term, as Mr Clarke has suggested. It also emerged that new sentencing guidelines underway could see the automatic deportation of foreigners convicted of murder, sex offences, fraud and people trafficking.Mr Clarke's position has looked increasingly shaky since revelations last week that 1,023 foreign offenders had been released from prison without being considered for deportation. Despite being informed on March 30 that individuals convicted of serious offences had been allowed back into the community, the embattled minister did not pass the information on to Tony Blair until April 21, the Home Office confirmed.Police were supplied with the list of all the 1,023 offenders who had been mistakenly allowed to go free another five days later. Under existing guidelines, judges and magistrates can only recommend that a convicted criminal should be removed - it is up to the home secretary to make the order for deportation. The most recent figures available show that in 1996 the courts' recommendations for deportation were acted on in only 270 out of 360 cases, according to the Sentencing Guidelines Council. Mr Butler told the Today programme he was "astonished" that large numbers of foreign prisoners had been freed without the judge's recommendations on deportation being considered. "There appears to be an absolutely shocking mess and, in the well-worn phrase, he must of course consider his position," he said. He added: "I think Mr Clarke has the test wrong. I've heard him say several times that the judge recommends that a prisoner be considered for deportation, which is a rather lower test."What the judge actually says is 'I recommend that you be deported at the end of your sentence'. It then rests with the home secretary and is out of the judge's hands. It isn't simply that the home secretary should consider it - and I've heard that from Mr Clarke more than once - it's actually a recommendation that he be deported, and then the home secretary has to consider all the facts." The proposals will be debated in parliament and considered by ministers before the advice is finally sent to judges and magistrates.The new guidelines are not expected to be completed before late autumn at the earliest.