A 15-year-old boy who died on Monday night in a privately run child jail was being physically restrained by three adult members of staff when he lost consciousness, the Guardian has learned.Gareth Myatt, from Stoke-on-Trent, is believed to be the youngest person in living memory to die not by their own hand in a British penal institution. The teenager, who had only arrived at the Rainsbrook secure training centre, Northamptonshire, run by Group 4, on Friday, to start his 12-month sentence, is believed to have been restrained by two men and a woman in his room. A full-scale investigation by Northamptonshire detectives has begun and will look at how Gareth "lost consciousness" following "an incident" at Rainsbrook. "It is too early to determine whether the death is suspicious or not, but this is a very serious matter and we will continue to investigate it thoroughly," a Northamptonshire police spokeswoman said. The three members of staff directly involved have been moved to other duties at Rainsbrook which do not involve daily contact with the 76 children held there. Last night Frances Crook, of the Howard League for Penal Reform, called for the suspension of the staff involved, and demanded that the privately run children's jail be closed pending a full investigation of the use of physical restraint. "This is a unique and shocking case," Ms Crook said. "There must be a full investigation into the use of physi cal restraint in all penal institutions for children, the prisons, local authority secure units and the private secure training centres." It is believed that an operations manager at Rainsbrook, who has been exonerated of previous allegations concerning bullying and coercion of children in his care, was not directly involved in the incident but gave Gareth first aid and also accompanied him to hospital. A statement by the Youth Justice Board this week said the exact cause of the "tragic death" was, as yet, unclear. The statement said: "It is reported that Gareth lost consciousness. A duty nurse was called and attempted resuscitation while an ambulance was called. The ambulance arrived at 9.42pm and he was taken to Walsgrave hospital in Coventry where he was pronounced dead at 10.25pm." Rainsbrook, which opened in 1999 and is run by Group 4's Rebound ECD subsidiary, has been repeatedly praised by social services inspectors for its high-quality treatment of persistent offenders aged 12 to 17. The staff are trained by the prison service to use "physical care and control" techniques which involve "embracing a young person to prevent them from flailing about", with up to three adults. Unlike adult prison "control and restraint" methods, this does not include the "pain compliant" methods of locking the wrists of offenders until they relax. Gareth is believed to have been in the care of social services since 1997 and had spent some time on remand at Rainsbrook before he was sentenced for theft and assault. A postmortem examination was carried out into his death on Tuesday but the results were inconclusive and further tests are now to be done. Rod Morgan, the chairman of the Youth Justice Board, has promised Gareth's family he will do everything to find out the cause of his death. Paul Goggins, the prisons minister, has also asked the Commission for Social Care Inspection to investigate alongside the police inquiry. "These investigations will be conducted with the seriousness and urgency that these events deserve." The last time that a boy as young as 15 died while in the care of the prison service was more than 10 years ago when Jeffrey Horler's suicide, in Feltham young offenders institution in west London, sparked a national outcry.