Under-18s in jail have just as much right as other children to benefit from laws designed to protect young people from harm, the high court ruled yesterday.The ruling that the Children Act applies to youngsters in prisons and young offenders institutions will put local authorities under a statutory duty to take action to safeguard their welfare. A series of reports from the current and past chief inspectors of prisons have highlighted what the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, has described as the "corrosive" regime in young offenders institutions, leading to high rates of self-harm and suicide. There were 554 reported cases of deliberate self-injury by under-18s from April 2000 to November 2001, and five took their own lives. Around 2,600 under-18s are in jail, 90% more than 10 years ago. The regime in some young offenders institutions might even breach the Human Rights Act by subjecting young people to inhuman or degrading treatment, Mr Justice Munby said. The decision is the latest defeat in the courts for the home secretary, David Blunkett, who argued the 1989 Children Act did not apply to children in prison. The judge said that policy, which was challenged by the Howard League for Penal Reform, was "wrong in law". The court considered evidence from former chief inspector of prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, reports from the current inspector, Anne Owers, and a joint report from the chief inspectors of eight statutory agencies, which concluded that "young people in YOIs still face the gravest risk to their welfare". Mr Justice Munby said the accusations should be "matters of the very greatest concern to the prison service, to the secretary of state, and indeed to society at large." He went on: "If it really be the case that there are YOIs which are simply not matching up to what the Children Act 1989 would otherwise require ... then it can only be matter of time before an action is brought under the Human Rights Act ." Fran Russell, head of the Howard League's youth justice law department, said: "This is a groundbreaking decision which should mean greater social services involvement in ensuring children in prison are treated humanely. We hope this will end some of the worst aspects of imprisoning children." · A 15-year-old who admitted touching a girl's bottom playfully and another who confessed to putting his hand up a girl's skirt and pinching her won a high court battle yesterday to have their names taken off the sex offenders register.