Margaret Preston peers through the blinds of her front room on to the village street. "It's a lovely wee place, a great place to live," she says. "But the gangs of kids have just got totally out of hand. It's so bad people are frightened to leave their houses at night. We had to do something about it; we had to get our village back."On a bitter winter's afternoon Mid Calder looks an unlikely candidate for a village-wide Asbo. Expensive cars pull up outside the shops, the minister wanders through the garden of the 16th century kirk. There are no sink-housing estates, no signs of deprivation. But gangs of fighting, and often drunken, schoolchildren have led the West Lothian village to become the first in Britain to be covered by a dispersal order.Mid Calder has become an improbable Petri dish for the government's legislation on dealing with anti-social behaviour. Last weekend police began enforcing a dispersal order that allows them to move on young people from the streets.Forced issue"It is not something we are exactly happy about," says Mrs Preston, a community councillor. "But when you have gangs of up to 70 children, tanked up on Buckfast [fortified wine], fighting each other with sticks and God knows what else, what else can you do?"Set 12 miles to the west of Edinburgh, Mid Calder is the sort of commuter village so favoured by families in an area with one of the highest proportions of under 16s in Scotland. On weekend evenings, children from Mid Calder, nearby Livingston and neighbouring villages have been massing in the village centre, creating havoc for residents.The village police station houses confiscated fence posts, golf clubs and weights bars. Teenagers have been using internet bulletin boards to arrange fights. The violence goes way beyond fisticuffs: a 16-year-old boy was recently so badly assaulted that he suffered a fractured skull and three youths were charged with attempted murder. Cars have had their doors superglued shut, locals report drunken children running through gardens, elderly residents say they are too scared to even walk the few yards to the local bowling club.Between August 1 and November 10 the village police station received 72 calls relating to anti-social behaviour. This from a population of only 3,000."We can't say exactly why Mid Calder has been attracting all these youths, but it probably has something to do with the fact that it is one of the only places with a proper village centre," says Superintendent Harry Watters. "Over the year there was a gradual increase in the number of calls we were receiving until it got to an unacceptable level. We tried many routes: we would take the young people home and talk to their parents, we wrote to parents. But nothing seemed to work. We didn't take the decision to use a dispersal order lightly."Walking through the streets of Mid Calder in daylight it is difficult to believe the village is an evening venue for yobbish behaviour. Lynne Campbell lives behind the park where youths gather. "It is not just the local kids, they come from all over," she says. "I can't let my kids in the park without checking for glass, there's so many broken bottles."Since the dispersal order was enforced only a handful of youths have been moved on. There was only one call to police complaining about youths on Saturday night. This weekend Mid Calder's park was deserted, and at the local shop Ishrat Aslam said she had not had to put up with young people pestering passing adults into buying drink for them. "I don't know why we didn't do this long ago," she says.Not everyone, however, is happy. A mother who did not want to be identified told the Guardian: "It is just a complete and utter over-reaction by a bunch of old fogies who forget what it's like to be a teenager. Sure, they shouldn't be drinking - but plenty of us drank before we were 18 - and they certainly shouldn't be fighting. But I don't think it's any worse here than anywhere else - and now we are being made out to be the village of the damned."Local victoryJohn Povey has been minister at the kirk of Calder for 24 years. He believes the very high proportion of young people in the area is the root of Mid Calder's problems. "Lots of young couples moved here 15-20 years ago to have families and now those children have grown up," he says. "Mid Calder is a small place and when lots of teenagers gather together it can feel as if they are taking over the village. Like teenagers everywhere, they complain of being bored but then they don't want to join in anything."Mrs Preston has no sympathy for the locals who complained to the Guardian about the effect they believed the dispersal order would have on house prices. "If these parents knew where their kids were and what they were getting up to there would be no need for a dispersal order, but the truth is they have no idea," she says. "Anyway at least it shows this village is prepared to do something about its problems. We are prepared to fight for our village."Misconduct·  Antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos), were introduced as Labour's anti-yob measure in September 1999. More than 5,500 have been issued.· The youngest girl to get an Asbo is Siobhan Blake, 11, from Hastings.· Victor Causabon-Vincent, 73, from West Sussex is one of the oldest recipients. He is banned from harassing his neighbours.· The British Institute for Brain Injured Children says Asbos are used against children with medical conditions which make them behave oddly.· Farmer Brian Hagan received an Asbo after his pigs caused mayhem in the village of Briston, Norfolk.· Magistrates in Bath served an Asbo on a 23-year-old woman who repeatedly tried to kill herself. She is banned from going near railways, rivers or bridges.Isabelle Chevallot