Where regular folk speak of a dog's dinner, or even a dog's breakfast, political types refer instead to "dangerous dogs". In Westminster, that's the byword for a spectacular mess, specifically legislation botched through being rushed. If a minister ponders a panicked response to a news story, a wise spad, or special adviser, will be on hand to whisper: "Careful, that could end up being a bit dangerous dogs."The phrase owes its origins to the Dangerous Dogs Act of 1991, one of the low watermarks of the John Major era. The government is now promising to improve on that notoriously poor bit of lawmaking. Today it launches a consultation, proposing among other things harsher punishment for owners of dogs that kill. (Leading on the effort is the animal welfare minister who, rather unfortunately given the context, is called Lord de Mauley.)Few could argue with the consultation's main thrust, that the current maximum jail sentence of two years is too low for cases that have led to loss of life. Instinctively, one feels that the death of 14-year-old Jade Anderson, savaged by four dogs near Wigan in March, or the 15 others who have been killed by dangerous dogs since 2005, merits harsher punishment than that. This consultation will ask what new maximum sentence would be more appropriate for such a crime: seven years, 10 years, 14 years or even life imprisonment.Of course there will be cases where that maximum will be inappropriate, where the dog owner never intended to cause any harm. But you don't have to have set your animal on someone deliberately to share some responsibility for what they do. An unrestrained rottweiler or bull terrier can be a weapon every bit as lethal as a loaded gun. If it's yours, you're at least partly responsible for the consequences.But increasing the punishment for lethal attacks is not enough. Surely it's just as important to prevent such attacks happening in the first place. This is why campaigners are calling for Dog Control Notices, already in place in Scotland, which would enable local councils to crack down on the illegal breeding and deliberate training of aggressive "status dogs", kept by their owners to be part-trophy, part-weapon. You don't have to have read Martin Amis's Lionel Asbo – with its pair of pitbulls fed a mixture of Special Brew and Tabasco to increase their levels of aggression – to recognise the problem.Above all, ministers need to learn from the fiasco of 1991. Things then were too rushed. Yet today's consultation is set to run only until 1 September: less than a month and conducted when many people will be away or unaware of the entire exercise. Put simply, this consultation should go wider and run longer. Otherwise, this Tory-led government risks repeating the error of the last one – and making a dog's dinner of an attempt to tackle a serious problem.