Eight life sentences were passed yesterday on the ringleader of the Huddersfield arson tragedy which left three generations of a family dead.Shaied Iqbal, 26, was told by Mr Justice Andrew Smith at Leeds crown court that his minimum term recommendation, to be announced later, would reflect the ruthlessness of the crime. Two other men, Shakiel Shazad, 23, and Nazar Hussain, 24, were sentenced to 18 years for manslaughter of eight victims, including five young girls, who died in their petrol-soaked terraced house. The judge ordered that they should serve at least 11 years. Relatives of the Chishti family, which lost five sisters, their mother, grandmother and uncle, welcomed the terms but appealed for the full length to be served, with "life meaning life" in Iqbal's case. Muhammed Shafique, another uncle who escaped the blaze in May last year with badly burned arms, said: "No sentence can do true justice to these crimes but it is our very strong wish that all defendants serve the full entirety of their sentences." West Yorkshire police have meanwhile stepped up their hunt for a fourth man from Huddersfield, Shaid Mohammed, believed to have been a ringleader with Iqbal in the attack.A six-week trial heard that the family had been targeted because of false rumours that one of the victims, Mohammed Ateeq-ur-Rehman, 18, had spread gossip about Iqbal's secret affair with a young woman. Shaid Mohammed was also alleged to have had sworn vengeance against Ateeq for supposedly helping his sister elope with a student friend, a charge the family and police dismissed. These issues developed into hatreds so intense that the pair organised a gang with petrol bombs stuffed with bolts and nails which were hurled into the house at 2am. Iqbal attended the Leeds trial from jail, where he was already serving 21 months for his part in the abduction of Shaid Mohammed's sister from Newcastle, where she had secretly married. All three men were also given 14-year concurrent sentences for conspiracy to commit arson with intent to endanger life. Those who died in the fire were sisters Tayyaba Batool, 13, Rabia Batool, 10, Ateeqa Nawaz, six, Aneesa Nawaz, two, Najeeba Nawaz, six months, their mother Nafessa Aziz, 35, their grandmother Zaib-un-Nisa, 54, and Ateeq.