A barrister shot by police at his home in Chelsea on Tuesday night died after suffering multiple bullet wounds, according to reports.Mark Saunders, 32, was found dead after armed police ended the siege by storming his luxury flat.Investigators declined to give details of a postmortem examination carried out by pathologists in Westminster last night.However, the Press Association said sources connected to the investigation claimed Saunders was shot a number of times. The Times claimed separately that he was shot three times by officers stationed outside the flat and was already dead when other officers stormed the building.The official findings of the postmortem will be presented at the inquest into Saunders' death, which opens tomorrow morning at Westminster coroner's court. Representatives from the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) and the Metropolitan police will give details of the shooting at the hearing.Saunders' family today demanded answers over how he met his death. His father, Rodney, questioned why officers shot his son, who he said did not pose a lethal threat.He told London's Evening Standard newspaper: "Put it this way, he didn't endanger anyone at all to my knowledge and we can only surmise what might have happened before the whole thing started."I just don't know. You would imagine that it will come out in the fullness of time. We will want answers as to why police shot him."The dead man's mother, Rosemary, said his wife, Elizabeth Clarke, was not at home at the time of the shooting.She said Clarke returned home from QEB Chambers, where the couple worked as barristers, but was not able to pass the police cordon.Saunders died after blasting at police officers, neighbours and buildings with a shotgun from his £2.2m Markham Square flat. As the siege unfolded, he threw a message to his wife from a window, suggesting a row between the couple may have sparked the drama.Colleagues at QEB Chambers described the incident as a "personal tragedy". Saunders was a member of the Territorial Army's Honourable Artillery Company for three years until 2002. Investigators confirmed a legally registered shotgun kept at his home had been recovered by police.Family members confirmed Saunders had "drinking issues", but said he had appeared to be coping well with a stressful job. It was claimed today that the barrister acted on behalf of the broadcaster Chris Tarrant during his recent divorce.