Detectives investigating the death of Damilola Taylor yesterday confirmed they were considering the possibility that the 10-year-old died as a result of an accident.A murder inquiry was opened after Damilola was found bleeding to death in a dank stairwell, 400 yards from his home on the North Peckham estate, south-east London, on November 27. A postmortem examination the following day revealed the cause of death as a single stab wound to the left leg, but almost two weeks later it remains unclear exactly how the Nigerian-born boy sustained the fatal injury. Police said yesterday that a second postmortem would be carried out. But this was standard procedure in murder inquiries, to provide two independent accounts for use in court. The team of more than 80 police officers on the inquiry has studied footage from 800 CCTV cameras and interviewed more than 100 people. Scotland Yard said last night it was still focusing on the theory that Damilola was stabbed but it was not yet ruling out the suggestion that he fell and cut himself on his way home from an after school computer class at the local library. A spokesman said there had been a lot of anecdotal evidence about events leading up to the boy's death, including reports that he was being bullied, but nothing conclusive. "As far as an accident is concerned we are keeping an open mind. It would be silly of us to rule it out." But he insisted: "This is definitely a murder inquiry." Meanwhile, detectives have spoken to the man pictured with the boy by CCTV cameras in a lift at Peckham library an hour before he died. On Saturday, hundreds of mourners from the community rallied to stage a memorial march in honour of Damilola.Related special reportPolicing crime Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out thereUseful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate