Police investigating the murder of a church organist shortly before midnight mass on Christmas Eve have released CCTV footage of two young men close to the scene.The brief clip of the pair, one wearing a balaclava helmet, was taken in the road running alongside Mortimer Park where 68-year-old Alan Greaves was brutally beaten as he walked to the service at St Saviour's church in the High Green area Sheffield.The head of the murder inquiry, Detective Superintendent Matt Fenwick of South Yorkshire police said that he was convinced that someone would look at the video and know who the two men were. He appealed directly to them to "pick up the phone and make that call" and asked the men themselves to come forward to help with the case.More than 50 officers are working on the investigation which shocked the local community where Greaves was well-known and held in high regard. A lay preacher at St Saviour's, he had helped to organise a local food bank to meet the challenges of recession and was a much-loved husband, father and grandfather.Fenwick said that no motive had yet been established for the attack which injured Greaves so seriously that he died in hospital in Sheffield three days later. After the film was shown at a press conference in Rotherham, Fenwick said: "If you are either of these two people shown on the footage then please contact the incident room as soon as you can."If you know, or can identify either of these two people, please pick up the phone and tell us what you know. I am absolutely convinced that someone out there knows what has happened to Alan Greaves. I am absolutely convinced that someone will look at this footage and know who these people are – a mum, a dad, a brother, a sister, another relative, a close friend."Alan Greaves was a loving, caring, husband, father and grandfather who was well-loved and respected by all who knew him. His family deserves your help. Please make that call."Two men have been arrested and questioned about the attack but released pending further inquiries. Fenwick said that officers had found nothing in Greaves' personal life which might account for the attack. He said: "I still have not established a motive for the attack. Alan retains all his property. Nothing is missing and my inquiry remains very open in relation to identifying a possible motive."A £10,000 reward has been offered by BBC Crimestoppers for information leading to a conviction in the case.