The trial of a man accused of killing 29 people in the 1998 Omagh bombing began in Belfast crown court today.In the prosecution's opening address, the court heard how DNA evidence would be used to convict a 37-year-old electrician, Sean Hoey, of the single worst atrocity in the 30 years of the Troubles in Northern Ireland.The Omagh bombing, which was attributed to the splinter group the Real IRA, took place on a busy market day in the County Tyrone town, killed 29 people from Ireland and Spain, including a woman pregnant with twins.Mr Hoey, from Jonesborough in south Armagh, denies a total of 58 terrorist-related charges involving the massacre and other attacks.The trial was supposed to begin earlier this month but was adjourned because the senior defence counsel, Orlando Pownall QC, was too unwell to proceed. Today, Mr Pownall assured the judge, Mr Justice Weir, that he was ready to take the case. Relatives of some of those killed in the August 1998 bombing listened in the public gallery. Others watched the first day of the trial from a video link facility 70 miles away in Omagh. In his two-hour opening address, Gordon Kerr QC, prosecuting, said his team would show the court forensic evidence relating to the bomb's construction. "The prosecution will say that both DNA evidence and fibre evidence connecting the defendant to this series of attacks will show his involvement in them and that the totality of the evidence will persuade the court of his criminal involvement in the connected series of explosions," he said.Mr Kerr also said three telephone warnings given to the media before the bombing were wrong and so lacking in detail that they were meaningless. As a result of the warnings, police attempting to conduct an evacuation moved shoppers closer to the bomb, he said."The prosecution will say that if the bombers genuinely wished to avoid the certain deaths and injuries which they knew would occur by placing a large car-bomb on a busy shopping street they could easily have given a description of the vehicle and an accurate description of its location as had been done before. "In fact they did neither."Mr Kerr went on to read out the names and ages of all those killed in the blast, as well as their surviving family members. These ranged from 18-month-old Maura Monaghan from Augher, Co Tyrone, to 66-year-old Mary Grimes from the village of Beragh. The list of victims also included a young Spanish student and his group leader who were on a visit and staying just across the Irish border in Muncrana.Mr Hoey is the only person to be charged with murder in connection with the bombing. He has been in custody for about three years.The trial is expected to last three months.