The family of the murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence is prepared to sue the Metropolitan Police unless the force pays compensation, their solicitor warned today. Imran Khan said he would ask Metropolitan Commissioner Sir Paul Condon to pay compensation after the scathing report of Sir William Macpherson's inquiry into the murder investigation. In another development, vandals in Eltham, south-east London, last night daubed white paint on the memorial to Stephen Lawrence. Dozens of bunches of flowers laid by well-wishers appeared to have been left intact.  Police today cordoned off the memorial as officers carried out door-to-door inquiries in Well Hall Road, where Stephen was stabbed to death in a racist attack on April 22, 1993.  Explaining the decision to seek compensation, Mr Khan said: "I will be writing to the Commissioner asking him to give compensation to the family for the way in which they have been treated during the course of this incompetent and grossly negligent murder investigation.  "If they do not respond satisfactorily I am prepared to give them seven days and after that we will then take the matter to court.  "It has got nothing to do with money, but the family are entitled to do that. It's a option that is available and I strongly advise them to do it.  "We had always considered that and awaited the outcome of this report to see how far this report went.  "It has gone a long way and it clearly indicates that there was gross negligence and incompetence fuelled by racism and I think the family are entitled to take action," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.  Last night Sir Paul signalled his determination to rebuild the police service's reputation and hunt down the "scum" who murdered the black teenager nearly six years ago.  His comments gave fresh hope to the Lawrence family that the five "prime suspects" could be brought to justice on fresh charges such as conspiracy to murder or perjury.  Sir Paul told BBC 2's Newsnight: "I want the racist thugs to feel hunted. "I'm not naming names. What I'm saying is that the despicable racist thugs who killed Stephen - if they're watching ... they should feel hunted.  "Because I will try every day I remain as Commissioner to bring those thugs to justice ... whatever it takes legally, whatever offences we can utilise legally to deal with it."  Asked whether he was close to making arrests, he said: "That would mean revealing things which I don't think I should today." 