It is a decade since 10-year-old Damilola Taylor was fatally stabbed with a broken bottle by two teenagers in Peckham, south London.Struggling to reach home, he crawled into a stairwell in a derelict tower block and lay down, bleeding heavily. He died in an ambulance on the way to hospital.Damilola's family had sent him to Peckham from Nigeria, hoping it would be his passport to a brighter future. Instead, his murder turned the neighbourhood into a byword for shattered communities, in which children as young as 11 joined gangs and fought battles over drugs and territory with knives, guns and whatever came to hand.Much has changed in the past 10 years. The decrepit tower block in which Damilola lost consciousness was razed to the ground to make way for low-rise flats that now line Blakes Road. Crime hotspots in the estate have – in theory at least – been designed out. A garden has been planted on the spot where he passed out.More than £260m has been ploughed into the redevelopment of five estates in north Peckham in the past decade, creating 2,000 homes and two parks. The Damilola Taylor youth centre has opened. Central Venture Park, a modern adventure playground, runs summer school and education classes, and Peckham library runs offers drop-in centres for youngsters, while Peckham Pulse Leisure Centre was recently voted in the Top Ten of London's Top 50 Best Gyms and Fitness Centres by Time Out magazine.Damilola's father, Richard Taylor, says "good things" have come of his son's death, putting "smiles on our faces". He acknowledged that every day had been difficult since the killing. But he said: "I'm impressed with all the good things that have started coming up as a result of what happened to my son."Southwark council's leader, Peter John, said: "The legacy of Damilola Taylor is the strength and determination of the community in Southwark to make a positive impact. The area has come a long way in 10 years."But many Peckham residents – some of whom were friends of Damilola – say the improvements are cosmetic. Southwark has the worst record for youth unemployment and take-up of education and training opportunities of all the London boroughs.Despite all the investment, local youths have committed more crimes of violence than those in any other London borough. Ten young people have been killed in the past five years, including Rio McFarlane, a promising 18-year-old footballer shot dead near Peckham High Street in September. Locals suggest he was not a gang member but had stopped to talk to friends who were. When a rival gang arrived on a revenge mission, he was hit by a bullet.The death prompted the England captain Rio Ferdinand – a friend of the family – to speak out: "Rio didn't have any connection to gangs, yet was killed through gang violence. It's mad."The murder didn't surprise Grace Adeboyega, a friend of Damilola, who is studying at Hertfordshire University."If I tell people I'm from Peckham, it's like I've told them I live in the ghetto or the slums. It's known as the sort of place where violence happens, where people get shot every day," she said."I don't feel secure here. I'm working hard at university because I don't want to live here or bring up my children here."Anything can happen to you in Peckham: you don't have to be in a gang to get killed … you don't know what anyone walking down the streets is carrying,. I don't think there's anything good about Peckham. Nothing has really changed since Damilola was killed."Francisco Augusto, 17, agrees. The death of his friend sent him on a downward spiral which he struggled to reverse. Arrested at 13 years old for stabbing a fellow pupil with a pair of scissors, he is now studying A-levels at Richmond upon Thames."Not much has changed in Peckham since Damilola's death," said Francisco. "On the outside, it might be nice and clean, with new buildings and stuff, but the problems inside are not being dealt with. Young people are still being murdered. But Peckham is no different from anywhere else in London. Most young people in this city are afraid and alone, with nowhere to go where they can feel safe and get advice."Youth centres are being closed down and the young people feel alienated. Then the only way they can get noticed and acknowledged is from offending."Damilola's Friends, Monday, 7.30pm, BBC1