Hastings pier has been the heart of this wonderful historically rich fishing town for 138 years, but I never knew it existed until I was released from prison just over six years ago.Hastings was the nearest large town to the prison from which I was finally released after serving 20 years of my life sentence and it was there I decided to make my home.Those early days were filled with conflicting emotions, of happiness and guilt and occasionally I found myself suffering bouts of depression.To try to keep a clear perspective on my situation I began taking long walks along the beach, from the old fishing net huts situated by the town's famous Stade, all the way along to the pier.There I would walk its entire length and sit at its furthest point, gazing out over the windy Channel towards France.It was such a peaceful place. I'd stare out at the huge tankers en route to faraway places and between them and me fishing boats from the Hastings fleet would bob.I would imagine the lives of all those seafarers and wonder at their labour. The odd line fisherman would turn up and I remember being awed by their patience.Conversations taught me that as well as hoping for a catch, these individuals, like me, were just looking for some peace. Sometimes too, lovers would stroll by, hand in hand – they might stop and stare like me across the foaming wild horses.The end of that pier was a wonderful place to find solace.When it closed down in 2006 many in the town were outraged. The letters page of the Hastings Observer was filled with angry words.Looking at the smouldering wreckage this morning was heartbreaking.There is anger in the town, but more than that there is an almost palpable sense of grief.Trail of disasters Seaside landmarks and their fates1994: Birnbeck, Weston-super-MareThe only pier that links to an island. It was already in a poor state when it suffered storm damage leading to closure.March 2003: West pier, BrightonThe Brighton landmark fell into disrepair and was closed in 1975. A storm caused partial collapse in 2002 and fire destroyed it the following year. Restoration plans have been abandoned.October 2005: Southend pierThe longest pleasure pier in the world opened in 1830. Its turbulent history included a tanker hitting it in 1986, creating a 70ft gap, and three previous fires. The pier has now reopened.July 2008: Grand, Weston-super-MareThe Grand closed for three years following a blaze in 1930, and was destroyed in the 21st century by another fire. But it is due to reopen soon after being rebuilt.July 2008: Victoria pier, Colwyn Bay After a long period of decline the 1900 pier finally closed to the public.September 2008: Fleetwood pierBuilt in 1910, the pier was damaged by fire in 1952. It was rebuilt and given another facelift in 1972 but the most recent fire left it wrecked.Luc Torres