To friends, family, work colleagues and to the parents of the children she cared for, Vanessa George, who today admitted a catalogue of child abuse offences, seemed a respectable, valuable member of their community.The youngsters thought of her as cuddly and her workmates saw her as bubbly and fun, the life and soul of their social events. She had never been in trouble with the police and everyone trusted her. One mother who had a child at the nursery said most parents considered her an "angel".The daughter of a shipbuilder, she had been married for more than 20 years and had two teenage daughters. She seemed a good mum and told everyone that she loved children. Before joining Little Ted's nursery three years ago she had spent six years as a classroom assistant at a school and also made a little extra money by babysitting for local parents.It all appears to have started to go wrong when George developed a fascination for the internet. To begin with it seemed innocent enough: like many, she came to enjoy getting back in touch with old friends and making new ones. She even signed up to a Facebook campaign group "Against Child Abuse".But she also found the internet was a great way to find and flirt with men online. And then she met Colin Blanchard.He, too, was married, 16 years in his case. His lifestyle appeared stable and comfortable. He lived in a large detached house overlooking open fields in Littleborough, near Rochdale. He loved his luxuries: a television with a 50in screen and every sort of computer game. He even had palm trees craned into the garden.But he had a reputation as a fantasist. Nicknamed "Billy Bullshit" by neighbours, Blanchard boasted to anyone who would listen that he had a private jet, which he ferried Liverpool football players around in. He claimed he made movies and had millions stashed away in Dubai.Police sources describe him as a "Walter Mitty character", a "Del Boy" who had eye-watering debts when he was arrested ‑ he owed £8,000 in electricity bills alone.And it turned out he had a very dark side that came to the attention of the police seven years ago.Customs and excise officers were investigating him when they came across images of child pornography on his computer. Because he had downloaded the images from the internet rather than made them, he was given a police caution and put on the sex offenders' register. As is normal he dropped off the register five years later, in 2007.George and Blanchard probably met in cyberspace in the late summer or autumn of 2008 and quickly developed a close, deeply disturbing bond.Somehow ‑ police are not sure how ‑ they realised they shared a fascination with dark sexual fantasies and child abuse. And George's job meant she had access to very young children.George began to find time alone with children at Little Ted's, sometimes when she changed their nappies. She sexually assaulted them and used the camera on her mobile phone to record the abuse. She used objects found at the nursery in the assaults, but also smuggled a sex toy in for at least one attack.Parents of possible victims are angry that George was able to get such one-to-one access with children. Some accuse the nursery of poor management and claim that because the workers were good friends, the regime was too slack."Checks weren't being made," said one mother. "If they were then none of this would have happened in the first place. She should never have been allowed to spend time with the children one-to-one changing nappies and that sort of thing."It was feared at one point that more than 300 children may have been abused. This has been narrowed down to 30 by police and she has admitted making 124 images of children between December and June. She targeted younger children, possibly because she knew they would not be able to tell. Their faces were not shown, which has so far made identification impossible.George would send the images on to Blanchard. Experienced detectives admit having felt physically sick at the content. The pair would also swap sexual images of themselves and share awful, dark, graphic fantasies. The communications steadily grew and between December 2008 and her arrest in June there was a frenzy of exchanges ‑ 10,000 contacts via phone, text, email, MSN.George was not the only woman Blanchard was in contact with. In around September 2008 he began an internet relationship with Angela Allen. Like the other two, she was a parent in her late 30s. She lived in Bulwell, near Nottingham. She was not as well-off as Blanchard or George and when police later raided her home, it was dirty and there was hardly any food in the cupboards. She had once worked as a prostitute and has an old conviction for dishonesty.All three shared fantasies ‑ and the photographs of abuse. Detectives said they seemed to egg each other on, to dare each other to go further.According to one prosecution source, they communicated in "very crude, explicit shorthand". Blanchard told both women he loved them. Both said they loved him.Allen was the most graphic of the three. Detective Superintendent Adrian Pearson, of Nottinghamshire police, described her as "sinister and evil". She talked about rape and sex with animals and after her arrest never shed a tear.Typically George would send images of children she had assaulted on to Blanchard, who would forward the images on to Allen. On 22 April, for example, George sent 10 images on to Blanchard, who forwarded them on to Allen. But it wasn't always Blanchard at the centre of the relationship.George also communicated directly with Allen. Police say the two women were "emotionally vulnerable" but those leading the inquiry are keen not to portray Blanchard as some sort of puppet master, claiming the three were equal partners.Not all the parents of suspected victims are convinced. One said she had been told by police that George was in thrall to Blanchard. "She did everything he told her to do and it went from there," said the parent. "It seems he had some sort of spell over her and she did anything he wanted her to."Certainly, there seems little doubt that George's offending only took place after she met Blanchard. No allegations about her have surfaced from before their meeting in cyberspace. Some officers close to the case believe George and Allen may have always harboured paedophilic thoughts but Blanchard provided a "catalyst" which encouraged them to act out their fantasies.In June this year, a business partner of Blanchard began suspecting him of stealing from the firm. While Blanchard was away in Dubai, the partner took a peep at his computer ‑ and was shocked to find explicit images of children being sexually abused. Blanchard was arrested when he stepped off the plane at Manchester airport. More images of child abuse were found on the laptop he had with him and on his iPhone. Police later also found images of sexual abuse involving an animal.Blanchard admitted it wasn't just George who had physically abused children ‑ he, too, had sexually assaulted a child and taken pictures of this happening.Blanchard showed no loyalty to George. He immediately told police that the images came from "Vee George", the name he knew her by. A glimpse of a Little Ted's nursery badge in one of the photographs led the detectives to Plymouth.Detectives later found the name "Ang Bank" on Blanchard's computer. It took a week for officers to find out that this was Angela Allen. The pseudonym is believed to have been adopted because at one time she worked in a bank.When police raided her home they were surprised to find she had made no attempt to destroy the evidence, though she knew George and Blanchard had been arrested. She too, it emerged, was not just a consumer of the abusive pictures but had abused a child herself, recorded it and shared it.When questioned all three independently said they had met on Facebook. Privately some detectives doubt this. Surely they would have been noticed had they tried to use Facebook to find like-minded people? It may be, some officers believe, that they met in a chatroom and used Facebook after that. They did not use Facebook to move images around: that would have been too risky.Pearson said he remained "baffled" as to how a supposed "chance internet encounter" led to such crimes. "Somehow they got on to such depraved awful topics of conversation that led to sexual abuse of children, betrayal of trust and deprivation. The sheer unlikeliness of these three people being connected in that way will be a puzzle that will go on."But police do not believe the operation was particularly sophisticated. The trio made little attempt to hide their tracks and the texts and emails they sent left a trail for police to follow. One of George's few tricks was to have two phones ‑ her "fun phone" that she used to take the images of abuse, a second for her "normal" life. The faces of the children she abused were not shown in the pictures ‑ the main reason they cannot be identified, a common tactic for abusers.Huge puzzles remain. Where did they meet if it was not on Facebook? Could there be other victims? Were they part of a wider network? Police have found no evidence that the images were spread further than this bizarre, closed gang of three. Software that allows them to search for the images across the internet has not thrown up matches to suggest they were sent to a wider audience.The inquiry will continue. Police will continue to try to identify the victims, and carry on digging to find out if any wider paedophile ring is involved.But it is likely that many, many questions posed by parents, former work colleagues and relatives of the three abusers will remain unanswered, possibly forever.