A review of the police use of cautions to deal with violent offenders was ordered today by the justice secretary, Jack Straw, after concerns voiced by magistrates, the director of public prosecutions and senior police officers.The announcement was made after it was claimed that up to 40,000 assaults a year are dealt with by a caution issued by the police instead of the offender being prosecuted in court. In cases cited today, a 15-year-old boy was cautioned for rape and a man was given a caution after smashing a glass into a pub landlady's face.The review will also look at the use of fixed penalty notices by the police although Straw insisted they had been issued mainly in cases that had previously gone unpunished. He said concerns centred on the wide variation in the use of cautions and warnings by different forces around the country.The official review, to be carried out by the Office for Criminal Justice Reform, will look at how cautions, formal warnings and on-the-spot fines are used and their impact on the courts in England and Wales. More than half of all criminal cases are now dealt with by these "out-of-court disposals". Their rapid expansion was designed to free the courts to deal with the most serious cases."The guidance about cautioning is actually very clear. It says a simple caution should be used for low-level offending. Only in exceptional circumstances should it be used to deal with more serious offences," said Straw."I understand the concerns that have been raised ... but the guidance is actually very clear. What we are going to look at is how that guidance is properly applied."He said the system was supposed to ensure that no offence more serious than a common assault was dealt with by a caution. The justice secretary denied that the rise in out-of-court penalties was motivated by a need to curb the rise in the prison population.The director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, backed the magistrates' call for a review, saying the system had developed in an "incoherent way" and needed to be looked at again: "My view is that there should be a structured, tiered approach which specifies what case will be dealt with at what level – and that will be transparent."The case for a review was endorsed by Sir Hugh Orde, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers: "It cannot be right that people who commit serious offences do not appear in front of the courts. That is what victims both expect and deserve. We do now need a complete review of a cautioning system that has developed in an ad-hoc way."But the shadow justice secretary, Dominic Grieve, said: "We already know that far too many serious offenders are being let off with a glorified parking ticket. There is no need for yet another review to kick the issue into the long grass. We need the government to take some action."