When Paul Evans enters the room, the first thing he does is apologise. The Vietnam veteran and former Boston police chief, hired by Home Secretary David Blunkett to shake up the country's underperforming constabularies, cuts a disarmingly modest and humble figure.'Sorry to take up your time, folks,' he tells a group of senior officers from Norfolk Constabulary. They have gathered to tell the American head of the Home Office Police Standards Unit how they have succeeded in cutting crime by 35 per cent in the past year, making them the top force in England and Wales. During the year Evans has spent touring police forces in England and Wales, he has been painfully conscious that every minute officers spend talking to him is a minute away from front-line crime fighting. 'I'm just here to listen,' he keeps saying. The Norfolk success story is remarkable and Evans is eager to find out how he can replicate it across the country. But Chief Superintendent Tony Cherington, who has been credited with cleaning up Norwich, the force's only large city, has a warning for him: 'There are serious dangers [that with] the performance culture we miss out the quality of life. We all know that the figures can look good, when the city centre still looks like a wild west show.' In this sense, Norfolk follows a nationwide pattern. So-called 'volume crime' - burglary, theft and vehicle crime - is plummeting. In the centre of Norwich, burglaries have fallen by half. But there remains a serious concern about violent crime, which has risen by 11 per cent, usually associated with alcohol-fuelled city centre fighting. There has also been a worrying recent rise in homophobic attacks, with 21 separate incidents in the past three months. This means the public have yet to be fully convinced of the strides made by the force. The Home Office's own polling shows that just 45 per cent of Norfolk residents believe the police do an excellent or good job, although the figure is up from last year. Elsewhere in the country, the problem of the lack of public confidence in the police is the same. No matter what they do, in just about every force in the country, between 50 and 60 per cent of the population do not think the police are doing a good job. All the Home Office research on crime reduction, investigation of crime, the promotion of public safety and the use of resources shows the police are moving in the right direction, but stubbornly the perception in the majority of the population is that they are not doing a good enough job. Over the past week, The Observer was given exclusive access to the work of Evans and the Police Standards Unit (PSU), a year after his move from the US. At the heart of everything he does remains a single stark question: Do we have the police force we deserve? His answer, in the first major interview he has given since arriving in this country, is typically straight-talking and brutally frank: 'I don't think anybody is going to say, "Yes, you have the police you deserve". Any force, any department is going be in the business of striving to do better, striving to pursue excellence. They will never be satisfied as to where they are. And nor should they.' The 57-year-old was credited with 'the Boston miracle', which saw the murder rate in the American east coast city fall by two-thirds during his 10 years as police chief. In a city where gun-toting gangs had taken control of the street, Evans's approach of allowing neighbourhoods to decide on policing priorities led to an extraordinary transformation. When he began his term as police chief, 60 young people a year were being murdered. In the 29-month period that followed the introduction of his neighbourhood approach, not a single teenager was killed by a firearm. His techniques might sound uncharacteristically liberal for a Blunkett appointee, but he succeeded by forcing professionals working with criminals out of their traditional roles. Probation officers were made to walk the beat with police officers and given the power to arrest criminals, while, at the same time, he introduced dedicated social workers into police stations. As an outsider, he has been wary of making any public statements while he found his feet. But the PSU has already been heralded as a success at the Home Office and Evans has been persuaded to take at least some of the plaudits himself. The results speak for themselves. In the underperforming police forces that his unit has taken under its wing, crime has fallen at a faster rate than in other forces. Of the eight forces identified as needing serious intervention over the past year, West Yorkshire and Avon and Somerset have already been given a clean bill of health and of the six that remain, all but one, the troubled Northamptonshire force, succeeded in reducing crime to some degree last year. Much of Evans's work has involved observing the good work of forces such as Norfolk and taking lessons learnt to struggling forces elsewhere in the country. But the Boston man is keen to pay tribute to the forces themselves. 'In essence I say: "I don't run forces, you folks do. If we can play some small role we are thrilled, But nobody from PSU made an arrest and nobody took a radio call. But sometimes my value is in having been in this position as a commissioner, dealing with the everyday crises; it can help having somebody come in with experience from outside.' In Norfolk, much of the crime reduction can be attributed to the way the Chief Constable, Andy Hayman, has targeted the county's most prolific offenders. 'My argument is that if we have around 650 prolific offenders and 1,500 cops on the streets, then that's pretty good odds,' Hayman said. His argument is that, looked at from this perspective, crime is not out of control. You just have to know who you are targeting. At the same time, Hayman, as the Association of Chief Police Officers' drugs spokesman, recognises the central role that drugs play in the lives of repeat offenders. In Norfolk, Hayman estimates that at least 65 per cent of their target group of prolific offenders are on drugs or have a problem with alcohol. 'We have to sort out the link between prolific offenders and drug-related offending. If they have dependencies we have to get them into treatment.' This approach to prolific offenders owes much to the work of Lancashire police, whose Operation Tower set the standard in using a combination of targeted arrests and drug treatment to crack down on narcotics crime in the Blackpool area. As a result of this apparently liberal approach, domestic burglaries in Blackpool fell by 45 per cent and robberies dropped by 21 per cent. But ask the people of Lancashire what they think of the police and under half believe they are doing a good job. People's perceptions of how their local police force is performing rarely match up to reality. The level of public confidence in Lancashire and Norfolk, where there have been marked improvements, is just marginally higher than in Northants, where crime has actually got worse, bucking the national trend. Hayman uses the example of his force's recent conviction of a Merseyside drug gang attempting to move its operation to Norfolk to express his frustration with the perverse effect that a 'good nicking' can have on public confidence. 'This was unequivocally good news, but you could so easily give the impression that Norfolk was riddled with drugs.' In the run-up to Christmas, Evans and his colleagues will have a single preoccupation: alcohol-related violence. This summer's eight-week purge on binge drinking saw officers from 39 forces carrying out sting operations against off-licences selling to underage drinkers; closing down clubs and pubs associated with city and town-centre violence; and handing out spot fines to people involved in alcohol-related disorder. Government figures show that 44 per cent of violent crime is alcohol-related, as are 70 per cent of all admissions to hospital at weekends. 'I really think it strikes a chord,' he says. 'If you're in the business of fighting crime, then you have to be in the business of dealing with the alcohol issue.' Starting on 15 December, a new alcohol purge will begin and already the police have been given new powers to tackle city-centre violence. In September, spot fines for various alcohol-related crimes were increased from £40 to £80 and fines for lower-level offences raised to £50 at the request of senior police officers. But some officers believe they need still further sanctions to win public confidence. Forces have already told Evans that fixed penalties are no deterrent to affluent young men cruising for a fight on a Saturday night. One Norfolk officer told him at the meeting attended by The Observer that some thugs collect them almost as a badge of honour. Now senior police officers argue that the penalties should lead to an anti-social behaviour order (Asbo) if repeat offenders receive a number of spot fines over a short period of time. Others have argued that beat officers should be able to hit offenders where it really hurts by handing out fixed penalties that include points on their driving licence. The Association of Chief Police Officers has expressed concern about the introduction of 24-hour licensing next year, despite Home Office assurances that staggered kicking-out will help defuse the tensions associated with thousands of drunk young people hitting the streets of major cities at the same time. Evans has a different, as ever straight-talking, take on the issue: 'I have spent an awful lot of Fridays and Saturday nights out there. At one or two o'clock in the morning these places are chaos. And so, in staggering the hours, if it can make a difference, well I'm not sure it can get much worse. Again he turns to Boston for inspiration. 'Where I come from, I had 33 colleges: every Friday and Saturday night it was a zoo. It's not Shangri-La now. Kids are still going to get alcohol, and yet we significantly reduced the size of the problem.' Meanwhile, in a new initiative to crack down on the wider issue of violent crime, Evans has identified 24 towns and inner-city areas that are together responsible for a quarter of all violent crime in the country. The exact locations of the hotspots are a closely guarded Home Office secret, with officials keen not to panic local residents. Despite the genuine improvements seen by the PSU, some senior officers have urged caution in seeing its advice as a universal panacea and Evans as a saviour of a demoralised service. Matt Baggott, Chief Constable of Leicestershire, has seen the performance of his force improve consistently in his two years in charge. Among his many reforms is an innovative 'micro-beat' system where individual officers are given responsibility for a key building in the community such as a mosque or a school. But he is worried that an obsession with the bureaucracy of police improvement could distract officers from the real business of crime-busting. Others working in the field of criminal justice believe that government's drive to reassure the public may mislead them about the reality of criminality in Britain. By devoting resources to highly visible crimes such as burglary and robbery, they may be losing the fight against hidden crime such as child abuse or fraud. Richard Garside of the Crime and Society Foundation think-tank believes the government's claim that 5,000 prolific offenders are responsible for one in every 10 crimes is an unfounded myth. 'Some people may commit a large number of some crimes: drug addicts that need a lot of cash will commit burglaries to fund their habit. But domestic violence, child abuse and sexual assault are far more widespread than often thought.'But Evans remains convinced that his approach is reaping results. 'The picture as it stands is improvement, improvement, improvement, he says. He is reassured that his unit is now responsible for just six forces, of which four have been responding to treatment. At the last count, there were no plans for Evans to take on any new forces where performance has slumped. 'Who knows, maybe there will be no need for us in the end,' he says. He claims it would be his ultimate aim to put himself out of a job, at which point, perhaps, he may stop apologising for taking officers away from the frontline. Until then, it remains a depressing fact of life that when most people on the street are asked if they have the police service they deserve, the answer still remains a resounding 'no'.  Ten of the areas with the highest levels of violent offences per 1,000 population* Central Bristol, 54 North Manchester, 53 City of Westminster, 50 Central Leicestershire, 43 Kingston upon Hull, 40 Bradford South, 40 North East Lincolnshire, 38 Tower Hamlets, 37 Islington, 37 Southwark, 35  Dorset eastern, 7 South-west Northumberland, 7 Sheffield South, 8 Northamptonshire western, 8 Sheffield north, 8 Southern Oxfordshire, 8 Salisbury, 8 East Surrey, 8 West Berkshire, 9 West Kent, 9 * Excluding city centres with unusually small populations that artificially inflate the crime per person figures despite fairly low levels overall - e.g. Newcastle, Birmingham and City of London. Source: Home Office