Two people have been arrested in connection with the unauthorised publication of the British National party's membership list last month.Nearly 13,000 names and addresses were posted on a website identifying thousands as supporters of the party and exposing many to the risk of dismissal from work, disciplinary action or vilification.Last night police confirmed that two people had been arrested in Nottingham after an investigation by Dyfed-Powys police and the Information Commissioner's Office. Police said the individuals, who were not named, were arrested for alleged criminal offences under the Data Protection Act.In April the BNP's leader, Nick Griffin, and its media spokesman, Simon Darby, obtained an injunction against six former party members preventing them from using BNP material, including membership lists, following a feud.Griffin called the leak a "disgraceful act of treachery", saying he had little doubt that it had been released by disgruntled former BNP officials. "It is a list which is now just over a year old. Having spent a lot of money to secure our members' privacy, we are disappointed that it's been breached."Following the leak, Darby was quoted as saying: "If we find out the name of the person who published this list it will turn out to be one of the most foolish things they have done in their life." This referred only to their possible conviction if arrested, Griffin said later. The list contained members' addresses and telephone numbers, and in some cases mobile phone numbers. Among those included were at least one serving police officer, at least one doctor and teachers, solicitors and ministers of religion. The serving officer, PC Stephen Bettley, of Merseyside police, was suspended pending an internal investigation. A number of those included in the list said they had received threats following its publication. Three weeks ago police in West Yorkshire investigated a suspected firebomb near the home of a man whose details had been published. A handful of those named insisted they had no connection with the party. "We're absolutely horrified by this," said a retired teacher from West Yorkshire, who appeared on the list with her husband. "We're wondering if we offended someone and they applied to the BNP with our names as a joke. We're contacting lawyers, but what can we do?"According to one report that cross-matched the list with data from the Office for National Statistics, only 5% of BNP members live in areas classified as having high Asian populations, and 2% in areas with big Afro-Caribbean communities. Some 18% of BNP support comes from traditionally working-class white areas. The communities secretary, Hazel Blears, wrote in the Guardian that the list showed the party had undergone a process of "detoxification. They claimed to be respectable, mainstream, and democratic. The result, it seems, is a membership list containing all kinds of people, even including a politically confused vicar. The list reveals an important fact: support for the BNP is tiny."