Sun Editorial, August 11"Michael Howard's vow to strike back hard against criminals will raise a cheer in every decent home in Britain. And this is a man who knows what he's talking about. As Tory home secretary, Mr Howard cut crime by a million offences a year ... Now Mr Howard offers his services again as our crimebusting champion. The Tories, he vows, would build more prisons and keep more murderers, rapists and thugs in jail rather than give them early release ... "He would demand tougher sentences from judges, let heads decide on expelling yobs rather than meddling social workers, and allow fair-minded cops to question people on the streets without having to fill in endless forms. He also calls for zero tolerance toward the legions of louts who swagger around our towns terrorising law-abiding folk ... A relentless war on criminals is what Britain is crying out for." Daily Mirror Editorial, August 11 "Mr Howard's speech ... was a jarring reminder of the bad old days of Tory government ... It was a return to the same old scapegoats: single mothers, ethnic minorities and those on low incomes. "[He] says he wants people to take responsibility for their actions. Well, perhaps he should take responsibility for his own. Wasn't it his party that presided over the slide of our inner cities into a miserable, neglected hell? Wasn't Mr Howard the home secretary who cut the number of Britain's police officers by more than 1,000? ... That the Tories are willing to sweep aside findings from the Macpherson report shows they learned nothing from the tragic death of Stephen Lawrence. And it shows the depths to which they are willing to sink." Daily Telegraph Editorial, August 11 "Home affairs ought to be the Tories' high ground, and it is high time that they reclaimed law and order from Labour ... Mr Howard has thoughtful things to say about the causes of crime ... decline of respect and personal responsibility, fathers absent or denied access, parents penalised for disciplining their children, headteachers who are unable to expel disruptive or violent pupils ... "He rightly rejects the Macpherson recommendation that police keep absurdly detailed records of every person they stop. Mr Howard knows that what is holding the police back is not institutional racism, but institutional political correctness." Independent Editorial, August 11 "The 1999 Macpherson report recommended that the police record their reasons for stopping (and not just searching) people, so they are forced to address their disproportionate targeting of black people. Mr Howard is in effect advocating a return to an era when the police could harass ethnic minorities with impunity. "The Tory leader also took the opportunity to air his antediluvian views on the prison service. He is still of the opinion that cramming ever more people into our jails 'works'. His solution to the chronic shortage of space in Britain's prisons is to build more of them. He neglected to say where the money would come from, given that his party is committed to freezing the Home Office budget. He also failed to explain the rationale. If Mr Howard wants to cut re-offending rates he should commit the Tories to increasing investment in re-education and employment programmes ... "His proposals to strengthen the powers of headteachers to expel disruptive children are not thought out. Removing the external appeals panel in such cases would open the door to lawsuits against schools." Times Editorial, August 11 "[Mr Howard's] pledge ... that a Conservative government would not proceed with an outstanding recommendation of the Macpherson report, namely that all those stopped ... must have a written explanation and receipt handed to them, is ... sensible ... "Although the term 'stop and search' is often used as if it were two parts of one activity, there is, at present, a major distinction recognised in legislation. If a police officer stops an individual or group, requesting an account of behaviour or presence, but doesn't proceed further, no record is required ... If a search is initiated, by contrast, the officer is then obliged to explain why this occurred, the outcome, and the self-defined ethnic status of the person being investigated ... Much of policing consists of what might be termed the 'soft stop': non-confrontational questions, often of a very general kind, that enable the police to impress their authority on a troubled neighbourhood and also acquire a sense of whether problems might be looming ... "The present distinction is an appropriate one ... This is reinforced by practical considerations ... [The additional paperwork created by the change] could act as a disincentive to officers contemplating whether to take the trouble to stop." Daily Express Editorial, August 11 "In wanting to cut police paperwork, Mr Howard has hit the nail on the head. Our police should be fighting crime, not red tape. But when there is so much police bureaucracy to choose from, he should not have picked on the forms that police fill out when they stop someone. The procedure is time-consuming but is something that many police welcome since it protects them from accusations of racism and inaccuracy."