A security firm boss today formally admitted killing his newly-wed daughter, who was shot dead in her home a year ago.Terry Rodgers pleaded not guilty to the murder of hairdresser Chanel Taylor, 23, but guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. Jonathan Spicer, prosecuting, told a judge at Nottingham crown court that his plea was not accepted by the crown and it would press for the charge of murder. Mr Justice Poole adjourned the case for a further hearing in September. Rodgers, 56, went into hiding in nearby woodland before his daughter was found dead by her new husband in their home in Huthwaite, Nottinghamshire, on July 30 last year. Rodgers was discovered weeks later after a search by more than 500 officers from across the country and arrested. He was taken into custody, where he went on hunger strike on Christmas Eve last year and told staff he wished to die "as quietly as possible". Within hours of being given the last rites, he was declared mentally unfit to starve himself to death and sectioned under the Mental Health Act. He appeared in court last month for the first time since his attempts to starve himself to death, and his defence barrister said he accepted that he killed his daughter. Stephen Ferguson said: "First of all, Mr Rodgers accepts in court through me that he killed his daughter as alleged. "He further accepts that he killed Chanel by shooting her in her home." Rodgers, dressed in a white shirt and tie, looking frail and shaking in the dock, spoke only to confirm his name and enter his formal plea to the charge today. A man stood up in the public gallery and swore at Rodgers during the short hearing, motioning as though he would cut the defendant's throat. Rodgers' estranged common law wife, Anne McPherson, screamed at him and lunged towards him during his last appearance in court. She had to be escorted from the public gallery after shouting: "Let me out, I'll kill him." Pointing at Rodgers in the dock, she added: "I just want to tell you one thing: she was too fucking good for a Rodgers. I hate you, you bastard." Mrs Taylor was given away by her father at her wedding just seven weeks before she was found with gunshot wounds in the terrace house in New Street. Rodgers was living with his daughter and her new husband at the time of her death, not long after she returned from honeymoon in Mexico.