Police in Spain have arrested the Portuguese ex-boyfriend of pregnant murder victim Hayley Richards, detectives said today.Hugo Manuel Quintas was seized by uniformed officers in the Basque region in the north of the country.An international hunt was launched after Ms Richards, 23, was found with her throat cut at her home in Trowbridge, Wiltshire, on June 11. Mr Quintas, also 23, originally from Porto, fled the UK on the same day and was later named by police as the chief suspect for her killing."This morning in the Basque region of Spain, Hugo Manuel Quintas was arrested by uniformed Spanish police officers, and is currently being held at a police station in northern Spain," Wiltshire police said in a statement today."This information has been relayed to us verbally at this stage, and we are awaiting official written confirmation. For legal reasons, we are unable to say anything further at this time."Police confirmed that Detective Superintendent Mike Veale, who has been heading the case, had visited and informed Ms Richards' family of this news."We are still at the early stages of a complex and protracted enquiry, but would like to take this opportunity to record our thanks to the Crown Prosecution Service, Interpol, National Criminal Intelligence Service, the Portuguese and Spanish authorities, and, in particular, the communities of Trowbridge," the statement said.Ms Richards, who was three months' pregnant, was last seen alive by her mother on the night of June 10 after leaving a restaurant in Trowbridge where she worked. She was found with multiple stab wounds the following afternoon after failing to turn up for work. She was killed a week after telling police Mr Quintas had assaulted her. The police handling of the case is being investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission after it emerged that the factory worker had been spoken to twice by officers following the assault complaint, but not arrested. The commission is also looking at the suggestion that Mr Quintas was not arrested because a translator could not be found.Investigations revealed Mr Quintas boarded a flight from Bristol airport to Portugal on the afternoon of Ms Richards' murder and police believed he had subsequently travelled to Spain.A European arrest warrant was issued and Wiltshire police worked with Interpol and the Spanish and Portuguese authorities. A Portuguese man who shared a house with Mr Quintas appeared at Chippenham magistrates court last week charged with perverting the course of justice and making false statements. Joaquim Sergio Da Cunha, 29, a dairy worker, is accused of cleaning a property in Trowbridge and cleaning clothes he believed would help police in their investigation. He was remanded in custody.