A new qualification equivalent to a GCSE and designed to help tackle gang culture and youth violence has been launched with the help of black police officers.The Metropolitan Black Police Association said the series of recent "senseless murders" had highlighted the need for a "much deeper understanding" of the causes of violence.The 45-week programme aimed at 14- and 15-year-olds will cover issues such as the use of guns and knives, the effect on victims of crime, stop and search legislation, and the portrayal of violence in films, hip-hop music and the media. It will also help young people learn how they can contact and influence police, politicians and other members of the community. Opportunities for working with older people at drop-in centres or helping younger children to read, and help from role models from the black and other communities are among other measures.The exam board Edexcel has recently formally accredited the Young Leaders for Safer Cities course as a Btec qualification. Its founders hope it will allow a programme developed over the past eight years in London to be offered around the country. It will include teachers, youth workers and other community leaders as well as police officers. There will also be an international dimension, encouraging contact with young people in countries such as South Africa and Jamaica.Bevan Powell, deputy chair of the association and director of its youth engagement programme, Voyage, said the aim was to "develop a greater sense of responsibility and leadership capability within young people". He added: "Many youngsters in the black community are extremely vulnerable in terms of gun crime. We want as many people as possible to attend the course and gain new skills. From our point of view, there is a suspicion of the police, but we believe firmly, that in terms of making the community safer, young people have the answer. They can talk to their peers, have power to change the mindset of other young people." About 80 young people from 10 inner London boroughs have already begun the course.