Two parole board hearings which could have freed the convicted police killer Harry Roberts after 38 years in jail are now unlikely to take place until after the election.The Home Office requested that the meetings, due this week, be postponed until an appeal is heard by the Lords and a decision reached over the controversial use of secret evidence in the case. Lawyers for Roberts allege that the Home Office wanted to avoid the political embarrassment of releasing him during the election campaign. The parole board intended to meet initially in secret this week; neither Roberts nor his lawyers would have been present. An "open" parole board hearing, which could recommend his release, was planned for this Friday at Channings Wood jail, Devon. Both sessions will now have to wait until the Lords judgment has been given. The case is politically highly charged and the Police Federation has lobbied hard to oppose Robert's release. The murder of three unarmed policemen in Shepherd's Bush, west London, in 1966, was one of the most notorious crimes of the decade. Roberts's role was recalled for years in a football terrace chant that ended with the refrain "He kills coppers". A fictionalised version of the events also featured in a recent novel by Jake Arnott. Roberts, who served with distinction as a soldier in Malaya during his national service, was convicted of all three murders. The court heard he shot dead two policemen after an accomplice said "Let him have it". The gang were about to commit an armed robbery. The appeal by Roberts to the House of Lords is due on April 20 and 21, and will hear claims that the authorities want to keep him in prison until he dies on the basis of evidence that will never be disclosed to either him or his lawyers. His lawyers say such measures are designed solely for use against the threat of terrorism. Roberts, speaking at Channings Wood, said he was "eternally sorry for the suffering that my terrible crime caused for so many people". He told the Guardian: "I cannot turn the clock back, but I ask people to remember that, 38 years ago, I was the youngest member of the armed gang that killed those three policemen. "All I ask is to see the evidence, so that I can defend myself against it." Simon Creighton, his solicitor, said the court had "set a precedent enabling any court to adopt measures so unsatisfactory they had previously been restricted to the need to protect national security". He added: "How can a democratic society permit a man to be detained indefinitely without knowing the case against [him]?" Last year, the court of appeal upheld the decision of the parole board to allow Roberts's future to be determined by a special procedure which had hitherto only been used in exceptional circumstances affecting national security. Under this procedure a "special advocate" is to be appointed to consider the secret evidence against him. The evidence will not be disclosed to Roberts or his legal team. The advocate will not be able to take instructions from him or his lawyers. The court justified its decision on the basis of "inadvertent" disclosure of the material to Roberts if it were made available to his lawyers. The only occasion when such a procedure has been allowed before any tribunal in England and Wales was for the Special Immigration Appeals Commission relating to detainees held in Belmarsh jail on suspicion of terrorism. After the trial, Roberts's tariff was set at 30 years by the home secretary at the time, Roy Jenkins. A parole review was ordered for 2001 and at that point Roberts, who is now 68, was told the police were looking at allegations against him. The human rights organisation Justice backs his appeal, believing it has far-reaching implications involving "a serious restriction on the right of a person to know the case against them". The Home Office confirmed it had asked the parole board to postpone the reviews but insisted it was up to the board whether that would happen.