The Home Office today dismissed as speculation reports that David Blunkett's department will be split in two after the next general election to create a "ministry of justice" and "ministry of rights".The plan - the latest in a long line of schemes to devolve elements of the criminal justice system from responsibilities for immigration, freedom of information and elections - would see both the current Home Office and Department for Constitutional Affairs dissolved and their briefs divided between the two new ministries. A spokesman for the Home Office today said talk of a justice ministry had been "around for years" - but he did not dismiss the idea outright. The spokesman later added: "As a matter of departmental restructuring, this would be a matter for No 10." Such a reorganisation would be in the gift of the prime minister, who is reported in today's Daily Telegraph to be considering the move in the wake of a successful third election triumph. Asked about the story this morning, the prime minister's official spokesman said: "This is an old story - it is clearly August."Any Whitehall reshuffle is unlikely to come before the next general election at the earliest because Mr Blunkett's plans on crime, anti-social behaviour and ID cards are intended to be the central plank of the government's legislative plans in the run-up to voting. With a contest tentatively pencilled in for next May, the Home Office is widely believed to have an unprecedented six bills lined up for November's Queen's speech, which will set the legislative programme for the coming year. Though the parliamentary session would be interrupted by a general election, the home secretary - backed by Mr Blair - is thought to be planning to introduce bills setting up a national serious crime squad of 5,000 officers, piecemeal legislation bringing in ID cards, a bill to extend anti-social behaviour orders, a bill to lower the burden of proof in terrorism trials and a shakeup in sentencing tariffs. Electorally, Labour has been buoyed by its perceived success in tarring the Liberal Democrats as "soft on crime" in recent byelections after the party opposed the bill introducing the original anti-social behaviour orders. Playing the law and order card in the run-up to the election would help party strategists again trap the Tories and Lib Dems into being seen as either backing Labour or siding with criminals rather than victims. One Blair aide was quoted in the press last week, when details of the legislative plan leaked, as saying: "We are going to ensure that law and order is debated in the Commons every day in the six months before the election." The Tories themselves plan a big crime initiative before the party conference season this autumn. There has always been a Whitehall turf battle between the criminal justice elements of the Home Office brief and the responsibilities currently being carried out by the Department of Consitutional Affairs. That department, headed by Lord Falconer and only created last summer, currently handles the courts system, tribunals, freedom of information, data protection and human rights. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, is believed to have clashed frequently in recent times with the home secretary over the independence of the judiciary and the rights of asylum seekers under human rights legislation.