A Christian street preacher told two gay men they were "sinners" who would "burn in hell" as they walked past him on a busy high street, a court has heard.In a case which could reignite the debate over the boundaries of free speech, Michael Overd, 47, is accused of using threatening language towards civil partners Craig Manning and Craig Nichol when he saw them as he preached on a busy high street last July.The court heard claims the lay preacher was provoked by a previous altercation with the couple in October 2010, when he singled them out when he saw them holding hands.He was spoken to by police, though no action was taken and the prosecution claims he directed the abuse at them the second time when he recognised them, shouting and pointing at them with his bible in the centre of Taunton, Somerset, at 3pm on a busy Saturday afternoon.The defence claim that Overd, of Creech St Michael in Somerset, did not threaten the pair but was merely exercising freedom of expression by loudly reading from the Bible as they passed, and accused them of being threatening towards the preacher when they saw who he was.Giving evidence at Taunton magistrates court, Nichol said that as soon as Overd saw them from around 10m away on 16 July last year "the expression on his face changed"."He said 'I have already told these two sinners over here that they are going to burn in hell'," he said."He looked at us and pointed at us when he said it. His voice was quite loud and very clear. I felt angry, embarrassed and ashamed. It was a really busy day and I felt that everyone was looking at us when he was saying these things to us."I asked him who he was to judge me and he said, 'It's God's words, it is in the Bible'. He said I should repent and ask God for forgiveness."Paul Diamond, the barrister representing Overd, claimed his client was merely reciting a passage from 1 Corinthians, which says: "Neither the sexually immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers nor homosexuals nor thieves nor the greedy nor drunkards nor slanderers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God."He said his client was allowed to use freedom of expression to read from the Bible and accused the pair of threatening violence against Overd, something they deny.He said: "You made up your mind to silence him, didn't you?"You went up to him and abused him, saying 'Who the fuck do you think you are? I'm going to kick your fucking head in. You're dead, you're dead'."Nichol, a butcher, replied that he accepted Overd's right to freedom of speech but claimed the preacher broke off from his speech to the crowded street when he saw them to aim comments directly at them."If you are so peaceful, why didn't you just walk on the other side of the road?" Diamond asked."Why should I have to avoid it?" Nichol answered.Overd, who led supporters in prayer in the lobby of the court before the trial started, denies two charges of using threatening words or behaviour. The trial continues.