Armed police were searching on Monday night for a gunman after an off-duty police officer was killed and another man injured 足during a double shooting in Clacton-on-Sea, Essex.Tributes were paid to the dead police officer, PC Ian Dibell, 41, who was said by the head of Essex police to have 足"deliberately intervened in what he knew was an extremely deadly situation".Residents were advised to stay indoors as teams of armed police spread out across the town on Monday evening and a police helicopter hovered overhead following the shootings in a residential area.   Suspected gunman Peter Reeve. Photograph: Essex Police/PAPolice named and released a photograph of the alleged gunman, Peter Reeve, 64, who comes from the Clacton area.The shooting incident happened at around 3.30pm in the Redbridge Road area, where police found PC Dibell dead and another man with serious leg injuries.One local man, who did not want to be named, said the alleged gunman had crashed a car in an alleyway near a doctor's surgery and that doctors later rushed out to help the men who had been shot.One local resident told the BBC that she and her next-door neighbour heard a woman screaming, then what they thought were gunshots. "Then there was more shouting going on, screaming, from this woman, and then a man's voice, really, really loud, shouting. Then there was another series of gunshots, about five or six, one after the other. Then it went eerily quiet." Armed police later entered a property in nearby Havering Close shortly before 7.30pm while dog units were on standby.Essex police said earlier that the force had received many phone calls from the public and officers were confident of catching the gunman.A spokesman said: "Residents are being urged to remain indoors while armed officers locate the gunman. Neighbourhood policing officers are maintaining a high-profile and visible presence in the community, supporting victims and witnesses."The chief constable of Essex police, Jim Barker-McCardle, described PC Dibell as "an experienced and professional 足neighbourhood police officer". He went on: "This officer is a highly regarded and much loved colleague who has been an important part of Essex police for 10 years." He added that other 足members of PC Dibell's family were also in the police force. "The entire force grieves, but we are aware the job is to bring this man to justice and make sure we do everything we can to look after the most important people, the family and friends of our fallen colleague."We will not rest until we have Peter Reeve in custody," he said.Paul McKeever, the chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said PC Dibell had "demonstrated remarkable courage and bravery whilst off duty and has paid the ultimate price". Essex police urged anyone who knows where Reeve is, or has information about him, to call 999. They urged members of the public not to approach him.