During the past week, we have seen the virtual destruction of two men, Ian Huntley and Saddam Hussein. Very different, but alike in one respect, in that they did immeasurable harm to others, showing neither remorse nor regret.Moral philosophers have, mostly, devoted themselves to discussing the good: what is the best sort of person to be? What is the nature of duty? How do we identify what is right? Where does our concept of the morally good come from? They have been more reticent about the bad and, in this, they seem to follow ordinary non-philosophers. We have great difficulty in talking about the morally bad, the evil. Although we can demonise them, we are at a loss about what more to say about someone such as Huntley. We cannot understand him. After all, most people, on the whole aim, to be good rather than bad, and therefore they can recognise and admire those who do better than they at the same game. Some people will say he is 'an animal', but this is absurd. Of course he is an animal: we all are. It is the fact that he is a human animal that makes him so mysterious and so frightening. We share his humanity; perhaps we are capable of sharing his wickedness. Could we, if we became tyrants, mercilessly and unrepentantly slaughter our opponents, as Saddam did? Could we, if our sexual tastes led us in that direction, murder two cheerful and sweet-natured little girls? It apparently lies in human nature to do so. To protect ourselves from this thought, we invent expressions such as 'severe personality disorder' or 'psychopath'. Huntley is not like us: he is sick and we are not. Mr Justice Moses, however, in sentencing him, did not hesitate to state clearly what we know to be true: Huntley was wicked and behaved in a morally intolerable way. What he did was, in legal parlance, 'unconscionable'. It is a comfort to hear this condemnation articulated. There is, after all, a difference between the good and the evil, which can be demonstrated in cases like that of Huntley or Saddam and which we can recognise and accept. We have no difficulty here in drawing a line between the black and the white. No theoretical moral relativism or postmodern multiculturalism can blind us to this fact. Yet we still do not know what else to say about someone who seems totally indifferent to moral inhibitions. Would Huntley deny that he had done anything wrong? Would he agree that he had but, as it were, put 'wrong' inside inverted commas, distancing himself from common opinion? Would he claim to be innocent, as a child might be held innocent? ('For not to know we sinn'd is innocence,' as the seventeenth-century poet William Davenant has it.) Yet we distinguish his case from the equally terrible murder of James Bulger, where the murderers were, in fact, children. Would he say that though it was wrong, what he did was the result of an irresistible impulse? But this does not seem to fit the facts. The truth is that he, an adult living in a society that depends for its survival on the idea of morality, of people preferring to be good rather than bad, did not share this preference and, therefore, must be condemned as Mr Justice Moses condemned him. There is a danger, however, in the satisfaction we may feel in seeing Huntley brought to trial and properly sentenced. It is easy to confuse this satisfaction with a feeling of moral impunity and, worse, a belief that he deserves not only punishment but vengeance. Knowing that a terrible crime has been committed does not mean that this crime must be avenged, that the perpetrator must be made to suffer as he made his victims suffer, no matter who takes on the vengeance. In ancient Athens, the Court of the Areopagiticus was set up specifically to deal justice impersonally to criminals and bring to an end the feuds and demands for family vengeance which brutalised society. This event was celebrated by Aeschylus as a turning point, and so it was. We surely do not want to revert to a condition where a criminal, however horrible his crime, is a fair target for anyone's attack. It is the mark of civilisation that, as far as we can, we overcome evil with good. We must not descend to the depth of lawlessness for which the criminal was sentenced. The sometimes hysterical outrage that people express about crimes, especially crimes against children, may easily tip over into demands for harsher sentencing, the return of the death penalty or private attacks on the criminal. It is hard to combat this tendency simply because we find it so hard to understand the truly evil human being. With lesser crimes, we may see in ourselves the motives: greed, resentment, fear, jealousy, which may have led to the wrong that was done. We may reflect that we all suffer from faults of character, or fail, if severely tempted, to resist temptation. But to put ourselves into the shoes of Huntley or Saddam is beyond us. What is it like to be an inhuman human? It is because of this failure of sympathy that we so badly need the rule of law. We must trust judge and jury to come to their decision on the facts of the case. I believe that this is as necessary in the trial of Saddam as it was in the trial of Huntley.