Surrey police have apologised for missing opportunities in the hunt for Milly Dowler's killer that could have led to Levi Bellfield's arrest before he went on to murder two more victims and attempt to murder a third.Bellfield lived 50 yards from where Milly was last seen in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, in March 2002 but escaped the net when police, conducting extensive house-to-house inquiries, knocked 10 times at his rented flat without getting an answer but made no inquiries of the landlord as to who lived there.By the time they did, the flat had seen several tenants come and go, with any potential forensic science evidence obliterated by redecorating and steam cleaning. Meanwhile, Bellfield had gone on to murder Amelie Delagrange, 22, and Marsha McDonnell, 19, and attempt to murder Kate Sheedy, 18.It also took three years for Operation Ruby detectives hunting Milly's killer to learn that another girl, Rachel Cowles, who was then 11, had been the target of an attempted abduction 24 hours before Milly's disappearance and only three miles from where Milly was taken.Rachel, walking home from school in her uniform in Shepperton, had been approached on 20 March 2002 by a man driving a red car who tried to entice her in. Milly went missing one day later.The jury in the Bellfield trial found him guilty on Thursday of murdering Milly. They were continuing deliberations on the allegation that Bellfield had attempted to kidnap Rachel. But the judge, citing media coverage of the case, discharged the jury. The Old Bailey heard that there would be no retrial over Rachel and that a charge would lie on file.Surrey's chief constable, Mark Rowley, has privately apologised to Milly's parents and to Rachel for mistakes made in the investigation. He is due to meet relatives of the other victims privately."Mistakes were made," said Assistant Chief Constable Jerry Kirkby. "With the benefit of hindsight there are aspects we would have handled differently. Could we have done anything to catch him earlier? We have agonised over that issue."The family of McDonnell has called for a review of whether the police could have prevented her death. They commended Surrey police for getting a conviction for Milly's murder but called for "a very precise review of all that went on in that initial investigation by the Surrey force into Milly's disappearance and subsequent murder".The police call handler who spoke to Rachel's mother made an incident report, which was passed to the north Surrey division. But no statement was taken from Rachel and no officer visited her house. It was only three years later, after Bellfield was arrested for the Delagrange murder, that detectives hunting Milly's killer learned he had been living next to where she disappeared and was driving his girlfriend's red Daewoo Nexia at the time.A TV appeal prompted Rachel's mother to call the incident room and report again what had happened. There was still no immediate response. She then went to try to report her suspicions in person at a police station and finally wrote to the chief constable before a statement was taken.Kirkby acknowledged it was "a missed opportunity" and the incident should have been prioritised. It was a poor initial response, he said, but processes had been changed since and, given the lack of a description of the driver or the car at the time, it was difficult to say how much it would have helped.Police carried out 3,500 house to house inquiries in the Milly Dowler case, the biggest investigation the force has conducted. At a cost of £6m, 100 officers were drafted in, searching 350 sites, including 40 underwater locations and 35 miles of waterways. They checked out 73 reported sightings in the UK and abroad.They noted 256 people of potential interest within a five-mile radius, including 50 registered sex offenders. No one raised Bellfield as a suspect. Inquiries were "extensive but not exhaustive" but, Kirkby acknowledged, "should have been more exhaustive"."But even if Bellfield himself had answered the door there was nothing to suggest him as a suspect," Kirkby said.The only convictions relating to Bellfield on the police national computer were for possessing an offensive weapon and burglaries committed in his youth.After his arrest, however, the Metropolitan police investigated about 20 other offences of alleged rape, druggings and assaults. Some of the rape charges lie on file. On the other charges there was insufficient evidence to prosecute.Those cases authorities attempted to prosecute included an attack on Irma Dragoshi, 36, in West Drayton in December 2003. A man travelling with Bellfield claimed he saw him get out of the car, run at her and drag her to the ground.Another was the attack on Anne-Marie Rennie, 17, after walking to a bus stop in Twickenham in October 2001. Bellfield is said to have picked up the teenager and dragged her to his car. She escaped and, as she ran, heard Bellfield shout "whore". A jury in 2008 failed to reach a verdict on both cases."He is a very flexible offender. He chooses his victims as they come," detective chief inspector Maria Woodall said. "He's devious, dangerous and adept at covering his tracks."Bellfield was the subject of a credit card investigation and was interviewed by police about that four days after he had murdered Delagrange.Police deny their inquiry was hampered by their initial suspicions of Milly's father, whom they reportedly had under surveillance and bugged. "He was never categorised as a suspect," said Woodall, refusing to confirm or deny that covert surveillance had taken place.That is at odds with what Dowler himself believed, telling the jury he was anxious the police interest in him might deflect from them finding Milly's real killer.