Poor old David Cameron. He might be beginning to look like a prime minister in waiting, but he doesn't have much luck with his bike. First, his green credentials were trashed after it was revealed that an official car sometimes followed him from Notting Hill to the House of Commons, carrying his briefcase. Then, the Daily Mirror exposed him as a serial red light runner (let's hope his car obeyed the traffic signals). Now, he has had his bike stolen.It's a tragic everyday tale of what it means to live in Britain's "broken society", I suppose. The answer advocated by London's new Conservative mayor, Boris Johnson, is to introduce "sharia law" for bike thieves. Ah, those caring Conservatives.Still, my instinctive reaction, as a fellow cyclist, is sympathy. We've all been there. According to one recent survey, a bike is stolen in Britain every 70 seconds. And it is a serious issue: aside from the loss of property and the cost of replacing it, there is significant evidence that a high proportion of people who have their bike nicked give up cycling altogether. That doesn't seem likely in Cameron's case. Apart from the fact that he can afford to replace his stolen bike, he is clearly a confirmed "lifestyle cyclist". But when he reportedly says that he has lost "an old friend", and pleads for the return of his "priceless" old clunker, my heart does go out to him a little. The hardest thing about having your bike nicked really is losing the relationship you have with your bike: it's a type of bereavement.But then, I think: what a twit. Apparently, Cameron locked his bike to a bollard while he went in to buy some salad bits in a Portobello Road store. Which meant that the thieves didn't even need a boltcutter – all they had to do was lift the damn thing off.The irony is that Cameron's bike should have been relatively safe. The bikes that go are the ones which look shiny and new – which is why people often lose several in quick succession, which is good for the bike trade, but bad for insurance premiums. The best response to the problem of bike theft is therefore to have a beaten-up old jalopy for everyday use and a gorgeous racer for Sunday best (and not be tempted to stop for some organic rocket on the way home).That said, I always thought that Cameron's steed looked a particularly heinous example of the dreaded "bike-shaped object". So, my advice to Dave is to get over his grief, move on and look on it as an opportunity: get a decent bike – and learn to lock it up properly. Personal responsibility, David – there's a speech in that.