Ministers have begun working on proposals to disband the Serious Fraud Office, merging operations with other agencies, the Guardian has learned. The plan comes three months after relations between the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, and SFO director Robert Wardle reached an all-time low over the latter's two-year investigation into kickback allegations linked to a BAE Systems contract with Saudi Arabia.According to well-placed sources, one of the proposals favoured by the attorney general is partially merging the SFO within the much larger Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca), which was launched last year and characterised as an FBI-style organisation. The remaining SFO lawyers would join the Crown Prosecution Service.Lord Goldsmith has ordered an independent review of the body, which will inform any decision.Any move to disband the SFO is likely to be seen as controversial after the government's insistence that the agency abandon its BAE inquiry. It will also be fiercely resisted by Mr Wardle. However, pressure on his fraud unit has been building for several years amid disappointing conviction rates and a handful of high-profile courtroom failures.Lord Goldsmith's misgivings about the SFO predated the abandonment of the BAE inquiry, but his scrutiny of the agency's work in the case confirmed his worst fears, according to ministerial sources."From looking at the papers in the BAE case, the attorney general thought there were problems with the way the SFO went about things," said one. "Some people were a little blinkered. Part of the problem is that the SFO is restricted in comparison with what other countries can do."The SFO said last night that it knew nothing of any merger plans and declined to comment further. But a QC who prosecutes for the agency said morale was low. "It doesn't seem to be a very happy place. Obviously there's plenty of room for improvement but if you take the last two years I think you'd find they've been more successful than they have in the past. But things do take a long time there to get off the ground. Money's no object in some of the cases and maybe they're found wanting when you hold them up against that light."Mr Wardle had only reluctantly been persuaded to drop the BAE inquiry after Lord Goldsmith insisted it could jeopardise "national and international security". When the case was abandoned, Lord Goldsmith infuriated him by adding that he considered a successful prosecution would have been unlikely.This attack on the SFO's judgment in effect reopened the debate into whether more of an attempt should be made to separate its investigative and prosecutory roles. Weeks later, with Mr Wardle's tenure as SFO director coming up for review, Lord Goldsmith extended his term by a year rather than the customary two.Integrating the investigative branch of the SFO within Soca may not require new legislation. Soca already has powers similar to the SFO, enabling it to compel people questioned to give answers or hand over confidential documents. It also has statutory authority to take up serious fraud cases should they be passed over by the SFO. Unlike the SFO, however, the new agency, created by the 2005 Serious Organised Crime and Police Act, enjoys a low public profile.Disbanding the SFO would prompt fresh criticisms that Lord Goldsmith has been pursuing a political battle with the agency as an EU anti-corruption watchdog is considering whether it was wrong for the attorney general to halt the BAE investigation.