A 59-year old man arrested on suspicion of killing Claudia Lawrence, who vanished in 2009, has been released on police bail as detectives continued forensic examinations of two homes used by him in the north of England.Officers from North Yorkshire police used sniffer dogs in a detailed search of the Tyneside home where Michael Snelling was arrested on Tuesday. Police declined to confirm or deny reports that a second team of detectives had started a dig at a second house used by him 100 miles away in York.In a statement, the force said: "North Yorkshire Police have released a 59-year-old man on conditional bail following his arrest yesterday on suspicion of murdering Claudia Lawrence."Forensic searches at relevant properties are expected to continue for a number of days. Every effort will be made to minimise disruption to local residents and the public affected by this work."As investigations continue with the possibility of further arrests to be made, all sections of the community and the media are reminded and encouraged to respect the rights of others, including those connected to the case.  Police seal off a property in York in connection with Lawrence's disappearance. Photograph: Nigel Roddis/Getty"It is also important that the investigation team have every opportunity to follow due legal process."In an earlier statement, a police spokesperson said: "The investigation team would like to stress that Claudia has not been found."  Lawrence with her father Peter. She disappeared in March 2009. Photograph: North Yorkshire police/PALawrence, a chef at York University, was 35 when she was reported missing by her father on 20 March 2009. She was last seen at about 3.05pm on 18 March, walking home, and that night she spoke to both her parents on the phone. It is thought something happened to her after she left for work early the next day.People living close to the North Shields address, which is believed to be Snelling's mother's house, said the former York University lab technician was arrested on Tuesday morning and his car was also seized.The swoop was not expected by the Lawrence family, who have campaigned to keep Claudia's disappearance in the public eye. Family friend Martin Dales said Claudia's father, Peter Lawrence, was "shellshocked" at the first arrest in the five-year investigation.Snelling's run-down semi-detached home in York being searched by detectives is only half a mile from the Heworth area, where Lawrence lived alone.Joan Lawrence, Claudia's 70-year-old mother said she was not getting her hopes up yet. "I don't know what this might mean but it's not the first time there's been a big development which has led to nothing," she told the Mirror. "I've been told I must continue as normal. I don't know how I'm going to do that. Somehow I get the strength and courage to go on."Dales said that a recent Crimewatch appeal and reconstruction marking the fifth anniversary of the disappearance in March had given the police useful new leads. The family also raised the profile of the case in February this year around what would have been Claudia's 40th birthday.Last year, a new investigation team conducted a detailed, two month re-examination of Lawrence's home. Then, in March this year, senior officers announced new lines of inquiry on the fifth anniversary of the day she failed to turn up for work.The announcement coincided with a fresh appeal on BBC's Crimewatch. The new forensic examination of her house uncovered the fingerprints of people who had not yet come forward.They also found the DNA profile of an unknown man on a cigarette butt in the university chef's Vauxhall Corsa. Lawrence's mobile and rucksack have never been found.