The 17-year-old accused of taking part in the racist murder of Anthony Walker today denied he had supplied the ice axe used to kill the black teenager.Michael Barton is accused of taking part in the murder in Huyton, Merseyside, in July. His cousin, 20-year-old Paul Taylor, has admitted murdering Mr Walker by driving the ice axe into his head.Mr Barton, who denies murder, is accused of supplying the weapon to Taylor and initiating the attack on the 18-year-old victim and his cousin, Marcus Binns.He originally told police he had found the ice axe outside the Huyton Park pub and had brought it with him to scare Mr Walker and Mr Binns, who is now 18, after they had tried to start a fight.However, in court Mr Barton claimed that version of events had been concocted by Taylor, and said the first time he saw the axe was when it was embedded in Mr Walker's head.Under cross-examination by the prosecution barrister Neil Flewitt QC today, Mr Barton said he did not see Taylor take the axe from his car or hold it in his hand as they walked through McGoldrick park to confront Mr Walker.Mr Flewitt produced a wooden replica of the axe, measuring two and a half feet long and looking like a small pickaxe."You would have seen this in the car. You couldn't have missed that ice-pick in the car, could you?" he said. "No," Mr Barton replied."You couldn't stick that down your trousers, could you?" Mr Flewitt said. Mr Barton again replied: "No.""Are you telling us the truth when you say the first time you saw it was in Anthony Walker's head?" Mr Flewitt asked, and Mr Barton said: "Yes.""You knew perfectly well it was in the car because you put it there and you took it with you, didn't you?" Mr Flewitt said. "No," Mr Barton replied.During his police interview, Mr Barton gave a perfect description of the axe, including its length, appearance and the fact it was lightweight.Asked how he could give such a good description of an axe he had seen only briefly and in the dark, Mr Barton said: "Because I've seen them on the telly before."Mr Flewitt said: "So you were taking a chance that what you had seen on the telly was what you saw embedded in Anthony's head? It was a lucky guess?" "Yes," Mr Barton replied."You knew because it was your axe, wasn't it?" Mr Flewitt said. "You were seen by a witness with it two days earlier, you had it on the night and you took it to the park, didn't you?" "No," Mr Barton said.He also denied initiating the confrontation with Mr Walker, his girlfriend, Louise Thompson, and Mr Binns as the three waited for a bus outside the Huyton Park pub.In her evidence, Ms Thompson said it was the shorter of the two men who had been hurling racist abuse at them. Mr Barton admitted he is shorter than Taylor, but denied he had been outside shouting abuse."It is your case that it was Paul Taylor who shouted this abuse, because you weren't there," Mr Flewitt said. "I'm suggesting it was the other way round. You were both there and it was you, the shorter one, responsible for the abuse?" Mr Barton said: "No."The trial continues.