The government yesterday banned 21 groups, the majority Islamic, which it has branded as terrorist under a new law enabling it for the first time to proscribe organisations targeting foreign states.The list includes the PKK, the Kurdish Workers' Party which has a large following in Britain; ETA, the Basque separatist group; LTTE, the Tamil separatist group, and a number of Sikh organisations. They also include Al-Qai'da, a loose organisation led by Osama bin Laden, the Saudi now living in Afghanistan wanted in the US over attacks on American embassies in East Africa in 1998. The Home Office concedes the large majority of the groups on the list - which does not include animal rights or environmental activists - have not attacked British targets. However, Jack Straw told MPs yesterday he was "entirely satisfied" that they were all "concerned in terrorism" under the new, broad, definition laid down in a law which came into force earlier this month. He said his decision, which will not be effective until it has been approved by parliament, was based on the advice of MI5 and lawyers. Charles Clarke, the Home Office minister, insisted that the move was not directed at any "specific community" or those campaigning "in a peaceful way for political change". He told journalists: "Any perception that we are targeting the Muslim community is entirely wrong". Home Office ministers arranged meetings with ethnic groups before announcing the list. One of those who attended, Yousuf Bhailok, secretary general of the Muslim Council of Britain, last night expressed his "grave concern" at the list. It included groups engaged in legitimate activities against the abuse of human rights or for the liberation of Palestine, he said. Mr Clarke insisted the home secretary had acted independently. "Foreign policy was not a consideration", he said. The new Terrorism Act, which for the first time allows the home secretary to proscribe foreign-based groups, defines terrorism as "the use or threat of action" designed to "influence the government or to intimidate the public ... for the purpose of advancing a political, religious, or ideological cause". Actions cited include those involving "serious violence against a person" in Britain or abroad. The act covers fundraising. The measure, like its predecessor, the Prevention of Terrorism Act, covers Northern Ireland-based groups, 13 of which - on both sides- will remain proscribed. However, charges under the PTA have rarely been made in Northern Ireland where the police have usually used conventional criminal legislation against suspected terrorists. Under the act, which makes it an offence to invite support for, or attend meetings by proscribed groups, individuals and groups can complain to an appeals commission. John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty, said: "Banning organisations and criminalising membership is a serious attack on basic rights of free speech and assembly." • The Home Office minister, Mike O'Brien, last night met the UK Association of the Palestinian Community. Dr Ghada Karmi, its chairman, said many Palestinians felt they were unfairly under surveillance on suspicion of terrorism. Proscribed organisations• Al-Qa'ida: inspired by Osama bin Laden, made no attacks in UK. • Egyptian Islamic Jihad: UK not directly targeted. • Al-Gama'at al Islamiya: directed primarily at Egyptian government, no evidence of terrorism by UK members. • Armed Islamic Group: aimed at Algerian government, no overt presence, UK-based members provided logistical support. • Salafist Group for Call and Combat: also aimed at Algeria, no overt presence in UK. • International Sikh Youth Federation: UK fundraising and other support. • Babbar Khalsa (Sikh): fundraising but never attacked Western interests. • Harakat Mujahideen, Jaish e Mohammed, and Lashkar e Tayyaba: all seeking Kashmir independence, supporters in UK. • Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, never targeted west. • Hezbollah External Security Organisation, "small overt" presence in UK. • Hamas Izz al-Bin al-Qassem Brigades Islamic group in Palestine, not operated outside Israel, and Palestinian Islamic Jihad - Shaqaqi. • Abu Nidal Organisation, no known members in UK. • Islamic Army of Aden, some support in UK. • Mujaheddin e Khalq, Iranian dissident group has not attacked the west. • Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK). Formed in 1978 by Abdullah Ocalan. • Revolutionary People's Liberation Party Front. A Turkish group engaged in "overt political activity", according to Home Office. • Basque Homeland and Liberty (ETA). Links to Irish republican groups. • 17 November Revolutionary Organisation: Greek, killed Brigadier Stephen Saunders, UK defence attache, in Athens last year.