It was one of the highest profile murder cases of the last two decades. Two privileged teenagers became involved in a fantasy that they were undercover SAS men on a mission and slit the throat of a stranger in London. Now, 18 years later, one of the two men has had his murder conviction overturned on the grounds of diminished responsibility.The court of appeal quashed Jamie Petrolini's conviction for the 1994 murder of Mohamed el-Sayed and substituted a verdict of manslaughter earlier this month. The life sentence which Petrolini was serving has now been replaced by a hospital order and he will remain in a secure hospital. Elsey, his co-defendant, was released from prison in February, after serving 18 years.Petrolini and Elsey, both 19, were convicted of murder at the Old Bailey in November 1994. The court heard how Elsey had convinced Petrolini that he was an officer in the SAS and Petrolini had to kill - or "slot" - a stranger as part of a bizarre initiative test. El-Sayed, a 44-year-old Egyptian chef and father-of-two, was picked at random when his car stopped at a "give way" sign in Bayswater, west London.Elsey held him while Petrolini stabbed him. The two then returned to Oxford and might have got away with the murder had not Petrolini started making remarks to his flatmates and then confessing to his college principal. The case was likened at the time to that of Leopold and Loeb, two privileged American students who carried out a random killing in 1924, which became the basis for the 1959 film, Compulsion, and the stage play, Rope.Petrolini, who was educated at Gordonstoun, the Scottish public school which Prince Charles attended, claimed in his defence at the time that he was suffering from prodromal schizophrenia and sought a verdict of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. This was rejected by the prosecution and the jury, who convicted him of murder on a 10-2 majority. Elsey was convicted unanimously.Since then, Petrolini's family have campaigned for the case to be reopened on the grounds of his schizophrenia, which has now been accepted by the court of appeal. The law firm, Stephensons, which undertook the case, presented fresh psychiatric evidence that Petrolini suffers from schizophrenia and was, in fact, in the prodromal stage of this illness at the time of the killing. The prosecution did not oppose the appeal and the court of appeal accepted that Petrolini was not taking decisions for himself like an ordinary person. This was deemed to amount to "an abnormality of mind that substantially impaired his responsibility for the killing".Correna Platt, a partner at Stephensons, who represented Petrolini at the appeal, said: "Jamie served 11 years of his life sentence for murder before it was recognised that he was suffering from schizophrenia. In 2005, he was then transferred to a psychiatric unit for more appropriate medical attention. The court of appeal recognised that Mr Petrolini's responsibility for the killing was significantly impaired by his mental illness. His parents have always maintained that he was suffering from schizophrenia at the time of the killing but this was unfortunately not recognised until many years later."