An obsessive scientist who stalked and attacked 200 innocent people in a personal war against officialdom was jailed for life yesterday.Richard Jan, a 37-year-old biochemist, drew up a hate list of health officials, solicitors and social workers before subjecting them to violence and intimidation which forced many to leave their jobs and homes. Jan labelled his campaign World War Three and believed the officials were part of a "grand coalition" to section him under the Mental Health Act. But Judge Henry Blacksell said at Middlesex Guildhall crown court in London that psychiatrists had found no sign of mental illness after examining him. At most, he might suffer from a personality disorder. Driven by a "cunning and remorseless obsession" which he carried out with "callous unconcern" for the feelings of his many victims, he continued his war for more than seven years. When police finally arrested him they found a loaded airgun in his home and a document entitled The Fascist Horde, containing a flow chart linking individuals and organisations, with entries alongside which read "terminated," "torpedoed" or "obliterated." The judge said the only sentence that fully protected the public was life imprisonment. "There can be no doubt you are intelligent. "However ... you used this to be devious, manipulative and a bully," he said. "Some of your sentiments are unconscionable. You cunningly set out to unnerve and ruin people who you thought had crossed you. "You targeted them and tried to make their lives as miserable as you found yours." The court heard that Jan's obsession began when his parents, whom he had bullied and tried to control, called in a mental health assessment team in October 1996. His untreatable personality disorder prevented detention under the Mental Health Act, but in the hours that followed he was arrested twice and bound over to keep the peace - events that were a "catalyst" for what followed, the court heard. Despite injunctions, arrests and even jail sentences, a lack of coordination between social services and local police allowed Jan to take up his stalking where he had left off. He reserved his worst violence for Liz Brookes, a local councillor, near the top of his list of victims, which he entitled First and Second Orders of Culpability. Ms Brookes and her family were forced to leave their home after it was firebombed by Jan. Another to receive his unwanted attentions was Shauna Bailey, a social worker whom he particularly detested. She was twice taken to hospital after attacks late at night outside her front door and her car was set on fire. Others were subjected to tyre slashing, round the clock phone calls, some were followed home or sent unwanted pizzas and on one occasion a victim was visited by a pest control officer. Altogether, he was linked to 4,500 "crank calls", a figure detectives dismissed as "the tip of the iceberg". People were forced to leave jobs, flee their homes and change their names. Some are still suffering stress-related illnesses, the court heard. The judge said Jan's behaviour in court and his sentiments while giving evidence showed he had little or no self -control. Impact statements from the victims made dreadful reading, he added. "It defies belief you were allowed to do it for as long as you were. Sadly, you have shown absolutely no remorse and continued to threaten people, including counsel in this trial." Jan, who divided his time between London addresses in Streatham and Paddington, was convicted of two counts of arson with intent to endanger life yesterday after a four-week trial in which his victims faced him in the court. He was also found guilty of causing a public nuisance between November 13 1996 and February 7 2003. Detective Chief Inspector David Poole, who led the investigation, welcomed the sentence. "There has never been a case like this before," he said. "He is undoubtedly Britain's worst stalker, a very dangerous individual who ... ruined lives. "In his own mind his World War Three is still continuing. That is why he is so dangerous and will remain so."