Close to seven years ago, the millionaire architect Michael Morton killed his estranged wife after a dispute over their daughter's education and disposed of her body in such a way that it has never been found, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.Gracia Morton, a 40-year-old semi professional violinist, had got her four-year-old daughter ready for school on the day she vanished, November 12 1997. They left their flat in Kensington, west London, at around 8.40am and in the last CCTV image recovered by police, she is seen checking her reflection before walking out the door. Prosecutor Brian Altman told the Old Bailey that the last person she had been in contact with before she disappeared was her estranged husband, with whom she is believed to have discussed his problems with private education. At the time they were separated, and the final divorce decree was due only weeks after she vanished. "There can be only one explanation for her sudden disappearance," Mr Altman said. "The obvious explanation is that Gracia Morton is dead and as each year gives way to another, it is ever more certain that that is the case. "Despite many searches, the police have not recovered her body. "Gracia is clearly dead. Not only is she dead, but she was killed by this defendant," he said. Ms Morton's bank accounts remain untouched and in the years since her disappearance there has been no contact made with her family. Mr Morton, 66, denies murder. He will argue that if his wife is dead, he is not responsible, the court heard. But, the prosecution argues, he had been in despair over their impending divorce and had a "profound dislike" for the private education that Ms Morton wished for their daughter. For Ms Morton to disappear, Mr Altman told the jury, was completely out of character. She was "utterly devoted" to her daughter, and was particularly close to her family. Mr Morton was devastated by their separation and was said to have contemplated suicide. While estranged, he left a series of notes for his wife, one which read: "Dear Gracia, my love for you knows no bounds and I cannot live without you." On the day after she left him in February 1997, he sent a fax to her sister's home in Birmingham where she was staying, declaring his love and devotion, the court heard. It said he could see no reason for her leaving him and that he wanted to do whatever necessary to bring her back. He regarded their marriage as "indissoluable". At the end of the fax, he wrote that he could foresee "no prospect of happiness, remotely equivalent of the distress I would suffer in the loss of my wife and daughter, and my future actions will be directed to minimising distress", then adding: "This isn't a threat, it's common sense." Mr Altman told the court that although Mr Morton had other girlfriends during periods of separation from his wife, he remained besotted with her, and truly distressed by her leaving him. People in his life recall that he would refer to his problems in "letting women go". He told one girlfriend, Charlotte Fenton, that she should never leave him. "People mustn't do that to me." Tensions about finances were also brewing and during their separation, he voiced his concerns to his then girlfriend, Nicola Nesbit, that Ms Morton was planning to keep his money. Ms Morton arrived in England in 1985 from Argentina with no apparent wealth, the court heard. At one point, Mr Morton wrote to her saying: "I have no wish to see you without enough to live off. Please don't drive me away in rage and despair by making me feel you are being greedy." Mr Morton had complained to others that his wife was stealing his money and that his wealth was the only reason she had married him, the court heard. The trial continues today.