A lot of threads get pulled together in today's newspapers: the military retreat from Sangin in Afghanistan, David Cameron's announcement of the inquiry into allegations of British complicity in torture, all this on the fifth anniversary of the 7/7 bombings in London and divergent assessments of the continuing terrorist threat from Islamist militants.On a grim day, the tabloid emphasis on the miraculous reconstruction of Davinia Douglass's face – horribly disfigured by the Edgware Road tube bomb – is surely the right one. Best to be positive, helpful to all concerned, including ourselves, to look to the future rather than exclusively to recriminate about the past.  Davinia Turrell, as she was then, is helped by Paul Dadge after the 7/7 bombings. Photograph: Edmond Terakopian/PAThe rest is more complicated. On BBC Radio 4 this morning, the military analyst Robert Fox, who writes for Comment is free, likened Sangin to Corleone, the mafia town in the mountains behind Palermo, a place of rackets, drugs and brigands masquerading as something grander. He could have said Belfast of the 80s.Sangin is "a magnet for economic development" and the British army has enabled the bazaar to thrive again. The problem is Helmand's Sicilian hinterland, admits Fox, who warns against trying to impose London perspectives on a distant culture.It's clear to no one – except the self-regarding Taliban ("you have the watches, but we have the time") – what will happen next. But the politics of Nato and the economic austerity of Nato member states will be at least as decisive as skirmishes on Afghan soil. Can we afford it? Do we want to?Meanwhile, the army, battered in Basra, can decently claim it makes strategic sense to hand over Sangin to the much larger US force now in Helmand province. But families of the dead and wounded may wonder if their loved ones' sacrifices were worth it. They will be egged on by the usual suspects, whose agendas are often very different.All of which brings us closer to home and the record of the late Labour government in the turmoil after 9/11, the al-Qaida attacks on Washington and New York – whose Ground Zero site, the Queen, a grand old trouper at 84, visited yesterday.Did it exaggerate the threat to Britain in its determination to stand shoulder to shoulder with the United States? In the process, did it sanction unjustifiable corner-cutting, ranging from tainted intelligence data in Iraq to outsourcing the torture of terrorist suspects to foreign states, knowing what was going on? In the process did Labour also undermine the very domestic liberties it claimed to be defending?Thanks to the work of Guardian colleagues and others, it's becoming clearer, via assorted inquiries (four under Labour itself), judicial rulings and political defeats that the answer is a qualified "yes" or an "up to a point" in several hard cases and some decision-making processes.That said, there is also evidence that should remind voters that the other side routinely exaggerates its case too, both in terms of the failures, misjudgments and shabby expediency of ministers and officials – they were, most of them, all in this together – and in an over-generous accommodation of the conduct, motives and ambitions of the Islamist threat.It is one thing to dismiss – rightly – fantasies about a global caliphate, quite another to justify or ignore deliberate atrocities in market places which seek to provoke savage retaliation that alienates non-combatants. We are dealing with some seriously nasty people here and were long before Nato boots landed in Kabul or Baghdad.Should they be tortured if captured? No, it doesn't usually provide good information and, besides, it's wrong – and against British law too. How much did MI5 or MI6 officers turn a blind eye? We'll find out from the new inquiry. More than is comfortable, less than we might have been led to believe?Ian Cobain sets out the background to David Cameron's Commons statement here. He credits Nick Clegg for ensuring that a judge – not a malleable politician – will run the inquiry. Judges and lawyers not malleable? Well, well. Richard Norton-Taylor explains why there will be payoffs and no prosecutions here. But there remains a real dilemma between liberty and security which the running battle between government and the courts over detention without trial and/or control orders exemplifies. Senior judges sometimes underestimate the problem routinely facing ministers. But then, judges are unlikely to get the blame if there is another 7/7, unless they released the perpetrator a mere 24 hours before he detonated himself and passersby.How serious is that threat in 2010, five years after the 7/7 bombers slipped through the net of overworked anti-terrorist squads? We have had some narrow escapes, we are told, but no further bombings – although Glasgow airport was attacked with a burning Jeep in 2007. In Vikram Dodd's interview with Dr Robert Lambert, the ex-special branch copper turned academic is pretty scathing about the "flawed neocon" strategy he says was embraced by Tony Blair after 9/11. It cast the net too wide and alienated mainstream Muslims, Lambert contends.Myself, I don't quite remember it in those terms and, across at the Times, Andy Hayman, the ex-Met copper who led the 7/7 inquiry, gives what looks like a very different gloss: Britain is still at "severe risk" from ever larger numbers of radicalised Muslims. Only last week assistant commissioner John Yates was warning that looming budget cuts would threaten security.His speech was leaked to the Times from a private dinner. Poor Yates: he is a martyr to leaks. Look what happened to him during the loans-for-honours inquiry when No 10 repeatedly leaked damaging material against itself to embarrass his team.On the 9/11 front, Blair went out of his way from day one to distinguish between the moderate majority of British Muslims and the violent fringe. As I have previously noted here, he was warning against Islamist terrorism at a private session with the Guardian the day before 9/11. I remember wondering what he was on about.Always on the hunt for representative Muslim voices – and sometimes suckered by the wrong people – Labour ministers agonised about what it was best to do. They made lots of mistakes – people usually do – but Britain was not swept up in the ugly hysteria of the Patriot Act or Guantánamo Bay. The Stockwell shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes was human error, not a lynch mob. MPs – of all parties – voted down the 90-day and 42-day detention clauses.Remember, too, the convenient narrative enables the new coalition government to join forces with the police, the civil service, the military, lawyers of all shapes and persuasions – plus much of the media – to dump the whole pile of manure at Blair's well-polished door.It suits the left as well as the right, the Brownites almost as much. Ken Livingstone, it turns out, was right about terrorism. Oh no, he wasn't. It's a long haul to isolate hardcore Islamists and their dismal creed, but we're winning. By all means let's address our own failings and honour the freedoms we try to sustain.But let's also keep a sense of perspective and remember Davinia Douglass's restored features.