The murder of two sisters and a family friend executed in their home last week may have been triggered by a gangland feud, police believe.Officers are investigating the possibility that the underworld links of another family member led to the shootings of Lorna Morrison, 34, her sister Connie, 27, and Noel Patterson, 62, their mother's partner.Detectives say they are sure the family was deliberately targeted but also say none of those killed were involved in criminality.The brutality of the attack, on the Stonebridge Estate in north-west London, has stunned locals and campaigners against gun crime.By the time the killers fled the family's fourth storey flat, leaving the front door ajar, only Lorna Morrison's nine-month-old baby, Christiano, was left alive. The baby was found, close to his slain mother, covered in blood.Mr Patterson, who worked locally as a cleaner, and Connie Morrison had been tied up. Mr Patterson was killed by three gunshots to the face and head. Lorna Morrison was murdered with a single shot to the head. A cause of death for Connie Morrison is still being established but police last night played down suggestions that any of the three were tortured.The horrific scene in the flat was discovered by a family friend who simultaneously alerted police and Evelyn Daley, the mother of the two murdered women and Mr Patterson's partner.The ferocity of the attack has since prompted police to take her and other members of the family into protective custody.Police know that on the afternoon before the killings, three men knocked on doors, trying to establish which flat the family lived in. There was no sign of forced entry and the flat was not ransacked.Detective Superintendent Gary Richardson said: "This is a horrific crime, a family devastated by a triple murder. The whole community has been shocked by this violence and we currently have high visibility patrols in the area to help reassure residents. We must trace the people responsible as soon as possible."Lee Jasper, the policing adviser to the mayor of London, toured the crime scene yesterday and declared the killings to be a new low in depravity."This murder represents one of the most horrific killings ever experienced by the black community in London; a new low," he said. "I shall be asking that the police put all the resources possible into catching those responsible as quickly as possible."Mr Jasper, chairman of the Met's Operation Trident Independent Advisory Group - which specialises in gun crime - said the nature of the killings has devastated those working to improve the Stonebridge Estate."A lot of good work has been done. This is a setback but I know people will come forward with the information to catch these killers."As information is relayed to the police, they are beginning to build up a picture of the hours before the killers struck. They know that three men entered Clark Court, where the family lived, between 8.30pm and 9.30pm last Thursday.One resident said they knocked on her door asking for someone called "Kally". She claimed that some minutes afterwards she heard gunshots.The men all wore hooded tops. Two were 6ft tall, the other one was shorter. But officers have also found a witness who claims to have seen both Connie and Lorna Morrison on the balcony at Clark Court between 10pm and 10.30pm the same evening, laughing and joking with a black male. Police are asking him to come forward.The bodies were discovered at 2.55pm the following day. Later it emerged that people had heard gunshots and a baby crying, but no one had realised the significance and no one rang the police.Yesterday on the estate, the shock was palpable. Police have cordoned off the fourth floor landing and were checking the identities of those who entered."I would see the girls standing by the window talking on their mobile phones," said a neighbour. "This is a terrible day for Stonebridge."