Several high profile figures backed Myra Hindley's appeals for release because of her apparent remorse.Her supporters said that Ian Brady had coerced her into the murders, that she had served too long and that she had truly come to terms with her guilt. But she lost two of her staunchest allies last year, when David Astor, the former editor of the Observer, and Lord Longford, the prison campaigner, died within a few months of each other. Astor offered financial support, at one point paying £250 a month through a charity to support her in prison, and his wife Bridget was also said to support Hindley's release. Lord Longford visited many notorious criminals and said he followed the biblical imperative to "hate the sin, but love the sinner". He once told the Sunday Telegraph: "She was totally unlike that picture of her with blonde hair and staring eyes that appears in all the papers. She was a quiet, dark woman. I took to her at once. Many people have done terrible things. The point about Myra is that she was a good Catholic girl before she met Brady ... She fell under his spell." He added: "She has become very religious, really religious, like Jonathan Aitken. These people are haunted by their own crimes." Lord Longford perceived her 1987 confession to the murders of Pauline Reade, 16, and Keith Bennett, 12 - and her return to Saddleworth moor to assist the search for their bodies - as another sign of reform. Others suggested she was hoping to win parole. But the peer stopped visiting her after her advisers - many of whom he had recruited - began to fear that the publicity he caused had done harm to her cause by raising her profile. Hindley impressed many of the professionals and campaigners who met her. Nina Wilde, a Dutch criminologist who was studying life in British jails, was struck by her "sharp mind and great wit" and became her partner, though they later split up. Ms Wilde argued that no one should spend so long in jail and said the murderer had become a political prisoner because home secretaries were terrified of the backlash if she was released. Hindley's priest is said to have described her as "a truly spiritual woman".