A teenager from Angola who shot one woman dead as she cradled a baby and went on to fatally stab another 15 days later was jailed for a minimum of 30 years at the Old Bailey yesterday. Roberto Malasi was the eldest of a gang of armed robbers who burst into a christening party and fired a pistol shot into the air which killed Zainab Kalokoh, 33, a mother of two, instantly.Two weeks later, as police sought him for the killing of Mrs Kalokoh, he dragged Ruth Okechukwu, a pastor's daughter aged 18, from her car and stabbed her through the heart because he believed she had shown him disrespect. He was 16 at the time. The judge said Malasi's actions were "the more chilling" because he killed so soon after shooting Mrs Kalokoh in south London in August 2005.Gang members Diamond Babamuboni, 17, his brother, Timy, 15, and Jude Odigie, 16, all from Nigeria, were given indeterminate sentences for public protection. They were convicted of Mrs Kalokoh's manslaughter and robbery and were ordered to serve a minimum of eight years in jail.Members of Mrs Kalokoh's family said they were disappointed with the length of sentence.The judge conceded in court that although there were doubts about the real ages of the Babamuboni brothers, he had to sentence them as juveniles on the basis of the ages they gave.Police said they had no powers to force dental tests which would reveal how old they were and admitted they may have got away with lighter sentences as a result.The gang had targeted the party in a community centre on the Wood Dene Estate in Peckham as they believed the African guests would traditionally be carrying a lot of money. They burst in wearing masks and armed with guns.As Mrs Kalokoh lay bleeding to death with a bullet in her head, they began methodically stripping the other guests of their belongings and placing them in plastic bags. The baby in her arms, Adama Yalie, was unharmed. Mr Justice Gross told the defendants: "What you four did that night was evil. In a cruel irony, many of the guests had come to this country to escape the violence of Sierra Leone."The youths had all denied charges in relation to Mrs Kalokoh's death but were found guilty in December.Last month, Malasi, who recently turned 18, pleaded guilty to stabbing Ms Okechukwu in September 2005 after a telephone row the previous day. He dragged the student teacher from a car in south London and stabbed her six times, once in the heart, as she tried to defend herself.While in custody for her killing he was charged with Mrs Kalokoh's murder some months later. The judge said there was no precedent for someone under 18 committing two unrelated murders.He recommended that Diamond Babamuboni be deported to Nigeria at the end of his sentence and strongly urged the Home Office to reconsider the deportation of Malasi, who has the legal right to remain in Britain, and that of Timy Babamuboni and Odigie, who are too young to deport.Outside the court, Ms Okechukwu's father, Ben, a pastor of a Pentecostal church in south London, paid tribute to his "warm, forthright and ambitious" daughter and said that he forgave Malasi, although his wife, Pauline, did not.Both agreed that Malasi should be deported. Mr Okechukwu said his daughter had "so much to offer the community and the nation".But asked about Malasi, the minister added: "For me personally, as a man of God, I feel sorry for him and I forgive him because he has no sense of belonging. He has been left behind by his parents and of course, from the Christian point of view, he doesn't know what his crimes are."There is no relationship between him and other men. He doesn't see human beings as other human beings. He thinks human beings are animals."He called for an end to a culture in which for some youths carrying a knife was a "mature business" and status symbol.His wife said: "He has not only taken Ruth's life, he has taken my life as well. When he's finished his sentence he will go back to his own country and he will still be alive and my daughter will not be here. I love my daughter so much and she will never be forgotten."Members of Mrs Kalokoh's family, who were also in court, told police they were disappointed and would like to have seen longer sentences.Detective Chief Inspector Adnan Qureshi said: "Given the circumstances of all the incidents I am content with the sentence. I hope it goes some way to consoling the families."He added that the lifestyles of the brothers suggested they were "a lot older" than they claimed to have been.Diamond Babamuboni, 17, has two children, one now aged three.Both brothers produced false birth certificates and refused dental tests which would have revealed their true ages.BackstoryRoberto Malasi is the son of an Angolan asylum seeker, also called Roberto, 43, who came to Britain in the 1990s after his first wife, Chantelle, died in Africa. As a dependant of his father, Malasi was granted indefinite leave to remain in 1999. But his father, who remarried, had little to do with his son.He took him back to Angola when he was 10 or 11 where he effectively abandoned him to a life of chaos. He lived with family and friends in a country beset by civil war.On July 31, 2002 Roberto Malasi snr became naturalised as a British citizen but his children were not. In mitigation, Sir John Nutting, QC, told the court Malasi had been abused and neglected and that his moral reasoning had been "distorted by his early life". By the time he was 16, he was back in Britain and was living rough on the streets of Peckham.When he killed Zainab Kalokoh he had no previous convictions. But he was to kill another woman, Ruth Okechukwu, 18, two weeks later.The day after, Malasi turned up at a police station to complain he had been accused of being involved in the murders. A sample of blood was found on his left trainer and he was arrested.