Police investigating the disappearance of an 11-year-old boy in Bury arrested a teenage boy on suspicion of murder yesterday, one hour after discovering a body in a nearby park. Both boys attended St Gabriel's Roman Catholic high school in Ainsworth, Bury.On Wednesday evening police searched the local area for Joe Geeling, described by his grandmother as a "normal, sensible, level-headed boy".He failed to come home from school and was last seen making the 15-minute walk home in the afternoon.Greater Manchester police said he normally walked home with a friend, but she was absent from school on Wednesday and he is understood to have undertaken the half-mile journey alone.He had never gone missing before, and his family told police that his disappearance was "extremely our of character".Soon after he was reported missing, the boy's parents, Thomas and Gwen Geeling, joined police and 30 members of the Bolton mountain rescue team in a search of the area, as overnight temperatures fell to -5C (23F).At 11am yesterday a body was found hidden in a gully next to an area of grassland at Whitehead park, around a mile north-west of the school, in the opposite direction to Joe's home.About one hour later, police arrested another boy, aged 14 and from the same school, on suspicion of murder.The park was cordoned off and subjected to a detailed forensic examination, although the body had not been moved or identified as forensic officers searched for clues. A police spokesman said there had been an attempt to conceal the body.As friends and relatives of Joe Geeling gathered outside his home yesterday, neighbours spoke of the community's shock at his disappearance. One neighbour, who asked not to be named, said: "They're a very nice family. It's terrible what's happened. Joe had cystic fibrosis [a disease of the lungs] but you wouldn't have known it. He could ride a bike and he was active."Another neighbour, John Whittaker, said: "Joe was just a wonderful, wonderful boy and everybody you speak to will tell you exactly the same. We're just devastated about the news."By the afternoon, parents were arriving early to pick up their children from St Gabriel's school. "We're all completely shocked to say the least," a teacher said. "The school is still open. A few parents have been to pick up their children but most of the pupils are still in school."The headteacher, Eddie Robinson, said: "Earlier this morning we were informed by the police that a body has been found in Whitehead Park. We are aware that we have a pupil missing from school - Joe Geeling. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family at this time."We have also been informed that at midday today a 14-year-old boy was arrested on suspicion of murder. This boy is a pupil at St Gabriel's Roman Catholic high school."Superintendent Peter Scofield said the 14-year-old had been arrested at school. He added that he could not directly link the disappearance of Joe Geeling and the discovery of the body, but there was a "strong possibility" that the two incidents were linked. "Joe's family must be incredibly anxious," he said. "His parents are waiting, as we all are, for further information and must be desperately concerned."