Most of the reaction to yesterday's crime statistics will predictably focus on the worst aspect - a sharp rise (9%) in the amount of violent crime reported to the police. This is disturbing and should be viewed seriously, but it almost certainly exaggerates the underlying trend, since it includes improvements in the way the police report crime and the increased willingness of victims of sexual assaults to go to the police.The wider picture of crime - as reported in separate figures in the British Crime Survey also released yesterday - is more encouraging. According to the BCS, there has been a 5% reduction in violent crime as part of a similar fall in the rate of crime overall. Paul Cavadino, chief executive of the crime-reduction charity Nacro, commented: "For the overwhelming majority of us, the risk of falling victim to criminal or anti-social behaviour is the lowest it has been in over two decades".This is not surprising given the continuous rise in economic wealth and reduction of unemployment over the past 11 years, which have reduced incentives for crime (though also increased anti-social behaviour among high spenders in pubs and similar places). But the general improvement in crime should not obscure the fact that there are still parts of the country where gun violence, often related to drugs, is a very serious problem. Gun crime slowed down from a 35% rise in 2001-02 to 3% in the year to April 2003. The proportion of robberies involving guns has remained at 5% or less for five years and in the vast majority of cases the weapon is not fired.But any deterioration at all in gun culture is unacceptable. The government's plans for gun crime include a five-year mandatory sentence for carrying an illegal weapon. This has some merit, although it allows no discretion for judges at a time when prison overcrowding is rampant. The government must also increase its efforts to stamp out the supply of illegal weapons. Air guns that can - and are - turned into lethal weapons can still be legally bought. That is absolutely absurd since three-quarters of weapons seized on the streets by Scotland Yard are adapted air guns. But none of this should detract from the fact that Britain as a whole is still a relatively safe place. Gun-related murders in the US are 35 times as high as in England and Wales. Well thought out policies can bring results - as witness the 7% fall in vehicle thefts. Measures to combat mobile phone thefts are also producing results. Curiously, one measure that does not seem to work is putting more bobbies on the beat.