The relaxation of the licensing laws has failed to reduce drunken violence while costing taxpayers £100m, a report claimed today. A survey by the Local Government Association (LGA) found that around seven in 10 police authorities, primary care trusts and councils had seen either no change or an increase in alcohol-related disorder. And at the same time as adding to the cost to council taxpayers, the new licensing laws – which make it easier for pubs to stay open past 11pm – have stretched resources, with 86% of health authorities and 94% of councils reporting increased pressure. The findings were based on responses from 51 local authorities, 49 primary care trusts and 20 police forces. Around a third of primary care trusts said they had experienced a rise in alcohol-related incidents. Meanwhile, half of police authorities reported that the 2003 Licensing Act had simply led to alcohol-related disorder occurring later at night than prior to the new rules. The LGA claimed that administering the act, which involved more than 190,000 pubs, restaurants and clubs being issued with new licences, and monitoring it had cost local authorities more than £100m.Sir Simon Milton, chairman of the LGA, said: "The new drinks laws have made no impact whatsoever on reducing the alcohol-related violence that blights town centres and turns them into no-go areas on a Friday and Saturday night. "The vast majority of local councils, police and hospitals have reported no change at all, with violent incidents generally just being shifted later into the evening. "The government was always going to fall short on its promises to curb excessive drinking because new licensing laws alone were never going to be enough to change this endemic culture of alcohol and violence. The new system was burdened with exaggerated expectations as it was never a single solution to alcohol-related disorder." He added: "It seems that we have a deep-rooted social and cultural problem in this country in the way that we view alcohol that cannot be addressed by one simple piece of legislation. It will take years, possibly decades of concerted action across the board. Milton called for a wide-ranging national debate about the availability of alcohol and how to reduce consumption.