As ever, my last post on Cif caused a major kerfuffle among those who refuse to accept that male violence towards women is endemic. The statistics I used to show the commonplace nature of rape, sexual assault and domestic violence are credible figures from government departments and major, respected NGOs.But there will always be those, mainly men, who refuse to accept the facts, and who are in denial about the dire situation. So today I am turning my attention to something which surely even the most hardened misogynists will find it difficult to argue with: support for the victims/survivors of sexual violence.Over the past year we have heard about how rape crisis centres have been closing down at the rate of two per month. There is no central government funding for the type of specialist care and advice desperately needed by women who experience the unique and deeply traumatising effects of sexual brutality. But one scheme, which has been running in London for a year, is a brilliant example of what we should be demanding the government rolls out and funds across the UK, for the simple reason that it works.The Amina Scheme, run by Eaves (a London-based organisation which works to eliminate all aspects of violence against women) is a support and befriending scheme for women who have been raped, sexually assaulted or abused at any time in their lives. Amina uses a peer-mentoring method. Women using the scheme are supported by specially trained volunteers – women who have themselves experienced sexual violence in the past. The volunteers are not "professionals", restricted to providing support for a booked slot in a surgery once a week, they are real women who can provide a listening ear over a coffee, come along to an STI check, give information about how women often react to sexual attacks and empathise with feelings, fears and worries.Amina is not a counselling service, but it works alongside counselling and other support services and acts as a bridge between the woman and other forms of specialist help and support. This scheme is unique in the UK. It should not be. The government should pilot Amina in every town and city in the UK. At present, Amina operates on a shoestring, so has only been able to facilitate small numbers of women taking part. Even so, during the time Amina has been operational, 10 women, all of whom have experienced sexual violence themselves, have been trained to be volunteers, and have, between them, supported many women who might have had nowhere to go if Amina had not been available to them. But what about women in other areas of the UK? Should they not have the option of being supported by women who know exactly what they are going through? Not only that, but if and when these women feel able, they can themselves train to become supporters themselves, and feel what one service user called the "immense satisfaction" of helping women who come after them.The scheme is hard work. Volunteers meet with women once a week, meet with scheme organisers once at month and check in with one another to debrief and chat. It's a heavy commitment, but it has rewards. Women using the scheme change through their time with it. They gain access to counselling, group support and language classes. Women who were unable to travel at night are now socialising. Those with substance misuse issues have remained "clean" and some women have decided to report abusers to the police.But Amina is not just about the women using the scheme, the volunteers running it are also seeing rewards. Volunteers have new skills, new understandings of violence against women, one described it as being "like a feminist, waking up roaring inside". There are new career opportunities, new life opportunities and a chance to see themselves as supporters, not just survivors.The volunteers have attended reclaim the night marches, international women's day events, undergone self-defence training, and represented the scheme at the Guardian women's pages 50th party last year.Cat Whitehouse, the Amina coordinator, is excited and inspired by the results of the scheme so far. "We've all been struck by the strength of Amina women," says Whitehouse. "The volunteers, the women using the scheme, they're amazing, powerful women who have survived so much and still have so much to give. It's awe-inspiring."