Personal details of thousands of mobile phone customers have been stolen and sold to rival firms in the biggest data breach of its kind, the government's privacy watchdog said today.An employee of phone operator T-Mobile sold the customer records, including details of when contracts expired. The millions of items of information were sold on for "substantial sums", the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) said. Rival networks and mobile phone retailers then tried to lure away T-Mobile customers by "cold calling".The commissioner's office is pushing for stronger powers to halt the unlawful trade in personal data, which is growing due to cut-throat competition among mobile phone companies. They pay hefty commissions to anyone signing up customers to contracts lasting up to two years.The ICO did not name the network, but a spokesman for T-Mobile confirmed it "proactively" approached the watchdog after finding evidence that an employee, who has left the company, had been illegally selling customer details. "We have since put systems in place to minimise the risk of it happening again," a T-Mobile spokesman said.The employee allegedly sold the account information to a number of "brokers", who sold the data on. "The number of records involved runs into the millions, and it appears that substantial amounts of money changed hands," the ICO said. It had raided a number of premises and was preparing a prosecution file."Many people will have wondered why and how they are being contacted by someone they do not know just before their existing phone contract is about to expire," said the information commissioner, Christopher Graham."We are considering the evidence with a view to prosecuting those responsible and I am keen to go much further and close down the entire unlawful industry in personal data."T-Mobile expressed "surprise" that the commissioner's office had gone public before bringing any cases to court. "Up until today we were asked to keep this issue confidential for legal reasons, and we are surprised to see this has been made public," a spokesman said.The ICO is pushing for breaches of data protection law to be punishable with jail sentences, not just fines. News of the phone scam was part of the watchdog's submission to a Ministry of Justice inquiry into the use of prison for the known or reckless misuse of personal data.To back up its call for custodial sentencing, the ICO said it was investigating a separate case in which forged identity documents were used to gain unlawful access to 41 people's credit files held by a credit reference agency. Police have investigated a number of incidents where their own staff have unlawfully accessed people's personal details from the olice national computer.In 2007 a 79-year-old man died shortly after a brick was thrown through his living room window. He had been involved in a dispute with a woman over a parking space. The woman's husband had asked a serving police officer to identify the pensioner's address, which he and his brother then visited. They were both convicted of manslaughter. The police officer was fined £1,200 and resigned from the force.In the past calls for misuse of data to be punished with a prison term have lead to concerns this could hamper investigative journalism. The ICO has stressed the public interest defence to claims under data protection laws.Graham said fines were paltry. "More and more personal information is being collected and held by government, public authorities and businesses. In the future, as new systems are developed and there is more and more interconnection of these systems, the risks of unlawful obtaining and disclosure become even greater. If public trust and confidence in the proper handling of personal information, whether by government or by others, is to be maintained, effective sanctions are essential."Cold calls and compensationWhat customer details were passed on in the scam?A customer's name, address, phone number and the date on which their mobile phone contract ended. The data theft did not include call records or financial data such as bank account or credit card numbers.I am one of T-Mobile's 16.6 million UK customers. How can I find out if my details have been passed on?The scam only targeted T-Mobile's contract customers. If you use a pay as you go mobile phone you are in the clear. T-Mobile estimates that the details of several hundred thousand contract customers were passed on.What do I do, if I receive a cold call offering me a great deal?Take the details of the caller, the company they represent and the deal they are offering. Then hang up and check to see whether their deal is best on online comparison sites such as www.moneysupermarket.com and the websites of the two largest independent mobile phone retailers, Carphone Warehouse and Phones4U.I have already received a cold call and think I was miss-sold a new contract. What can I do?If you cannot resolve your problem with the retailer that sold you the contract or the mobile phone network itself, you can complain direct to Ofcom. It is also worth talking to Consumer Direct.Will there be any compensation for the breach of data protection at T-Mobile?It looks very unlikely.