A beauty salon owner remained "calm and controlled" as she stared into the barrels of a shotgun moments before her lover's wife shot her dead, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.Lorna Stewart greeted her alleged murderer, Rena Salmon, before asking "So you have come to shoot me?", according to a witness, Lindsey Rees. Ms Salmon, 43, whose husband Paul was having an affair with Ms Stewart, replied: "Yes," the jury heard. Ms Rees, a bookkeeper at the salon in Chiswick, west London, told the court she was working in a downstairs office with Ms Stewart, 36, when Ms Salmon appeared in the doorway. The alleged murderer and the victim had a "very controlled conversation", she said. "Neither was hysterical. They were very calm. Lorna was extremely calm in the circumstances. Rena had no emotion on her face or inflection in her voice." Ms Stewart asked what would happen to Ms Salmon's children if she opened fire. She replied they would be looked after by Mr Salmon. The bookkeeper said Ms Salmon, a former army corporal, was holding the gun by her side, pointing it down very close to Ms Stewart. "She was looking at Lorna. She never looked anywhere else," said Ms Rees. After the first shot, Ms Stewart "tipped over on the floor". Ms Rees added: "I jumped up. I ran round the back to the stairs. I got out as quickly as I could up the stairs. When I got to the stairs I heard another shot." Ms Rees said electricians working in the shop were coming down the stairs thinking something had blown. "I was just screaming that Lorna had been shot. I shouted to call the police and ambulance." The Old Bailey was told the electricians had joked and put up their hands in mock alarm as Ms Salmon entered the shop with the shotgun, which belonged to her husband. One of them, Robert Hogg, said: "She was totally composed. She was not nervous or agitated in any way. I said jokingly 'Don't shoot' and held my hands up, laughing. She did not react to our joke, but just went into the shop." A colleague, Darryl Springer, said Ms Salmon seemed small next to the gun. "I did not think the gun was real. I thought it was a toy," he added. A friend of Ms Salmon's, Leonie Griffin, told the court that after the incident she received a text message from her saying "I shot Lorna". She rang her and told her she hoped she was joking. She said Ms Salmon replied: "No, I have shot her, once in the back and once in the side and she is lying on the floor." Mrs Griffin asked if Ms Stewart was alive; Ms Salmon said she did not know. "She was very calm," Mrs Griffin said. She said Ms Salmon was still in love with her husband and always thought there was a chance of a reconciliation. She had told her she was going to "cripple" Ms Stewart so she could not have sex with Mr Salmon. Mrs Griffin said: "She was very angry. She felt Paul was getting everything and she was not getting anything." Another witness, Martine Burns, said Ms Salmon had sent text messages to Ms Stewart threatening to kill her after the affair was discovered. Ms Burns said: "She had so many she had to change her mobile. They were mainly texts. They were words to the effect 'I am going to kill you'." Ms Salmon, from Great Shefford, Berkshire, denies murder on September 10 last year. The trial continues.