Senior customs officers set up an illegal drugs operation and allowed nearly 2 kgs of heroin to get on to the streets of Britain, a jury heard yesterday. They misled their bosses, secretly worked with a fugitive drug smuggler wanted in this country and gave away enough heroin as a sample for dealers to sell to finance a much larger £3.5m bulk shipment from Pakistan.The court was told that senior investigating officer Peter Robinson, case officer David Platt and drug liaison officer John Barker deliberately broke the rules and procedures governing their conduct to set up the operation, codenamed Serin, to bring in 35 kgs of heroin in a controlled delivery supervised by Customs.All three men deny misconduct in a public office. Sheffield crown court heard that paperwork was kept to a minimum to disguise the exact amount in the shipment to allow a "large sample" to be given to a dealer in Leeds. This sample - at least 1.7 kgs and worth around £170,000 at street level - could then be sold to raise enough money to pay the suppliers in Pakistan and protect the credibility of a regular customs informant there.The operation was illegal from start to finish and designed to be self-financing, said Sasha Wass QC, prosecuting. It was set up in Leeds with a convicted drug dealer recently released from prison. There was never any intention of recovering the lost sample and surveillance was designed allow the courier to get away.The jury heard a secretly recorded tape of a telephone conversation between Robinson and Barker in which they work out how to breach customs rules and guidelines and hide the true size of the sample - normally around 5-10 grams and just enough for dealers to test drug purity.Robinson ends by saying: "OK, we may get some stick [over breaking the rules], but you can leave that to us to sort out. If you are happy, I am happy." Barker is alleged to have been deliberately vague about the size of the shipment when obtaining Pakistani permission for the operation to cover up the large sample they planned to give the dealers in the UK.Robinson and Platt are said to have set up two meetings with the courier in Leeds - one for the more usual 5 gram sample and another two days later for the much larger one which they agreed could be as much as 1kg. The courier eventually got away with 1.7kg after being videoed meeting a Customs informant and being allowed to tip as much as he wanted from plastic containers stored in a warehouse.Attempts to follow the courier and recover the drugs were alleged to have been deliberately mismanaged. Afterwards, Robinson was said to have bragged about losing the drugs and even exaggerated the amount when he talked to colleagues.When Operation Serin was investigated by police, Robinson is alleged to have lied to detectives and tried to blame others for the loss of the drugs. He also lied repeatedly under oath in court about another operation, code named Begonia, said Miss Wass.In Operation Begonia, which involved the importation of a large amount of cocaine, he had falsified informant log records to ensure the case was successful, and lied on oath, said Miss Wass.The trial continues.