A major extension to the powers of police community support officers, dealing with beggars and underage drinkers and searching suspects for weapons, forms part of the police reform proposals published by the home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday.The shakeup of police powers also includes plans to sweep away the confusing legal patchwork of arrestable and non-arrestable offences. Instead the police will be given a blanket power of arrest for every criminal offence but will be able to exercise it only if they can demonstrate it was necessary in the circumstances.A Home Office spokesman said it was nonsense to suggest this would mean people facing arrest for littering if they dropped a crisp packet, as alleged by some critics yesterday.The overhaul includes a new power to impose conditions on all demonstrations at Westminster and ban long-term protests in Parliament Square, such as the anti-war protesters who have maintained a noisy vigil for more than a year.The police will also gain powers to fingerprint and photograph suspects without having first to return to the police station, wider powers to demand drug tests of those arrested, and stronger powers to use search warrants.The proposals in the Home Office consultation paper, Modernising Police Powers to Meet Community Needs, is expected to form part of the crime and policing legislation to be introduced this autumn.The police minister, Hazel Blears, said the changes over the power of arrest were designed to resolve confusion over the law rather than result in many more arrests. She said the current arrest rules were "complex and often bewildering". The general principle was that crimes with sentences of at least five years carried the power of arrest, but there were many exceptions on the statute book. Breach of the peace in particular has become a "catch-all" offence used to ensure a suspect is taken to the police station."We are saying we could make every offence arrestable but what we are also saying is that you have to show that it was necessary in these circumstances," said Ms Blears. Liberty, the human rights group, complained that this extra discretion for officers could carry a danger of arbitrary and discriminatory use.But it is the proposals to extend the powers of community support officers - civilian patrol staff whose numbers are set to rise from 4,000 to 24,000 in the next four years - that attracted most criticism. The CSOs already have the power to issue on-the-spot fines and detain somebody for 30 minutes until a constable arrives. But the consultation paper envisages a major extension of their role so more fully-trained police officers are free to concentrate on other duties. Ministers would like to see them given powers to issue warnings to beggars, confiscate alcohol from underage drinkers, enforce local bylaws, direct traffic and search some suspects for weapons. Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said the proposal could blur the line between CSOs and the police and devalue the work of trained officers. "Searching suspects and arresting them is the job of the police," he said. Even the Association of Chief Police Officers voiced their reservations. Vice-president Denis O'Connor said there was a need to rationalise some of the powers CSOs held. "However we would sound a note of caution at any major extension of powers for CSOs before the Home Office evaluation [of them] is complete." A Leeds University study of their impact in West Yorkshire suggests they can make a difference to public perceptions of safety and crime levels.