Special Branch, the famed and feared police squad formed 120 years ago to combat extremism, is to lose its elite status following the creation of a new 2000-strong unit geared to fighting terrorism.The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, yesterday announced the end for one of Scotland Yard's most distinctive squads as part of a modernisation programme to address the heightened threat from terrorists.Sources at Scotland Yard said the move was planned before the bombing atrocities in London in July but that the resolve to go ahead was strengthened by the extent to which Special Branch, the Anti Terrorist Squad and MI5 worked together in the aftermath of the attacks.Sir Ian refused to speculate on whether the title Special Branch would disappear. The merged unit is expected to be called the Counter Terrorism Command."The most important thing is to have a unit that delivers," said one source.There is also to be a directorate dealing with buildings security, including that of the Palace of Westminster, and another for the protection of individuals at high risk.But, at the same time, senior officers envisage a rapid expansion in London of localised, ward-based policing which will see constables and community support officers patrolling in close proximity but singly instead of in pairs.The plans envisage the expansion throughout London of the Safer Neighbourhood programme, the community policing strategy piloted in the capital and strongly endorsed by Tony Blair and ministers.Subject to finance, policing teams would be rolled out to each of London's 624 wards in the next financial year, 12 months ahead of schedule. Each ward will get a dedicated team of one sergeant, two police constables and three community support officers. The commissioner also plans to create networks dealing with specialist crime."All of this is about moving people from support services to frontline services," Sir Ian said. "It is a package that delivers Safer Neighbourhoods to everyone in London ... that asks officers to walk as much as possible by themselves so they are accessible to the public."Ken Livingstone, the mayor of London, said the community policing expansion might lead to a 12p rise in the council precept - the proportion of council tax that goes on essential services. He said Downing Street has been briefed on the proposed changes.The changes arise from a service review conducted by the assistant commissioner, Alan Brown, which identified about £150m worth of savings. One element would see some of the capital's outdated 1930s police stations sold off and replaced with out-of-town deployment centres. Sir Ian also hopes there will be more officers in shops, hospitals and local government buildings.There are 600 Special Branch and about 800 Anti Terrorist Branch officers. In practice, the merged units will work as they do now, with Special Branch amassing intelligence and passing key details to anti-terrorist officers for action.The Met also intends to invest more in the training of frontline staff and to set up a leadership academy. It hopes new telephone systems will improve public accessibility.John O'Connor, former head of Scotland Yard's Flying Squad, said the changes affecting Special Branch were understandable. "A lot of what they do is duplicated by MI5 so it may be time to call it a day," he said.Mr O'Connor added that Special Branch's role in protecting politicians had always allowed it to resist calls for change. "Margaret Thatcher in particular liked the tradition of the Special Branch guys. She liked the fact that they were elite and above average. But they have been living on past glories."However, he said the notion of an officer patrolling singly was an unfortunate one. "How can they be sure that their colleagues will be in sight. Are we going to re-introduce whistles and lanterns?"Special Branch was formed in 1883 as the Metropolitan police Special Irish Branch to combat "Fenian" terrorism.