Explosive new documents reveal that senior Ofsted officials systematically "beefed up" a key inspectors' report used by the children's secretary, Ed Balls, to justify the controversial removal from office of the Haringey children's services head Sharon Shoesmith in the wake of the Baby P furore, her lawyers claim today.They say the documents show that successive drafts of the report, the final version of which painted a "devastating" picture of failings in the north London council's children's social services department, were deliberately "strengthened" to target Shoesmith after the Ofsted officials were told by a senior Whitehall official that Balls had demanded "clear attribution of responsibility".Top Ofsted managers involved in the editing of later drafts removed sections that acknowledged Shoesmith's positive achievements in Haringey, added new passages that put her in a unfavourable light, and cut passages relating to shortcomings by the police and the local NHS, according to the documents, which were released to the media today following a legal application by the Guardian and other newspapers.Papers submitted by lawyers acting for Balls describe the allegations as "sound and fury". In a submission they reject the suggestion of political involvement or interference in the JAR process, and deny that Ofsted officials were influenced by statements made by civil servants from Balls's office.A spokesperson for the Department of Children, Schools and Families said that its evidence to the court "firmly rebuts" Shoesmith's claims. She added: "We await the judge's decision before providing any further comment."Ofsted, in its own court submission, argues there is nothing in the leaked documents that contradicts its case. "They [Shoesmith's lawyers] have failed to unearth any smoking gun."Running to thousands of pages, the emails include several draft versions of the report, known as a joint area review (JAR). Ofsted had previously told Shoesmith's lawyers that the drafts no longer existed or could not be located. The emails emerged by chance at the end of the judicial review court hearing into Shoesmith's dismissal, after the judge had formally finished hearing evidence.The JAR underpinned Balls's summary removal of Shoesmith from her £130,000-a-year post as director of children's services in Haringey. Explaining his decision at a press conference on 1 December 2008, Balls said it showed that she was "unfit to lead" and that "the leadership and management" of safeguarding in Haringey was inadequate. A week later Shoesmith was sacked without compensation by Haringey council.In a submission to the judge, Shoesmith's lawyer James Maurici said it was "beyond dispute" that Balls "interfered" with the JAR. He had "forced" Ofsted to report to him even though its website declares that it "does not report to ministers", and he had "mandated" it to diverge from normal inspection protocols. "If these undisputed facts do not show 'interference with the process' it is difficult to think what would," Maurici said.Shoesmith is claiming that the actions of Balls, Ofsted and Haringey council were "unfair" and in breach of natural justice, and have left her penniless and practically unemployable. All three parties contest the application.In a submission to the court, lawyers for Balls said it was "strongly denied" that the writing of the JAR was influenced by his officials.Ofsted said today that it stood by the inspection and the team that produced it. Changes to the drafts were "normal practice", and the final version of the JAR report reflected the concerns of the first draft that safeguarding arrangements for children in Haringey were inadequate.Lawyers acting for Shoesmith claim the documents show that:• David Bell, the permanent secretary at the Department for Children, Schools and Families (DCSF), told Ofsted officials that he required "definitive evidence on which the minister can act" and that Balls wanted "clear attribution of responsibility" and comment on Baby P to "bring closure on the public debate".• Inspectors privately raised concerns that a number of additions to the reports made in early drafts were either "too harsh", "insufficiently evidenced" or in breach of inspection protocols – but they were ignored by senior Ofsted officials working on the final drafts.• Ofsted inspectors and officials made a series of "false, misleading or materially incomplete" witness statements about the drafting of the report to the court during the judicial review hearing last November.• An Ofsted official ordered colleagues to delete emails relating to Haringey and Baby P during the drafting of the JAR report. At some point there was "extensive deletion" of emails relating to drafts of the report by up to 17 individuals within Ofsted.• Shoesmith was not shown any of the 17 drafts of the inspection report, given any indication of the severity of the report or allowed to question its findings, in contravention of normal inspection protocol.• The first draft of the JAR report contained 12 recommendations related to multi-agency working, 11 for the NHS, eight for social care and three for the police. By the final draft all recommendations for health and the police had disappeared.Maurici claims documents reveal that top officials – including Bell – had met Ofsted managers during the inspection, during which they laid down requirements for how the report was to be published and what its scope was to be.Ofsted officials were told that Balls wanted "definitive evidence on which the minister can act", says Maurici. At other meetings Bell made it clear Balls wanted "clear findings not a fudge", and Ofsted officials were told by the DCSF that the chief inspector, Christine Gilbert, "remains in no doubt as to what Ofsted needs to do with the inspection".Maurici said the revelations made it clear that Ofsted sought a "glass half empty" inspection. The documentation "seriously undermines the credibility" of Ofsted and those inspectors and officials involved in the drafting of the report, including Gilbert."Ofsted should have acted as an independent, impartial expert," Maurici said. "Its action throughout the inspection process and this litigation have fallen far short of what should have been expected from this organisation."Shoesmith's lawyer Maurici said: "The picture that emerges is that the inspectors produce a first draft report which is far less critical of, in particular, the council than the final version, and which contains much that is positive. The draft is then altered through comments from managers within Ofsted, some of whom were not part of the inspection team at all and others who had limited roles in the inspection process."Some of the same managers involved in the drafting process were attending meetings at the DCSF with the secretary of state and senior officials. Their notes, said Maurici, reveal that they were told by Bell that the "report must be clear in its judgments and attribution of responsibility".Ofsted in its court response says: "There are suggestions in the claimant's [Shoesmith's] response that Ofsted may have simply manufactured evidence, deliberately destroyed documents to thwart the proceedings, succumbed to political pressure and may have even committed criminal offences. None of these allegations – or rather, suggestions – are remotely made out."A spokesperson for Ofsted added: "Ofsted's inspection was not about Sharon Shoesmith – it was about arrangements for safeguarding children and young people in the London borough of Haringey. This was a strong and robust inspection carried out by experienced, qualified and professional inspectors who reported without fear or favour. We stand by the inspection and the team."Ofsted inspectors found that arrangements for safeguarding children and young people in Haringey in November 2008 were inadequate; this meant vulnerable children were at risk when they should have been protected. At no point in this court action has anyone questioned the validity of that finding, which was confirmed by a different team six months later."It is our normal practice that reports are drafted, edited and finalised. It is simply wrong to suggest that a first draft won't be changed and improved. Ofsted inspections routinely undergo a process which involves challenge, review and moderation to ensure that all findings are fair and properly evidenced."The emails came to light after an Ofsted official, Philip Pullen, discovered emails with drafts of the report attached in a folder on his computer. Shoesmith's lawyer Maurici said Pullen appeared to be the only one of up to 17 Ofsted officials party to the emails who had kept them.The watchdog was guilty of "lamentable failures" to comply with its duty of candour before the court and in responses to requests for disclosure, Maurici said. "The explanations offered for these failures are wholly inadequate and lack credibility."Ofsted's failures had "seriously impacted" on Shoesmith, he said. "She has also been greatly affected by … the ways in which the report was changed by removing positives and 'beefing up' negatives as a result of input from Ofsted managers."Mr Justice Foskett, who is hearing the judicious review, is expected to deliver his verdict after Easter.Uncovered: The key documentsAmong the documents released yesterday were transcriptions of handwritten notes, emails between members of the inspection team and new witness statements. They included:• Handwritten notes by deputy lead inspector Mary Ryan, recording a meeting of the inspection team on 18 November: "Major issue from Phil [Pullen, in charge of "quality assurance"]. Any emails on system Baby P or Haringey are deleted. URGENT!" Ryan's notes - all 70 pages of them - were discovered by chance within the watchdog's files after the hearings in Shoesmith's case had ended. Her lawyers say this instruction seems to be about freedom of information, but Ofsted insists it was related to concerns about data security. It was rescinded soon after, though not before some messages had been deleted, and was an "honest mistake" the watchdog says. • Email from Roger Shippam, to senior Ofsted official, Christine Gilbert, the head of Ofsted, 12.12pm, 25 November:"It [the draft report] is still very much work in progress ... However, it does give the flavour and will enable you to give steers as necessary." Shoesmith's lawyers say this shows Gilbert had an "important role" in the process. She was shown the drafts of the report, and delivered the final version to Balls' department. But there is little to show what the "steers" might have been.• Pullen to lead inspector Heather Brown and Ryan, 6.39pm, 28 November:"Steve [Hart, inspector], Roger [Shippam] and I have worked on this. It's not complete. We concentrated on strengthening the messages in the main findings ... Steve is putting together an additional paragraph on leadership and management." Hart's paragraph, Shoesmith's submission contends, would be critical to the process of putting her in the frame for Haringey's failings. But they claim his opening sentence - leadership and management of the children's service are inadequate - was a judgment "with no foundation" and the paragraph not based on any evidence the team had collected.How events unfoldedAre claims a breach of justice or 'sound and fury'?August 2007 Peter Connelly, a 17-month-old boy on the child protection register of Haringey council, north London, dies after suffering terrible injuries. In November 2008 a court convicts his mother, her lover and her lodger of causing his death. Haringey subsequently publishes a serious case review into how police, health and social workers allowed the "Baby P" tragedy to happen. Media blame focuses on Sharon Shoesmith, the council's director of children's services. November 2008 Tabloid anger over Baby P rises and the case is raised at prime minister's questions in the Commons. Children's secretary Ed Balls orders Ofsted to conduct a review of Haringey's safeguarding arrangements. He publishes the report in December 2008 and uses special powers to remove Shoesmith from her job. Haringey formally sacks her a week later without any kind of compensation.February 2009 Shoesmith speaks publicly for the first time since her dismissal in an interview with the Guardian. She attacks the "breathtaking recklessness" of Balls' handling of the case and claims he ordered the Ofsted report in order to discredit her. In March she applies for a judicial review against Balls, Ofsted and Haringey council.October 2009 Shoesmith's judicial review hearing begins. She claims her dismissal was "a breach of natural justice". She says Balls was influenced by the media pressure when he dismissed her, that Ofsted's November 2008 inspection of Haringey safeguarding was unfair and unlawful and that Haringey council breached procedures when it sacked her. Balls, Haringey and Ofsted deny her claims.November 2009 One of the officials on the Ofsted team that produced the safeguarding report discovers emails on his computer with thousands of pages of draft versions attached. The parties are summoned back to court where the judge demands an explanation of why Shoesmith's lawyers had previously been told the paperwork could not be located. He had been days away from delivering his verdict. Journalists make a legal application to be allowed to see the new documents.April 2010 After several delays, the documents are finally released to the media, together with the parties' submissions on their meaning. Shoesmith's lawyers argue they are "highly pertinent" to her case, while Balls' legal team dismisses her claims as "sound and fury". A judgment in the case is expected after Easter.