A man who killed his wife by throwing a TV remote control at her during a petty argument was jailed for three years today.Neither Paul Harvey nor his wife, Gloria Laguna, was aware that she had a congenital condition that meant her skull was eggshell-thin in certain places.By pure chance the remote control struck Laguna at the back of her head, where she suffered the defect. The 48-year-old former US diplomat, who had moved to the UK when she met her husband, collapsed almost immediately.She was taken to hospital with only a minor bruise to her neck but was pronounced dead the next morning.Harvey, 46, an electrical engineer, was in tears today as he was sentenced at the Old Bailey after admitting his wife's manslaughter during the row at their home in Euston, central London.The court heard that the couple had been drinking and taking cocaine during an evening at their flat in March. As they watched television they began arguing about the maintenance Harvey paid to his step-daughter. Harvey lost his temper and hurled the remote control in the direction of his wife, not aiming for her head.At 11.15pm Harvey called 999 and told the operator: "I threw the TV digital at her and hit her on the head."He explained that his wife had started screaming, talking "gibberish" and then collapsed on the sofa.Richard Whittam, prosecuting, said: "It is clear to anyone the distress he was suffering at the time. He was crying and he remained in considerable distress, including pleading with her to recover."When paramedics arrived, he said, 'What have I done?' and 'I think I have killed my wife. I threw a remote control at my wife's head.'"Laguna was taken to University College Hospital, where it was discovered she had suffered a subarachnoid haemorrhage."It was assessed she was liable to deteriorate further and neurological intervention was not advised. She was pronounced dead at 6.50am," said Whittam.Harvey was charged with murder but later pleaded guilty to manslaughter. "The basis of the plea is that Paul Harvey accepts by his unlawful act he caused the bruising to Gloria Laguna's neck," said Whittam."Sadly she suffered from a particular weakness and … by throwing the remote control caused her death. It would have only required a trivial incident to have caused her death."Laguna had worked at the US consulate in India but gave up her job and moved to the UK after marrying Harvey in 2007. The court heard that he had a quick temper. In November 1994 he smashed a pane of glass after missing his train at Radlett railway station, in Hertfordshire, because he was on the wrong platform. He was fined £100 for criminal damage.When he was 25 he was given a suspended prison sentence for headbutting a police officer in the face.His barrister, Jonathan Goldberg QC, said: "He is deeply ashamed and remorseful for the loss of his wife because she was a fine woman."It is sad to find two people, both educated, both respectable persons in society, indulging in cocaine. If this case serves any use it may publicise the fact that these drugs are dangerous."Sentencing Harvey, the judge, Giles Forrester, said: "To throw a hard object such as a remote control device so as to strike your wife in this way was irresponsible and it was dangerous."Because of Harvey's temper and previous offences for violence he said he had to impose a custodial sentence.