Sex worker Eileen Baker, 40Cheetham Hill, ManchesterI'm a normal middle-aged woman with two children. The parlour I work at is well known in the local area because we've been in business for more than three years. I used to do the sex work myself, but I've been a receptionist now for four months. Our girls come from all over the world, anywhere from Thailand to eastern Europe.We charge £40 for 30 minutes and the girl will be paid £25 from that. Our parlour follows a rota system with only one girl working during the day, and two or three covering busy periods like nights.It's too early to tell what the change in law will mean for us. But most of us at this parlour think allowing more women to work together is a good idea. It's obviously safer for girls to work together than receive men alone. But three girls is only the minimum you need to guarantee safety on a Saturday night - more would be even safer.We often get young clients coming in large groups after the pubs close, especially during the weekends.I don't think it's very safe to work alone at all. You do get dodgy customers, especially when you get rowdy groups who have had one too many to drink. Sometimes they get aggressive and demanding, but when you shut that door you just don't know what's going on in there.There's been trouble with drunk customers at our parlour in the past, and on occasions I've had to call the police for help. Just two weeks ago three customers beat up one of our girls. I wouldn't say it's common, but when there's a lot of drinking, usually at night, you're more likely to see customers shouting abuse and refusing to pay. There's not a great deal you can do or say when a man starts acting funny, especially if you're alone.Actually, receptionists like me can be in as much danger as the girls working directly with the customers because our job is to guarantee safety on the premises. I don't just answer the phone and book the appointments; if there's ever a problem - either with customers or with girls - I'm the person who needs to deal with it.· The woman's name has been changed