The public has been warned by police to keep away as the funeral of Myra Hindley proceeds this evening at Cambridge crematorium amid tight security.Only between 10 and 12 close friends and family, including Hindley's solicitor, Andrew McCooey, her former lover, Nina Wilde, and possibly her mother, Hettie Moulton, 84, will attend. The city's crematorium, a modern brick building set back from the busy A14, will be closed to the public as the Catholice service starts at 7.30pm led by Father Michael Teader, the chaplain at Highpoint prison where she spent the last years of her sentence. The priest had been a regular visitor to her cell. Three members of the crematorium staff have been brought in for the service. Hindley's ashes will be removed immediately to a secret location where they will eventually be scattered. Cambridgeshire police said they had organised tight security to ensure no disruption. Hindley was jailed for life in 1966 with Ian Brady for the murders of 10-year-old Lesley Ann Downey and Edward Evans, 17. In 1987, she admitted killing 12-year-old Keith Bennet, whose body has never been found, and 16-year-old Pauline Reade. Police have been guarding Hindley's body at West Suffolk hospital in Bury St Edmunds, where she died, because of fears that someone may try to mutilate it or try to take photographs. An inquest was opened and adjourned by the Greater Suffolk coroner on Monday at Highpoint prison. A postmortem examination revealed that Hindley, 60, who was a heavy smoker, died from bronchial pneumonia and hypertension. She had poor blood supply to her heart, because of blocked coronary arteries. Superintendent John Raine, from Cambridgeshire police, said that policing would ensure "a dignified cremation such as would be accorded to any other individual". He added: "In the interests of preserving the dignity of the event and preventing offences against public order, it will be a private service which members of the public and media will not be allowed to attend." One bunch of white freesias was left outside the entrance of the crematorium yesterday with a handwritten card which said: "Rest in peace, Myra." John Roebuck, head of parks and recreation at Cambridge city council, said that the council had made clear they would hold the service on humanitarian grounds, taking the view that every human being had the right to a decent funeral. "However, we have also made it clear we are not prepared to foot any additional costs," he said. Holding the service in the evening caused the minimum disruption, he said. "There will be no more than 10 or 12 people, close acquaintances, friends and possibly family." A prison service spokesman said Hindley's family would decide what to do with her ashes. The £340 cost of the cremation service will be met by her estate. It is normal practice for the prison service to pay for funerals unless, as in this case, the prisoner has made special arrangements.