The government will play a minimal role in the selection of judges under plans unveiled yesterday by Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs secretary, for the biggest shakeup in the legal system for decades.An independent legal appointments commission for England and Wales will recommend judges for appointment and promotion, with the freedom if it wishes to set equality targets to open the judiciary to more women, ethnic minorities, and younger people. There will be a new supreme court removed from parliament to replace the House of Lords as Britain's highest court and the rank of Queen's counsel is likely to disappear. Under the proposals, spelled out in three consultation papers, a judicial appointments commission will choose the judges up to and including the court of appeal. The government favours a commission of five judges, five lawyers and five lay people - a victory for judges, who feared lay domination. The equivalent body in Scotland, the judicial appointments board, has equal numbers of lay and legal members and is chaired by a layman. Lord Falconer asks for views on whether the new commission should be chaired by a lay person or a senior judge. For high court judges and below, the commission will put forward one name to the constitutional affairs secretary, under the "severely circumscribed ministerial discretion" model favoured by the government. The minister, who will make appointments on the recommendation of the commission, will have the right to reject the name and ask for another, but to ensure accountability rejections and the reasons for them would be spelled out in an annual report. For promotions to the court of appeal and for the four senior "heads of division" appointments, the minister will be able to consult the senior judges as well as taking the commission's advice. The reforms are designed to enhance the way the judiciary is kept separate from the state, said Lord Falconer, who also holds the title of lord chancellor until that role is phased out. He proposes putting the constitutional affairs secretary under a statutory duty to safe guard the independence of judges. The commission will be encouraged to promote diversity in the judiciary. Lord Falconer denied that merit would be sacrificed on the altar of greater diversity. "Merit must remain the touchstone of appointments," he said. "But we don't believemerit and greater diversity are inconsistent." The paper dismisses the idea that the traditional judicial route - appointment in the late 40s after a long career in private practice - should be scrapped in favour of a continental-style career judiciary. But it suggests that lawyers could take a "career break" and come back to the judiciary if places were reserved for them at recorder or district judge level. Judges could be appointed younger and work their way up. To dispel fears of political influence, lay members of the appointments commission would be chosen by a body chaired by the permanent sec retary to the Department of Constitutional Affairs. Other members of the body could be a senior judge, a senior figure outside the department and judiciary, and an independent assessor, such as the parliamentary ombudsman. The 12 existing law lords will become the first judges of the supreme court, to be housed in a building separate from parliament. They will lose the right to sit or vote in the Lords. New supreme court judges should be chosen by a com mission drawn from members chosen from the three appointments commissions for England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland. A limited number of names would be recommended to the prime minister. The proposals were largely welcomed by lawyers, although the Bar Council said the QC rank should be retained.