As a showbiz PR and king of the tabloid kiss-and-tell, Max Clifford is fond of telling how he keeps many more stories out of the papers than he puts in. But one story he was unable to prevent was his own.Clifford, who turned 71 this month, is one of the most influential people in newspapers, despite never having worked in one since he trained as a journalist more than 50 years ago.As well as his work for celebrity clients, who have ranged from the Beatles to Simon Cowell and everyone in between (OJ Simpson, Jade Goody, Mohamed Al Fayed), Clifford is the first port of call for people with a story to tell, or who find themselves at the centre of a tabloid storm.  Simon Cowell courts the media. Photograph: Rex Features/Sipa USABritain's best-known publicist, Clifford has brought down cabinet ministers and Football Association bosses in the three decades since the story for which he will be remembered above all others: his 1986 Sun splash "Freddie Starr Ate My Hamster."The story, he later admitted to Lord Justice Leveson, was apocryphal.Clifford set up his eponymous PR agency in 1970, aged 27, representing Frank Sinatra, Marlon Brando and Joe Cocker, having joined EMI in the early 1960s, where he claims he was given the job of promoting an unknown band called the Beatles."I was 27 and learned pretty quickly that by using a celebrity you could get publicity for anything," he said.Along with the big name clients such as Cowell, the X Factor producer and presenter whom he has represented since 2001, Clifford's name has also become synonymous with tabloid kiss-and-tells. He represented MP David Mellor's mistress, Antonia de Sancha, former Miss India and society escort Pamella Bordes, and Imogen Thomas, briefly famous for her alleged affair with footballer Ryan Giggs.  Imogen Thomas poses for photographers outside court. Photograph: Toby Melville/ReutersSuch is his influence that Piers Morgan said he "wasn't a PR, he was a broker". But he is not to everyone's taste. The Telegraph's religion editor and Church of England priest George Pitcher has described him as personifying "the new amorality of avaricious, red-top, vulgar New Britain".Clifford was among the first people to take on News Corporation over phone hacking at the News of the World, later accepting a payout reported to be worth as much as £1m.  Max Clifford gives evidence to the Leveson inquiry into phone hacking.He once admitted that only 20% of his stories would qualify for publication on the grounds of public interest, and has said there needs to be a clear "halfway house" between protecting privacy and freedom of speech.In one month alone in 1999 Clifford helped broker three stories which dominated the headlines – Lord Archer's perjury, Cherie Blair's pregnancy and sexual allegations against Gary Glitter.A decade later he oversaw the transformation of Jade Goody, the former Big Brother contestant, from hate figure to national icon. Quizzed whether he made money out of the star, who was dying of cervical cancer, Clifford walked out of a BBC interview in 2009, saying he was very comfortable with what he had done for Goody.  Jade Goody lived her last seven months in the media glare. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PAAfter the death of his first wife, Elizabeth, from lung cancer in 2003, Clifford later admitted to a string of affairs and remarried in 2010. "I've always loved sport," he told the Guardian. "And sex was another sport."A keen tennis player, Clifford described himself in his autobiography as a "natural socialist" but said he had "probably voted only two or three times in my life". Diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2007, has said he had no intention of retiring."I'll go on for as long as I can. I love it," he has said. "This is not a career. It's really a way of life."