Ministers may have squandered £300m on an unnecessarily advanced police radio system, a committee of MPs warned today.Police forces favoured cheaper, localised systems but the government pushed ahead with the national airwave network.Now parliament's spending watchdog says the system, which will cost £1.5bn over 19 years, may not bring the predicted benefits. "Airwave might be more sophisticated and expensive than it really needs to be," the Commons public accounts committee said. "Compared with a series of regional procurements which would have provided more limited inter-operability, but including inter-operability with other emergency services, Airwave will cost an additional £300m. "It is significant that individual police authorities and the fire service cited the cost of Airwave as their reason for being unwilling to subscribe to it." The new system allows police from different areas to communicate with each other. But it does nothing to allow officers to contact firefighters on their patch. "It is now nearly 10 years since a Home Office review recommended a joint approach to the procurement of new systems for the police and fire services," the committee's report notes. "But the emergency services within a particular area or region are still unable to communicate easily with each other during major incidents, and a solution is still a long way off." The Home Office is taken to task for failing to cost alternatives to the deal with O2, formerly the mobile communications arm of BT. The government has also faced legal challenges over the citing of the masts needed to carry the new service. The MPs said there had been no research to see how much officers needed to be able to communicate off their patch. In response, Home Office minister John Denham said it was obviously a valuable tool. "Criminals do not respect force boundaries and the police require a sophisticated radio system that can operate across force boundaries to combat crime in the modern age," he said. He questioned whether regional systems would have saved £300m. And he added: "Neither the Home Office nor individual forces would endanger officers health by introducing dangerous equipment. "Independent experts have concluded it is unlikely that Tetra, the technology which Airwave is based on, poses a risk to the health of users. "Nevertheless, we are monitoring the introduction of Airwave where any anticipated health and safety issues are identified and appropriate action will be taken immediately." Rick Naylor, vice president of the Police Superintendents' association, defended the system saying it would "bring police communications into the 21st century". He said: "Compared with the old system - where coverage was patchy in places if not non-existent - the new system will bring reliable, good quality communications. "I can understand that there are always cheaper ways of doing things but we believe that you get what you pay for." He added: "With great respect to members of the public accounts committee, they are not on their own at night down dark alley ways when they need help, as police officers can be."