Police hunting for the killer of Rory Blackhall yesterday named Simon Harris as the man found dead at a house they were searching in connection with the schoolboy's murder.It is understood that Mr Harris, 37, who was due to go on trial on sex charges involving three young girls, hanged himself at his home in the Camps Rigg area of Livingston, West Lothian. His body was discovered by officers on Sunday.He had appeared at Linlithgow sheriff court in February on eight charges of lewd and libidinous behaviour and three of assault, said a spokeswoman for the Crown Office.The offences involved girls aged between two and 11 and were alleged to have been committed between 1993 and 2000. He failed to turn up for a court appearance on August 22 and a warrant was issued for his arrest.Neighbours said Mr Harris fitted the description of the "unusual" man who had been seen by witnesses in the area where the 11-year-old's body was found.Detectives had appealed for a gaunt, pale man aged between 38 and 40, seen wearing a trapper-style hat and black clothing, to come forward. Mr Harris's neighbours said he fitted the physical description and generally wore a hat and dark clothing.But Lothian and Borders police yesterday refused to confirm Mr Harris as their prime suspect and said that their investigation was ongoing.Rory disappeared on August 18 after he was dropped near his primary school by his mother, Michelle, 41. His fully dressed body was discovered under a ragged tent in woodland less than a mile from Meldrum primary school three days later. He had been asphyxiated.Mr Harris lived alone after his stepfather died and his mother was taken into a nursing home. His neighbours described him as a "loner" and said there were rarely any signs of life at his home.One neighbour said that Mr Harris, who is believed to have been a joiner, had "changed" in the last few years, putting on weight and "acting nasty".She said: "He went away for ages and his house was empty. When he came back, he had totally changed and acted strangely. He seemed quite threatening whenever you saw him."A postmortem examination was carried out on Mr Harris's body yesterday. A police spokesman confirmed officers were not looking for anyone else in connection with his death.Teams of forensic officers continued to examine Mr Harris's home yesterday and police issued a fresh appeal for information.Although Rory never made it to his primary school, his disappearance was not discovered until the end of the school day when his grandfather arrived to collect him.In light of Rory's killing, West Lothian council yesterday announced an urgent review of its policies on school transport and absences.A council spokesman said: "Rory's death has shocked and saddened his school and the wider community. Senior council officers will lead our internal review and the outcomes and any recommendations will be the subject of consultations with schools and parents."The spokesman said the review would take account of the council's child protection guidelines and national guidelines, but would also cover parental responsibilities.At the weekend Rory's mother, father, Russell, 42, and brother, Conal, 14, made an emotional visit to the area close to where his body was found.They laid a bunch of thistles and lavender next to other floral tributes.