Police have arrested two men in connection with the rape of an 11-year-old girl who was assaulted on her way home from school and subjected to an attack that could have lasted up to three hours.A 26-year-old man was arrested in Edmonton, north London, and was being questioned, the Metropolitan police said. Later a second man, 18, was arrested at an address in Edmonton on suspicion of raping the girl and remained in custody at a north-east London police station. Officers appealed for potential witnesses to the attack, which happened in Edmonton's Jubilee Park on Friday afternoon. The girl, who was wearing her school uniform, got off a bus in Enfield and walked along a road adjoining the park, police said.At about 5pm a man dragged her into the park and took her to an area used for pitch and putt golf, where she was raped.The 11-year-old, described as white and of petite build, returned home shortly before 8pm, at which point her family called police. She was taken to hospital, where she required surgery.Detective Inspector Simon Ellershaw, of the Met's Sapphire command, which deals with rapes and serious sexual assaults, said: "This was a horrific and unusual attack of a defenceless schoolgirl making her way home via her usual route, along one of Enfield's busiest shortcuts, at the beginning of Friday afternoon rush hour. She says the attack happened for some considerable time – possibly in the region of two to three hours."Ellershaw said police were appealing for drivers, pedestrians or anyone in the park around that time who might have seen a man following a girl in school uniform.He added: "Given the significant and unaccounted amount of time between the incident and the victim's arrival home, we are particularly keen to speak to anyone who may have seen her possibly appearing confused or dishevelled following her ordeal. All calls will be treated in the utmost confidence."Police said at the weekend the suspect was described as black with afro hair and wearing a dark grey top and black baggy jeans. Chief Inspector Taylor Wilson, an officer based with police in Enfield, said such an attack was "isolated and extremely rare". However, he said, police had increased patrols at Jubilee Park and other local parks. "There will be a high-visibility police presence around schools, and we are in close liaison with key partner agencies and to keep our communities, especially parents and pupils, fully informed."