Hoaxers who have swamped the emergency services with malicious fire calls since the start of the firefighters' strike are to face a crackdown.Control centres across the country have dealt with hundreds of bogus calls, and police in England and Wales have warned that tracing and arresting culprits will be made a priority. In Scotland, hoaxers are to be fast-tracked through the courts during the dispute. Within minutes of the strike starting on Wednesday night, hoax calls were coming in, despite warnings that lives were being put at risk. The armed forces have also had to contend with numerous deliberately set fires. One of the worst affected areas was Strathclyde, were 230 bogus calls were made in the first few hours of the strike. Superintendent Ian Gordon, of Strathclyde police, said the repercussions could be severe. "I think people have to realise that for every hoax call, the potential exists for a life to be lost," he said. "It goes beyond reason. Certainly children make calls but there are adults who make them as well. All these calls are recorded and they should bear that in mind." Yesterday, Scotland's lord advocate Colin Boyd revealed that court action against hoax callers would be sped up during the strike, and it emerged later that a man had appeared in court in Perth for making three hoax calls within minutes of start of the strike. The court heard that James Hoy, 51, from Blairgowrie, made the calls to register his disgust at the walkout. Sentence was deferred for four weeks. In Halifax, West Yorkshire, a man also admitted making a hoax call. Bryan Kyle, 37, pleaded guilty to sending a false telecom message to cause annoyance or anxiety before magistrates. His case was adjourned until December 10. In Northern Ireland, where 50% of calls were hoaxes, police escorting the military firefighters came under petrol bomb attack in two incidents in Derry. The attacks, involving groups of youths, were condemned by police, Sinn Fein and the head of the fire service. In London, the army expressed surprise at the extent of the bogus calls, estimated at 25% of all alerts. Captain Anthony Liddell, appealed to the hoaxers to stop wasting their time. "The soldiers have got a hard enough job to do when they get proper calls," he said. Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that two striking firefighters had been targeted by arsonists. In one incident, in Bexleyheath, Kent, rubbish outside the firefighter's front door was set alight and flames spread to the house. In a second incident, a firefighter and his pregnant wife had their dustbin set alight in Edinburgh within hours of the start of the strike.