Scotland Yard wants new laws to force doctors, social workers and other professionals to report incidents of domestic violence.The move follows research commissioned by the Metropolitan police into abuse in the home. It showed that, in the run-up to domestic murders, health workers, housing officers and others often knew about previous assaults. But this information was not shared - and the victims suffered a final, fatal attack. The Yard proposal would make it mandatory for professionals aware of such incidents to inform a new risk assessment panel. Commander Brian Moore, responsible for tackling domestic violence in London, explained that multi-agency protection panels already monitor the country's most dangerous people - not only sex offenders, but mentally ill people with a propensity for violence. The Bichard report examined how information and intelligence about alleged offenders could be better shared between police forces and other agencies, following revelations about the history of sexual allegations against Ian Huntley, the Soham murderer. But the new risk assessment panel would deal specifically with those committing domestic violence. Mr Moore said: "This is about protecting people, mainly women, who may start as victims of violence, but can end as victims of murder. "When we look at some of these cases after the event, we find family members, neighbours and a raft of professionals all knew what was going on. But that information was not analysed, or acted upon." The Department of Health is already planning to introduce a policy next year to get doctors and midwives to ask all pregnant women if their partners have ever attacked them. But Mr Moore said even more comprehensive monitoring was necessary. "We need a statutory regulation to make it mandatory for indications [of domestic abuse] to be passed on to local panels who will assess it, and decide what action needs to be taken. "Some people could be concerned that the victim might not choose to report incidents if the police were to get to hear about it. But our research indicates that's not the case. The human rights of the perpetrator are outweighed by the human rights of the victim." The new panel's assessment could lead to swift police action to deal with the most dangerous offenders, or anger management therapy for others, and timely help for victims. But Barry Hugill, director of the civil rights group Liberty, sounded a note of caution. "We are in favour of any measure that can help reduce domestic violence," he said. "But once you start trying to collect information and allegations on everyone, not only is it a bureaucratic nightmare, but what do you do with it? "You can't prosecute someone unless they've committed an offence, and where there are breakdowns of relationships, there are often false allegations. Would this reduce domestic violence? I don't know, but it could lead to innocent people being harassed." However, Philippa Sully, a senior lecturer in inter-professional practice at London's City University, who conducted an analysis of five domestic murders for the Met, insisted that early intervention saved lives. She found that in all the cases the violence in the relationships was known about in the family and to various services. Ms Sully said: "Two women die from domestic violence in this country each week. We can save lives, and if we all work collectively we should also be able to reduce serious injuries to victims."