The Metropolitan police's new chief today claimed his officers were having to deal with an increasing number of murders committed by mentally ill people.Speaking at the closing session of the two-day Guardian public services summit, Sir Ian Blair said that although the "staples" of crime, such as burglary and domestic violence, were on the decline, his officers had to tackle a rise in serious crime, particularly murders committed by those with mental health problems.He said "agencies" were failing to manage the problem."That is a failure between agencies at the moment and it is frightening," he said.Sir Ian later conceded in a question and answer session that it was important to avoid stigmatising mental health problems, which could do so much to hamper the work of agencies attempting to reach out to people with severe mental illness who were most in need of support. He backed government moves to force seriously mentally ill people in the community to take medication."[Through the draft mental health bill] the government has been trying to distinguish that group of people who are seriously ill who have been let back in the community to take their medication," he said. "That is the people we are really worried about. People who can be controlled by their medication but over whom we have no supervision. There is an area where enforcement or checking up of medical regimes of people who can fall off into paranoid schizophrenia or something else - unless we get that right we have a problem."He criticised the fragmented approach to health in London in place since the London health region was abolished several years ago, which he said left him confused about who to contact in the event of an emergency. "I have no idea who to ring up," he said. "We have four regions, and two mental health trusts. "When the bomb goes off I still do not know who to ring. The sooner they bring back a regional health directorate for London the better." Sir Ian said the breakdown in the fabric of society left the police to handle matters which would have previously been dealt with by local organisations. As a result, the police now worked to the public's perception of crime requiring intervention, "such as their neighbourhoods, their travel to work, their leisure services, the smashed bus stop and the slightly mad in the street"."The people who used to do something are not there anymore," he said. "People who used to do something were the agencies of social cohesion, like unions and churches, or the agents of social cohesion like park keepers ... and so they are looking to the police."