A 14-year-old boy has admitted to stabbing a supply teacher in a school classroom.The teenager, who cannot be named, was arrested after 50-year-old Vincent Uzomah was stabbed in the stomach at Dixons Kings Academy in Bradford, West Yorkshire, on 11 June.He appeared at the city’s crown court on Monday where he denied attempted murder but admitted causing grievous bodily harm with intent.The Crown Prosecution Service accepted the plea and the judge, Jonathan Durham Hall QC, said the boy would be sentenced at a later date. The boy, wearing blue jeans, a grey shirt and a black puffa-style jacket, sat in the dock flanked by two security guards . He said, “Yes, sir” when he confirmed his name and spent much of the 11-minute hearing with his head bowed.The teenager attacked Uzomah in front of a number of other students at the start of a science class. It is understood the incident happened following a disagreement over a mobile phone. Uzomah was stabbed once in the stomach with a kitchen knife he had brought from home. After the incident, the teenager ran off and was arrested by police in Bradford city centre after a six-hour search.The case was not opened on Monday but Judge Durham Hall said: “This is a very troubling case.” He said the boy was “undoubtedly a very troubled young man” and said Uzomah was “a very brave and compassionate victim”. The teenager was remanded in custody and will be sentenced later this year, probably in August. Hall said a psychiatric report and a pre-sentence report needed to be prepared before sentencing could take place.He said he agreed with the CPS decision not to proceed with a charge of attempted murder, saying it would be very difficult to prove the defendant had an intention to kill.As the boy left the dock the judge thanked him. He said: “Your plea has been noted, very proper, at a very early stage. Thank-you.” The boy was watched by two members of his family from the public gallery as he was led away. Uzomah was not in court.After the incident at the school, where he had only been teaching for a few weeks, Uzomah was taken to hospital but released a few days later following surgery.He later issued a statement thanking people for their support.He said: “I wish to express my heartfelt gratitude to God and to everyone for all the support that myself and family have received during the course of the traumatic event of my life.“It has been 12 days since this event occurred and I thank the Lord Jesus for sparing my life.” Uzomah, who has worked as an extra on the soaps Emmerdale and Coronation Street, thanked the doctors and nurses who helped him and the staff at the Dixons Kings Academy. He said: “My family and I appreciate the overwhelming support, love and care that we have received from friends and well-wishers, as I continue on the path towards recovery. Thank-you all.” His casting agency said: “Vincent is a very nice, reliable, bubbly guy. He’s genuine and easy to get on with.” 