Underperforming police forces across the country are to be 'named and shamed' in a set of league tables to be published later this year.In one of the most controversial changes to the way the public can judge the police, David Blunkett, the new Home Secretary, will say that only through a comparison of crime rates can people be confident they are getting a good service. Two weeks ago Her Majesty's Inspectorate (HMI) sent a letter to police forces revealing that large force areas will be broken down into 'basic command units' that will provide their own local figures. That way people living in Brixton, London, could compare rates of crime in their area with those in Liverpool. It is the first time there has been such a breakdown. 'The public will be able to see how their local police are performing,' said a Home Office official. 'If they do not then improve, there will be war.' The league tables will increase tensions between the police and the Government. A report published tomorrow by the Institute for Public Policy Research, a Blairite think-tank, will accuse the Government of playing politics with crime. 'There is an unsolvable tension between the carefully thought-out Crime and Disorder Act and the drive for performance,' said Peter Neyroud, deputy chief constable of West Merica police and one of the report's authors.The major attack on police performance will be quietly introduced as part of the Queen's Speech, which will announce a short Police Reform Bill. 'It will not look like much, but it is the start of a huge campaign for change,' the official said.The Government is convinced that policing is one of the few remaining public services that have not undergone the wholesale reform seen in other areas such as health and education. Crime is one of the most negative issues for the Government: many people believe Tony Blair has failed on the issue. Each command unit will have to provide figures on the number of burglaries, thefts and violent crime. It will also have to give its detection rates for a 'basket of crimes', which can then be ranked across the country. HMI will also produce a report on each unit, saying how well it is led, what staff morale is like, and revealing the level of sick leave and the attitude of the public locally. 'It is one of the biggest changes to the way we work that I have known,' said a senior officer closely involved in drawing up the plans. 'It has the potential to be a bureaucratic nightmare.' Blunkett wants to introduce similar reforms to those introduced to education, where league tables led to furious protest. The HMI will become the equivalent of Ofsted, whose controversial reports on standards in schools have provoked protests and threats of industrial action. Blunkett has told colleagues he wants to break down the 'jobs for life' culture and the high levels of sick leave. In a set of speeches and announcements over the next few months he will also say that police should be better trained, have higher acade mic qualifications and learn skills in fighting crime from across the world. Sir John Stephens, the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, has told the Home Office he wants to see change. He has said that only through reform can the problem of crime be tackled. The reform Bill will be part of a larger crime Bill that will propose confiscating the assets of criminal gangs and drugs barons. The Association of Chief Police Officers recently identified 370 'crime kings' who account for nearly all organised UK drugs and human trafficking in Britain. The Government will argue that it is only by taking assets of the crime away that they can stop the barons operating. At the moment only a fifth of drug cases lead to a confiscation of assets, and the new Bill will say that in future the assets issue will have to be proved only 'on a balance of probabilities'. At the moment confiscation of assets is a criminal matter and has to be proved 'beyond reasonable doubt', a much higher burden.  Hitting the crime lords could reduce crime dramatically. Research from the National Criminal Intelligence Service reveals that 1kg of heroin leads to 220 crimes, from importers to suppliers to addicts who steal to feed their habit.