When young burglar Daniel Dady was ordered last week to pay £20,000 to the woman whose jewellery he stole it was one of the rare occasions when poetic justice emerged from the English courts.Dady had tried to bolster his defence by claiming that an inheritance of that amount from his father meant he did not need to commit such crimes. The jury was unimpressed, and Judge Peter Jacobs used the information given away by the defence as the basis for making the compensation order. Although the police officers involved said the order was unique, the criminal courts frequently make orders that compensate crime victims. One of the most notorious was against timeshare fraudster John Palmer, who was required to pay a total of £2m compensation to 400 of his victims in May 2001. His appeal against the ruling was also dismissed last week. It is unusual, though not unprecedented, for a criminal to have as large a sum as Dady's, never mind Palmer's, at their disposal. Dady's victim was uninsured and unable to recover her loss, but even if she did have cover the court could have made the same order, effectively in favour of the insurance company. A criminal court will only consider an application for compensation if it is made by the prosecution lawyer. Anyone wishing for such an application in a case where they have been a victim must inform both the Police and the Crown Prosecution Authority and provide as much detail as possible. The court has a broad discretion but will usually only award what it considers reasonable in the light of the criminal's means. This will usually then be paid in installments, often at as little as £5 per week. Criminals can also be sued in the civil courts for losses they have caused. A civil judge cannot take into account the criminal's means in deciding how much to award. If the criminal owns his own home then it is possible to get an order requiring it to be sold. It may be possible to get bailiffs to seize the criminal's goods. However, bailiffs enforcing civil court orders charge fees, which although they can be passed on to the person in default, must be paid by the person claiming. The civil courts, unlike their criminal counterparts, have no power to imprison a person for failing to make payments. In the majority of cases this means civil action will not be economically worthwhile, though the sending in of bailiffs may feel like an effective revenge. For most victims of crime, the Criminal Injury Compensation Authority is a more realistic source of recompense. This pays out about £200m a year to people who have been physically or mentally injured by crime, with 80,000 receiving average payouts of £2,500. There is a tariff figure for 330 types of injuries. Loss of a thumb merits £16,500, a simple undisplaced fractured nose £1,000 and rape at least £11,000, if HIV or AIDS results an extra £22,000 is payable. These sums are in addition to any loss of earnings that may be suffered, but there is an overall maximum payout of £250,000. The awards are based on what would be awarded by a civil court for similar injuries. Information on how to apply is available from the Authority on 0800 358 3601.·  Richard Colbey is a barrister