A teenager has been given a life sentence for stabbing to death a student in an argument over conkers. The 15-year-old, who cannot be named because of his age, was detained for a minimum of 10½ years for murdering Steven Grisales, 21, from Enfield.Grisales was knifed in the chest last August in Edmonton, north London, after he remonstrated with a group of teenagers who pelted him with conkers in their spiky cases as he ran an errand for his grandmother.Judge Richard Marks described Grisales, who wanted to be an architect, as "an outstanding human being in many ways".The defendant, who denied the charge, was found guilty of murder at the Old Bailey last month. Andrew Edis QC, prosecuting, told the trial: "This was a sudden, unnecessary killing as a response to a confrontation which took place in the street, which was about nothing very much. It was about throwing some conkers."During the trial, it was revealed that the defendant had previously been in court for robbery and burglary. He had been ordered to wear an electronic monitoring tag but had removed it two days prior to the killing.Judge Marks said a pre-sentence report detailing incidents with knives made "grim reading".Speaking after the verdict, Grisales' parents said they had "no forgiveness" for their son's killer. His father, Andres Grisales, said the sentence was not long enough. "Ten and a half years for taking away our son, taking away his future, all of his plans," he said. "Everything was taken away from him – 10 and a half years is a very short sentence."His mother, Jasmid Grisales, described him as a "perfect son". She said: "Steven was always loved by every person who had the privilege of knowing him. He always gave without expecting anything in return and he always tried for everyone around him to be happy."Detective Inspector Richard Beadle said it was a "sad indictment" that Grisales had lost his life while trying to stand up for himself. "Steven Grisales was a fine young man with an outstanding future. He lost his life for no other reason than choosing to challenge an unruly, and who turned out to be a violent, youth."At the time of his killing, Grisales had recently returned to Britain from Argentina to take up a scholarship to study architecture at Westminster university. His organ donations helped to save the lives of three women.• This article was amended on 14 June 2012. In the original, the forename of Steven Grisales was misspelt as Stephen in the first paragraph and a subheading.