A father crashed his Land Rover into a river, killing his four children, after allegedly carrying out "incompetent" modifications to the vehicle, a court was told yesterday. Nigel Gresham was at the wheel of the Land Rover when it flipped off the road at Tattershall Bridge, Lincolnshire, and rolled into the river Witham.The 37-year-old mechanic is accused of four counts of causing death by dangerous driving, after his children, Willow, two, Angel, four, Thor, six, and eight-year-old Keavy, died as a result of the accident on September 16 last year. Gresham, his partner, Sara Bolland, 31, and their three eldest children, Liam, Amber and Star survived the crash.Lincoln crown court was told that the Land Rover, which was made up of parts from four different vehicles, had many "ill-judged" modifications designed to improve its off-road performance. Repairs and maintenance were also "incompetent", the prosecutor alleged.Timothy Spencer QC, prosecuting, said: "Of course this was a tragedy. No one suggests that Mr Gresham set out in order to have a road traffic accident, and no one suggests he deliberately intended to endanger the lives of his family. But it was an avoidable tragedy. He must have known, despite what he said to police, that this was a defective vehicle."The court heard that Gresham was driving along Witham Bank at between 50mph and 60mph when he came across an oncoming white Transit van towing a trailer of canoes. Gresham pulled on to the grass verge, but a bracket close to the rear axle snapped, causing the car to turn on its side before flipping over and rolling down the bank.Spencer said: "A number of members of the public, who were either there at the time or shortly afterwards, acted very bravely indeed and a number of people dived in and did all they could to assist." The jury was shown a DVD of road tests on the Land Rover which showed that it had a longer stopping distance than a similar vehicle, and swerved out of control when driven at 30mph through a set of cones.Spencer said: "A number of the modifications were ill-judged, many were incompetently carried out and he [Gresham] also failed to carry out a number of repairs. All of that rendered this vehicle dangerous and unroadworthy."Gresham, of Chapel Hill, Lincs, denies all four charges. The case continues.