John Rennie, a 60-year-old cafe worker with angina, chronic back pain and diabetes, prided himself on being a slow and careful driver. When his erratic braking on the streets of Carlisle led to an angry confrontation with another driver, former rugby player Jamie Hughes, 30, Rennie was certain that it would only be a matter of time before he was attacked.Grabbing the knife he always kept in his car, Rennie pulled over and got out. When Hughes stopped his car, Rennie walked over and plunged the four-inch blade into the younger man's heart. 'I was pushed to the limit and I was really scared,' Rennie explained after he was arrested. 'The guy was shouting and going on and gesturing and I thought that if he saw the knife he would maybe back down. A guy of his size following me, he was not going to stop. I wanted to scare him off.' Thanks to emergency surgery, Hughes survived. Last week Rennie, who had no prior convictions and was described by those who knew him as 'old fashioned' and 'mild mannered', was jailed for three years after being found guilty of unlawful wounding. The case comes at a time when police forces across the country are experiencing a dramatic increase in knife crime. Government figures show that offences involving the possession of offensive weapons, the vast majority of which are knives, have risen by 36 per cent since 1999. Murders involving sharp instruments rose from 200 in 1997 to 272 in 2003. The problem is particularly acute in London, where an internal report by the Metropolitan police found that a crime involving a knife takes place every 25 minutes. A 5 per cent rise in violent crime in the capital has been blamed almost entirely on an increase in the number of muggers and burglars arming themselves with knives. Last week Robert Symons, a 45-year-old father-of-two, died from a single stab wound to the heart after confronting a burglar in the kitchen of his home in Chiswick, west London. Detectives have found a kitchen knife which they believe to be the murder weapon. Forensic tests have yet to establish whether the intruder grabbed it from the family's kitchen or had it when he entered the house. There were 14,110 knife offences in London between June 2003 and March this year. Most offenders are aged between 12 and 20 but these figures mask the fact that many older people are also carrying and using knives. One in five knife attacks involves an offender over the age of 25. Senior police officers admit that statistics on the ages of those who carry knives are biased towards the younger generation, as older men are less likely to be stopped and searched. Commander Simon Foy, head of the Met's anti-knife campaign, Operation Blunt, said: 'We are well aware that there is a problem with older people carrying knives. It is not something we are complacent about but the focus of our efforts is the younger generation. We hope that in the future the introduction of specialist anti-knife patrols and the use of portable metal detectors that can distinguish between knives and other metallic objects will help to catch and ultimately deter all ages from carrying such weapons.' Nicholas, a 44-year-old engineer from Hertfordshire, is typical of this older generation of knife carriers. He rarely travels anywhere unless he is armed. 'It's a bit of extra security and makes me feel safe. When you get that bit older, you need something to even up the odds. I used to carry a lock-knife but now I carry a Leatherman multi-purpose tool. It has a four-inch blade but because of all the other bits that come with it I can claim I use it for work. Almost everyone I know does the same. If you get caught with a knife you risk getting a fine but with one of these you can get away with it.' Nicholas says he would not use his weapon other than to scare off a potential opponent but a report published last week by the Bridge House Trust on the spread of knife culture found that those who carry knives to defend themselves will often find themselves caught up in violence. 'Some people are said to carry knives and other weapons to feel safer but with no intention of using them,' said the study. 'In fact, carrying a knife puts them at far greater risk of being stabbed or committing an aggressive act and being labelled an offender. While fear may be the motive, aggression may be the result.' There are many examples of older men's involvement in knife crime. In June, 42-year-old Patrick Hemmings was jailed for life after stabbing a 28-year-old man who had bumped into the back of his car. He knifed him through the heart with a 10-inch blade that he kept in his car for his own safety. In July, a 47-year-old man allegedly stabbed to death his younger male lover as the pair argued while driving along a sliproad of the M25. A few months earlier, 40-year-old Andrew Tolmie was jailed for four years after repeatedly stabbing a younger driver who flashed his lights to complain that Tolmie was driving while using a mobile phone. Knives are also finding fresh favour with the underworld, especially since the introduction of a five-year minimum sentence for anyone caught in possession of a firearm. The gangster-turned-author Horace Silver, 45, whose semi-autobiographical novel Judas Pig chronicles his time with a notorious East London firm, says knives are now regularly used in preference to other weapons, especially by older criminals. 'If you shoot someone you know the police are going to look at it seriously and suspect gang involvement,' he said. 'If you stab someone, it often gets dismissed as a simple bar brawl or street fight. Using a knife is also a lot more personal so it's a way of sending a message to others.' Eager to cash in, major gun manufacturers including Kalashnikov, Glock, Heckler and Koch, Smith & Wesson and Browning all now have extensive knife ranges. The booming market is aimed at enticing those living in countries where handguns are no longer legal to maintain loyalty to their favourite brand. An advertisement for the Kalashnikov KAL knife, price £180, states that it 'complements the style found in the original AK-47 assault rifle' and is 'synonymous with genius, strength and reliability'. The Bridge House Trust report found that these 'combat' knives have a particular appeal to young people. 'The pleasure of holding, possessing and brandishing what only the adult, brave and qualified soldier is allowed to carry legally is part of many young boys' childhood, whatever their social background,' said the report. 'In this sense knives are a "link with adulthood" for some children.' One of the most worrying aspects of knife culture uncovered by both the Met report and other studies is the startling ignorance about the damage a knife can do. Last month 59-year-old Edward Kitts of St Austell was jailed for five years after stabbing a young man to death during a scuffle over dog mess. Kitts stabbed the man with the eight-inch kitchen knife he habitually carried in his jacket, then walked home with his dog. It was only the next day when he heard a news bulletin saying that the man had died that Kitts realised the seriousness of what he had done and gave himself up. According to Foy, such ignorance is not uncommon. 'We often hear people say something along the lines of "I only stabbed him a little bit" or "it was only a small knife". Even the smallest of blades can cause the most horrific injuries and some of the complications that can result from seemingly shallow wounds can be extremely grave. Showing the truth about knife wounds is often the best way to put young people off carrying them.'