A new market in young women from South America is changing the face of Britain's sex trade, with traffickers being paid as much as £8,000 a victim, according to a report on a government campaign against trafficking published today.Police across the country have discovered an increasing number of young women being held in suburban houses, trapped behind locked doors as ordinary life goes on outside.In a disturbing picture of the violence suffered by the women, some of whom are as young as 15, officers have accounts of them being raped, threatened, stripped of passports and forced into underground brothels on arrival in the UK. Many have been tempted to the UK by promises of a lucrative summer job; others have come after trafficking gangs posing as employment agencies insisted their parents sign consent forms to permit them to travel.But as Operation Pentameter, a multi-agency taskforce launched in February to combat trafficking, comes to its conclusions, some critics are alleging that police have also used their inquiries as an excuse to find and deport illegal immigrants.Funded by the Home Office, the operation brings together all 55 of Britain's police forces with the Immigration Service and the Serious and Organised Crime Agency. So far 375 brothels and massage parlours have been raided, leading to the seizure of £170,000 and arrest of more than 150 people for trafficking-related offences. In total, 46 sex trafficking victims have been discovered - one aged 15.The investigation has also shed light on what appear to be the beginnings of a shift in the landscape of the country's slave trade, police say. Trafficked women are increasingly being moved away from brothels and saunas in urban centres to flats and houses in suburban Britain.Most trafficked women still come from countries such as Albania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Lithuania; others are from China, Thailand and some African states. This is the first time police have uncovered gangs trafficking women and girls into Britain from South America.Three months ago police believed women were being sold for between £3,000 and £4,000. Now, they say, officers have found that trafficked women - particularly virgins - are being sold between trafficking gangs for as much as £8,000."The picture now is very different to pre-Pentameter," said Grahame Maxwell, deputy chief constable of South Yorkshire, who is programme director of the operation. "We've realised that younger women and virgins are being sold for twice as much as we thought." He added: "Many women are being held against their will in normal residential streets, and neighbours are completely unaware - we didn't realise the extent of this. There are very few places in Britain, if any, where this is not happening."But despite uncovering some of Britain's most ruthless trafficking gangs operating in new territories, DCC Maxwell's anti-trafficking drive has not escaped criticism. Human rights groups suggest the operation is as much a campaign to find and deport illegal immigrants, pointing to the fact that half of the women interviewed by officers during visits to brothels transpired not to be the victims of trafficking - and may now be deported.Karry Mitchell, of the English Collective of Prostitutes, said: "The government is prioritising deportations over protection, and using the so-called anti-trafficking campaign to increase deportations. We understand that many of the brothels they are targeting are being used by women who are actually in the country voluntarily who the Home Office wants to get rid of."According to Amnesty International, even those women who were brought to the country against their will are being deported if they refuse to assist with police investigations, in spite of the fact that branches of the same criminal networks who brought them into Britain await them in their country of origin.The Guardian has learned that victims of trafficking are being allowed to remain in Britain only if they prove beneficial to the Crown Prosecution Service.An unpublicised Home Office directive circulated in February ordered the Immigration Service to allow trafficked sex workers "a period of leave ... until such time as the victim has been able to assist in any prosecution case"."The reality is that in the eyes of the law victims of trafficking are simply illegal immigrants," said Amnesty International's UK director, Kate Allen. "This has led to some highly vulnerable trafficked women being put into immigration detention, and even being deported."Profile: Eva, 18, from north London I was 15 when he first took me from my home [in Africa]. He was a so-called friend of the family. My parents had been killed, so I was staying with a guardian who thought the friend would find me a job. Instead the man took me far from home, where he called other men who began raping me. For a year I was taken around different countries in Africa where I was made to have sex with men.Then in 2004 - when I was 16 - he just took me to an airport. When we arrived [in London] I had no idea which country we were in. I was taken to a big house with other women trafficked from Africa. During the nights I was driven to houses where I was forced to sleep with men. I had no money, no documents. He never beat me but I was scared of him - worried he would kill me.One night he left the car door open and I escaped. I started running. The next day I begged. Someone gave me money for a bus, and I travelled to the end of the line. There, a woman found me crying and took me to a women's refuge organisation in Kentish Town.When I applied for asylum the security guard started shouting questions at me. Where was I staying? Why did I not have any documentation? I just broke down. They didn't believe I was 17, so I was taken to Brozefield prison. My church, Legal Action for Women and the Black Women's Rep Action Project found me legal representation and I was let out, but the Home Office still want to send me back. No-one has pursued the man. Paul Lewis  · Names have been changed.