The civil rights group Liberty is to challenge the legality of a night-time curfew which banned children under 16 from a Cumbrian market town.The scheme was launched during the Easter holidays in Wigton, to clamp down on anti-social behaviour involving young people. It gave police the power to order any group of two or more young people, whatever their age and whatever the time, to leave the area and not return. The night-time curfew applied to all children under 16, who were not allowed on the streets after 9pm. During the fortnight it was operational, 13 children were returned home by police. The youngest was a 10-year-old found on the streets at 11.20pm. But Liberty believes the curfew was in breach of the European convention and it plans to challenge it in the high court. Other police forces in Teesside and Middlesbrough adopted similar curfews. In Redcar, a six-month scheme is under way in three roads on an estate. Officers say it is a direct response to residents' complaints of anti-social behaviour. In Newcastle upon Tyne, Epsom, and Cambridgeshire, curfews are also being considered to combat anti-social behaviour. Barry Hugill, spokesman for Liberty, said curfews were becoming "ubiquitous" and were "clearly flavour of the month." He added: "Our research shows that 60% of police forces will be interested in curfews by summer. Effectively what they are doing is subjecting anyone under the age of 16 to a form of house arrest after 9pm. "It is disproportionate and is like east Berlin before the Iron Curtain fell." Mr Hugill said Liberty's lawyers were to make a high court challenge to get a ruling on whether they were correct in believing the actions of Cumbria police are in contravention of the European convention on human rights, to which Britain is a signatory. He said Liberty had no objection to the full force of the law being used against youngsters who behaved badly: "But we think it is wrong to penalise the majority because of the wrongdoing of the minority." A statement for Cumbria police said: "After consultation with the local community and other agencies, it was felt that this was an appropriate measure to tackle the issue which is of great concern to local people - namely the incidents of anti-social behaviour in a rural town. "This measure was carried out in accordance with the law. We are now in the process of evaluation, involving the community and different agencies into the success, or otherwise, of the initiative."