Anne Redmon draws on her third Marlboro Light of the evening as she recalls her time inside. Despite 10 years spent at a high-security prison, she has no regrets, only heartwarming anecdotes. She looks back at a creative period during which she helped develop a journalism course to expand inmates' horizons - a project which, like all good ideas, germinated over a drink in a pub.Six years on, the course, Pathways to Journalism, has made it into the educational mainstream after receiving formal accreditation from the National Open College Network.It was while she was a writer in residence at Wandsworth prison in the 1990s that Redmon, a published author and trained journalist, decided to launch a prison magazine superior in quality to the standard fare in prisons at the time."Most prison magazines were shabby and full of grievances and anger and filthy jokes - it was just dreadful," Redmon recalls. "I thought it would be interesting to make it a forum for debate, so that if people said the food is shit, somebody would go and interview the kitchen governor and find out why. What was his budget? £1.48 per prisoner a day! People came back with a more sober view."If somebody wrote to rant about something, I would insist we have a right to reply on the opposite page."Standing up a story based on the facts rather than a hunch was a skill lost on most of the inmates - although even trained journalists at times are known to err on this front. In most prisoners' case, a lack of formal education prior to their sentence marred their efforts."It was like killing snakes to get people to write a feature or news story," says Redmon. "There are lots of people who just want to write opinion pieces and they would not support it with facts. We would say: 'You can't just say that - you have to substantiate it and back it up.'"Redmon decided to plug the skills gap by getting in touch with the National Union of Journalists (NUJ). The officer in post was Jeremy Dear, former editor of the Big Issue in the Midlands, who had witnessed at first hand the impact of giving socially excluded people a voice through his work with homeless groups."He came to a meeting and sat in the corner and he just listened," Redmon recalls. "He said: 'Let's make a course.'"Redmon and Dear then experienced the rough ride of trying to navigate the many obstacles unique to the prison service. First there was the regime's suspicion of journalists in general, and the goodwill of individual prison governors in particular. Just as they built up trust, the governor would be moved, leaving the pair to start all over again. Then there were the practical problems, such as the fact that prisoners are frequently moved around, and most prisons had no computers, let alone a library. As for the internet, it remains a privilege too far for prisons hosting sex offenders and other high-risk prisoner categories.Dear, now NUJ general secretary, attests to the "brilliant" prison officers who made the course possible. "When they do interviews, students have to get a prison officer to write on their behalf for someone they want to interview, and then arrange the logistics and sit in while the interviews take place. You can see how much support you need from prison itself to actually happen."Redmon "road-tested" the course with prisoners in Wandsworth before it was piloted across eight prisons over two years. It is now approved by the Offenders' Learning and Skills Unit. There are a total of six levels, ranging from a basic introduction to journalism to graduate-level work, although the NUJ is the sole awarding body for the two highest levels of the course. Prison education departments are now queueing up for the course, says Redmon."One of the worst problems for tutors like myself is getting people to recognise they must accept instructions from an editor and work as a team. They are often socially excluded people with big problems including dealing with authority. The teamwork modules make people cooperate with each other, and the prison regimes are crazy about that because that meshes with anger management and other programmes they run."Sarah Warden, a journalist from the Guardian Media Group, marks coursework for women students at Styal Prison, and testifies to its benefits for students. The most rewarding aspect is their ability to hold people to account, she explains, courtesy of a good prison governor. "The governor does a regular interview with the magazine, so it has become a forum for prisoners to ask their questions."She cites one woman who is now hoping to get into journalism on the outside. "It's an aspiration for when they get out and it's not something they had thought about before."Journalists who discovered writing while still in prison will testify to the rehabilitative benefits of engaging with issues outside their immediate selves. Erwin James began his journalistic career writing a column for the Guardian after doing a long-distance journalism course inside prison. "One of the biggest problems for people in prison is the inability to communicate", he says, now on the "outside" after 20 years of incarceration. "I was a terrible communicator before going to jail. I was inarticulate, and chronically shy. Writing got me to develop self-expression which gave me confidence."Dear says this was exactly what the course is seeking to achieve: building up people's confidence and self-esteem. He cites the benefits of understanding and learning some of the skills that journalists use: improved writing and verbal communication, the ability to evaluate information, and carry out research. It also gives prisoners a voice."Having worked with homeless people in the Big Issue," he says, "and seeing how people reacted to having something published or achieving something they do not think they would ever get the opportunity of achieving - it gives you confidence to try other things. And when they come out of prison they are able to demonstrate to a potential educational establishment that they have used their time well and have learnt new skills. "Over the years we have met people who would make brilliant journalists and many other people who will never do any more than put together one article for us. The scheme is equally valuable for both those groups of people who have a personal goal."The course literature makes it very clear that the prison environment precludes the breadth of journalistic experience, and becoming a fully fledged journalist would require further training on the outside. "We are very keen not to give people false hope, but we are looking to give them hope about their skills and therefore their life opportunities when they come out of prisons," adds Dear.With the advent of citizen journalism, it makes sense for everyone to be armed with a basic of journalistic skill to make a persuasive case. After all, one day, insiders will be outsiders once more. Until then, they are faced with one crucial problem: reaching the outside world. Efforts by Guardian Unlimited to commission a journalism student to write an article were flatly turned down by the prison service.