With its shipwrecks, gold and dead men's bones, the coast of northwest Spain is steeped in seafaring legend. It was there, in the Atlantic off Galicia, that Sir Francis Drake fought the Spanish.Three British salvage men believe that such myths of Armada treasure helped to entangle them in a seven-year legal nightmare that ended with their conviction by a Spanish court last week for "destroying the country's heritage".In an extraordinary case that saw Peter Devlin, Malcolm Cubin and Steve Russ labelled "Drake's men" by local newspapers and accused of looting gold and diamonds from a mysterious sunken ship, it seemed that a 400-year-old grudge was still held.The commercial salvage team, all from Cornwall, had gone to Spain to find a British-built ship, the Friesland, which had gone down 2 miles off the port of Corrubedo in 1877. Nearly two years of meticulous research by Devlin showed her cargo was 200 tonnes of tin, worth £2m today, and he obtained a licence from the authorities to raise it, giving the Spanish government a percentage of the profits.Devlin, 51, a former navy diver, poured his life savings and ambitions into the project. He set up his own company, Force 9 Salvage, and brought in two other experienced divers, Cubin, 38, and Yanic Alvareas, who has since died in a road accident, as well as Russ, 51, a technician. In May 2002 the team began diving."I had spent more than £100,000 by that point, easily," said Devlin. "We brought up a few artefacts from the ship, as is practice, to make sure we were on the right wreck, and were on our way to meet with a Spanish official to liaise when we were picked up and the house we were staying in was raided."The police, backed by the courts, decided the men were in fact after treasure from a legendary ship called the Don Pedro - treasure that has never been shown even to exist, from a ship whose position has never been pinpointed."I researched the Don Pedro along with other wrecks," said Devlin. "She was inbound from France to pick up immigrants for the US. There was nothing of interest on board, but no one was interested in listening. They had heads full of gold. If it wasn't so serious it could be a comedy. We were facing six years in prison."I've a porthole from the Friesland with 'Made in Newcastle' stamped around it. That's not the Armada down there, is it?"The ordeal took its toll on Cubin, too. "It was frightening to be facing that kind of a sentence. They were talking about conspiracy and asking us where the gold was.""One of the things that really gets me is that we are in this age of recycling and there are millions of tonnes down on the seabed waiting to be picked up. Cargoes of tin, lead and copper, ships built of steel, all reusable materials that anyone with a bit of courage, fortitude and cash can go about salvaging, but you can't."Some of the younger local fishermen were very nice, but the older men appeared to have a bit of animosity. They all had stories of the Don Pedro being full of gold and diamonds. We did our research and there was nothing of value on that ship. Nothing to risk your life for. And those waters are very tricky - deep and not for the faint-hearted."But myths and stories of galleons and gold are what you are fighting against. I think we're going to have to go another 400 years before they forget Sir Francis Drake."It was not until a new prosecutor took up the men's case this year that they were offered a plea bargain that saw them receive suspended sentences and fines. For Devlin, it was the end of his dream and of his company, and he has now gone to work for an oil company in Dubai.Also galling was walking away from the Friesland's cargo. "I've heard that Spanish divers have been on the wreck already," said Cubin. "That's hard to take."