Nuisance families identified as the most difficult in the country will be sent to residential parenting centres in the latest crackdown on anti-social behaviour.The centres will offer the most difficult families in the country the stark choice between eviction or 're-training' to address their behaviour after a series of pilots across the country were judged a success. The Home Office minister, Hazel Blears, will tomorrow launch the latest measures in the government's crackdown on anti-social behaviour when she visits the Assisted Families Project in her Salford constituency, run by the children's charity NCH. The centres, pioneered by NCH in Dundee, Scotland, are designed to tackle behaviour, which, though not criminal, causes concern to other people in the community.These include problems with noise, especially at night, children judged to be out of control and aggressive and threatening behaviour from adults. The Dundee project was set up in 1997 to address difficult families in the city. Self-contained flats give accommodation for three families, who stay for an average of nine months. Intensive support is available 24 hours a day. Blears will also unveil a review of 100 of Britain's most difficult nuisance families whose cases have been examined by the Home Office Neighbour Nuisance Expert Panel. The results show that in 66 per cent of cases, behaviour was shown to improve and problems were curtailed as a result of a combination of family support and punitive sanctions. Findings from the review showed that 39 per cent of families felt that warnings, anti-social behaviour orders, acceptable behaviour contracts and the threat of eviction had helped them improve their behaviour and 30 per cent said that the family support had been helpful. Nuisance neighbour panels were set up a year ago to bring together experts from the police, youth offending teams, social services and voluntary organisations. They provide advice to local councils and housing associations dealing with disruptive tenants. Blears said: 'Too many neighbours from hell think they are untouchable and too many parents from these families simply hand down bad behaviour to their children.' As part of the strategy on anti-social behaviour, the Home Office has set up a network of nuisance neighbour helplines for people to report anti-social behaviour. The lines were set up last month in the north-east and will be extended to 25 areas across the country by the end of this month. Callers are asked to report everything from graffiti to abandoned cars. The Home Office agenda on anti-social behaviour has been criticised for being over-punitive. With family behaviour contracts, for example, those who fail to comply can be forced to attend compulsory parenting classes or have the status of their tenancies downgraded. Other controversial measures include on-the-spot fines to under-16s to be paid by their parents and proposals in the Serious Organised Crime and Policing Bill to introduce measures for parents to pay compensation for damage caused by children under the age of 10.The fight against anti-social behaviour will be at the heart of the Labour Party's election campaign, which is committed to so-called 'hard-working families'. The crusade against graffiti, abandoned cars and nuisance neighbours has been fuelled by feedback from Labour MPs' constituencies, where voters have named it as one of their top priorities.