The parents of a 14-year-old boy who was bludgeoned and stabbed to death by another teenager yesterday blamed a video game for his murder.Stefan Pakeerah was stabbed and beaten repeatedly with a hammer in an attack his mother described as mimicking the gameplay in the video game Manhunt. Giselle Pakeerah, who had been in Leicester crown court yesterday to hear Warren Leblanc plead guilty to the murder of her son, said she believed the game had led the 17-year-old to kill. "I think that I heard some of Warren's friends say that he was obsessed with this game," she said. "To quote from the website that promotes it, it calls it a psychological experience, not a game, and it encourages brutal killing. If he was obsessed with it, it could well be that the boundaries for him became quite hazy." Leblanc, 17, of Braunstone Frith, Leicester, lured the boy to a park where he carried out the sustained attack using a knife and sledgehammer. He was caught by police leaving the scene and later confessed to the attack. Leblanc now faces the possibility of life behind bars. Ms Pakeerah, a 36-year-old senior research nurse, said: "This game was seized by the police as evidence. A report was done on the game and it was quite horrific. The aim of the game is to kill and to do it brutally. "It should not be available and it should not be available to young people." Stefan's father, Patrick, said that a police report showed that Leblanc had introduced his young son to the computer game and said that it and similar games should not be available to children. "The way Warren committed the murder - this is how the game is set out - killing people using weapons like hammers and knives," he said. "There is some connection between the game and what he has done. "Games like this that influence kids should be taken off the streets completely." Stefan's parents' call for the game to be removed from sale is likely to reignite a long running argument over the influence of video games and films. After the murder of James Bulger in 1993 there were various calls for the banning of "video nasties". At the time MPs called for certain films to be banned. There was a similar outcry after the Columbine school shooting, when Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold murdered 12 students and a teacher and wounded 23 others before shooting themselves at the high school in Littleton, Colorado, in April 1999. They were known to enjoy playing Doom, a game licensed by the US military to train soldiers to kill. However, this is not the first time Manhunt has come under scrutiny. Last December, it had the dubious honour of being the first video game banned in New Zealand. Rockstar Games, the company behind Manhunt, yesterday said its games were aimed at an adult audience and were classified by the British Board of Film Certification. A statement released by the company said: "We extend our deepest sympathies to those affected by these tragic events. "Rockstar Games is a leading publisher of interactive entertainment geared towards mature audiences and markets its games responsibly, targeting advertising and marketing only to adult consumers aged 18 and older."