For her 40th birthday, nearly three years ago, Beth Carpenter went on her first holiday. It was a time of many firsts - first time on an aeroplane, first time outside Scotland, first time she'd left her children (her younger sister, Megan, had offered to babysit). It was also the first chance she had ever had to stop and think. As she lay beside her husband on a Spanish beach, she watched children laughing, playing in the sand, running in and out of the sea. She looked at the way they interacted with their parents, and one day noticed a child who didn't belong in the postcard scenes. She didn't have the same carefree air about her. In this little girl, Beth immediately saw herself, and back in the hotel that night, she burst into tears. She told her partner she was just missing her children. But what she was really missing was a childhood. A few months later, on a cold January evening in 2007, Beth Carpenter went to her local police station and began, for the first time, to tell someone the story of her life.This week the world's media descended on the Austrian city of St Poelten for the trial of Josef Fritzl. The 73-year-old kept his daughter Elisabeth locked up for 24 years in a windowless dungeon, repeatedly raping her and fathering her seven children. He has now pleaded guilty to all the charges against him. The case has provoked worldwide anger, and raised questions about how this could have happened. And because the story broke soon after that of Natascha Kampusch, the Austrian girl abducted and kept captive for more than eight years by Wolfgang Priklopil, some commentators have blamed the crimes on the country's culture of secrecy and failure to come to terms with its past. The implication has been that such an inhumane crime could only happen over there. But in the last few months two "British Fritzl" cases have reached the press. There were no locked dungeons or secret cellars, but the women involved were still treated as prisoners - worse than prisoners - in their own homes and by their own parents.In November, in Sheffield, a 56-year-old man was given 25 life sentences. He had impregnated his two daughters 19 times in 28 years. Two babies died at birth. Ten of the other pregnancies were miscarried or terminated. The second case involved Beth Carpenter. In January, her 72-year-old father was jailed for 14 years for repeatedly raping her and her two sisters between 1976 and 1993. He is the father of two of Beth's children. They are now grown up, and are trying to make sense of the fact that the man they thought was their grandfather is actually their father.Beth lives in a small village in northern Scotland. She is 42, but looks younger. She sits on a sofa, hands clasped before her. The wall is adorned with photos of her children. She missed a lot of school and has no educational qualifications, but she is not stupid. She wants people to hear her story, to realise that this is a bigger problem than most people imagine.Neither of Beth's parents ever worked; her father never wanted to. They depended on benefits and moved around Scotland to avoid arousing suspicion among neighbours, police or social services.Beth's earliest memory is of being beaten at the age of four. "I remember being thrown on the floor afterwards and breaking my two front teeth. I just shut down. I never fought back. On one occasion, after my dad hit me, my mum took me into another room and she started hitting me. She said, 'This is what you do, you fight back, like this.' We thought this was a normal upbringing. We were told it was."Beth and her two younger sisters, Megan and Jane, were warned that they would be sent to a psychiatric institution and have their eyes gouged out if they told anyone what was happening. Her father, a keen hunter, once put his rifle to Beth's head and said he could easily pull the trigger and people would think it was an accident. The knife he always carried, ostensibly for fishing, was often held at Beth's throat. "Unlike the poor woman [Elisabeth Fritzl] we were not caged in. We were allowed out, but only just. We were like dogs on a lead. Even at his trial I was afraid he was going to get a gun and shoot me."Beth was 12 when she was first raped. Her mother had gone into hospital to have another baby, and her father led her to his room. "He said, 'You will need to give me what your mum can't give me.' Afterwards he said it was normal." She shakes her head. Although she wasn't aware of it at the time, the same thing had been happening to Megan for two years (since she was eight), and it started happening to Jane when she was nine.On one occasion, Beth asked Megan what she did when she went camping with their father. He often took them, one at a time, for overnight trips to local woods. Megan replied that they just fished and made fires. Beth said they each thought they were his only victim and were too afraid to confide in each other. Their mother never raised any objections to these trips because, Beth believes, she would have been glad to be free of him for an evening. "She was a victim as well," she says, "I'm not sticking up for her because she should have protected us. But I think she was psychologically and physically abused by him as well. We all lived in terror of him."Her father had always been careful about pregnancy until, at 16, Beth announced she had a boyfriend. She thought this would make her father stop, but he was simply less careful and she became pregnant. She assumed it was her boyfriend's child - though they quickly split up - and says she never contemplated the possibility that it could be her father's. She gave birth to her daughter, Katherine, in 1984.Although she moved into her own flat and was now officially an adult, as far as her father was concerned, she was still his property. He would go to her house two or three times a week and, if no one else was around, he would rape her. "I know people will say, why didn't you just say no," says Beth. "But we were treated as his possessions and because it had happened from such an early age, I think part of me felt that's what I was." His threats escalated - if she told anyone, he said, she'd lose her baby or he'd poison her.At 22, she became pregnant again. This time she didn't have a boyfriend so there was no doubt about paternity. She contemplated a termination but decided against it because of her religion. In 1990, she had a son, Matthew.After she became pregnant with Matthew, Beth's father stopped abusing her, and for the next 16 years she tried to build a life. She met her partner and married him in the mid-90s, telling him the same story she would later tell her children: that Katherine's father died in an accident and that she left Matthew's dad because he hit her. They started their own family and she fostered three children, all with special needs, for seven years. "I think I became addicted to having children around," she says. "It kept me so busy and meant I had no time to think about myself." When she did have time to reflect, her thoughts usually turned to suicide. In 2004, out of the blue, Megan contacted Beth and told her she and Jane had been abused by their father and wanted to go to the police. But instead of feeling relieved that it was out in the open, Beth was worried that Matthew, who was 14 at the time, would be taken into care. She persuaded Megan to try to forget about what had happened. And that is largely what Beth managed to do until her holiday two years later. On that trip she decided to speak up, but her resolve had evaporated when she arrived home. Then came two incidents that cemented her decision to go to the police. The first took place during a visit to her parents' home. (She saw them occasionally to keep up appearances for her husband and children.) Her father mentioned some beautiful young girls who lived across the road and Beth began to worry about their safety.Around the same time she found out that her son, then 16, had started going out with a 14-year-old girl. She said she "freaked" and started screaming about "paedophiles like his father". Her comment provoked a massive argument with her somewhat bewildered son and husband. Later that night in January 2007, shortly before midnight, she drove to her local police station to report her father for 17 years of physical, emotional and sexual abuse.She contacted her sisters and told them it was their decision whether they wanted to come forward. Both wanted to give evidence against him. During their father's eight-day trial last December, DNA evidence revealed he was the father of Katherine as well as Matthew. Beth says this information has yet to sink in. "I've felt so numb for so long that, honestly, I don't know how I feel about this." Just after Christmas she told Katherine, but Beth doesn't think she has absorbed it. Her son is receiving treatment for depression.The case has taken its toll on her marriage and on her sisters' lives. Beth has separated from her husband, but they are on good terms and she is optimistic about a reconciliation. Megan moved to the north of England to start a new life, while Jane, who has also separated from her husband, is trying to find work to support herself and her children.Although still hurt and angry, Beth says she also feels a sense of relief and freedom from the constant terror. "We are all coping," she says. "Nothing can change what happened to us, but it is a little easier now that we no longer have to deal with it in silence and on our own."Unlike Fritzl, Beth's father never showed any remorse in court. Nor has her mother expressed any regret, remaining loyal to her husband and making only one comment to Beth during the trial - that she should be ashamed of herself. Faced with DNA evidence, Beth's father was unable to evade justice. But it didn't stop him trying. He admitted having sex with his daughters. But he claimed that it was consensual.• All names have been changed to protect identities