The mother of one of the teenage boys convicted of murdering Garry Newlove has said she hopes a supreme court ruling against the so-called joint enterprise law will bolster the case for her son’s conviction to be thrown out.Jordan Cunliffe was 15 when he was convicted of the 2007 murder of Newlove under the law of joint enterprise, which on Thursday the supreme court ruled had been misinterpreted since 1984.Cunliffe’s mother Janet Wilson, who has campaigned against the law in the eight years since her son’s conviction, told the Guardian the ruling adds weight to what she said was her son’s “already strong” case.Joint enterprise law questioned by mother of teen convict Cunliffe was sentenced to life in prison with a minimum of 12 years for Newlove’s murder. He was jailed along with two other teenagers, Adam Swellings, then 19, and Stephen Sorton, then 17.The trial heard that Newlove, a 47-year-old father of three, was killed by a single blow to the head. It has always been Cunliffe’s case that although he was present, he did not lay a finger on Newlove. His case is complicated futher by the fact that he was registered blind at the time, suffering from a degenerative eye condition known as keretaconus.“For the past eight years, the fight has been to get rid of that [joint enterprise rule] because if you can do that to a blind 15-year-old, the kind of argument that is on the prosecution’s side, you can do it to anyone and obviously it’s been done to a lot of people,” Wilson said.“It wasn’t evidence to me. I’ve always thought if someone is to go on trial for murder, the eveidence has got to be such a level and standard that it is beyond reasonable doubt. It was making a mockery of justice.”Wilson expressed sympathy to the family of murder victims caught up in the affected cases, but insisted any backlash against relatives of convicted murderers is misguided as it is the law that has proven to have been at fault.“For this to be all dragged up again for any victim’s family is so unfair,” she said.“You think the person who has done it has been caught and they’re going to be punished and that’s the last of it and you grieve and get on with your life. To have people like me and campaigners popping up all the time; it must be like rubbing salt in the wounds. My brother got 19 years jail on a joint enterprise conviction. Now we want him home | Charlotte Henry “But it was the law that took the wrong turn and the law has put that right now. It’s not our fault. We shouldn’t have to feel guilty but we certainly do feel concerned for the victims because it’s all been unnecessary.”Newlove’s murder triggered a fierce nationwide debate over Britain’s moral fibre. Kicked to death by a gang of drunk youngsters outside his own home, the cancer survivor’s death seemed to some to epitomise what the then opposition leader David Cameron called “Broken Britain”.Newlove was attacked when he stepped outside to confront a group of boys he believed were vandalising his wife’s car. The sales manager died in hospital two days after the attack in August 2007, having suffered a massive brain haemorrhage. His wife Helen, who has since been made victims’ commissioner and received a life peerage in light of her social justice campaigning, said she had lost her soulmate.Alongside Newlove, his wife, daughters and friends, Wilson argues there is one more victim of the Newlove’s death – her son Jordan. She recognises this view is hard for some to accept but feels she has been vindicated by Thursday’s ruling.The judges’ unanimous decision applied to those convicted under a specific category of evidential rules, where defendants have “foresight” of what would happen before the murder was committed.The judgment on Thursday came in relation to two joint enterprise cases – one in Leicester and one in Jamaica – where men were convicted of murder. Both murder convictions have now been set aside.Historic cases could be challenged after joint enterprise ruling The British case involved Ameen Hassan Jogee, who is serving a life sentence. Jogee was convicted of murder even though it was his friend, Mohammed Adnam Hirsi, who killed their victim, Paul Fyfe, with a knife taken from the kitchen. Jogee was outside the house when the killing took place.Wilson said she had come across dozens of cases similar to her son’s. “Through learning about my own case, my own son’s case, and then meeting other mums and other families and finding out that their case mirrored ours, they’re all very similar and it’s usually the foresight that is the reason someone is doing life and they didn’t do anything,” she said.Jordan’s case is currently with the criminal cases review commission, which examines potential miscarriages of justice. “This is really valuable for Jordan,” Wilson said. “His case is already strong. This just adds weight to it. He’s a dead cert. If you were a gambling man, you’d put all your money on this one coming home.”Wilson said she wants her son to have a future without “the murder tag”. “We want him to have 100% freedom back.”She said her son, who is now 24, was “gobsmacked” by the decision and “can’t believe something has gone right for once”.Baroness Newlove declined to comment on the ruling. What is joint enterprise?Joint enterprise cases involve crimes where more than one person takes part. The evidence rules enable those who did not strike the fatal blow or pull the trigger nonetheless to be convicted of murder.Among well-known joint enterprise cases are the convictions obtained against the killers of Stephen Lawrence, who was stabbed to death in a racist attack in south London in 1993, and Ben Kinsella, a schoolboy knifed in north London in 2008. The supreme court declared on Thursday that a key test imposed by judges in assessing guilt in joint enterprise cases had been incorrectly applied since 1984.