Crime victims are to get more cash to compensate for their suffering after an overhaul of the criminal injuries system, the government confirmed last night, although the lawyer for one victim described the increases as "disappointing".Pay-outs from the criminal injuries compensation scheme contrast starkly with the amounts awarded by the civil courts, which often run into six figures. The minimum award for rape victims will be increased from £7,500 to £11,000 and people who suffer multiple injuries will receive higher sums. Gay couples will have the same rights as heterosexuals for the first time, becoming eligible to claim a cash pay-out if their partner is killed. Earlier this month nursery nurse Lisa Potts, who received the George Medal for shielding children from a machete-wielding attacker, was told she would get just £49,000 for the 11 serious wounds she received. Three weeks ago another victim of the machete attack, eight-year-old Francesca Quintyne, had her compensation tripled to £23,000 by an appeals panel. Francesca's lawyer, Tom Jones, said the new figures would mean an increase in her award of only about £4,000. "If it wasn't so upsetting it would be laughable. The headline figure of the package looks impressive but the detail is disappointing." Mr Jones said a woman seeking compensation for serious facial scarring in the civil courts could expect to receive between £24,000 and £48,000. The home secretary, Jack Straw, said the package will cost an estimated £20m a year on top of the scheme's £200m annual budget. The system pays a fixed amount, or tariff, for each type of wound but has been criticised because each victim can only be compensated for three injuries, no matter how many they receive. The full tariff is granted for the most serious wound, 10% for the second most serious and 5% for the third. Last night Mr Straw said the formula would increase to 100%, 30% and 15%, but people who have suffered multiple injuries will still only be able to claim for three of them. The home secretary added: "I want victims of crime to have a greater confidence that we are looking after their interests and listening to their concerns." 