Two teenagers accused of killing Damilola Taylor launched an "uncaring and callous" attack on the 10-year-old, the Old Bailey heard today.Ricky Preddie, 19, and his brother Danny, 18, from Peckham, south London, were "in it together" when one of them armed himself with a broken beer bottle and stabbed the schoolboy in the leg, the court was told.Damilola died shortly after the attack, in November 2000, bleeding to death in a stairwell on the north Peckham estate. He had arrived in the UK from Nigeria just three months before.The Preddie brothers - aged 12 and 13 at the time of the killing - are being tried for the second time on the basis of new forensic evidence.Victor Temple QC, prosecuting, told the jury there were no eyewitnesses to the attack and it was not known which brother inflicted the fatal blow to Damilola.He said: "Despite their youth, it is no exaggeration of language to describe the attack on Damilola Taylor as uncaring and callous."Both the brothers were streetwise beyond their age, but neither chose to come to his aid, neither called an ambulance or other assistance, despite it being obvious to anyone that Damilola, whose bleeding was immediate and profuse, was in need of immediate medical attention. "Instead both, after a brief pause, walked off and then fled the scene."Jurors heard how Damilola was found by a carpenter, Bill Casal, who saw a trail of blood on the pavement leading to a stairwell.Mr Temple said: "He saw a young boy leaning against the wall. Blood was pouring from the area of his groin and down his leg."Mr Casal then saw three black youths standing in the road below.Mr Temple said: "One of them looked up towards Mr Casal, and proceeded to make a gesture with his left hand across the thigh of his left leg."Two days later police officers saw Ricky Preddie twice visiting the scene of the crime."Both officers noted that Ricky Preddie was not his usual self but appeared quiet and subdued," said Mr Temple. The Preddie brothers were acquitted earlier this year of murder and assault with intention to rob after a two-month trial. But the jury could not reach a verdict on manslaughter and a retrial was ordered.Mr Temple said there was "powerful circumstantial evidence" that linked the pair to the killing. A training shoe taken from Danny Preddie's room was found to have a bloodstain from Damilola. In it was a fibre indistinguishable from his school trousers. "It bore the characteristics of having been caused by a drop of blood falling onto the shoe from above," said Mr Temple. In Ricky Preddie's case, Damilola's blood was found in the weave of the cuff of a sweatshirt which the prosecution alleged belonged to him.The forensic evidence was missed during the first police investigation - a matter that Mr Temple said did not "call for any formal findings" from the jury.The court heard that Danny Preddie had been living at a care home in Bermondsey, south London, which was "far from secure". Ricky was a pupil at the Orchard Lodge assessment centre, Anerley, south London, but was absent on the day Damilola died.The trial is expected to last eight weeks.