In the end they have gone for the man, not the system. Using new powers in the 2002 Police Act, David Blunkett suspended the chief constable of Humberside yesterday within minutes of the report from the Bichard inquiry into the Soham murders being released. In Whitehall jargon this will give Humberside police authority a two-week window to review whether they still have confidence in their chief. If they continue to support him, the home secretary can still intervene, step in and sack him.None of the officials investigated by the inquiry was in a more vulnerable position than David Westwood, the Humberside chief. In initial interviews following Ian Huntley's conviction for the murder of the two Soham girls, he unwisely and wrongly blamed the Data Protection Act for the way in which his force had not retained details of sexual accusations made against Huntley. He had come to the attention of the force on 10 previous occasions prior to the murder, nine of them involving sexual allegations, five of them involving children, one as young as 11. In his report, Sir Michael Bichard sets out a catalogue of failures by Humberside: the lack of effective guidance and training; widespread ignorance of how records were created; and confusion about what was meant by weeding, reviewing and deletion. As a result, "information haemorrhaged in an alarming way: the pattern of Huntley's criminal behaviour was not identified soon enough and the various investigations of Huntley might well have been handled differently if officers had known about past incidents. Whether that would have affected the disposal of any of these incidents will never be known." But not unreasonably, Sir Michael declared that the Humberside chief must take personal and corporate responsibilities for these failings. And yet responsibility does not stop on the Humberside doorstep. In his report - and press conference - Sir Michael indicts the entire police intelligence system. The deeply shocking "errors, omissions, failures and shortcomings" were not confined to Humberside. Cambridge failed to even ask Humberside to vet Huntley. All police voices emphasised the crucial role of intelligence, but their rhetoric did not match reality. Intelligence was not given a high enough priority. Worse still were the many different ways that forces collated information. Sir Michael expressed incredulity at the lack of a single, common system or database to standardise intelligence-handling practices across all 43 forces in England and Wales. No one intervened when different forces chose to buy incompatible systems. Sir Michael plaintively asked: "Why, if it has been in Scotland since 1992 and we are supposed to be learning from each other, is this only happening now?" Whose fault is this? Surely the chief inspectors of police and home secretaries, none of whom apologised yesterday. Unsurprisingly, Sir Michael recommends the urgent introduction of a unified, national IT system to support police intelligence. This should be followed by a clear national code of practice issued to all police forces on record creation, review, retention, deletion and sharing. Other sensible proposals include a more coherent registration scheme for those wishing to work with children or vulnerable adults; more training for head teachers and school governors to ensure interview panel members recognise the importance of safeguarding children (Soham village college failed to take up Huntley's references); and clearer guidance to social services regarding the reporting to the police of sexual activity between under-aged children and older people. There is a long history of police reform following scandal. Bichard's thorough review should help Soham join the list.