The conviction of Shahidul Ahmed for the murder of Rachel Manning in 2000 has a significance that goes far beyond the jailing of a violent and dangerous man for a horrific crime. Manning's former boyfriend, Barri White, was wrongly convicted of her murder in 2002 and served six years in prison before being released as a result of evidence unearthed by the BBC television programme Rough Justice.In the wake of the murder verdict at Luton crown court, White was swift to offer praise. "If it wasn't for Rough Justice, I wouldn't be sitting here right now, a free man," he said. "The help they gave to me was amazing."Indeed it was. Rough Justice, along with Channel 4's Trial and Error programme, was often the last hope for the innocent victim of a miscarriage of justice. Dedicated journalists and researchers would come up with evidence that detectives or lawyers had missed and would shine a light into some of the darker corners of our criminal justice system. And White, whose friend Keith Wyatt was also wrongly convicted in connection with the murder, had this to say: "All the help that programme gave to all those innocent people over the years was incredible. I still can't believe the BBC took it off the air."In all, 18 innocent people were freed as a result of Rough Justice programmes. Their very first programme in 1982, the Case of the Handful of Hair, led to Mervyn Russell being cleared of murder after spending six years behind bars. Anthony Steel, the subject of another programme, had spent nearly 20 years in jail for the 1979 murder of Carole Wilkinson before he had his conviction quashed.The programme Trial and Error was dumped by Channel 4 in 1999 on the day that Mary Druhan, wrongly convicted of a double murder in a squat, had her conviction quashed as a result of their work. "The point about Channel 4 is that you move forward," said the network's spokesperson helpfully on the day they ditched it.The BBC finally took Rough Justice off the air in 2007, having allowed it gradually to slip from view, a victim of savage budgetary cuts. How poignant that the verdict in the Manning case should come on the very day that it was revealed by the National Audit Office that the BBC overpaid its top earners nearly £2m in their severance deals. Think how many innocent people might have been freed if the money had been better spent.Ahmed was known to have committed at least one serious sexual offence after White and Hyatt were wrongly convicted. As the former Rough Justice producer, Louise Shorter, points out: "When innocent people are convicted, the guilty remain free to commit further crimes as they see fit."And the case highlights two other problems. There are still many, many uninvestigated cases of miscarriages of justice. Last year the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the body set up to look into such cases, received 1,625 applications from people wanting their cases reviewed, a 64% increase partly due, it was felt, to a change in the way applications could be made. It is still an astonishing figure and one which this year's 10% increase in funding for the CCRC will not do nearly enough to redress. As too many prisoners can testify, many cases still take years before any final action is taken.The second issue is the cutting back of legal aid funding which makes future miscarriages of justice inevitable. If lawyers are unable to afford to investigate cases on behalf of their clients, others, like Barri White, will end up wrongly behind bars.The axing of Rough Justice was a false economy. At its best, it represented exactly what journalism and public service television should be doing. Investigating such cases is an expensive and time-consuming business but that is no reason to abandon it.