Aggressive beggars who intimidate people by hanging around bank cash machines demanding money are to be cleared off Britain's streets as part of a controversial new push against anti-social behaviour.In an announcement expected in the next few days, Tony Blair will say that begging is part of a growing problem which needs to be tackled. Thirty 'intervention programmes' will be announced in cities and towns across the country aimed at clearing beggars off the streets and offering them hostel accommodation. The Government will back local authority campaigns which say that giving money to beggars merely helps them to buy drugs. The moves come as part of a wider campaign by the Government and local authorities to be announced on Tuesday. Downing Street officials said low-level crime such as drunkenness, intimidation, rowdy behaviour and nuisance neighbours were to be made the Government's 'top priority' as it tries to regain the confidence of the voters. The plans against beggars are likely to receive a cool response from groups helping the homeless who say that Blair's tough language is demonising the poor. 'The term "anti-social behaviour" is often used as a catch-all for all sorts of seriously punitive measures often directed at the most vulnerable and marginalised people in our society,' said Adam Sampson, director of the housing charity Shelter. The action against begging with be the centrepiece of a raft of measures to be announced in an Anti-Social Behaviour Action Plan to be personally launched by the Prime Minister. It will be part of Blair's attempt to show that he is re-engaged with Britain's problems at home after criticism that Iraq has meant that Downing Street had lost focus on the domestic agenda. The Government will also announce the results of the first-ever survey into the number of anti-social behaviour incidents counted by police forces and local authorities across England and Wales in one 24-hour period. It is expected that the survey will show that on 10 September more than 50,000 incidents were recorded ranging from street begging to drunkenness, kerb crawling, noise, rowdy behaviour and 'vehicle related nuisance' - the use of many council estates as race tracks for cars. Senior figures in the police service said that although the figures were useful, there were huge discrepancies in collecting the crime statistics across the country. Home Office sources admitted that the figures were 'not scientific'. In a private summit with police and local authority representatives at Downing Street last Monday, Blair said that low-level crime could not be ignored. Blair will urge local councils and the police to make more use of fixed penalty fines of between £40 and £200 which can be used to curb intimidating behaviour without the need to go to court. Officers like this system because it saves them a lot of paperwork, said one police source.