Lin Liangren vividly recalls the moment he became aware of the impending tragedy. The gangmaster, who was yesterday convicted of unlawfully killing 21 Chinese cockle pickers who drowned in Morecambe Bay, Lancashire, remembers seeing a light flashing in the distance. Then his phone rang. It was Tian Long and Lin Lishui, two of the cockle pickers caught in the rapidly rising waters. "The tide is coming up," they told him."I realised now there was a problem. Immediately, I called the police, but I didn't say anything because I couldn't explain myself and I was really nervous."A jury at Preston crown court convicted Lin, 29, of manslaughter by gross negligence after the prosecution proved that he was the mastermind behind the lucrative, but ultimately fatal, cockle-harvesting operation. Another two cocklers are thought to have drowned in the bay but their bodies have never been found.Speaking to the Guardian before the trial at Preston prison where he has been held for the past 18 months, Lin described how he had transported the cockle pickers on to the sands on the evening of February 5 2004. Even then, the going was difficult. "When the workers were ready, I started driving them into the sands, miles out from the shore. As the tide was not completely out, my vehicle got stuck in the sands on my way back to the shore. I had to drive very slowly back."In well-spoken Mandarin, Lin told the Guardian that after the alarm had been raised he tried to drive a van into the sea, but the channel became too deep to cross and he turned back."I got calls from people still in the sea. They were Lin Lishui and Tian Long. I heard people talking in the background. I became really worried, desperately waiting for the police and rescue to arrive. After I failed [in my] attempt to find the workers, I walked along the shore. There was nothing I could do. Nothing."He walked to a nearby pub and tried to call his parents in China. "I was feeling terribly nervous. But I couldn't get through. I had no idea whether the workers could make it back to the shore. I wanted to just talk to my mother, to relieve my stress."When Lin eventually left the pub and walked back to the shore, he found the road blocked by police. "The police seemed only interested in arresting people rather than letting the Chinese on shore assist with the rescue."Lin said he had had no idea about the death of the workers when he was taken to the police station. "It was only two days later when we were sent to Manchester to be detained that we knew so many people had lost their lives."During the seven-month trial the jury heard that Lin, from Fujian province in China, was the man who controlled the cockle pickers and transported them by minibus on the night of their deaths at Warton Sands.As gangmaster, he fed and housed the workers, supplying them with tools and waterproof clothing. All the pickers were illegal immigrants who had entered the UK with the help of snakehead gangs who charged their families up to £20,000. Cockle pickers working for Lin were paid £5 a bag of cockles but he received three times as much.Lin always denied the charges, claiming he had been hired as driver by Lin Lishui and Tian Long. The court heard that as the tragedy unfolded, Lin fled the scene and later gave a false name to detectives and lied about his movements. Yesterday he was also convicted of conspiring to pervert the course of justice, after he repeatedly tried to distance himself from the tragedy by ordering survivors not to tell anyone he was their boss, and conspiracy to commit facilitation - enabling illegal immigrants to work in this country.Lin's girlfriend, Zhao Xiaoqing, was found guilty of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice and conspiracy to commit facilitation. The 21-year-old was crucial to Lin's criminal enterprise as she helped him to apply for permits and was a translator between him and the cockle buyers. After the drownings, she joined in the cover-up and tried to help Lin avoid arrest.Lin Muyong, 31, was found guilty of facilitation. The two remaining defendants, David Eden Sr and David Eden Jr, the owners of the Liverpool Bay Fishing Company, who bought cockles from Lin, were cleared of facilitation.Lin insisted that for him cockling had been but a temporary employment. "All I wanted was quick cash. I didn't have long-term plans to make profits from it."His role in cockling was insignificant in terms of the trade as a whole, he insisted. When asked if he thought he should have taken greater care to ensure the workers' safety, he would say only: "I had no previous experience with the sea."And what of the 23 cocklers who lost their lives? "If I could have the 23 people back alive, I would exchange my life for that. But I am not responsible for their deaths."Lin and his two Chinese co-defendants will be sentenced on Tuesday.