The family of a 22-year-old woman cleared of helping her friend to kill herself have said she did not deserve to be prosecuted. Milly Caller was found not guilty of encouraging or assisting the suicide of Emma Crossman, who was found dead in Sleaford, Lincolnshire, in January last year. The jury found Caller not guilty at Lincoln crown court after hearing six days of evidence, including from Caller, who said she did not think her friend would take her own life. Caller did not show any emotion as the jury foreman read out the verdict. Her family and friends were in tears in the public gallery and, after Caller was released from the dock, she was embraced by her supporters in the court. Outside, her family said she should never have been put in this position. Her sister, Fiona, said: “She hasn’t got a nasty bone in her body. She’s the nicest person you would ever meet. She doesn’t deserve any of this.”Caller was alleged by the prosecution to have been “obsessed and infatuated” by Crossman, 21, at the time of her death. Opening the case for the prosecution last week, Mark McKone told the jury there was no dispute that the defendant supplied a gas that her friend used to help kill herself. He said the facts of the case were not disputed but Caller was pleading not guilty on the basis she did not think Crossman would actually kill herself. The court heard how Crossman had a history of depression, self-harm and drug overdoses. McKone said she was particularly badly affected by relationship breakdowns and had split up with her partner, Adrian Kemp, 56, a month or so before her death. The jury came back with the verdict just moments after they had been given a majority direction by the judge. They had been deliberating for about four-and-a-half hours.Outside the court, Caller said: “I just don’t know what to say at the minute.” But asked if she was relieved, she said: “Yes”. She faced the cameras supported by her sisters, Emma and Fiona, and her brother, Jason. Fiona Caller said: “Finally we have received the verdict we have been longing for. “Although we do not see this as a celebration, we are extremely relieved. “We would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has supported us through this difficult time. “Milly can now move on with her life and grieve properly for her best friend Emma.” Jason Caller said the prosecution of his sister had been “very stressful”. Asked if he thought it was right to prosecute, he said: “Not in our view. It’s a massive relief. It’s the right verdict.”Caller’s mother, Carol, said: “It’s been difficult for all of us.“Nobody who knows Milly can believe it’s even come to this. She was quiet and she wouldn’t harm anybody.” 