One in four women in the UK is affected by domestic violence and two women a week are killed. As the duty prosecutor on Saturday mornings in a big city, I usually deal with two or three domestic violence cases. I am still saddened by how many involve children witnessing the violence.About 5% of domestic violence offenders are brought to justice. There will be about 35 incidents of abuse before the police are finally called. Women tell me they are afraid to come forward in case they provoke another attack, or their children are taken away. One woman said: "My biggest fear is that he is going to come after me, or take my youngest from me or get custody of our daughter."Women might distrust the police and feel shame or fear that they will not be believed. Many assure themselves that the violence will not happen again - although research has shown that domestic violence is almost never a one-off and has the highest repeat rate of any crime. They remain convinced they can change the perpetrator's behaviour, and some women believe they deserve the abuse.As a senior crown prosecutor I decide if there is sufficient evidence to make the prospect of a conviction more likely, and whether it will be in the public interest to prosecute.The number of successful prosecutions is rising. There is now great political impetus for change but the process is very slow. I would like to see the law amended so that expert evidence in certain domestic violence cases could be allowed - this would help the judge and jury to understand why victims of domestic violence stay in the home or with their partner despite the abuse.However, it is important to understand that a successful conviction is not always the objective and may not be the best outcome. What is important is for those in the criminal justice system is to fully understand the dynamics involved in domestic abuse so they can make the best decisions in each case.During my three years as a regional domestic violence coordinator, I trained magistrates and the police to help them understand the Crown Prosecution Service's (CPS) policy on domestic violence and the dynamics of abusive relationships, as well as being a source of specialist knowledge on the subject for other lawyers.Now, in my role as a CPS policy adviser, I feel ideally placed to make a difference where it matters.When a defendant, who has spent Friday night in the cells, sits in the dock on a Saturday morning and hears me describe to the magistrates how he has treated his partner I feel an important contribution is made to bring perpetrators of domestic abuse out into the public eye, whatever the eventual outcome of a case. When the defence asserts that it was "only a slap" I am able to give the rest of the picture, and the alleged abusers find this an uncomfortable experience. I think this is a significant step in attempting to break the cycle of abuse, which tends to thrive behind closed doors.Prosecuting domestic abuse is a fundamental part of changing society's attitude towards domestic abusers and survivors of abuse. One woman told me: "When his family found out about the first incident, they were like, 'Oh, he just hit her, nothing wrong there.' It seems that his family still blame me and they think I'm out to get him." This reaction is not unusual.Hearing some professionals justify decisions not to obtain evidence from children on the basis that they "don't want to get the children involved" or "it isn't fair to set the children against a parent" is the worst part of my job. These things are often said with good intent but the reality is that the children are already involved, and it is so important to hear their voices. Further harm can be done by not hearing their story.I was called to the Bar at the relatively late age of 41. After a career as a buyer in the travel industry, I studied with the Open University while raising three of my four children and then went to Oxford University.As a mature entrant to the legal profession I feel that the benefit of my wider experience helps me to balance the difficult decisions I have to make.· The 24-hour National Domestic Violence Helpline is available free on 0808 200 0247.· Karen Squibb-Williams was talking to Deborah Bennison.