Scotland Yard yesterday launched disciplinary proceedings against a police officer alleged to have driven his patrol car at a black teenager, leaving him disabled and disfigured.The Metropolitan police began hearings into the conduct of PC Graham Knight following an incident four years ago which left Sherman Thomas with severe leg injuries and needing several operations. Mr Thomas, 22, who once aspired to be a professional basketball player, now walks with a stick and suffers psychological problems. He was never charged with any offence. The Met have charged PC Knight, who is based in Lambeth, south London, with being "neglectful". The officer has denied the charge. In July 2000 police chased Mr Thomas, suspecting him of having ridden a stolen moped. His lawyers say he had surrendered before the car smashed into him. The Met initially declined to take any action and the Crown Prosecution Service declined to prosecute, a stance which is said to have "surprised" the Police Complaints Authority. Internal disciplinary charges were eventually filed against the officer by the Met at the behest of the PCA. The authority's own inquiry, conducted by West Midlands police, revealed that in a call to the ambulance service one police officer said: "He's conscious and screaming, yeah, teach him to nick mopeds." In a later call the ambulance operator responded to police laughter, saying: "It's not funny, is it?" Mr Thomas, who has been called to the disciplinary hearing as a witness, said: "What happens now will not change my condition, but if the officer is held to account, I will at least be able to believe that the police cannot just do what they like and get away with it." As he walked into the central London hearing, he said: "I shouldn't have to be here. This should have been settled a long time ago." Mr Thomas is to launch his own civil action against the Met. A Met spokeswoman said the officer is accused of "breach of conduct". He has not been suspended, but has been taken off driving duties. The hearing is expected to take a week.