Police including counter-terrorist officers from Scotland Yard were last night investigating why a man tried to detonate a bomb in an Exeter restaurant.A 22-year-old man was injured in the blast and later arrested in connection with the explosion, police said. They added that two improvised explosive devices were later found, though only one detonated.Police refused to confirm reports from some witnesses that nails were seen near the scene of the blast in a restaurant belonging to the Giraffe chain. Scotland Yard officers were sent from London to the scene. Senior sources that said the incident was being treated very seriously, and the restaurant was popular with families.The decision to send specialist counter-terrorism officers was made at the request of Devon and Cornwall police.About 15 customers and staff were evacuated from the restaurant after the explosion. Exeter city centre was sealed off for several hours and police invoked counter-terrorism powers giving them authority to stop and search people.The man arrested had serious injuries, which were not life threatening, and was conscious. Police were waiting for medical clearance to begin interviewing him.The Security Service, MI5, is also understood to be monitoring the unfolding investigation.Sources stress there is no evidence at this stage linking the blast to al-Qaida-inspired terrorism, though that is not being ruled out. Other possible motives likely to be explored by police include links to another terrorist group, a grudge of some sort, or if the apparent perpetrator has learning difficulties.Architect Peter Lacey, 63, and his wife had just arrived to have lunch in the recently opened Princesshay shopping centre when the explosion went off. He said there were three bangs, separated by about a second each and they sounded more like gunshots than explosions: "I heard a noise which sounded like a gunshot and at first I thought it was a kitchen accident of some sort, albeit a very noisy one. "About a second afterwards there was another identical sound, and maybe a second later a third. I think everyone in the restaurant thought the same as us. They thought the first blast was something normal, when they heard the second there was doubt and when the third one happened it turned to concern. "There was absolutely no panic and I heard one customer say after the first bang they thought a light bulb had popped. We were sat very close to the opening where there were doors to the two toilets."I could tell the sound came from the cubicle. There was no damage to the rest of the building at all. The staff tried to get into the toilet but it was locked." Alison Fewins and Louise Platt were in the shopping centre when they heard the explosion. Fewins said: "We felt a vibration and heard a noise which we thought was building work. We didn't connect it with an explosion. A few people were running around and we heard police cars." She added: "I am a bit shaken. It's all a bit scary that it happened here."A Royal Navy bomb disposal team was deployed to the scene and used a remotely controlled device to investigate the area. Devon and Somerset fire service said three fire engines were called to the shopping centre at 12.50pm. The arrested man suffered lacerations to his eyes and burns to his face.Toby Melville, deputy chief constable of Devon and Cornwall police, said: "We have no idea of motive as it is very early days. The bomb squad have entered the restaurant and made a device safe. Forensic examinations can now begin." A Scotland Yard spokesperson said: "We can confirm that a small team of counter-terrorism officers are travelling to Exeter assist Devon and Cornwall police, who are conducting the investigation."