In 1976 a 13-year-old boy battered an elderly woman to death to get money for fireworks. George, not his real name, was convicted of murder and sentenced to serve at Her Majesty's Pleasure, the junior equivalent of a life sentence – the same sentence handed down 17 years later to Robert Thompson and Jon Venables for the murder of James Bulger.Unlike Thompson and Venables, George's identity was not made public. But like them he was taken from the court to begin his sentence in "secure accommodation", a well-equipped and well-resourced home for children – none of whom had ever been identified by the courts or the press – who had killed, raped, burgled and burned their way into the lives of others. Again, like the killers of James Bulger, George thrived in the home. He told the carers it was the first time he felt he had a family. But when he was 18, unlike Thompson and Venables, he was transferred to prison, where he lived on wings and landings among other teenagers who had also committed "grave crimes."There were some very confident, professional prison officers in George's prison. They worked with a voluntary organisation, which they allowed to take their young prisoners for "placements" away from the prison – to work with people who needed help. The groups benefiting from the helping hands of the prisoners included the young, the disabled, the mentally ill – and the elderly. The idea was to teach the young prisoners empathy.Meetings were held, expert assessments made – and in order to get George working at an old peoples' home the home secretary of the day had to be consulted. After considering all the facts he decided not to intervene and gave the placement his blessing. For eight weeks George lived in the home with the residents – digging and fixing and generally being handy. He even helped a number of the residents shave. The highlight of his stay, for him and for them, was when he organised a charity fund-raising "splash a granny," competition. George dressed up as an old lady and for a few pence the residents were invited to pelt him with wet sponges. They never knew of his childhood horror – never suspected he was a killer – they were just glad he was around. None of this happened of course without careful thought, consideration and scrupulous monitoring by those in authority.George returned to prison when the placement was over and was later released, to begin his "rehabilitation" in the community. What he did to the old lady was terrible, causing grief and pain, as all murder does, beyond measure. That he was a child was no excuse. But the response of the responsible authorities was to try to understand what had driven him to act the way he did and then to do everything possible to resolve it and ensure that he lived on in a positive, constructive and contributing way into adulthood. Which is exactly what happened. His rehabilitation was important to George, but more so to his society and other potential victims.Knowing this story, it occurs to me that somebody needs to ask why 10 years after George was released we took such a backward step – identification followed by constant and public temperature-raising intervention in the case – in relation to Thompson and Venables. Why did the trial judge choose to reveal the identity of James Bulger's killers? Why did the home secretary intervene and award an unlawful extrajudicial penalty of 15 years instead of the trial judge's eight? (A folly described as "institutional vengeance" by the lord chief justice who later quashed it.) And why have those in power at the time been able to get away with allowing this tragedy of three vulnerable children to scar the country and leave wounds that will probably never heal?