The UK is about to sign an agreement with Switzerland under which Swiss banks levy taxes on secret Swiss accounts held by UK tax evaders, while keeping those accounts secret. The UK says the deals will raise billions. It is bad enough that these deals sabotage major European efforts to tax their citizens properly and to penetrate secret banking, and that wealthy criminals will get impunity. But there's an even stronger objection to these deals: they will fail, raising only a tiny fraction of what has been promised.After all, Swiss banks are supposed to deduct up to 34% from their clients' capital assets, then impose taxes of up to 48% on the subsequent income. Given how massive a chunk this will take out of these assets and income, it is astonishing there's been hardly a murmur of protest from Swiss bankers or their clients. The bankers are even purring about how fair it is.The details are not yet published but we now have a good idea. This week Switzerland published the text of a parallel agreement with Germany, which the Swiss have said is essentially the same as the UK deal except for the tax rates. Taking them at their word, we can now see how both deals will fail.Banks are supposed to withhold taxes first on the initial capital, then on interest, capital gains and capital income owned by their UK taxpayer clients. Now, a Swiss bank would rarely hold John Smith's account in the name of "John Smith" but in the name of, say, ABC Liechtenstein foundation or XYZ discretionary trust. Swiss sources indicate that some private banks don't hold a single account in an individual's name.The German deal claims to tackle these structures by saying the tax will fall on the people that have the right to use these assets. But foundations and discretionary trusts are exceedingly slippery. Although someone is always ultimately behind them, from a legal point of view nobody has the rights to their assets. That is the whole point of these things! And if you can't identify who has legal rights to the assets, you can't say if the person ultimately behind it is British, German, Nigerian or Martian. So the bank can't apply the UK-Swiss deal to it and withhold the upfront capital tax. It may perhaps find out the identities when the structure finally makes a distribution, but this may be decades later and may be paid out as loans or fees, say, which fall outside the deal's scope.There's a much better way to go about all this. European countries already have a multilateral agreement to collect tax and share information about interest earned by each others' citizens. The European savings tax directive covers EU countries plus Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Britain's crown dependencies (such as Jersey) and overseas territories (such as Cayman) and others. (The non-EU members have agreed to participate by adopting equivalent measures.)The directive is full of holes, partly because of the above loophole, and has raised a tiny fraction of the amounts originally expected: Jersey, with £165bn in bank deposits, paid out just £4m last year under the scheme, a miniscule fraction of what you might expect. But major EU amendments coming soon will give the directive serious teeth, using concepts never before wielded in international tax. It will make the management of the structure, rather than the bank, responsible for collecting the tax. It will either identify the individual who initially contributed the assets, or apply the tax when the structure pays out.The German deal misses these clever tricks, which are essential for success. It also loses a big opportunity: it could easily have brought the foreign branches of Swiss banks in Singapore and other places into its scope – but, inexplicably, it does not. It has several other big loopholes, which help explain why Swiss bankers are so happy with the deals.The only upfront money the UK is sure to receive will be small payments from accounts in individuals' own names. I'd be surprised if this collects more than a 10th of the envisaged sums. In early 2010 Switzerland, under strong EU pressure, was at last showing signs of considering serious moves towards transparency. This deal, and the German one with Switzerland, sabotage political progress. Swiss shutters are down again. As a tax adviser put it: "Britain and Germany will destroy so much – for tuppence."The German deal faces massive political resistance and looks likely to get shot down in the German parliament, leaving the UK out on a limb. Britain should scrap this bilateral deal and throw its weight behind EU measures, which would raise major tax revenues and seek widespread multilateral information exchange as the ultimate long-term goal. Nobody pretends this will be easy. But it is far better than the UK's sordid deal – which cannot work anyway.• For a more in-depth report on this issue, visit the Tax Justice Network