Police are threatening to boycott the new 'British FBI' set up to tackle gangland crime in a row over what officers claim is the creeping politicisation of the force.The Police Federation is warning officers not to sign up for jobs with the new flagship agency, arguing that they will lose the traditional independence police officers enjoy and that their pay and conditions may be at risk. The row casts a serious shadow over the planned Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca), set up to tackle serious crime from immigration rackets and people smuggling to drugs and money laundering. It is due to start work next April.The Home Office has promised that no officer would be left worse off by transferring into it, but the federation says it has grave concerns over the job security and rights of Soca officers, who will become employees answerable to the Home Secretary rather than constables with a sworn allegiance to the crown. 'Nobody should sign up for just an assurance saying, "You won't be any worse off." We don't believe they can make that assurance,' said Jan Berry, chair of the federation, which represents rank and file officers. 'We want Soca to be a success because it's in the police service's interest that serious and organised crime is dealt with. But we know it can only be a success if police officers' experience is used effectively.' The move marks the first serious challenge from rank and file police to the new Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, and reflects disquiet over the growing civilianisation of the force - and what many see as the Home Office's increasing interference in operational policing. Ministers, however, argue that for too long the police have escaped searching scrutiny during times of patchy performance. Soca recruits are expected to be mainly drawn from the National Crime Squad, dealing with specialist crimes such as child pornography on the internet, and Berry is now writing to serving squad members advising them not to sign up until concrete guarantees are obtained. She said that, while as servants of the Crown police officers had traditionally been independent of politicians, 'control of the police is gradually but surely being centralised and politicised'. 'We are a disciplined service, and if I was a constable my sergeant might instruct me to do something but I don't have to do it - I'm accountable for my own actions. Very often you will hear a constable say, "I don't think we have the power to do that",' she said. It was revealed last week that Sir Stephen Lander, Soca's director in waiting, was being asked to tackle problems in part dependent on how often they were mentioned in the media. A computer would rank issues such as immigration and drugs after collating column inches in newspapers. 'That is absurd,' Berry said. 'How can you judge a police organisation by how many column inches appear in newspapers?' And while a constable who was the subject of a complaint went through a lengthy grievance process, Berry said Soca employees 'could be given one month's notice and you could go'. The federation is further alarmed by plans to replace police custody sergeants with civilians, also included in the Serious and Organised Crime Bill which sets up the new agency. A Home Office spokeswoman last night insisted officers would not lose out if they moved into Soca, adding: 'We would expect that we honour the terms and conditions that people have when they are transferring.'