Controversial police commander Brian Paddick has been moved to another role with the Metropolitan police while an inquiry into his conduct is being carried out, it was announced this afternoon.Allegations that the Brixton police chief breached police disciplinary regulations is carried out by another force under the supervision of the police complaints authority, the Metropolitan police authority has said.Commander Paddick, who heads police in Lambeth, south London, has not been suspended and will not be replaced. He has been switched to an administrative role within Scotland Yard until the inquiry reaches a conclusion. It follows allegations by the officer's former lover, James Renolleau, that Commander Paddick smoked cannabis at their London flat. Commander Paddick has denied the allegations absolutely. "On a couple of occasions James purchased some cannabis while we were living together and smoked it in front of me. I argued with him about the implications for me being in the same place while he was doing this, if the media found out that my partner was smoking cannabis in my flat it would put my career at risk," he told the Mail on Sunday.Commander Paddick sparked controversy by relaxing the policing of cannabis users in Lambeth in order to concentrate resources on harder drugs.Last month he prompted criticism after he told the Urban75 website: "The concept of anarchism has always appealed to me."Today he told reporters outside Brixton police station that he was "very disappointed to be leaving Lambeth, albeit temporarily." His deputy, Brian Moore, will have responsibility for the borough in Commander Paddick's absence. He said today: "I see no reason why under Brian's leadership we cannot continue the success that we have achieved in recent months reducing street crime and tackling class A drugs." However Commander Paddick refused to answer questions about the allegations.Stephen Warwick, spokesman for the Lesbian and Gay Police association, told BBC Radio 4's World At One programme there had been a "smear campaign" against Commander Paddick. He said: "This is just so typical of what can still happen and it certainly will be seen by many gay and lesbian police officers today as no encouragement or inducement for them to come out and to be open about their own sexuality."Detective chief inspector David Michael, of the Black Police association, said it was "disgraceful" that Mr Paddick appeared to be being treated differently from other officers. "There's definitely differential treatment to Commander Paddick based on his sexuality," he alleged.However the chairman of the Metropolitan police authority, Lord Toby Harris, denied there had been any discrimination based on Commander Paddick's sexuality."We have had a number of very serious allegations made against Brian Paddick over the weekend in newspapers. These are allegations that if made against any officer, regardless of the background, would need to be investigated," Lord Harris said.