Abdalla Yones was calm as he was led down to his cell. He showed no emotion and no remorse. Minutes earlier, the 48-year-old had been sentenced to life imprisonment for brutally murdering his bubbly and outgoing daughter. She was 16.Detective Constable Bob Lister, an officer in the Specialist Crime Directorate investigating homicide, had removed Heshu's body from the bloodstained bathroom where she was killed. He was in the cell with Yones after the sentencing.'He told me he had been forced to do it,' Lister told The Observer. 'That he had been put into a position that made him do it. He was so expressionless you would think he had been convicted of shoplifting and given probation.' On 12 October last year Yones stabbed Heshu 11 times after receiving an anonymous letter in Kurdish that said his daughter was behaving like a 'slut' and sleeping with her boyfriend on a daily basis. She had brought shame on his family. The attack was so violent that Heshu had multiple stab wounds on her back, breast and chest. He had cut her throat and there were marks on her hands and forearms showing that she had desperately tried to stop him. Police were called to the estate in Acton, west London, after reports of a man falling from a balcony. After the attack, Yones had slit his own throat and jumped in a suicide attempt. They found keys on him and went up to the third-floor flat. When they found Heshu's body, a bent kitchen knife was protruding from her neck. The sharp tip had been broken off when it had hit her bone. Detective Inspector Brent Hyatt of the Serious Crime Unit said he had never seen such a horrific murder scene. Yones asked the judge to have him executed for the 'honour' killing. After the sentencing last Monday, one of the teenager's friends said she was glad he was not dead - she wanted him to suffer for what he had done. It was only days before the trial that Yones changed his plea to guilty. He had earlier claimed that members of al-Qaeda had broken into his house, knocked him out and then killed his daughter. The case was difficult because the police believe that a number of people were afraid to come forward. They are carrying out further investigations into possible intimidation. When such crimes occur in tight-knit communities people often do not want to talk about it. One of Heshu's childhood friends who now lives abroad was going to spend last Christmas with her in London. She was told about the break-in and murder and was not allowed to ask questions. 'I knew it was something to do with her father and it was just some kind of cover-up, because I knew what he was like,' she said yesterday, asking for her name not to be published for fear of retribution. 'My dad is really strict, but he's not as bad as Heshu's dad. Parents shouldn't listen to other Kurdish parents because they are always saying nasty things about other people's daughters. They still live in the Stone Age.' Honour crimes and killings are not rare. The Independent Women's Organisation in Kurdistan reported that since 1991 up to 9,000 women had been killed or had committed suicide because of 'shaming' the family. The concept of punishment for dishonouring the family exists within many cultures, including countries such as Bangladesh, India and Pakistan as well as Iraq, Jordan, Syria, Palestine and the former USSR. It spreads across faiths from Muslims and Sikhs to Christians. Bounty killers are often hired to commit the crime, usually for only a small sum of money or simply to help to restore the lost honour. A woman, or occasionally a man, can do a number of things to disgrace the family, such as having sex before marriage, requesting a divorce or refusing to marry a chosen partner. Thousands of British Asian women are forced into unwanted marriages in Britain, Europe, Pakistan and India each year. Many take drastic measures to avoid such unions, fleeing their family with nothing more than the clothes they are wearing. Many others are subjected to violence or virtual imprisonment to prevent them 'shaming' their family. Some of the victims are as young as 11. In the past year alone, more than 400 women have approached the Southall Black Sisters, an Asian women's support group in London, for help against violence. The vast majority had an element of 'honour'. The Asian Women's Outreach project in Manchester dealt with 50 people last year. One specialist police unit in another city in the north of England dealt with 400. Police and campaigners both say that as few as one in ten victims comes forward. Heshu Yones had been beaten for months before the murder. Days before her death she had been planning to run away and had given a farewell note to her father. It read: 'Me and you will probably never understand each other, but I'm sorry I wasn't what you wanted, but there's some things you can't change. Hey, for an older man you have a good strong punch and kick. I hope you enjoyed testing your strength on me, it was fun being on the receiving end. Well done.' Dara, 42, a close family friend of the Yoneses and also from Kurdistan, said: 'In the Islamic culture the honour of the family is in the sexual organs. If someone is known to be a "bad boy or girl", then the family honour is scratched. You might say to your child, "If you continue like this you will lose me", but there is no excuse for taking a life.' He also points to families rejecting Arab partners because of long-term hostility between Arabs and Kurds. Heshu's case has opened eyes to the true extent of honour crimes in the UK. Scotland Yard has set up a task force and signed a bilateral agreement with Sweden - which has pioneered support for targeted women - to find ways to prevent such horrific crimes. 'There is absolutely no honour in murdering someone,' says Andy Baker, head of the Metropolitan Police's Serious Crime Directorate. 'I am passionate about saving lives, and if there can be any good to come out of this tragedy then in the name of Heshu let's try and do something about this. If any woman comes to us and says she has dishonoured her family, we will wrap her up.' In the past year alone there have been 12 known killings in the UK and many more women are missing from their homes, with friends fearing that they have been taken back to their country of origin and killed. When women go missing abroad it is often impossible to find out what has happened to them. Surjit Kaur Athwal went to Punjab with her mother-in-law in December 1998, soon after she had said she wanted to divorce her husband. She never returned and her family have been campaigning ever since to prove that she was murdered. Jagdeesh Singh, her brother, says: 'There is absolutely no way she would go away and not call, she had no cause to leave. She was commencing with the divorce, she had a good job and friends.' Jack Straw has agreed to meet the family next month to discuss ways to pursue the case in India. The family say they have been approached by people who claim to know more about Surjit's disappearance, but who refuse to go to the police. 'We have to denounce arguments that allow culture as a justification,' says Aisha Gill, a lecturer in criminology at the University of Surrey. 'Men can afford such sexual freedom in society, and believe they need to be strong and control their women. I have looked at cases in Pakistan where people are proud of what they have done and publicly show how they have restored honour to silence the women and let them know what will happen to them.' The Southall Black Sisters have also faced the difficulties of dealing with people in some communities who refuse to provide any information about such crimes. The police hope that Heshu's case may be a call to people to wake up to the reality of these crimes. 'This was her father,' said Hyatt. 'He is supposed to protect her. He twisted, turned and lied to avoid responsibility. She was a well-behaved 16-year-old - if it can happen to her, then we can only guess the extent of the problem.' Till death us do partYasmin Akhtar, 35, was kidnapped, strangled and then set on fire in March 2002 after she filed for a divorce from her husband, Mohammed Jamil. Her stepson hired three men to track her down and they strangled her with parcel tape in Surrey when they decided she needed to be silenced. The four men were jailed for life earlier this year. When Badshu Miah suspected that his estranged wife was having numerous affairs, including with white women, he visited her east London flat in September 2002. He used a machete and a kitchen knife to kill Nurjahan Khatun, her four-year-old daughter and her disabled brother. He was given three life sentences. In February 2002 Faqir Mohammed, from Manchester, was sent to prison for murder after stabbing his 24-year-old daughter 20 times when he found her with a boyfriend at their family home.