Detectives were yesterday investigating the deaths of three teenagers killed in separate knife attacks in a single day. Two died in London, one in a fight with a friend, and another after an attack in the street on Thursday. In Birmingham a 16-year-old was killed in what locals said was a row over a £10 note.Eleven teenagers have been killed in knife violence this year, after 27 died last year. The first stabbing was in Stamford Hill, north London, just after 10am. Yesterday police revealed that witnesses said Devoe Roach, 17, unemployed, was stabbed in the chest after a confrontation in a busy shopping street. He had been with a friend who fled the scene. He died of his injuries an hour later. The second stabbing in London came just after 5pm when 14-year-old Amro Elbadawi died after suffering a stab wound to his neck in Queen's Park, north-west London. Police have detained a 16-year-old suspect who they say was a friend of Amro. Detective Superintendent Colin Lee said: "They knew each other, they were friends and the friendship was long-standing. That's the tragedy behind this. "Amro received an injury to his neck which led to his death. He collapsed at the scene and received medical attention in the street. At the moment we have no evidence that suggests Amro was a member of a gang but we are still looking into this. He was well liked by his peers and the community is in shock. We have a very strong suspect but if anybody was in the vicinity or witnessed anything I would ask them to come forward and talk to the police."The fight between the two friends was witnessed by youth workers. Sharon Cohen, head of Westminster council's youth service, said: "Two of our staff saw the incident which was between two young people who were friends, and which resulted in tragic consequences because they were carrying knives. "From what young people tell us there is no suggestion this was gang-related or premeditated. The sad reality is that if you carry a knife there is the real danger that the pettiest of teenage disputes can all too quickly turn into a tragedy, and we would urge all our young people for their own sake not to carry any sort of weapon." One of Amro's friends, who did not want to be named, said the stabbing was an accident: "They were just mucking around. It was an accident. They've been good mates for years, we're all from the same area. I'm from the Mozart estate too. We're all shocked. We're angry. He wasn't involved in gangs or anything like that, he was a good kid, he was quiet."More than 100 youths gathered at the spot on Dart Street where Amro was killed, crying and comforting each other. Emotions were running high and several journalists were attacked by a group of teenagers. Many laid flowers, one bearing a message that read: "Amro you weren't meant to go. I texted you last night but you didn't reply. I guess this is the end. I love you."His girlfriend laid flowers and a note reading: "To the best boyfriend in the world (AMRO), I miss you and love you very much you'll never be forgotten. you'll remain in my heart its still doesnt feel real, I ceep execting a call or txt from you. amro rember we had plans for 2day man - mabey on the otherside."Tributes to Amro, described as a member of the SD Crew - also known as Street Disciples or Street Dreamz - were posted today on MySpace. A photograph of the teenager, showing him wearing a hooded top and woolly hat, was being displayed on a number of pages.Phil Hearne, principal of Amro's school, the Paddington Academy, said: "We are deeply saddened by the loss of one of our students, Amro, in an incident near his home last night. He was a student in Year 10 studying for his GCSEs and will be greatly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. At this time we understand and believe that this was an isolated incident and neither gang-related nor premeditated." One senior Met officer said there were different reasons leading up to the 11 knife killings in London so far this year. He said no single factor would turn teenagers away from carrying and using knives: "There's no single thing that will stop 11 [murders] becoming 12. If you get to that age and you haven't got empathy with other human beings, then no amount of draconian policing will stop you becoming a violent offender. All murders have a signal event beforehand, be it a punch-up, act of [so-called] disrespect or a robbery, then it escalates and weapons are used."West Midlands police yesterday gave few details about the teenager killed in Birmingham. The victim was named locally as Ashley Horton, who was stabbed in the leg on Thursday, and died last night in hospital at about 10.30pm. A 29-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder and is being questioned by police. A teenage friend of Ashley's said: "He had a fight the day before. He owed them a tenner - they stabbed him for a tenner." Jenny Farley saw paramedics stretcher the boy out of the boarded-up terrace property on the council estate.She said: "I saw them take the boy out of the house on a stretcher. He was lying flat on his back with a mask on his face." She said the house had been repossessed by estate agents and been boarded up and abandoned for months. "Kids are always hanging about the back garden, and have set fire to the fence," she said.Youths in the area claimed Horton's life had been threatened days before he was stabbed.