Tony Martin, the farmer jailed for shooting dead a teenage burglar, last night learned he will not be freed early because he still refuses to concede what he did was wrong.The parole board is believed to have taken into account probation reports suggesting he might again attack a burglar if his home was broken into, and also that he was living in the past. Martin, who is serving five years for the manslaughter of 16-year-old Fred Barras, will not be released until the end of July, to the fury of supporters and some politicians. Businessman Malcolm Starr, who has led the campaign for the Norfolk farmer's release, said: "This decision is completely wrong. The parole board is completely out of touch with public opinion." He added: "Mr Martin regrets the fact that a 16-year-old lost his life but he feels he has done nothing wrong and will not lie to obtain his early release. A lot of prisoners lie and say they are sorry about something when they are not. He is not prepared to lie." Tory MP Henry Bellingham, whose North West Norfolk constituency includes Martin's farm, Bleak House, in the remote Fenland hamlet of Emneth Hungate, said he would raise the matter with the home secretary, David Blunkett. He said: "It's a disgrace. Mr Martin has been a model prisoner and there's no reason to detain him a moment longer." After opening fire on Barras and his accomplice, Brendon Fearon, in August 1999, Martin was lionised by some sections of the media as a victim who was persecuted because he dared to fight back. The incident sparked a national debate about crime, rural policing and the rights of householders to defend their property. However, a jury at Norwich crown court dismissed Martin's claim that he was acting in self-defence. He was convicted of murder and jailed for life in April 2000. The conviction was reduced to manslaughter on appeal in 2001 when three judges accepted Martin had been suffering from a paranoid personality disorder, but said the jury was "surely right" to decide he had not acted reasonably by opening fire with an illegally held pump action shotgun. The parole board wrote to Roger Haley, the governor of Highpoint prison in Suffolk, last night to explain why it refused to grant Martin's release. A close friend of Martin's, Richard Portham, said: "He told me he had seen one of the reports from a probation officer who said he shouldn't get released because he was a danger to burglars. "I suppose the attitude came across in his report that he would do it again. I am sure Tony would have given the impression that if people were threatening him he would have no choice but to defend himself." He added: "One of the probation officers criticised him for not living in the 21st century because he keeps saying things were better 40 years ago. Mr Martin's response is that things were better. There was not this problem with law and order." Martin's solicitor, James Saunders, said he did not believe the farmer could be regarded as a danger to society. He said: "I think it [the decision] will confirm his view that it's an upside down world. He was saddened that a young man died but the position has been that he didn't have any alternative but to defend himself."