Police investigating the murder of Mary Ann Leneghan today arrested a woman, taking to eight the number of people detained in connection with the attack.The woman was arrested early today at an address in Tipton, West Midlands, on suspicion of assisting an offender, police said. A 19-year-old London man was arrested at the same address yesterday in connection with the attack.Mary Ann, 16, and her 18-year-old friend, who remains seriously ill in hospital, were abducted by a gang of six men late last Friday night. The arrest is the latest in a series of detentions since the teenagers were subjected to a sustained sexual and physical attack and left for dead in a Reading park. Mary Ann died from a single stab wound to the neck but her friend, who cannot be named for legal reasons, survived despite being shot in the head.Detectives today also renewed their appeal for information about the car into which Mary Ann and her friend were forced after being approached by the gang near the disused Wallingford Arms pub around 11pm on Friday.Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick said: "In the early hours of this morning we conducted further house searches in London and continued our search of a property in Birmingham where we also arrested a woman on suspicion of assisting an offender. She is now being interviewed by Thames Valley police officers in the West Midlands."Magistrates in Reading today authorised officers to continue to question a man arrested on Tuesday afternoon in London, Mr Warwick said. "It is now five days since Mary Ann was brutally murdered," Mr Warwick said. "I am satisfied good progress is being made by the team who are all determined to track down whoever is responsible. "A significant amount of forensic evidence has been obtained and we have seized hundreds of hours of CCTV footage and received extremely valuable information from the local community."In what he described as a "new line of inquiry", Mr Warwick appealed for information about the car the gang used to drive the teenagers to a Reading guesthouse where they were attacked for up to three hours early on Saturday."We still need information about the burgundy or maroon car which we know was driven around Reading and possibly local villages early on Saturday," Mr Warwick said. "We believe the vehicle was being driven erratically and contained between two and six men. It may also have been playing loud music."The teenagers' ordeal began late on Friday when they were forced into the gang's car and driven to the Abbey Wood guesthouse in Connaught Road.Once there, the teenagers were subjected to an "horrific ordeal", police said. The teenagers and the men left the guesthouse between 3am and 5am and went to Prospect Park, where Mary Ann was stabbed and her friend was shot. Police discovered Mary Ann's body early on Saturday morning after the friend managed to raise the alarm.