  Isobel Reilly died after apparently finding drugs at the house of Brian Dodgeon, an academic at the Institute of Education. Photograph: Metropolitan Police/PAFriends of a schoolgirl who died after apparently finding drugs during a party at the home of respected academic gathered in a park to hold a vigil in memory of the popular teenager.Fifteen-year-old Isobel Reilly died following the party at the house of Brian Dodgeon, who works at the University of London's Institute of Education.Dodgeon, 60, who was allegedly not present at the time of the party on Friday night and Saturday morning, has been arrested on suspicion of possession of drugs and child abandonment.Isobel was at the party with Dodgeon's daughter and other friends. A postmortem has not yet taken place, but one theory police are looking at is that Isobel and others found drugs including ecstasy at the house and tried them.One of Isobel's friends called 999 at around 4am on Saturday when she stopped breathing. The London Ambulance Service took Isobel from the house in North Kensington, west London, to hospital, but she died later that morning.Dodgeon's 14-year-old daughter and two teenage boys were detained in hospital for observation before being discharged.The youngsters are believed to have spent the evening partying after Dodgeon and his partner went out for the night.Neighbours, who had been warned that a party would be taking place, reported that the event got out of hand and fighting broke out.On Monday friends of Isobel gathered at Chiswick Common, west London, to pay their respects to the popular teenager. Dozens laid flowers and left tributes.One from Denisha Forde read: "RIP Issy. You didn't deserve to die. You was a lovely girl who's in a better place. You'll be missed by everyone, you know even though you're gone I still feel you're here. It brings tears to my eyes just writing this."Another from Daisy Onipede said: "Them jokes, memories on the bus to Chiswick literally almost every day … Gonna miss you so much! Heaven's lucky to have a beautiful angel like you."Parents of Isobel's friends expressed shock at what happened. One father said: "My boy was at the party that night but he shouldn't have even been there. When I found out I went to pick him up at 11.30pm."He didn't take anything. They hadn't gone looking for stuff by then. It was about 2am that they found them and by 4am Issy was dead.He added: "I can't imagine how the dad is feeling. It's such a waste of life."Isobel's English teacher, Jaye Williamson, said she was a "larger than life, lovely character" who will be sadly missed.She said the whole school was devastated over what had happened and warned of the dangers of drugs, adding: "We all know the kind of things teenagers get into. She [Issy] got caught out. Everyone is just racked with grief."One of Isobel's friends sang the Mariah Carey song Hero, Adele's Make You Feel My Love and Ave Maria.In a statement, Isobel's family, who live in nearby Acton, said: "Isobel's family and friends are devastated and heartbroken by her untimely death. We hope that if anything positive comes from this dreadful event, it is that others will make the right decisions to be safe and well in the future."We would very much appreciate time to grieve for our beloved Issy in private. If anyone has any information concerning Issy's death could they please contact the police."Tony Ryan, head of Chiswick Community School, said: "Isobel was an extremely popular girl at our school and counted many of her fellow pupils as friends."Her tragically early death is devastating news to everyone associated with the school and all our thoughts are with her family at this time."Dodgeon, who has written papers on subjects ranging from alcohol consumption to social housing and rural population rates, has been bailed until June.Professor Chris Husbands, the director of the Institute of Education, said: "The institute was deeply sorry to hear of the tragic events and extends its sympathy to Isobel Reilly's family and friends."We understand that a police inquiry has begun into those events. My senior team and I will be meeting tomorrow morning to make appropriate decisions on the way we will proceed."