Give or take Alcatraz, few prisons have a grimmer reputation than Holloway. The former chief inspector, David Ramsbotham, once declared it too disgusting to assess. Others have called the jail's cockroach-infested blocks the worst in the country. Holloway, its image pitched somewhere between Dante's Inferno and the penitentiary wing of Fawlty Towers, has never seemed a candidate for a good slammer award.So how curious to get an invitation from the Home Secretary to join him on the first visit he has ever made to a women's prison. Clearly David Blunkett thinks things are looking up, otherwise he wouldn't want me along. Even so, the omens are not good. Shortly after 9am on the previous Thursday, Julie Angela Hope, aged 35 and on remand awaiting sentence, was found hanging from a bedsheet in her cell. Ms Hope died three days later in hospital, with her mother and her sister at her side.She had stolen a handbag, which seems a meagre reason to end a life. But obviously it wasn't all about the bag. Ms Hope had one of those chaotic existences that channel the least fortunate from court to prison to morgue. On the weekend of her death, three women killed themselves in other jails. As Edd Willetts, Holloway's new, impressive governor, told me, it is a 'miracle' that more do not perish. His staff cut down three or four women from makeshift nooses every day. Anyway, here we are inside a functional, north London building which looks hardly more of a mausoleum than the Home Secretary's everyday habitat of Queen Anne's Gate. The number of women prisoners has risen by 194 per cent over the last decade, and these ones could be hostile to their visitor. Instead, they are kind, mostly articulate and courteous. Only one woman initially refuses to speak to Mr Blunkett, and she recants, saying: 'Oh, you're that famous geezer.' Most people make a big fuss of his dog, while the Home Secretary assures those awaiting trial that he is keen to speed the process up. He also tries some amiable hectoring. 'I've been in here for four years, on and off,' a young woman in the block for vulnerable prisoners tells him. 'Well, could you make it "off"?' he says. As Mr Blunkett cannot see, her forearms are latticed with the slashes of self-harm. Out of 470 prisoners here, 55 will try to injure themselves today. Still, some things are changing. The health centre looks like the set for a general practice sitcom. Women can have a shower every day, which everyone seems to think amazing. An art class is in progress. The Job Centre Plus office is open. Officers sound, in a way that is not contrived for a Minister's visit, as if they care. 'Decency' is a favoured buzzword. In an induction group learning about rules for visits, most women wear grey tracksuits and smart trainers on loan from the prison. Many will have swayed in on the previous day, bone weary in high heels. Seven out of 10 will need a detox. Many will be mentally ill and require urgent medical assessment after the vans pull up just before midnight. The drivers, knowing that Holloway won't refuse late arrivals, always deliver male prisoners first. If these women are typical, more than a third will have attempted suicide at some point in their lives and half will be on medication for depression. Each will, on average, have 2.1 children. The floating population of the biggest women's jail in western Europe never stays long. Newcomers, flotsam from 200 courts, are mostly remand prisoners. On national statistics, eight out of 10 will be charged with non-violent offences, and 60 per cent will be acquitted or get non-custodial sentences. The cost of keeping each woman here is more than £40,000 a year. But Mr Blunkett has come to reveal good news: £16 million of new money will be spent on building specialist units for girls under 18. Within 12 months, the children housed at Holloway will be moving on. Today, there are 11 of them on remand, all aged 17. Some are aghast to find a Minister in their midst. 'My hair,' one cries. 'It looks a mess.' The Home Secretary and I stand in a cell with face cream, tomato ketchup and plastic cutlery on a shelf, next to a cushion embroidered with a heart and a boyfriend's name. The occupant, like many others, has kept a palm cross left over from Holy Week. 'We give the girls special bedding,' the deputy governor says, twitching a valance. 'Lemon yellow. With frills.' But these girls should not be in prison at all, say reformers. Not here, and not in the new child jails swallowing up money needed elsewhere. Mr Blunkett disagrees. Still, he has learned a lot, he tells me before he leaves. There must be better detox programmes outside prison. Mental health must be a priority. I carry on to the refurbished mother and baby unit with its terrace planted with polyanthus, its crèche full of toys, 'chill-out room' and unlocked cells. This relative idyll ends when the babies reach nine months, the age at which they are farmed out to relatives or local authority care. Many will never be reunited with their mothers. Rachel has one month left before her daughter is taken away. Rachel is 20, a bright, compliant, hard-working and popular girl, but her crime was serious. She is serving 10 years for importing a Class A drug, an offence she is too upset to talk about. Her son, now aged two, and her daughter - two of the 17,000 children separated from their mothers by jail each year - will be looked after by her partner and his cousin. 'I know my baby will be cared for well,' Rachel says, but she seems close to tears. In Germany, the state provides special units for non-dangerous women prisoners and their young children, an idea that the Prison Reform Trust will explore next month in a conference on young mothers. Here, we build child jails and imprison a record 4,671 women, even though crime has not got worse. Many of Holloway's inhabitants are suspected shoplifters. I imagine the governor told Mr Blunkett in private what he told me in public. 'A lot of women are remanded because they need psychiatric assessment. Why does that have to take place in prison? If we had better provision for the drug-addicted and mentally ill, we could significantly reduce the numbers of women in custody.' Governor Willetts also says the lack of community support means that prison detoxes are doomed to fail. 'There is a better than even chance that when we discharge someone, their first port of call will be King's Cross and another supply of illegal drugs.' Mr Blunkett wanted to show that Holloway is very much improved. He's right. But the real message was the failure of a justice system that jails women who should never be in prison, a system that makes sad lives tragic. The Home Secretary has witnessed what people have been telling him for years. I hope he was appalled. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk