London's Operation BluntOne of the biggest schemes to combat knife crime is Operation Blunt, implemented by the Metropolitan police in November 2004 across 12 London boroughs. According to Met figures, the scheme led to a reduction in the number of knife-enabled offences soon after its launch. As a result of this success, Operation Blunt was rolled out across 32 boroughs in December 2005, marking the first time that every London borough had simultaneously targeted knife crime.The policy included educational programmes, knife search operations using metal detector arches and "dispersal zones" where police officers were given special stop and search powers in designated areas. High-visibility policing was increased, as were test purchases – where shops were checked for illegal knife sales.The operation also worked collaboratively with the British transport police and Transport for London to prevent people travelling on public transport with offensive weapons.In May this year, the Met launched Operation Blunt Two – again using special search powers in high-risk areas and airport-style metal detectors. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, announced a £5m package to tackle violent crime. Since then, 27,000 people have been searched, 1,200 arrested and 500 knives seized. Of those arrested, 95% have since been charged with weapons offences, the Met said.Damilola Taylor TrustOperation Blunt followed work done by the Damilola Taylor Trust, launched in November 2001 on the first anniversary of the death of the 11-year-old Nigerian boy after which it is named.The Trust believes the key to tackling violence is to heal some of the ills faced by today's youth. including breaking cycles that lead to crime such as school expulsion, learning and behavioural difficulties, drug and alcohol abuse and poor parenting.The Damilola Taylor centre, in Peckham, provides facilities such as football, dance, discussion forums and yoga to help to enfranchise young people and encourage them to pursue successful careers. The trust also helps support victims of crime.Some experts say more effective targeting would reduce knife crime. Parallels are drawn to the Met's Operation Trident, which has substantially reduced gun crime in the capital's black community in recent years.Mike Jervis, chief executive of the Damilola Taylor Trust, recently said it was essential to dispel the culture of fear that led youngsters to believe they had to carry a blade. He said more work should be done in schools to this effect.Chicago's CeaseFire SchemeSome youth charities are starting to look to the US for ways to deal with knife crime. Some parts of America suffer far greater levels of gang-related violence than does the UK.One such area is Chicago. However, the city has seen a huge reduction in stabbings due in part to the work of a doctor.Gary Slutkin's approach involves the stabbing "epidemic" as just that – an epidemic and a disease that can be treated.His scheme, CeaseFire, launched in 1995, has been highly successful. While it is focused primarily on gun violence, the biggest problem in areas such as Chicago and Boston, Slutkin says the type of weapon is immaterial and the CeaseFire principles can be applied to all violent disputes on city streets.The approach has two stages. First, as if fighting a contagious disease, CeaseFire locates the people who are the most "infectious" in spreading violence and hopes thereby to prevent its transmission. The second, longer-term step is likened to treating Aids among intravenous drug users and sexually promiscuous groups in that it tries to change the behaviour of whole groups – mainly youth gangs – so that stabbings become unacceptable.The operation centres around the use of "credible messengers" to stop the transmission of violence. Partly the approach involves using infamous former gang members with status and knowledge of street gangs to influence youngsters where outreach workers and police might not be able to.In addition, "interrupters", as the programme calls them, spend a lot of time rushing to hospitals following stabbings to catch family and friends of a victim and prevent retaliation.A three-year, $1m (£500,000) study by the US justice department found that six out of the seven neighbourhoods in which CeaseFire operated saw a 17-24% reduction in gun violence. In the first year of CeaseFire's activities in Chicago, shootings dropped by 67%. Zero tolerance in New York's Crime in New York City spiked in the 1980s, hitting a peak by 1990. More than 2,000 murders were fuelled by the crack epidemic that hit the city. During the administrations of Mayors Rudolph Guiliani and Michael Bloomberg, shootings and stabbings have fallen markedly. Rates of both petty and serious crime fell significantly and murders are now under 500 a year.Some say these changes are attributable to the New York police department adopting the CompStat system and so-called broken windows policing. CompStat involves NYPD executives attending weekly meetings with local precinct commanders to discuss policing strategies and improving quality of life in locally. The approach is thought to be more focuses. "Broken windows" policing derives from the criminology and urban sociology theories of George Kelling and Catherine Coles, from their book published in 1996. The authors compared successful crime-fighting to repairing broken windows, saying there was a tendency for vandals to do further damage if crime was left untreated.Giuliani's wove this approach into his "zero tolerance" policy. Police strictly enforced relatively minor laws to preempt more serious crime. Subway fare evaders were arrested, drinking and urinating on the street prevented and squeegee merchants clamped down upon.Critics say Giuliani's policies in fact had little effect and that crime mainly fell because of the increase in policenumbers. New York now has the lowest crime rate among the 10 largest cities in the US.The criminologists' viewManuel Eisner, Cambridge University"Operation Blunt seems good on paper but I don't know whether it is in practice. The website says the available resources for the scheme are £27,000. This is can't be true, it's less than half a penny per person. It may be a well-meaning programme but if it doesn't have the money, then it will be difficult to tackle crime. The approach seems starkly different to the CeaseFire scheme in Chicago, which is on an entirely different scale. It takes a multi-level approach to prevention. If you want to approach violence protection with juveniles, you need to engage in prevention early on – with social skills and anger coping lessons in schools from a young age. You need policies which bridge softer deterrent measures and tougher punishments."Also there needs to be a wider focus on youth violence. If you look at the Met's data on knife crime in the last five or six years, it seems it is part of an overall developing of violence. Prevention policies need to tackle youth violence on the whole, rather than tackling knife crime alone."Lawrence Sherman, University of Pennsylania "If you take evidence looking at theories that have been tested, stop and search measures which have identified places and times where weapons are most carried have been the ones to produce the most results."There have been test studies where youth offenders or those likely to offend have been taken to see adult inmates in prison and these tests show that often crime increase. Youths are often impressed by the inmates they meet and how tough they are and it inspires them to be like them and stand up to those who threaten them."It's important to come up with new ideas to tackle youth crime, but they need to be based on more than theory. You need evidence to show that schemes are going to work and the only one that I have seen that with is either more policing – as in New York or stop and searches."