Detectives hunting the killer of teenager Adam Regis released CCTV footage of five suspects yesterday as it emerged that the 15-year-old may have been killed as part of a gang initiation ritual. The nephew of Olympic sprinter John Regis was stabbed with what police believe could have been a sword as he talked on his mobile to his girlfriend on his way home from the cinema in Upton Park, east London.At a press conference yesterday detectives said the youngster had escorted other friends home before being killed in an "unprovoked, gratuitous and random attack".Detective Chief Inspector Matthew Horne said a £20,000 reward was being offered for information to help catch those responsible: "It is difficult to see why anyone would want to kill Adam because there is no reason. He was a good lad." He added: "One line of inquiry is that it was a gang ritual ... given the complete lack of any other motive ... if I can make this any more sinister than it somehow was."The police believe Adam was stabbed from behind, with the sword or knife going through his arm into his chest and piercing his heart at about 9.30pm on March 17, St Patrick's Day.His girlfriend told detectives that she heard Adam exhale sharply as they talked on the phone and then start running.Yesterday detectives released CCTV footage of five young men in a Volkswagen Scirocco who were seen circling the area of Upton Park where Adam was killed.Footage showed two of them following Adam seconds before he was stabbed and then returning to the car, in which all five drove off. Adam's mother, Kristina Caesar, of Plaistow, east London, yesterday spoke of her "beautiful boy"."He would not hurt anybody. He would look after everyone. I miss him so much at home. I have got two other children. They miss him so much. Please, please, anyone, if you know anything please help me."Adam was the sixth London youth aged under 17 to be murdered in the space of 10 weeks in a spate of killings which sparked a national debate about gang culture and the use of knives and guns.