On September 12 2005 my son Westley Odger, who had just turned 27, went to a cash machine at a small parade of shops, near Colchester, Essex. While he was waiting in the queue a man pushed in front of him, and like anyone else Westley told the man that he couldn't just push in like that. The man got really angry, he swore at Westley and verbally abused him, then he went away and phoned his brother. During the court case when we saw the CCTV footage of Westley's murder, you could see my son talking to a man and them both looking over to the carpark. A car came zooming in and a man jumped out and joined the man who had pushed in. It looked like he punched Westley in the throat, but in his hand he had a knife and it punctured Westley's artery. The man my son had been talking to was a first aider, and he tried to help but he couldn't save my son's life. He bled to death in front of those shops. It was the afternoon, nearby there was a school breaking up for the day, the parade was full of people and children who witnessed the most terrible scene.It was a completely unprovoked attack. In his summing up after the trial the judge said that if this could happen to Westley, it could happen to anyone. The two men, brothers who were 31 and 36, had been involved in the criminal justice system since they were teenagers. They had continued a life of violence and just a few weeks before Westley's murder they had threatened to kill a police officer with a samurai sword. Westley was a very outgoing, caring person - he would help anyone. When they killed him they didn't just steal his life, they stole from me. I grieve not just the fact that he's not here any more, I grieve the life he will not lead, the grandchildren I will not know. Losing a child because of violence is unlike the grief of losing a loved one through natural causes. Every single day you have to quell thoughts about the last moments of your child's life. And it's the same for the whole family, it's difficult to support each other when everyone is in the same terrible place.We need to really tackle knife crime, we need to make it a real priority or the problem will just continue to escalate. We need more education and proper sentences to act as an effective deterrent and at the moment we are not seeing enough of either. After Westley's murder I set up knife crimes.org, and I will continue to campaign for education and early intervention because if I can stop just one family from going through what my family went through it makes it all worthwhile and it continues Westley's life on a different level.· This article was amended on Friday October 24 2008. A subbing error named the victim of the attack described above as 'Westley Oakes-Odger' when his name was Westley Odger. This has been corrected. 