Demands are being made for male rape to be criminalised under Scots law as police seek a gang alleged to have carried out a string of sexual assaults on men in Glasgow.On Friday, police issued a computer-generated image of a man they wish to question about two incidents in the fashionable West End last month and an assault in July. A climate of fear has gripped the West End since the attacks, which have seen men dragged from the streets and attacked in a park. Men are being advised not to walk home at night and to be extra vigilant. The specific area in question is usually busy with people wandering home from nearby pubs and restaurants. But the attacks have also sparked intensive debate about Scotland's sex crime laws. Male rape is still not recognised under Scottish law. The definition of rape, set out in 1844, states it is an offence that can only be carried out by a man against a woman. The English legal system has recognised male rape for seven years but in Scotland the offence has to be classed as a sexual assault or sodomy. No official statistics are collected so the offence is largely kept out of the public eye. Recent research suggests at least 400 adult men are sexually assaulted in Scotland each year but campaigners believe the figure is a huge underestimate because victims are often reluctant to report their ordeal to police. Ali Jarvis, director of the gay and lesbian campaign group Stonewall Scotland, has been calling for a change in the law. 'There should be an offence of male rape. It should be recognised for exactly what it is and not be dependant on gender. It has been down south, which was a positive step,' he has said. 'The level of psychological trauma is immense. At the same time the vast majority of men probably never report it so they will never have access to counselling, or see a case go through legal redress.' Such sentiments were echoed by leading academics. Professor Chris Gane, of Aberdeen University, is a leading authority on sex-offence law. 'Criminal law should have no distinctions based on gender. Male rape is as serious a crime as the rape of a woman,' said Gane. A new sex-offences bill, before Westminster, will reinforce the view that rape is an offence that can be committed against a man or a woman. Although the bill could become law in England and Wales, it will not affect Scotland. The subject is a hot topic in the West End's many bars. Christopher Kerr, 32, was moving out of the area yesterday. 'I'm not going because of the attacks but I must say I've been very careful when out at night over the last few weeks. There was a time when I would happily wander up the road on my own for a hot dog after a few pints. I've given the hot dogs a miss of late.' On Saturday, 13 September, a 22-year-old man was assaulted by a group of men on Queen Margaret Drive late at night. A few hours later a second man, aged 25, was attacked by the same gang in Belmont Street. It subsequently emerged that a similar incident was reported in July. Detective Inspector John Weir said: 'I would urge anyone who was in the area around these times to contact Maryhill police office as they may hold vital information that could assist with inquiries.'