The MP for the constituency where 10-year-old Damilola Taylor was murdered yesterday called for police officers to be housed on the deprived inner city estate where he was killed, in a bid to crack down on crime and solve the crisis in police recruitment.Harriet Harman, a former social security secretary and the MP for Camberwell and Peckham, said police were deserting her borough, forced out by central London property prices. The only hope of recruiting and retaining them was for the council to offer them new houses, even if it meant forcing out other tenants. "It is controversial because it means you are reducing the number of homes available, but I think we have to have police living in the community," she said. "We can't recruit police without sorting out the housing issue - but we also need this to regenerate society. "People feel safer when they have police living on their estate, and they are also pleased because they feel that if police live among them, they are totally in tune with their issues." Ms Harman's call came after the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, warned of an inner city policing crisis, with London having a 3,000 shortfall. In Southwark, the borough in which Damilola was fatally stabbed, the quota of 800 officers is 46 down. In an area where the average cost of a terraced house is £185,000, police, in common with nurses and teachers, can no longer afford to buy or rent in the private sector on salaries which start at £23,000 including a housing allowance of £3,327, Ms Harman said. The problem has been exacerbated by the previous government's decision, in 1994, to sell off police housing stock and freeze the housing allowance. "They find they are earning enough to buy in a suburb and then they start to question why they should travel into central London when they can earn the same amount and do easier work policing near their home," she warned. She added that the home secretary, Jack Straw, should back the move. But Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, last night warned it would prove unpopular with police, who felt they needed to live outside areas they patrolled, for their own protection. Touring the half-demolished north Peckham estate where Damilola bled to death, Ms Harman said its inhabitants were increasingly carrying knives as status symbols in a community where their chances of good jobs were consistently curtailed by discrimination. "There is clearly a sense that this is an unequal society where you are blocked by the colour of your skin, and there is a feeling that you achieve status not by getting a degree or by qualifications but by having a knife," she said. The growing problem of knife carrying appeared to have developed since children on Peckham's five neighbouring estates had seen their well-educated immigrant parents unable to put their degrees to good use in London. "Three quarters of the African cab drivers in Peckham have degrees. So how can their children believe their education is worth striving for?" Ms Harman said. "It is in this atmosphere that some carry knives and turn to crime." The solution, she added, might lie, in increased resources for Peckham's schools, which, in the case of the Oliver Goldsmith which Damilola attended, had one of the lowest scores in national league tables, with only one in four of its 11-year-olds gaining the expected standard in English. In the meantime, parents on the Peckham estate were trying to rectify the problems themselves - either by sending children back home to the West Indies or Africa to be educated, or by dispatching them to a private, Christian Fellowship school on the estate that they could ill afford.