Greater Manchester police have offered a £50,000 reward for information about the gangland murder of Salford’s “Mr Big”, Paul Massey.Massey, who was known throughout Greater Manchester’s criminal fraternity, was shot dead on the driveway of his home in July.Detectives have faced a wall of silence from the Salford community since the murder, which sparked a gangland feud apparently culminating in the shooting of seven-year-old Christian Hickey and his mother on their doorstep last month.Four months after Massey’s murder, the force said on Thursday it was offering £50,000 for information that leads to the arrest and conviction of the 55-year-old’s killer.DCI Howard Millington, the officer leading the investigation, said: “The key to this murder lies in the community and I believe someone out there knows who did it. Whatever you think of police, do the right thing and talk to us; your information could help to stop further violence in your community. “I want to stress that if you come forward with what you know, we can offer you complete anonymity and I assure you that you will have our full support. Or if you don’t feel you can talk to police but you have information, you can speak to Crimestoppers anonymously.” Detectives want to speak to a man carrying a gun who was seen at 7pm on Friday 24 July – two days before the murder – in Clifton Country Park near Massey’s home on Manchester Road.The man was said to be in a white Renault Kangoo van and was described as white, in his late 30s to early 40s, about 5ft 10in tall, of average build, with a round face. He was wearing a black hat, black jacket, grey and black camouflage trousers, and was carrying a torch and a gun. Millington said: “We will investigate all avenues and the similarity to the description of the offender may be mere coincidence, but I would ask that he gets in touch so we can eliminate him from our inquiries.“Over the last few months there has been understandable concern in the community about organised crime and the recent shooting incidents. I want to assure you that we are focused on tackling the issue of serious and organised crime.”Detectives are also still hunting the gunmen who shot Christian and his mother, Jayne Hickey, in their legs when they answered the door to their home in Winton, Eccles, last month.Police have linked Massey’s murder to the shootings but have not explained why. Massey’s killing has triggered a bloody gangland feud for control of the lucrative trade of heroin said to have “flooded” the streets of Salford since his murder.Ian Hopkins, the new Greater Manchester police chief constable, told the Guardian on 29 October he was confident of catching those responsible for shooting Christian and his mother.Since that shooting on 12 October, officers have arrested scores of people allegedly involved in organised crime in Salford.“With the numbers that we’ve locked up, we’re getting ever closer [to catching the people who shot Christian]. In terms of the link, we’ve got intelligence and information about who’s threatening who and who’s on what side – there were very clear links that led to the dispute that led to Massey’s death,” Hopkins said.“The wall of silence is a real issue. There’s a balance here because there’s large parts of Salford where the people who live there are really proud of their city and do work with the police and local council.“We’re talking about a hard core in a few areas where organised crime is a generational thing. To crack that is really hard, it’s a long-term issue.”