Traffic wardens could become part of an auxiliary civilian policing force with powers to detain offending motorists and pedestrians under proposals to be considered by ministers.The idea, intended to free police officers to concentrate on more serious criminal behaviour, is contained in a Whitehall document discussed last week by chief police officers and home office officials. The proposals also include using a new generation of street wardens, teams of locally recruited members of the public who, together with traffic wardens, could provide a uniformed presence. They could also detain offenders until police arrived to make a full arrest. The force would be used to crack down on "quality of life" offences such as cycling on footpaths, dog fouling and littering. The 34-page document will be used by ministers as part of the development of the police reform bill planned by the home secretary, David Blunkett. A department spokeswoman yesterday said the proposals were "ideas brought up for potential discussion by ministers". The paper suggests that traffic wardens and street wardens would "form a distinctive middle tier of policing, possibly called police auxiliaries". One option, it says, would be to give the auxiliaries a limited power of detention, a step below the power of arrest. But, the paper acknowledges, the power would be "difficult to enforce without physical intervention". The auxiliaries would be used in areas of high crime where police and council resources were spread thinly. Their roles could involve monitoring juvenile offenders on curfew, sex offenders and potentially violent offenders, according to the proposals. Traffic wardens would gain powers to deal with 19 extra categories of offence involving criminals and ordinary motorists, rather than merely parking offences, as at present. They would be able to serve fixed penalty notices on motorists ignoring traffic signs or stopping illegally on red routes, box junctions or bus lanes, and to those not wearing seat belts or displaying out of date tax discs. There could also be a role in enforcing noise and litter laws. The package of proposals is not unprecedented: the Liberal Democrats' manifesto at the last general election contained proposals to reinforce frontline police officers with a new "community safety force" made up of traffic wardens together with park keepers and other public officials. The Home Office is keen to stress the paper is no more than "ideas". But police will be concerned at the idea of a nationwide auxiliary force with powers of detention. The papers to be considered by ministers will also stress the need to improve visibility of regular police officers by asking them to patrol more frequently during commuting hours, and to mount a greater presence in schools, hospitals and colleges.