Judges have expressed disappointment that the government will not announce this week plans to introduce American-style charges of first- and second-degree murder.Harriet Harman, leader of the house and deputy Labour leader, is to set out proposals to change the law on provocation in murder so that it can apply to domestic homicide cases. Judge John Samuels yesterday expressed disappointment that the government will not at this stage accept proposals by the Law Commission to give judges or juries discretion to convict defendants of first- or second-degree murder. Harman, who is in charge of the government this week while the prime minister is on holiday, is expected to oversee a consultation on issues such as whether victims of domestic violence should be able to plead provocation in cases where they fear further attacks by their partners. The review represents the first re-examination of the law on murder since the abolition of hanging more than 40 years ago. At present provocation can be cited only in cases where there is a loss of self-control or sudden loss of temper, for example in the face of an insult. A woman who, after suffering years of abuse by her partner, finally strikes back because she is in fear of further violence may not in law be found to have lost her self-control at that precise moment.Harman has been a tireless campaigner on behalf of victims of domestic violence and sees a strong case for the reform. The Law Commission in a report published two years ago suggested it was wrong that a man who loses self-control on finding out his wife has committed adultery can claim provocation, but the victim of domestic violence in fear of further serious assault cannot. If provocation is determined, a charge of murder can be reduced to manslaughter. Legal sources said that they did not expect the Law Commission's more radical proposals for the introduction of first- and second-degree murder to be adopted by the Justice Department at this stage, partly because they could be seen to be in conflict with the public's abhorrence of murder.First-degree murder is committed when an offender intends to kill, and second-degree murder when the offender intends to cause serious harm but not death. A manslaughter charge would be levelled in cases where there is negligence or the intention to cause less than serious harm.Defenders of the US system argue that it would mean fewer murderers would be let off with a sentence for manslaughter.Samuels, speaking on the BBC World This Weekend programme, said: "The changes have been long in gestation. It is rather disappointing. This is not a radical set of proposals, it is something that lawyers have discussing for many years."There is nothing hard-edged about murder since the circumstances in which individuals lose their lives vary enormously."He feared that politicians had held back from making the change because they were looking over their shoulders at public concerns.