Police concede that the Soham case has highlighted serious flaws in the way large investigations are run.Problems encountered during the hunt for Holly and Jessica's abductor will help the government make its case for an FBI-style force that would be brought in to take over the most high profile inquiries. It is thought that ministers are keen to set up such a force. It may also add strength to the argument for a move away from the current structure of 43 separate forces. Last month the home secretary, David Blunkett, said the time was right to consider introducing new, larger "strategic forces". The Association of Chief Police Officers' homicide working group has already spoken to members of the Soham team to find out what lessons can be learned. The Home Office may also ask for the inquiry to be investigated.Ian Huntley's behaviour had attracted the suspicions of the police within hours of the disappearance of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Detectives say that over the next 13 days before he was arrested he stayed in the "top five" of a list of 350 the police were interested in. The police accept that tactical errors were made during the first week and a half of the investigation. Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Stevenson, who took over the inquiry 11 days after the girls went missing, says he believes the investigation had spread out too far from Soham when the answer to the mystery probably lay closer to home. The Soham team was also, of course, put off the scent by the alibi Maxine Carr gave Huntley. Officers now accept they should have checked her story more thoroughly.Cambridgeshire police argue that some of the tactical errors arose out of more fundamental problems with the system that need to be addressed. Communication breakdownCambridgeshire detectives say they tried to find out about Huntley's past from their counterparts in Humberside, where he had been accused of a number of sex crimes and had been reported for a series of sexual relationships with underage girls. Because these accusations had not led to convictions, the details would not have been held on the police national computer. However, they may have been expected to have shown up on Humberside's local "intelligence" database. Cambridgeshire say they were told at least twice that Huntley's record was clean. Huntley was only brought in for questioning 12 days after the girls vanished, when a Grimsby person saw him on television and tipped the police off about his past.When police officers from Cambridgeshire went in person to Grimsby and were able to search through Humberside's records themselves, the details of the accusations began to emerge. Processing informationMr Stevenson admits that the police struggled to cope with the huge amount of information the inquiry generated. Rolling news that tracked every twist and turn in the inquiry and days of front page headlines prompted a massive public response. Police received 15,000 calls in the three weeks after the girls' disappearance. The Soham team now say that the Holmes system, introduced following the botched hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper, could not process such a volume of information. Eventually they had to begin processing data using the Lotus Notes programme.Holmes2, the system's successor, has now been rolled out to all forces. Its developers believe it is far more effective than the original system. MediaPolice sources also accept that errors were made in the media strategy in the first week and a half.For example, when a taxi driver came forward to say he had seen the driver of a green saloon car struggling with two children at the time the girls disappeared, the police spoke about the sighting to the media before checking it. The incident room was swamped with thousands of sightings of suspicious green cars across the UK. Soon after, police discovered that the driver had been mistaken. David Morris, the coroner for south and west Cambridgeshire, suggested at the opening of the inquest on the girls that the police had been driven by the media. "The pressure to prioritise lines of inquiry in the directions demanded by the media has been enormous, expensive and time-consuming," he said. There is little doubt the police also had what their media advisers now call "presentational issues". Detective Superintendent David Beck, who was originally in charge of the inquiry, was criticised for not visiting Soham until 11 days into the inquiry. The force's chief constable, Tom Lloyd, came under fire for not returning from his holidays to oversee the investigation. Mutual aidThe mutual aid process, in which officers are seconded to other forces, has also come under scrutiny. More than 300 police officers from other forces joined 178 Cambridgeshire officers, backed up by 44 civilian staff. Cambridgeshire admit they found it hard to manage such a large team. Call handlingPolice also conceded their ability to handle telephone calls was stretched to its limit. They had 200 operators answering calls, but not all had been trained properly, and vital clues may have been missed.· A longer version of this article appears in tomorrow's Guardian