Police were last night investigating whether gang rivalry was behind the murder of a teenager who was fatally shot after being asked what estate he lived on.Etem Celebi, 17, a lifeguard and promising footballer, died in the arms of his parents, Kemel and Heyriye, yards from his home in Stoke Newington, north London, after medics fought in vain to save him. He was shot in the back on Wednesday night as he celebrated getting his job as a leisure centre lifeguard with his friends. His death brought the death toll of teenagers shot or stabbed in London to 23.Residents on the Smalley estate, who described Celebi as a bright young man trying to make something of his life, said he was a "good person" who had been in the "worst place at the worst time".One local man said he believed he knew the identity of the killer. The man, in his 40s, who would not be named, said the killer was from a gang from nearby Stamford Hill, who were looking for revenge after one of their members, also 17, was stabbed days earlier.He said: "That's why they came over. They didn't care who they killed and Etem was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. I know the person who did it and they've been in trouble before. They've shot people and stabbed people before and they've been in prison."Yesterday, a close friend of Celebi's, also 17, told the Guardian how he too was pursued and shot at by the gunman, but managed to escape.The teenager, who was too afraid to give his name, said the friends were gathered together in the street near their homes when it happened.He said: "There were four of us. I was play-fighting with Etem, when these two guys came around the corner. One said: 'What ends are you from?' meaning what estate you from."Another boy said, 'from about' and the next thing, this guy pulls a gun and everyone scatters. He chased me and fired three shots. I ran straight to my house."My brother and Etem hid behind a car, but the guy came around the car. My brother saw the gun and ran."The guy aimed towards the car and fired another shot. The fourth was at Etem and another three shots were fired at my brother."He said the killer was not wearing gloves and that he thought he may have left fingerprints on the car, a VW Golf, which had been taken away by police to be examined. Yesterday, officers carried out further searches of the area.Jason, 22, a friend of Celebi's who went to school with him in Stoke Newington, said he was not into gangs or guns. "He was never one for fighting. Although whoever did this was in a gang, he wasn't. All he cared about was doing his football and getting good grades ... Etem was one of the brightest and most loyal person round here. It was a senseless killing."Scotland Yard confirmed that officers were investigating whether the shooting could be gang-related.Around the corner from where he died, next to police tape sealing off the scene, his friends laid flowers and candles in tribute to the teenager.Tributes were also posted on his website, where he described himself as a college student with the nickname Eazy-E.