A "gentle, caring and mild-mannered" literary agent was stabbed to death by his jilted lover during a sadomasochistic sex session, an Old Bailey court heard yesterday.Rod Hall, who represented the writers of The Full Monty and Billy Elliot, had wanted to end his relationship with Usman Durrani, a 20-year-old student, said Aftab Jafferjee, prosecuting. Mr Hall, 53, had recently split up with his partner of 27 years and was having short-term relationships with other men. One of these was Durrani, whom he met through the internet. The pair began a brief, sadomasochistic relationship, with Mr Hall acting as the "slave" and Durrani "the master", the court heard. But the relationship turned sour when Mr Hall realised his lover was interested only in his money and fame. Things degenerated when, shortly before he died in May last year, Mr Hall decided he had found his soulmate in someone else. The jury was told that Durrani resented the fact that Mr Hall wanted to finish with him and, motivated by anger and revenge, persuaded the agent to have sex once more. Mr Jafferjee said that Mr Hall ignored warnings from friends and agreed to be chained and manacled in a room in his home. "When Mr Hall was, in effect, strung up and utterly defenceless, he was stabbed to death," said Mr Jafferjee. "The ending of the relationship meant the end of his life." The court heard that Durrani, of East Ham, London, admitted killing the agent, but said he was guilty of manslaughter, not murder. Mr Jafferjee said Mr Hall had grown depressed after the end of his 27-year relationship. "He was alive to the fact that new partners may only be attracted to him for material reasons." Mr Jafferjee said Mr Durrani's cultural background - he came from a Muslim, Pakistani family - had compelled him to lead a clandestine life. He had been forced into a secret marriage despite being a gay. "Through the internet he came across Mr Hall ... There is little doubt that one of the things this defendant found most attractive about Mr Hall was his professional success." The case continues.