At first sight, the magistrates system that operates in this country is a charming anachronism - a quaint medieval throwback to the days of the stocks and the cat o' nine tails. Give these local dispensers of law their original title of Justices of the Peace and it is difficult to believe that theyare the backbone of the British criminal justice system, without whom the whole edifice would collapse. But this is precisely what they are - a backbone that guarantees local and public control of the judicial process.When they were set up in the 12th century they acted as a primitive police force. Their role strectched to local government by the time of the Black Death. Both roles were lost during the 19th century, but a residal - and utterly crucial - role as dispensers of local justice has remained. To many of our European neighbours the role of volunteer JPs remains utterly alien. But they are beginning to catch on. The French are currently looking at introducing an English-style magistrates system because their professional system is becoming the victim of its own bureaucracy.Yet the Home Office's instinct is to roll back or restrict the influence of magistrates, because they are easily caricatured as unprofessional and unrepresentative of wider society. There is no doubt that while the magistracy remains as it is, the Home Office has a point. But the answer is not to remove one of the few genuinely local and grassroots democratic elements of our judicial process but instead to open up and revitalize the role of magistrates. It is all very well for the government to say that all must be prepared to do jury service. A recognition is the democratic heart of the English judicial system should lead to an equal focus on encouraging many more people to apply for and nominate others to serve as magistrates. A modern magistracy could play an important role in the government's drive for a more active 21st century citizenry.New faces on the benchDiversity is the key. There is much greater hope of making the criminal justice system representative through the magistracy than you could ever hope to achieve through restructuring the appointment systems for circuit judges. And remember that 98% of all criminal matters are dealt with by magistrates. Diversity can be achieved quickly among magistrates because they do not need any specialist legal training or background. They do not even need to be particularly educationally gifted. The most important quality that they should possess is an open mind. In fact, people with any firmly held beliefs about crime and criminal justice should be refused in favour of more balanced applicants. Yet the current pool of magistrates are drawn from a relatively narrow sectionms of society. Very few students, for example, would consider trying to become a magistrate and yet many may make ideal candidates. Articulate, likely to be more open minded and with some time on their hands, I would have thought that they would make very good candidates.Given the supposed role of magistrates, there would be much to be said for mailshot which would ask people at random whether they might consider being one. The subsequent recruitment process would weed out unsuitable people, but the initial selection would bring in a much wider range of people. There must be at least a residual concern that people who apply to be magistrates currently, are doing so for the wrong reasons.How much training?Clearly magsitrates will need some training, but not as much as the Magistrates Association would have you believe. Yes, they have to do some family cases and deal with the youth courts, but their key role is to decide whether someone is telling the truth. I don't think that is something for which you can be trained: the key is that the process recruits people with good judgment and an open mind. Anything more legally technical should be in the hands of a professional. Decisions on the law are for the Clerk of the Court. If Magistrates are being asked to do complicated family proceedings, the question is why are they doing it?Limiting tenureMagistrates should have a limited term of office. In too many of the shires, being a JP is a social badge, with little more genuine value than owning a BMW and being President of the Rotary Club. Of course the people who come forward for this reason may be suitable for consideration as magistrates - given the requirements to give up time to do the job, they may inevitably remain overrepresented in the applicant pool. However, the current system is far too dependent on them. The best way of weeding out the trophy seekers is to make the term of office say two or three years. The Magistrates Association will say that this will deprive the Courts of their "experience'. This is patent nonsense. Magistrates aren't there for their experience. They are there as a sort of mini-jury. Limiting tenure to two or three years would stop them becoming "experienced" which is often a euphemism for war-hardened. If I were charged with going equipped with a jemmy to commit a burglary, I should not want my defence that I was going round to do some DIY adjudicated by Magistrates who had been on the bench for 15 years. They would cynically reject my defence on the "pull the other one" basis that they had heard that defence 100 times before. Reasonable doubt should not be whittled away by the aged cynicism of middle class magistrates. These ideas may seem too radical and imaginative for many to accept quickly but revitalising the magistracy would be the best way for the government to achieve many of its professed criminal justice goals. If government could find the will and means to encourage many more people to come forward it would be easy to move magistrates on every three years and breathe new life into a vital local element of British justice.Martin Bright is Home Affairs Editor of The Observer. Matthew Nicklin is a Barrister at Five Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn and works at Islington Legal Advice Centre.Send us your viewsEmail Observer site editor Sunder Katwala at observer@guardianunlimited.co.uk with comments on articles or ideas for future pieces. You can write to the authors of this piece via martin.bright@observer.co.uk.About Observer Comment ExtraThe Observer website carries additional online commentary each week, with articles responding to recent pieces and offering additional coverage of the major issues, including extensive coverage of Crime and Justice issues. Please get in touch if you would like to offer a piece and see Observer Comment for this week's pieces. Online commentaries are also trailed in the print pages of the newspaper.