Police are preparing for a fresh inquest into the death of Rachel Whitear, whose death after taking heroin was captured in a photograph that became synonymous with the perils of drug abuse.The picture of Rachel in a grisly death pose with a syringe in her hand was used in a schools' anti-drugs video after it was assumed that the 21-year-old pianist had taken an overdose. But six years after she died in May 2000, the circumstances of her death remain a mystery. Amid continuing speculation she may have been murdered in her bedsitter in Exmouth, Devon, information has emerged that could provide some answers.Police reinvestigating her death have announced they have enough new evidence to overturn the original open verdict of the inquest on Rachel. Officers are now preparing for a new hearing into her death after government lawyers last week allowed police to seek a fresh coroner's investigation.'This is an important development that could finally explain Rachel's death. There is sufficient evidence to justify a new look at the facts behind the case,' said a Whitehall legal source.Officers remain concerned that there are a number of anomalies which challenge the assumption that she died alone from a self-administered overdose.These include toxicology tests that revealed her blood contained only low levels of heroin, not amounts that would normally be considered fatal. Other questions focus on the syringe and needle. None of Rachel's blood was found on the needle, while two different types of DNA were detected on the plunger, suggesting she was not alone when she died. The lack of a tourniquet, which is usually used by heroin addicts, remains puzzling. Most of all, the syringe in her hand had had the safety cap placed over the needle - unlikely to be the final act of someone who had just taken an overdose.Last week Wiltshire Police, who conducted a second investigation after an initial one by the Devon and Cornwall force, received the backing of the Solicitor General, Mike O'Brien, to apply to the High Court for a new inquest that could quash the original verdict. Then, the coroner concluded: 'There is only one thing of which I am certain - Rachel did not die from heroin.'Sources are certain the plea will be granted, with the move for a new inquest backed by Rachel's family, the Independent Police Complaints Commission and Devon and Cornwall Police. In 2004 the police said Rachel was not murdered and they had found no evidence of any third-party involvement. Her boyfriend, Luke Fitzgerald, had been arrested on suspicion of manslaughter, but the Crown Prosecution Service decided there was insufficient evidence to bring charges.