The government set its sights on nuisance neighbours today, as a new package of measures aimed particularly at improving parenting was unveiled.Home Office minister Hazel Blears has set aside £1.25m for 50 antisocial behaviour "action areas" after research showed nearly half of what it termed "chaotic families" responded to a carrot and stick approach of parenting classes and the threat of eviction.Ms Blears said the parenting measures would be voluntary, but that "people have to want to change the lifestyle they have got themselves into". The crackdown on what the tabloids dub "neighbours from hell" is partly a result of Labour's "big conversation" initiative, which revealed localised petty crime and antisocial behaviour as major voter concerns.Both opposition parties have scorned today's announcement, however. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, called it a "gimmick" while the Lib Dems said evicting families could just displace the problem.Before announcing the proposals at a housing estate in Salford, Greater Manchester, Ms Blears told the BBC: "We are announcing today £1.25m for our 50 antisocial behaviour action areas to do some really intensive work with the small number of families who create havoc for other people. "It really is a combination, as is everything in our policy, of tough enforcement and very targeted support," she told the Today programme. "We have been reviewing 100 families over the last year and we have found that 40% of them say that enforcement has really helped them change their behaviour, and for 30% it was the support that got them to change their behaviour." Speaking at the Salford estate, Ms Blears said one or two problem families "could hold whole streets to ransom" - but admitted today's cash was "not a lot of money".She said: "Some families have a range of problems including drink and drugs. We're going to help with those problems through drug treatment, referral to alcohol services and liaising with the education system to help get kids back into school." She said £1.25m was not "a lot of money but it will help in getting people to change their behaviour. "Many families are facing eviction. We don't want them to be evicted, we want them to change their behaviour."Findings from a Home Office review of 100 of Britain's most difficult families show that 39% believed the government crackdown had helped change their behaviour. The Lib Dems initially opposed Asbos - providing Labour with ammunition during several byelection campaigns last year - before coming up with their own "Asbo plus" plans, which would increase the number of youth workers and social workers assigned to problem areas.The Home Office said the review supported the government's view that tackling problem families was key to getting a grip on nuisance neighbours. The majority of cases dealt with - 67% - involved families with children. Half of all cases involved threatening or intimidating behaviour.Last October, ministers launched intensive parenting support programmes to tackle the most difficult families in 10 target areas. Programmes available include family behaviour contracts and compulsory parenting classes. On-the-spot fines have also been extended to under-16s with parents liable for the penalty. Plans currently before parliament under the serious and organised crime and policing bill will force parents to pay compensation to people whose property has been damaged by under-10s. Today Ms Blears will also meet a couple who recently won a Home Office Taking a Stand award for standing up to two families who terrorised their estate. The minister and Louise Casey, director of the antisocial behaviour unit, will meet workers at the NCH Salford Assisted Families Project in Eccles to look at how they provide support for troubled families.