The mother of Stephen Lawrence has issued a searing attack on the government for failing to implement key lessons learnt after the racially inspired murder of her son.In Doreen Lawrence's first wide-ranging newspaper interview for years, the 53-year-old race relations campaigner said she still considers the police 'institutionally racist', seven years after a detailed inquiry into the circumstances surrounding Stephen's death produced a far-reaching framework for reform.Stephen, 18, was stabbed to death by five white youths at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993. The subsequent investigation was botched by the Metropolitan Police, which initially failed to treat the murder as a racist attack.Lawrence's attack on the government comes a day after the work and pensions minister Margaret Hodge re-ignited the race debate by saying that 'immigrants' should do more to integrate and that faith schools should be shut down if they did not allow children from other faiths to attend.'These half-baked ideas may sound good at a conference on a Saturday morning, but she she needs to spell out what she means,' said Sir Bill Morris, former head of the TGWU union.'Is she saying that Catholic and Church of England schools should be closed down as well? How will she enforce integration - and what are the penalties for failure? People are entitled to know.'While acknowledging certain improvements, Doreen Lawrence is fiercely critical of the last two home secretaries - in particular Charles Clarke, who last month disbanded a key committee charged with implementing the Macpherson report's recommendations for the Met.Her comments carry weight because of the shockwaves caused as the full picture of an incompetent and institutionally racist policeforce emerged in the study following Stephen's murder 12 years ago.'A steering group was set up by Jack Straw to make sure the implementations happened, and he was very committed to it,' she said. 'When David Blunkett came in I felt he wasn't that committed to the steering group and there were times that we had to question the amount of time he attended meetings.'Since Charles Clarke has taken over, it's even more obvious that it's not as important. He did try and say the government was still committed to improving race relations, but people from the black community don't feel that. I don't feel that.'Lawrence says the most important Macpherson recommendation yet to be implemented by the government is the publication for parents of racist incidents at schools.'I can understand people don't want to start labelling schools racist, but at the same time unless you start addressing what's happening [you're not] going to eradicate what's going on,' she said. 'There's no policy. Nothing's been written. Nothing's implemented within schools, and that's down to the Department for Education and Skills. They've done nothing.'The department said that all racist incidents must be reported to local education authorities, and that it publishes a guide to schools about how it should respond to racism, but that there are no plans to make incidents publicly available.Lawrence said her greatest concern was still the Criminal Prosecution Service's failure to bring fresh charges against her son's killers, despite a £30 million investigation.Asked if the police were still institutionally racist, Lawrence pointed to the BBC documentary The Secret Policeman, which last year recorded Manchester policeman using highly racist language, including derogatory comments about Stephen and the Lawrence family.'Sir Ian Blair [the Metropolitan police commissioner] would tell you things are completely different,' she said. 'But he is not on the ground. He's involved in a PR exercise. I still believe that there's a lot of racism in the police force.'Asked if the police's behaviour is shaped in any way by the increase in gun crime among the black community, Mrs Lawrence said: 'Everyone talks about black-on-black crime and shootings, but sometimes I wonder how did the guns get in the black community? Who put them there?'But yes, in the black community we do need to take responsibility for our actions. We need somehow to re-educate our young people to the importance of life and what they are doing to themselves.'With the leading architect Marco Goldschmied, Mrs Lawrence is working on plans to build a City Academy in south-east London to be named after her son, specialising in architecture and the built environment. Stephen's ambition had been to become an architect.A Stephen Lawrence Centre will also open in 18 months' time to provide opportunities for talented but disadvantaged black youths who aspire to careers in architecture.