A man has been jailed for stalking the mother of the murdered toddler James Bulger.Howard Wilson, 56, was jailed for 26 weeks by district judge Mark Hadfield, who also made him the subject of an indefinite restraining order that bars him from ever approaching Denise Fergus, her husband or her three sons. Wilson, who appeared in the dock at Sefton magistrates court wearing a mauve tracksuit and trainers, smiled as the sentence was passed. He told the judge: “Thanks for giving me what I want.”It was the second time in a decade that Wilson had stalked Fergus. Eight years ago he was given a police warning after bombarding his victim with a series of unwanted gifts.Fergus, 49, was spared the ordeal of giving evidence at the court – the same one where her son’s killers made their first appearance – and instead appeared via videolink from Liverpool crown court.Her son’s killers, Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, were convicted of James’s abduction and murder in February 1993. Both are now free and living under the protection of new names.Wilson was convicted of stalking Fergus and also of damaging a cell at Copy Lane police station, Liverpool.After sentencing, Fergus said she was still fearful after Wilson had been jailed. She said: “It feels like mental torture, even though he hasn’t actually harmed me in any way. “I’m convinced he’s a ticking timebomb, but none of us knows when he’s going to go off. “It’s terrifying, because the last time I used those words it was over Thompson and Venables.”Earlier, in court, Wilson had been refused permission to explain the reason for his repeated harassment of Fergus.Alison Clarkson, prosecuting, had told Wilson: “You can’t accept that your obsession with Denise Fergus caused her distress, can you?”He insisted he meant her no harm.Fergus told the court how one of her gates had been thrown open late on August bank holiday Monday 2016.Her husband re-ran the CCTV images from cameras that protect their home in Kirkby, Merseyside, and spotted earlier footage of the stalker loitering in nearby woodland and then riding his bike towards the house.After opening the gate, he sped off to the Quarry Green social club where he asked numerous “weird” questions about Fergus.Two women there were so disturbed by Wilson’s behaviour that they called round to his victim’s home to alert her.He was walking out of the club when she arrived a short time later. “I realised I’d seen him before,” she said. “It was the fella that stalked me eight years ago. “I said to him: ‘Why can’t you leave me alone? What do you want from me? Why are you harassing me?’ “He had his head down and carried on walking. I felt really anxious and I knew I was in for a long night of no sleep.”Later, in a victim impact statement, she said: “The fact that I do not know his intentions worries me. Why would someone attend my home address in the dark to sit and watch from the other side of the road? “I felt the same way on this occasion as I did back in 2008 when Howard kept leaving things outside my address and knocking on my door wanting to speak to me. “I am still on edge now. If I see a car or a person walking past that I do not know … my mind starts racing as to what could be going on. “What worries me the most is that I believe Howard to be unpredictable. What could he do next? I am constantly thinking about the ifs and buts, as I do not know what he is capable of or what he may decide to do next to me or my family.”She added: “I understand that he has to be released at some point. I am concerned he will come back and start terrorising me. Or if he can’t get at me, will he start terrorising my lads? “I really feel he should be tagged so his movements can be monitored, and the safety of my family can be ensured. “I just wish he would leave me alone so I can get on with my life. I have had enough to worry about and just want to enjoy my family life.”She first became aware of her stalker in 2008 when he called at her home and bombarded her with messages and a Christmas card adorned with love hearts.Later, after being given a police warning about his behaviour, Wilson sent her a series of letters posted from different parts of the country.The campaign ended with a card sent from Portsmouth in which he wrote: “Ha ha ha, you can’t catch me.”Fergus, who now runs a charity in her son’s name, thought she had heard the last of Wilson until he appeared at her home late at night on the August bank holiday Monday. The James Bulger Memorial Trust supports young people who are disadvantaged by being victims of crime, hatred or bullying.