Two men were convicted at the Old Bailey today of murdering a millionaire businessman and three generations of his family.Career criminal Kenneth Regan, 55, and William Horncy, 53, murdered Amarjit Chohan, 45, along with his wife, mother-in-law and two sons so that Regan could take over Mr Chohan's freight company. Police believe Regan wanted to use the firm as a front for importing drugs. He is thought to have killed Mr Chohan, of Hounslow, west London, after torturing him into signing over the firm. Regan then concocted a story that Mr Chohan had fled with his family after becoming embroiled with dangerous drugs dealers. But the dangerous character Mr Chohan had encountered was Regan, of Wilton, near Salisbury, Wiltshire. A jury found him and Horncy guilty today after deliberating for 13 days at the end of a complex £10m trial which began last November. It was one of the longest murder trials in British legal history.A third man, Peter Rees, 39, was convicted of murdering Amarjit Chohan and assisting an offender but cleared of the other four murder charges.Mr Chohan, his wife, Nancy, 24, their sons, Devinder, aged two, and Ravinder, aged three months, and Mrs Chohan's mother, Charanjit Kaur, all went missing in February 2003. The bodies of Mr Chohan and his wife were found in the sea near Bournemouth pier, three months apart in April and July 2003 and Mrs Kaur's body was found in a bay of the Isle of Wight. The bodies of the boys are still missing. Police described Regan as a greedy fantasist who carried out the killings in a desperate attempt to reclaim the lavish lifestyle he had enjoyed before being jailed for drug dealing between 1998 and 2002. Before being jailed, Regan had driven a Mercedes and partied in Monte Carlo.It was the persistence of Nancy Chohan's brother Onkar Verna, who lives in New Zealand, in pressing the police that led to Regan's plan being discovered. Mr Verna was close to his sister and refused to accept from the start that his mother and sister and her family would have vanished without trace.Today, in a statement read outside court on his behalf, Mr Verna described the killings as "deliberate, premeditated slaughter".Regan decided to target Mr Chohan's import-export business, CIBA Freight, after learning about it through an innocent acquaintance years earlier. During the trial, prosecutor Richard Horwell told the jury that Regan had lured Mr Chohan to a meeting at Stonehenge and then the pair probably went to Regan's Salisbury home. Mr Chohan was gagged and forced to sign over the firm and record voice messages for his family, the court heard. There was evidence of a sedative in his bloodstream. After Mr Chohan's disappearance, the front room carpet of Regan's home was replaced and the room redecorated. Regan then went to Mr Chohan's home and may have played Nancy Chohan a message on his mobile phone of her husband saying something like: "Tell Nancy I'm okay and will be home tomorrow."Mr Horwell said the Chohan family were either imprisoned or killed straight away and, in any event, must have all been dead by February 17 2003. It was on this date that Regan arrived at CIBA Freight with a handwritten letter from Mr Chohan and a power of attorney to take over the running of the firm. Mr Horwell said the letter, which later disappeared, said something like: "Greed has got the better of me. As you are aware, I've been doing some exports to the USA described as magazines, but in fact this was khat [a drug] which is illegal in the USA. I've got myself in serious trouble. Some people are after me and I have to escape. I fear for the safety of my family."Mr Verna refused to believed the story and later, when he came to London and visited the Chohan home, was convinced the disappearance was suspicious because his mother had left a holy book she took everywhere with her. The trial heard that a vital clue was also found on Mr Chohan's body: a piece of paper inside one of his socks which was a letter addressed to Regan, dated February 12 2003, the day before the businessman disappeared.The trial heard Regan lured the unwitting Belinda Brewin, a friend of the late television presenter Paula Yates, into his scheme by offering her a job as a managing director of CIBA Freight. He had met her years earlier in the bar of Harvey Nichols department store and unsuccessfully asked her out. He got in touch with her again after leaving prison. He buried the Chohan family in Ms Brewin's 50-acre estate in Tiverton, Devon, without her knowledge while she was away. But she returned unexpectedly and saw a trench and men with a digger. She was told Regan had told them to sort out a drainage problem as a "gift" to her. The trial heard she went "ballistic" when she saw the trench and later became suspicious and contacted police. Unknown to her, the bodies were later dug up and dumped in the Channel.Today outside court she said she was "relieved and delighted that justice has been done ... it has been a long wait".Regan denied the murders but the jury rejected his defence that he was trying to hide the bodies after the Chohans had been murdered by a mysterious Asian gang. Regan fled to Spain and then to Belgium as police moved in. He was arrested in Ghent in August 2003. During the trial, Mr Chohan was described as a well-liked and friendly man, who ran his business in a casual style. His laid-back manner later led employees to accept he and his family had simply decamped abroad, rather than disappearing in sinister circumstances.Detective Chief Inspector Dave Little, of the Metropolitan police, who led the investigation, said in a statement: "This is a crime utterly beyond the comprehension of decent society. A young family, a new family, was entirely wiped out at the hands of these murderous men, in an attempt to line their own pockets. I hope they reflect on their crimes long and hard for the rest of their lives, which will be spent in prison."Sentencing will take place next Tuesday.