A 15-year-old who raped an 11-year-old girl in the toilets of a Sainsbury's supermarket was sentenced to nine years in juvenile detention today.The teenager carried out the "humiliating and degrading" attack on March 2 in the Sainsbury's store in Leamington Spa, Coventry crown court was told.Judge Marten Coates also sentenced the youth - who has not been named because of rules preventing the identification of children in legal cases - to four concurrent 18-month sentences for a series of other attacks in the Warwickshire town."You took an opportunity when [the victim] became separated from her mother," he said. "You seized her from behind and, with her eyes and her mouth covered by your hands, you dragged her to a toilet cubicle."The incident appears to have been concluded abruptly because of the fortunate arrival of somebody else into the toilet block."Detective Chief Inspector Adrian Pearson said that he had been astoundingly calm and calculating for a teenager, and recalled him "grinning" as he stood in the dock when he was first charged. "This, bearing in mind he could hardly see over the top of the box," he said."He was very cool when we went to see him. He said he had no involvement and he was very calculating about it for someone who was 15. Telling the truth did not come easy to him and that was part of his lifestyle."It was difficult to believe that someone so small and insignificant had done something so wicked. The seriousness of the attack and degree and ferocity of sexual readiness was absolutely incredible."He wasn't put off by the proximity of other people and was prepared enough to take condoms with him."He said that the defendant had never had a girlfriend and may have been abused as a toddler, but added that he had come from a "stable, loving, supportive family background where you would not expect this sort of behaviour to come from".The 15-year-old pleaded guilty to the attacks after confessing to the police following eight interviews in which he denied involvement. Mr Pearson said that he had attempted at first to hide the distinctive red, black and grey hooded coat he had been wearing at the time of the attack.The victim's mother said that the attack had transformed her daughter. "She was bubbly, had a nice personality, outgoing, friendly, with lots of confidence. She would go anywhere, do anything on her own," she said."Now she's different, she's lost her confidence. She's not as bubbly and outgoing as she used to be. She's lost her trust of people."We take her most places now. She still has to be taken to the toilet. She doesn't like coming out of small rooms, she still has nightmares, but not as many as she used to. It's going to be a long, slow process."The 11-year-old had identified her attacker while driving with her mother through Leamington Spa in the days after the rape, tipping off police to his identity. Her mother said that he should be named publicly: "If he is able to do such an adult thing then I think why not name him?" she said.