Across the cluttered skyline from his temporary eighth-floor office in Westminster, Sir Bill Morris can just detect the squat bulk of New Scotland Yard, home of the Metropolitan Police. It is not the view he expected to enjoy in his retirement.He had looked forward to pottering in his garden and the odd pub lunch when he stepped down as leader of one of Britain's biggest unions, the Transport & General Workers, last year. Instead, he has presided over six gruelling months of hearings that have exposed the shambles at the heart of Britain's most prestigious police force. 'When people say "How's retirement?" I say I'm looking forward to it,' says Morris wryly. He thought twice before agreeing to chair the inquiry into the Metropolitan Police's handling of complaints and grievances, but was persuaded that he had something to offer. He admits he has been critical in the past, and 'if you are able to put forward a point of view based on experience' he considered it his duty to be part of the solution: 'I hope at any rate the results will be justified, and my year spent on the inquiry will be justified.' He is also driven by a strong sense of civic responsibility, instilled during his upbringing in a close-knit Jamaican village community: 'Every adult had a right to discipline all the children. If I picked an orange off our neighbour's orange tree, that neighbour could discipline me instantly. But they also had an inalienable duty to protect me.' Morris refuses to discuss the report he will publish on Tuesday, but it is expected to revolve around just those twin themes of discipline and protection: how the Metropolitan Police punished rogue officers, and how it should have protected vulnerable employees. With the formal letters to those who will be criticised already dispatched, the Met is braced for a storm. All Morris will say, however, is that 'there are no surprises. Every word is recorded for public access, and the public will be able to form a view based on the evidence.' Those thousands of pages of testimony logged by his inquiry suggest a force pervaded by something broader than racism: an old fashioned, clumsy, slow management failing its workforce regardless of colour, sex or sexuality. 'This is affecting staff in general: it will impact on how investigations are conducted for everyone,' says Ray Powell, leader of the Metropolitan Black Police Association, the MBPA, which gave evidence to Morris. 'Whether that's down to racism or any other kind of -ism, it needs addressing just the same.' The inquiry has heard of women officers denied requests for shifts to fit around caring for their children, and forced to watch pornographic films in the canteen. A gay officer was publicly accused of being 'heavy-handed' for arresting two suspects accused of sending homophobic hate mail, the inquiry was told. White officers feared the pendulum had swung too far towards ethnic minority colleagues, and that black and Asian officers 'got on' because of their colour rather than their talent. And there was more. It has heard of an internal anti-corruption squad effectively out of control, with cases dragging on for up to seven years; 'Al Capone'- style tactics of identifying targets and then fishing for any kind of evidence to pin on them; systematic press leaks against suspects; officers under investigation 'hung out to dry' without support. One spent 14 months agonising about a complaint against him, only to find it had been withdrawn five months earlier but nobody had told him. And more: it has heard of managers refusing to tackle petty accusations against ethnic minority officers for fear of being branded racist - shunting them instead into a disciplinary process that ironically caused more agony because of its bureaucratic slowness. The case of one officer who went on duty wearing a short-sleeved shirt instead of the correct long-sleeved one - a matter that could have been resolved in minutes - was referred right up to his borough commander. For the senior police officers gathering last Wednesday to celebrate the launch of an official record of the Met's 175-year history, the problem is not the force's proud past. It is the impression that they are still stuck in it. It all began with a letter opened on Christmas Eve seven years ago by five ethnic minority police officers in Ealing, west London. Labelled with the initials 'NF' for National Front, its message was brief and brutal: 'Not wanted In the police force - so leave now or else.' Among the recipients was a thirty-something Indian officer called Gurpal Virdi, who lodged a complaint. The Met's Area Complaints Unit launched an inquiry, a fact that was leaked to newspapers within days. Six copies of further racist literature were intercepted the following month. A white woman officer, whose computer password was used by whoever printed off the letters, was questioned and eliminated from the inquiries. Three months later, a police search team of a type usually used in terrorism and murder inquiries arrived at Virdi's family home. The supposed victim had now become the chief suspect, accused of forging the letters himself out of bitterness at not being promoted. The searchers left after seven hours, with items including a hotel bill and car number plates. An independent report commissioned by the Morris inquiry into Virdi's case concludes that it is 'difficult to disagree' that a fishing expedition for anything damaging - rather than evidence related to the complaint - was under way. Two years later, Virdi was found guilty and sacked. He was reinstated with substantial damages following an employment tribunal hearing, but the Met took four months to apologise. His was not the only high profile case. By August 1999, reports that a high-flying Iranian-born officer Ali Dizaei, who held a senior post in the black police officers' group, was using cocaine and taking bribes reached the Met's internal anti-corruption squad CIB3, part of its Directorate of Professional Standards (DPS). So began Operation Helios, a massive undercover investigation that lasted two-and-a-half years, took 2,288 statements and cost up to £7 million. Dizaei's phone was tapped, an undercover officer befriended him at his gym to see if he took steroids, closed-circuit TV footage of his every move was collected, and his 75-year-old father's financial affairs were investigated. What CIB3 failed to do, for an astonishing 14 months, was seek a statement from Dizaei's former girlfriend, whose mother had reported in January 2000 that the officer had made threatening phone calls to her, a serious offence which he subsequently admitted. Yet notes from the operation seen by the Morris inquiry show it following up such petty leads as whether he got a discount on his dry cleaning. In November 2000, Dizaei was charged with serious offences, ranging from taking banned substances to assault and helping two friends get leave to remain in Britain fraudulently. When he finally came to trial in 2003, the only charges remaining were lying about where his car was parked - he was acquitted - and falsifying expenses claims, on which no evidence was offered. By last autumn, an exasperated black police association - several of whose members had by now endured exhaustive investigations - was threatening to boycott Met plans to recruit black officers, attracting the attention of the Home Secretary. According to evidence given to the inquiry, David Blunkett offered to 'lean on people' about Operation Helios. Dizaei reached a confidential settlement with the Met last October, accepting damages in return for dropping a discrimination claim. The Morris inquiry was established shortly afterwards to investigate the Met's general handling of complaints and grievances. Both Virdi and Dizaei have rejoined the force, but they have endured a persistent whispering campaign against them. When Dizaei was promoted to borough commander in summer, sources sniped to newspapers that it was for 'political' reasons. 'What they don't say is that Ali came top of his class on the command course out of 64 people,' says the MBPA's Powell. 'Things have got worse for Ali: now he's getting more hate mail than ever. But he's keeping his head down and wants to focus on his career.' The Morris inquiry will offer no verdict on either man but it is expected to highlight profound flaws in the handling of complaints, which could allow the innocent to suffer and the guilty to go free. And into all this, politics clumsily intruded. An Independent Police Complaints Commission report last June concluded that some of the allegations against Dizaei were potentially capable of proof but 'should have been pursued much earlier', while in settling the case the Met had confused the 'vital public interest' in recruiting black officers with its duty to assess cases 'on the merits.' Not only the original investigation but attempts to compensate for it were botched, in other words. This finding was reflected in inquiry evidence suggesting a force simultaneously over-zealous in investigating black officers and terrified of confrontation. Sources say complaint investigators reacted like 'rabbits in headlights' to any race element in an investigation. 'There is a reinforcing culture which seeks cautious advice which says "Don't move" instead of asking "How can we resolve this as quickly as possible"?' said a source at the Metropolitan Police Authority, which oversees the Met. 'Good management responds very quickly to serious issues, something that police culture finds very difficult to do.' Whether it can now adapt depends on the man who for the past three years has had direct oversight of the Directorate of Professional Standards - and just happens to be the next Met commissioner. Mingling comfortably with MPs in the House of Commons members' dining room last Wednesday night, he could have been mistaken for a politician. But when Sir Ian Blair opened his remarks at a police Christmas reception with a gentle dig at the Home Office, it was clear whose side he was on. Blair must walk a delicate tightrope when he takes over as commissioner next month. For the trail from the DPS and its problems leads to his door. 'He knows better than anyone the fallout and damage it can do to the organisation,' says Powell. 'I think he understands and he will attempt to make a difference.' He will need to. The Morris report will be followed early next year by the results of a Commission for Racial Equality investigation into the police nationwide, which is expected to deliver a scathing assessment of a macho and prejudiced canteen culture. And with the forthcoming general election campaign likely to be dominated by security issues, the Met risks becoming caught in the middle of a propaganda war between politicians over whether Britons are really safe on the streets. Much now rides on Blunkett's response to the Morris inquiry. Police sources mutter of collapsing morale, arguing that officers 'cannot take another Macpherson', the report into the death of black teenager Stephen Lawrence, which branded the Met institutionally racist. In the past, Morris has said racism was 'endemic in the police force'. Last week he was inscrutable, saying only that Macpherson's words were never properly understood. He wasn't pointing fingers at individuals: what he was looking at was processes, practices, procedures. He was talking in broad generality of the institution not coming to terms with a recognition that society's changed, Britain's changed... 'Some institutions are prone to a guilt complex because they haven't come to terms [with the fact] that it's not about the individuals, it's about the organisation,' he said. Morris admits he is looking forward to delivering the report 'so that I can reclaim my life.' His findings may now finally help Gurpal Virdi, Ali Dizaei and the anonymous officers who poured out their stories to him to reclaim their lives too. The damning evidenceOfficers went to 'questionable' lengths to probe allegations against top policeman Ali Dizaei, who was cleared. A note disclosed by an independent review ordered by Sir Bill Morris reveals a 'fishing expedition' for evidence, using ideas not related to the allegations:'Obtain CCTV evidence of all premises he visited, for example if he is to draw money from his bank account (Abbey National). Arrange footage [of] Tube station CCTV, concert hall CCTV. 'Check for missing items at stations [where] the superintendent served, then see if found in house search. For example, laptop missing in Kensington. Stamps went missing in the Eighties. Can Dizaei be linked to it? 'Check possible claims on his household insurance, and research for fraud. Check his father's financial affairs... See how much his father owes. 'Ascertain provision of halal meat at the Met canteen' Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stephen Roberts, Director of Professional Standards, told the inquiry of possible pitfalls in corruption investigations:'At one extreme - "the Al Capone model" - it is clear you have somebody engaged in corrupt behaviour... It does not matter what you get him for, even tax evasion, as long as you get him for something.'