Prison governors must go through a gamut of emotions when awaiting the official inspection reports on their institutions. But those emotions are most likely to tend towards dread, rather than keen anticipation. For while inspectors always praise good practice, it is inevitably the criticisms that make the media headlines. The stakes are higher if the inspection is unannounced. Brian Edwards, governor of Stocken prison, deep in the landscape of rolling Rutland, was subjected to just such a surprise visit three months ago. So imagine his relief and delight last week when he opened the inspection report to read: "This is an extremely positive report which needs hardly any introduction and, sadly, will probably receive little publicity." That glowing foreword is by Anne Owers, chief inspector of prisons. Highlighting Stocken's "mutually respectful relationships between staff and prisoners", an "excellent" visitors' centre and a "can-do" attitude, especially towards resettlement, she concludes: "Its work is to be commended and should be followed by other, similar prisons." Whether because of undue modesty or genuine mystery, 54-year-old Edwards insists that he cannot explain why the good practice at his prison is not evident at all other category C institutions. "Cat Cs" are where, officially, the emphasis should be on training prisoners for rehabilitation and release from the time they are first locked up. What Stocken has achieved since its last full inspection, 18 months ago, is a leap from 69th place to 10th in the prison service's performance rankings for institutions in England and Wales. It has managed a reduction in drug use by inmates from 18% to just 3.4%. And it is on track to ensure that all men have basic educational attainments by their release date. The prison also runs a scheme to prepare inmates and their families for living together again. It is called We Are Coming Home and people are invited to go to Stocken to join their relative - be it partner, father, son or brother - for a day course. Because many convicted offenders come from dysfunctional families, efforts are made to help both "sides" adjust to each other, after an absence from the family home of what can be 10 years. Stocken has some in-built advan tages on which it has made this progress. It is modern - the oldest block was built in 1985, when it opened as a young offender institution. And it does not have the chronic overcrowding that afflicts so many prisons. It is only 20 above its certified normal accommodation of 556. There is no dingy lighting or ominous jail soundtrack of clanging doors and echoing gates. There are paintings on some walls, and the only place where graffiti is seen is the art class, where one inmate is producing graffiti-based work. Some cells are so neat and homely that they give the impression their occupants could have been sentenced for obsessively tidy behaviour. Admittedly, a press tour last week may have seen Stocken on a good day, basking in the glow of the positive report. And the inspectorate did find some faults. These include the need for more regular meetings of the prison's race relations committee, tighter no-smoking rules, improved washing facilities, and newer IT equipment. But overall, in the words of Martin Narey, prison service director general, the institution is "exceptional". Edwards, with 31 years in the prison service after starting as a physical education instructor, became governor last year but was previously deputy governor, before intervening spells at Whitemoor prison, Cambridgeshire, and at prison service headquarters. He insists that the last thing he wants to be seen as is a "coach" for other governors, and he credits his staff with the progress that has been made. He says: "I've never seen such concentrated staff-prisoner relationships, looking a prisoner in the eye and saying: 'There is a difficulty about why you're offending; we've assessed where we are with you and we believe that the difficulty is your cognitive skills, education - or a mixture of everything.' My staff are like Jack Russells: they will continually hound and assist any prisoner to work on his offending behaviour, or to acquire any skill he's lacking." Education is one of the widespread problems. Inmates are tested for literacy and numeracy when they arrive in reception; improvements are worked on throughout their stay. Official targets for their basic skills have been achieved consistently and, in some cases, exceeded. At the other end of a prisoner's sentence is a pre-release programme. Three months before he is due to leave, an inmate is "invited" to join a programme in which his individual needs in the outside world are analysed on a one-to-one basis. The prison has resisted pressure to make attendance compulsory, but the governor does reserve the right to withhold a prisoner's earnings if he does not attend a job centre interview. Increasingly, behavioural issues have involved drugs, as 28% of prisoners arrive with an addiction problem. But Stocken has achieved what is claimed to be the biggest drop of "positives" in mandatory testing of any prison, in part by cutting supply at a main supply route - the reception area.   A previous inspection report recommended providing a toilet for prisoners in the visitor area. But wardens rejected the idea because men would have an opportunity to conceal drugs transferred surreptitiously to them. Success involves "putting our drugs policy into every other policy", says Edwards. "If a prisoner wants a benefit, such as joining a certain work party, he's told he can - provided he proves negative on a drugs test. Everything we do is linked to drug-testing." The message is leading to a regime change, according to one prisoner, who observes that the hegemony of drugs is declining. Pausing from tidying further his already spotless cell, the notably muscular inmate says: "The solidarity among us is being divided, where the greater half is saying: 'OK, enough's enough; no need to be hanging out with the guys who're doing the drugs; no point in doing that when all you want is to get home to your family as quickly as possible.' Being involved in chaos is not going to help you in that way. "The guys who tend to stay away from the chaotic people are normally the ones like us - big and strong. The other guys who see that, they think: he's cool, he goes to the gym, he trains. They say: 'Help me train.'" Then, as if realising he has made too eloquent a case for self-help, the prisoner adds: "But I want you to know that all of us down here, even the staff, they help us to get better - as long as we stay on a good path."  Close watch kept on progress Prisons are subject to a full and announced inspection every five years. The inspectorate returns, unannounced, some two years later to check on progress. Unannounced inspections are held also, and more fully, if there is particular concern about a prison or if there are developments that the inspectorate wishes to examine. In the 12 months to last August, the inspectorate carried out 62 inspections, of which 28 were full and announced, four full and unannounced, and 18 unannounced follow-ups. There were seven education inspections and five inspections of detention centres. In a report published today of a full and announced inspection of Albany prison, a specialist sex offender unit on the Isle of Wight, the inspectorate finds "significant progress" in the establishment's regime. Anne Owers, chief inspector, says the public protection measures at Albany are "impressive, thorough and well understood by prisoners and staff, providing both respect for prisoners and robust measures to protect children in particular". But the report does raise concerns, such as the need for "slopping-out" by some prisoners whose cells have no sanitation and the fact that 42% of inmates do not take part in sex offender programmes. David Brindle· All prison inspectorate reports are at: www.homeoffice.gov.uk/hmipris/hmipris.htm 