They were known as the iPod crew because the portable digital music player, used by most people to listen to music, was a crucial element in their luxury car fraud.But the pocket-sized device, on which the gang stored their master plan, led to their undoing. It was found - yielding a large number of incriminating files - when police raided their premises after a local beat officer became suspicious about a fleet of high-performance cars, including Jaguars, Mercedes, BMWs and a Porsche, parked outside a council flat in Abbey Wood, south-east London. Yesterday at Southwark crown court the man described as the gang's ringleader, Oludayo Adeagbo, was jailed for two and a half years. Adeagbo, 25, from Charlton, south-east London, declared that he was going to prison "happy" after trading crime for Christianity. He had been caught after police examined the forged documents stored on the iPod, downloading enough information to fill an A4 lever file. He pleaded guilty to one charge of conspiracy to defraud between December 2001 and October 2002. Four others, who also admitted their part in the scam, were jailed last week. Detectives estimate that other members of the gang, who are still on the run, got away with 70 luxury cars worth more than £1m. Passing sentence on Adeagbo, the judge, Neil Stewart, said: "This was a well-organised and sophisticated fraud ... cleverly executed on a large scale." Adeagbo had had an organising role and had personally profited by tens of thousands of pounds. Having "hijacked" another person's identity, a gang member would visit a car showroom armed with a "mock-up driving licence", as well as fake bank statements, utility bills and wage slips. After paying a small deposit the gang would take out a finance agreement, then take the keys and drive away. The car's background was laundered by further forgeries - including a letter apparently from a finance company telling Higher Purchase Investment - the organisation that keeps Britain's vehicle finance records - that the car was "financially free". Mark Fenhalls, prosecuting, told the court it was an imaginative fraud where potential profits were very substantial. He said the beauty of the system, so far as the conspirators were concerned, was that they could sell the cars and no one could check to see whether there was outstanding finance. Mr Fenhalls told the court some of the "35-odd" cars had been sold for up to £20,000 profit each. Jonathan Ray, defending, said: "I have never known a defendant come to court with such a happy smile...knowing he will go to prison. In his bag, in particular, are two bibles. We have all heard how certain defendants have seen the light, turned to God and Christianity, but it would appear that with Mr Adeagbo that really is the case." He said his client was a science graduate who had once received a £3,500 Prince's Trust grant to help him in his work. Mr Ray said not only had Adeagbo left his criminal past behind him, but he also hoped to study for a doctorate while in prison. Detective Constable Philip Plasket, of the Metropolitan police's vehicle fraud unit, said: "There is no doubt he [Adeagbo] was the main man." He added that HPI had never been tricked in this way before. Since the arrest of the gang HPI had tightened up its procedures, making it impossible for this sort of fraud to be carried out again.