An 18-year-old boy who admitted stealing more than a thousand pounds' worth of goods from Hugo Boss during the violence in London on Monday night was remanded in custody after a judge refused to grant him bail.Mario Quiassaca, 18, appeared at Westminster magistrates court charged with violent disorder and theft. He pleaded guilty to both.The case was one of many related to this week's riots heard at the court on Friday.Quiassaca, a third-year student at Kingston College and a promising footballer, took part in looting around Sloane Square after heading to the affluent west London area "to cause chaos", the court was told.Quiassaca was part of a group of youths that broke into the designer clothes store Hugo Boss. He was arrested by police after they raided his home on the nearby Churchill Gardens estate and found seven brand new Hugo Boss items in his flat, including a padded jacket which was the only item to not still have security tags, the court heard.In what the prosecutor said was a "remarkably candid" confession Quiassaca told police he had taken part in the violence because of his "resentment" towards the police.He appeared alongside a 17-year-old boy who could not be named for legal reasons. He also pleaded guilty to a charge of violent disorder, admitting he overturned a wheelie bin to obstruct police access, but did not take part in the subsequent looting. He told police he had left Sloane Square when he saw other youths behave "like a pack of animals" and had gone home to his mother.Defending, Morag Russell asked district judge Kenneth Grant to grant the teenagers conditional bail.Quiassaca, she said, accepted his "foolishness" and his co-defendant, an apprentice at a local company, was "making efforts to become a decent member of our community". Their families, she added, who were in the court room, were "furious" with them.However Grant refused bail, committing them for sentencing at Wood Green crown court.Earlier a 14-year-old girl was released on bail after magistrates heard she had looted make-up, CDs and clothes from high street shops. She did not enter a plea and was told her mother was coming to collect her."You should be grateful your mother is coming," said judge Elizabeth Roscoe. "Many others have no one coming to get them because they don't seem to care." The girl is due to appear at Haringey youth court on 18 August.In another case, a 22-year-old man was jailed for 22 weeks after he admitted handling stolen goods. Jamie Spears, from Southwark, was found to have an Argos chainsaw and strimmer with a combined value of £100 in his flat.