The man acting as lawyer for serial killer Harold Shipman and controversial property tycoon Nicholas van Hoogstraten is not entitled to practise law in the UK, the Guardian has learned.Giovanni di Stefano, a convicted fraudster, claims his criminal convictions were overturned. But this paper has a copy of a high court judgment rejecting his appeal. He has also consistently failed to provide proof he is a qualified lawyer and his legal status is now the subject of separate investigations by the Law Society and police, a senior detective told the Guardian. The Department of Constitutional Affairs, responsible for the legal system, is facing pressure to take action against him. As news of Shipman's prison suicide broke on Tuesday, Mr di Stefano, 48, gave numerous television interviews as the serial killer's "lawyer", claiming he was preparing an appeal on his behalf. The Italian, who advertises his firm, Studio Legale Internazionale, on the internet, has also acted for Mr van Hoogstraten, who had his September 2001 conviction for the manslaughter of business rival Mohammed Raja quashed in July. But although Mr di Stefano claims to be a qualified avvocato - an Italian lawyer - he has not provided the UK authorities with evidence, despite repeated requests. If he is not qualified in another EU state then he would not be eligible to practise as a solicitor or barrister in the UK, even on a part-time or occasional basis. Section 70 of the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 states that foreign lawyers must be registered with the Law Society to practise in England and Wales. Anyone trying to pass themselves off as a lawyer without registering may be committing an offence and the Law Society may take action against under the 1974 Solicitors Act. A Law Society spokesman said: "We have been investigating Giovanni di Stefano for a number of months and we have no evidence he is an Italian avvocato, despite having gone to considerable lengths to check this with Italian sources. "We have also asked him to verify his status, but so far he has not done so to our satisfaction, and is therefore not entitled to practise as a lawyer in the UK." To be an avvocato, Mr di Stefano must have graduated in law from an Italian university, completed two years in chambers with an Italian firm, and must be registered with a regional regulatory body in Italy. He has not registered with any. Federico Bucci, president of the Consiglio dell Ordine degli Avvocati, Rome's regulatory body for the legal profession, said: "If you are not enrolled with one of the regional offices, you cannot practise." When contacted yesterday, Mr di Stefano failed to provide details of his qualifications. He said there was no requirement for him to register with any branches of the local bar in Italy while he holds corporate interests, and that his corporate interests may preclude him from registering. But the Italian rules go further than barring anyone with commercial interests from registering. They are also barred from legal work. "If that happens in Italy then you certainly cannot practise elsewhere," Mr Bucci said. Mr di Stefano insisted he can practise in the UK under EC Directive 77/249, but the Law Society contested this claim. "I believe in my interpretation and no doubt the Law Society believe in their interpretation," he said. Under the name John di Stefano, he was convicted of fraud in 1986, for which he served three years of a five-year term. He claimed this conviction was overturned on appeal in January 1988, although he could not provide details. The Guardian has seen a copy of the transcript from the Supreme Court Library at the Royal Courts of Justice, dated January 27 1987, in which three judges dismissed the appeal as groundless. There are further reasons to doubt Mr di Stefano's entitlement to practise here. In 1990, a Solicitors' Disciplinary Tribunal ruled against him over a shortfall in a client account at a solicitor's where he was employed as a clerk. The tribunal made a Section 43 order stating no British solicitor could employ him without permission from the Law Society, which said it had received no requests for this permission. Mr di Stefano claimed to have no knowledge of this ruling. He added: "Either I am, was, could have been, should have been qualified or I am not, was not, could not have been sufficiently qualified to have any ruling against me by a professional body." Tony Clarke, the Labour MP for Northampton South, who fought attempts by Mr di Stefanoto take over Northampton Town football club, said: "Everything about this man is shrouded in mystery. The authorities need to take a very close look at his legal qualifications, because if he is not legally qualified, heaven knows how that affects the cases he has been involved in." On his website, Mr di Stefano cites two UK solicitors' firms, Paul Martin & Co in Romford, Essex, and Sue Tuck & Co, Covent Garden, London, as members of his legal team. Yesterday, Ms Tuck told the Guardian: "My firm is not connected with his in any way. I do not employ him." She said she had done some London agency work for him two years ago for which she was paid fees in the normal way but she was unaware of any Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal ruling against him. The ruling would not prevent Mr di Stefano instructing a solicitor to act as his agent in this way. The Guardian emailed and telephoned Mr Martin's office yesterday asking him to clarify his links to Mr di Stefano but he did not respond. The latest revelations are just another high-profile chapter in the eventful life of Giovanni di Stefano. Among the other defendants the three-times married Italian claims to have represented are M25 road rage killer Kenneth Noye and John "Goldfinger" Palmer, the £35m timeshare trickster. He was a close friend of assassinated Serbian warlord Zeljko "Arkan" Raznatovic and former Serbian president, Slobodan Milosevic. He also claims to have met Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden. Born in southern Italy on July 1 1955 he moved to Northamptonshire with his parents at the age of 5. In 1976, a John di Stefano, was jailed for three years for fraud at Middlesex crown court and asking for 44 other offences to be taken into consideration. Giovanni di Stefano insists he is not the same man. He told the Guardian: "It is not me and that allegation is not true." But he used the name John on his children's birth certificates and in his 1986 trial. The John di Stefano jailed in 1976 also shared the same date and place of birth as Mr di Stefano, and British authorities suspect they are the same person. Fourteen months ago, he mounted a legal challenge to the governors of Belmarsh and Long Lartin prisons who barred him from seeing clients, Nicholas van Hoogstraten and John Palmer, because he had not provided proof he was a qualified lawyer. Jason Beer, Home Office counsel in the Palmer judicial review, said the authorities had learned of a John di Stefano who had 19 convictions in the UK and one in Ireland for fraud and deception, and other previous convictions in Italy, but Mr di Stefano denied he was this man and insisted his only conviction was in 1986 which was overturned on appeal.