A man and a woman were jailed yesterday after they admitted raping a 12-week-old child and taking pictures of the abuse they inflicted while babysitting. St Albans crown court heard the baby girl's mother knew nothing of the abuse until detectives visited her after finding photographs at the home of Alan Webster, 40.Webster was jailed for life after pleading guilty to rape, indecent assault, permitting indecent images to be taken of a child and making indecent images in February and March 2004. Judge Findlay Baker advised a minimum of 12 years in jail before he was considered for release.Webster's girlfriend, Tanya French, 19, was jailed for five years and given an extended licence period of five years after admitting the same charges. Webster was also found guilty of indecently assaulting a 14-year-old girl who was a regular visitor to his home in Hatfield, Hertfordshire."These offences were committed against the most vulnerable victim it is possible to imagine - a little baby," the judge said. "Much of what you did was photographed so you had a record of yourself living out your depraved fantasies."You also befriended a youngster of 14 until she was besotted by you, grooming her in your ways. There are no words to express the abhorrence such offending generates."Sentencing French, he said: "It seems clear to me that you did not shrink away from the acts in which you joined. Rather, you keenly looked forward to them. In your case, these offences are aggravated by the breach of trust placed in you by the baby's mother and, of course, by the child, albeit unknowingly."However, I have to accept you are to some extent a victim yourself. Having come under his malign influence you were to some extent corrupted by him and shut your eyes to the fact that what you were doing was evil."The offences came to light after police were alerted Webster had downloaded about 7,000 indecent images from the internet. A photo album with images showing Webster and French committing acts of abuse was found during a search of Webster's home last July.After the hearing, Detective Inspector Keith Tilley, who led the investigation, said the case was one of the worst he had come across during his work with the child abuse investigation team: "The mother of the victim in this case had acted with all the best interests in finding a babysitter to care for her child, but this set off a horrific and tragic chain of events."Webster admitted four charges of rape, five indecent assaults, two charges of permitting indecent images to be taken of children and two counts of making indecent images of children relating to the abuse of the baby. He also pleaded guilty to indecent assault of the 14-year-old. French admitted one charge of rape, four indecent assaults, two charges of permitting indecent images to be taken of children and two counts of making indecent images of children.