Neville and Doreen Lawrence, Stephen's parents, have told a news conference that institutionalised racism in the police is ingrained and "nothing has changed". Casting doubt on the reformist credentials of the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, Mrs Lawrence said: "What I see is that black people are still dying on the streets and in the back of police vans. This society has stood by and allowed my son's killers to make a mockery of the law. My feelings about the future remain the same as when my son died. I believe black youngsters will never be safe on the streets." Earlier, Sir Paul admitted the need for far-reaching change in the police force, after Sir William Macpherson's report into the Stephen Lawrence inquiry accused the Metropolitan Police of "professional incompetence" and "institutional racism". Sir Paul admitted "a sense of shame" but said he would not quit before his term as commissioner ends in January. He argued that the racist murder of the black teenager had already brought about significant change and that "the legacy of his tragic death will be enduring reform."  Sir Paul said the Macpherson report offered "a new and demanding definition [of institutional racism] which sets a new standard for policing."  "It will mean doing things very differently from the way we responded in 1993," he promised, adding that he hoped he could still bring "those racists responsible for the murder of Stephen Lawrence to justice".  He outlined three new developments - integrity testing to identify racism, a fast reaction force to deal with murders, and a survey of Londoners - to add to the Met's existing programme of change in responding the issues raised by the inquiry.  The president of the Police Superintendents' Association, Peter Gammon, continued to deny that the senior officers who investigated the Stephen Lawrence murder were guilty of deliberate racism.  Chief Supt Gammon told a news conference in London that police officers acknowledged that mistakes were made in the investigation, but said: "The association, along with the rest of the police service and the senior officers involved in the initial murder investigation six years ago, have all acknowledged that mistakes were made."  Earlier this afternoon, in the House of Commons, Home Secretary Jack Straw unveiled a range of measures to tackle what he described as the "institutional racism" in the police and in society. With Neville and Doreen Lawrence listening in the House, Mr Straw said he hoped the Macpherson report would "act as a catalyst for permanent and irrevocable change" not just in the police force, but in the whole of society. "We have to make racial equality a reality," the Home Secretary said, proposing the implementation of many of the report's recommendations, including quotas for ethnic police officers and the extension of the Race Relations Act to cover the police and all public servants.  "However, we stand by our convictions that none of them were the result of deliberate racist attitudes or behaviour."  At Prime Minister's Questions, Tony Blair promised that the publication of the report on Stephen Lawrence's murder would herald "a new era in race relations".  Mr Blair said the report was about the whole of society and that recommendations to be implemented by the Government would deliver "the most comprehensive agenda on improving race relations which this country has seen for many decades".  "The test of our sincerity as law-makers is not how well we can express sympathy ... but the implementation of recommendations to make sure this type of thing never happens in our country again," the Prime Minister said.  Mr Straw started his speech with a description of Stephen's murder and said: "There was only one reason for his murder: Stephen was black."  He spoke of the despair of Mr and Mrs Lawrence, which he said had been "compounded by the failure of our criminal justice system to deliver them justice, to secure the conviction of those responsible".  The Home Secretary said the Macpherson report found that "the investigation was marred by a combination of professional incompetence, institutional racism and a failure of leadership by senior officers".  Mr Straw praised the officers involved in the second internal police inquiry into the racist murder, but added that the Macpherson report had found the efforts of the second inquiry "were not sufficient to overcome the catalogue of errors and basic incompetence in the handling of this investigation".  The Home Secretary said the Macpherson report also concluded that "no collusion or corruption is proved to have infected the investigation of Stephen Lawrence's murder."  Mr Straw said the Government accepted the findings and conclusions of the first part of the Macpherson inquiry, relating to the murder investigation: "The House will share my sense of shame that the criminal justice system, and the Metropolitan Police in particular, failed the Lawrence family so badly."  The Home Secretary said Metropolitan Commisioner Sir Paul Condon had asked him to say he shared that sense of shame and fully accepted the Macpherson findings. Mr Straw praised Sir Paul's strong personal leadership and disclosed: "I have asked Sir Paul to continue to lead the Metropolitan Police to deliver the progamme of work which now required. He has agreed."  Mr Straw said the Macpherson report found that institutional racism existed within the Metropolitan Police and other police forces and institutions countrywide.  The Home Secretary said the report found institutional racism was apparent in a number of areas of the police handling of the Lawrence case but it stressed not all officers, nor the Met's policies, were racist.  Mr Straw welcomed the report's 70 recommendations. He ordered an immediate inspection of the Met by the Inspectorate of Constabulary, including a thorough scrutiny of unsolved murders and reviews of such cases.  Mr Straw also unveiled a battery of measures the Government would take up in response to the Macpherson recommendations. He promised that the Government would ensure a new police discipline regime to be brought in from April 1 would be subject to effective monitoring.  He said he would use his statutory powers as Home Secretary to ensure that every police force set clear objectives to deal with racist crime. Targets would be set for the recruitment, retention and promotion of ethnic minority police and civilian staff.  Stop-and-search powers would remain unchanged but Mr Straw promised to ensure they were used more effectively and fairly. From July next year, London would get its own police authority, sitting alongside the new mayor and assembly.  Mr Straw said new guidelines would enable parties to an inquest from next month to receive advance disclosure of evidence and documents.  He also promised to extend the Race Relations Act not just to the police but to cover all the public services. "That means in the Civil Service, the Immigration Service, in the NHS, the law will back those who have been the subject of discrimination," he explained.  Mr Straw said he had asked the Law Commission to consider the proposal that the Court of Appeal be given power to permit prosecution after acquittal where fresh and viable evidence was presented.  Shadow Home Secretary Sir Norman Fowler welcomed Mr Straw's statement, condemned the "cowardly" murder and paid tribute to Stephen's parents. But he added that the phrase "institutional racism" should not be allowed to become a "generalised condemnation" of the police service.  He urged the Government to treat with "caution" recommendations that people could be tried twice for the same offence. "There have been too many examples ... of legislating in anger and living to regret it."  Earlier, during Prime Minister's Questions, Conservative leader Wiliam Hague said every decent person would feel "shame and disgust" that Stephen Lawrence's murderers had not been brought to justice.  Britain must learn lessons from what went wrong and commit itself "to build a nation in which every citizen regardless of colour and creed is treated with justice and respect," Mr Hague added. 