We fear it cannot be denied that a considerable portion of the peasantry of Kent is in a state of reckless insubordination. Outrages on property of the most alarming description are manifestly on the increase. Bodies of men almost nightly, and of late even by day, assemble and proceed from one farm-house to another, destroying in the most open and daring manner the agricultural machinery on the premises;—and, far worse, the secret incendiary plies his dreadful occupation with a frequency and success that must, if continued, ere long desolate the whole country. Alarm prevails all around.Since our last publication, several serious fires have occurred, and demolition of threshing-machines been committed in every district of East Kent. Leniency and severity seem alike employed in vain. The unexpectedly lenient sentence passed by magistrates on some convicted rioters seems equally [as with prison sentences] to have failed in impressing favourably the minds of those associated in crime.The fact is, that the labouring classes have been long borne down, oppressed in every way by their superiors, and by the political system upheld by their superiors. They have been gradually thrust down, and trampled on, despised, driven to starvation, misery, and despair. The tendency of the whole social arrangement in England for many years has been to foster and protect the great properties at the expense of the poor and industrious. The labourer has been literally ground down to the very dust. Every law, every tax, every consequent change in manners, has been prejudicial to him. Consolidation of estates, destruction of small farms, enclosure of common lands, heavy impositions on the necessaries of life, the accursed game laws, the vexatious tyranny exercised by the rural magistracy, the canting, hypocritic interference with his few remaining pleasures under the pretence of teaching him religion and morality, form part of the list of those "unfavourable circumstances" which have made him what he is.The bond which once attached the agricultural labourer to his employer has long, too, been severed. The farmer was once looked up to by his servants as their friend, and almost their father. They formed as it were a part of his family, generally seated at the same board, and partaking to a degree of the comforts of a common home. All this has passed away. An insuperable barrier has been raised between the "parlour" and the "kitchen". The servant has not been recognised any more than as a labouring animal on the estate. The master has been a gentleman, and the servant sunk into a brutal slave. At last human nature refused any further endurance without bitter complaint.