The vast majority of crime victims do not believe that prison reduces levels of offending, according to a major new report to be published tomorrow. The surprising findings of the first survey of those whose lives have been affected by crime suggest the public is losing faith in the penal system.The report's publication comes as prison numbers reach record levels with reformers warning of disastrous consequences unless the government expands the use of alternatives to custodial sentences.The Home Secretary, John Reid, plans to create 8,000 more prison places but campaigners warn this will do nothing to ease congestion. Last week, in a sign of how acute the overcrowding problem had become, prison governors were ordered to trawl young offender institutions to find those who might be suitable for early release to calm the crisis.Tomorrow's report, by SmartJustice, the campaign group that promotes community-based punishments, suggests the public no longer endorses a 'lock them up' policy when it comes to the majority of criminal offences.It is based on an ICM survey of 1,000 crime victims which found that 62 per cent of victims do not believe prison reduces non-violent crime - the type of offences that makes up the vast majority of all crimes committed in Britain.Instead, most victims believe the government needs to spend more money tackling the causes of crime. Eight out of 10 victims interviewed said more constructive activities for young people in the community, and better supervision of children by parents, would be effective in stopping re-offending.Seven out of 10 victims also wanted to see more treatment programmes for drug addicts and those suffering from mental health problems.'Eighty days into his 100-day deadline and all John Reid has come up with are 8,000 new prison places,' said Lucie Russell, Director of SmartJustice. 'This government is obsessed with being tough on crime and is not paying enough attention to why offenders commit crime in the first place. It's no good just building more prisons, when most offenders come out worse than when they went in.'The poll asked how non-violent crimes like shoplifting, car theft and vandalism can be reduced. More than half of crime victims said they were in favour of making offenders work in the community to stop them returning to crime. And just over half of victims were in support of making offenders meet their victims to make amends personally.'What victims of crime are saying loud and clear is that we need more action on prevention to stop these crimes happening in the first place,' Russell said.Home Office figures show 67 per cent of offenders are re-convicted within two years of release from prison, where a shortage of resources means treatment and education programmes are in short supply. Last month the prison population topped 79,000 for the first time, leading to problems across the entire system.Research by the Prison Reform Trust (PRT) suggests over half of the prisons in England and Wales are now officially overcrowded. Of these, one in five has exceeded what the Home Office calls its 'safe overcrowding limit'.Juliet Lyon, director of the PRT, said the report provided an important wake-up call. 'Most sensible people know that endlessly ratcheting up levels of imprisonment won't work when it comes to reducing non-violent crime,' she said. 'You just end up with an ever-growing number of ex-prisoners, homeless, jobless and [those] ready to reoffend again to fund a drink or drug habit.'