A woman who falsely claimed that her ex-husband had raped her was jailed for a year yesterday and branded a "wicked liar" by the judge.Sally Henderson, 40, claimed Richard Cooke had repeatedly raped her during their year-long marriage. But police discovered her claims were a repetition of false accusations she made five years earlier against a previous partner.Sentencing Henderson at Bristol crown court, Recorder David Lane QC said: "You told a series of wicked lies against both men. You are a very skilful actress who is adept at making people believe you are a victim when you are nothing of the sort. Yours is one of the most serious crimes because you framed an innocent man."You accused him of the most serious offence in the criminal calendar to be brought against a man. His life was turned upside down and the strain he suffered has been incalculable. The sentence I pass is to punish you and to deter others from making these false complaints."Henderson was found guilty of perverting the course of justice. During her trial a court order protected her anonymity but once she was convicted the judge allowed her to be named, to the concern of some women's groups.Lisa Longstaff, of Women against Rape, said yesterday that she was concerned at a trend of women being prosecuted and identified after making allegations of rape.She said: "We think there is a concerted witchhunt at the moment. It's a new trend which will stop women from coming forward and making rape complaints."Margaret Gardener, director of the False Allegations Support Organisation, said: "The worst thing about this case is it could put genuine rape victims off coming forward."But she said men wrongly accused of rape struggled to cope. "Many men who ring us are suicidal. They have to try and get their lives back together. They will have had no help and probably faced some media coverage. Some lose their families, their jobs."A spokesman for Gloucestershire police yesterday said they hoped the sentencing of Henderson would not deter genuine rape victims from coming forward. Matt Ford said: "Gloucestershire constabulary is committed to tackling rape offences and takes all reports extremely seriously."Yesterday in court Henderson, from Woodmancote, near Cirencester, Gloucestershire, continued to protest her innocence. She said: "I've told the truth. I 've not made up any allegations. I'm here on the words of the rapist and he lied in court."During the trial, she claimed her ex-husband, whom she met on an internet dating site, had viewed her as a sex object, had demanded sex constantly and had raped her at a friend's wedding reception.But the jury was told the allegations were almost identical to previous claims she made against a former boyfriend, Mark Rowe, 42. Both men were questioned by police but neither was charged.How rape cases are prosecuted has become a big political issue. At their conference the Liberal Democrats agreed men accused of rape should be given anonymity before conviction. Last month the Labour peer Lord Campbell-Savours used parliamentary privilege to name a woman who had claimed she had been raped after the man's conviction was quashed.