Police last night charged a man over the murder of a vicar who was stabbed to death in the grounds of his church.Father Paul Bennett, 59, suffered multiple stab wounds during an attack near the entrance of St Fagan's church in Trecynon, near Aberdare in south Wales, on Wednesday. A knife was recovered at the scene.The man charged with his murder is understood to have lived in a block of flats opposite the vicarage. He was named locally as Geraint Evans, 23. A flat was cordoned off yesterday while forensic officers examined it.A police spokesman confirmed that a 23-year-old man would appear before Aberdare magistrates court today charged with the vicar's murder.Mr Bennett's family said last night they could not imagine life without him."Paul was a loyal son and a devoted husband, father and grandfather, who spent his whole life putting the thoughts and feelings of others ahead of his own," they said in a statement.His death left the clergy and the local community in despair. "I know something of his devoted and selfless ministry in testing conditions," said the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, who once knew Mr Bennett. "I can well understand the depth of grief felt by local people, both church members and others."Residents in the streets that surround the vicarage described Mr Bennett as a pillar of their community, who had served three local parish districts simultaneously over the last five years, and was the governor of a local school.Yesterday morning he was due to have given his regular service at Saint Luke's church in the nearby village of Cwmdare.Instead, 130 parishioners gathered for a memorial service. The Dean of the Cynon Valley, Robert Davies, led the service. "Emotions are running high among the congregation," he said.The congregation packed the small church, and later gathered to remember the man everyone knew as "Father Paul". Peter Perry, 57, recalled the three times the vicar had visited him when he was in hospital. "One of a kind," he called him.The vicar was also at the bedside of the father of Mair Nicholas, 57, when he fell ill. "Without him I really don't know if I could have got through it," she said.