I first met Bilan Mohamud last summer when I interviewed her at a women's centre in north London. She is small, softly spoken, with a calm demeanour, and with a moon-shaped scar below her left eye. At that time, she was in the throes of a court case. Her then neighbour, Gary Read, was being tried for punching her in the face and calling her a "fucking nigger" as she walked her children home from school. Bilan is black, Muslim and originally from Somalia; Read is white.By the time the article was published in Society Guardian in August 2006, Read was behind bars, awaiting sentencing after being convicted of grievous bodily harm. A few weeks later, Camden council got in touch with Bilan to say they had found the family a new home and that they should be in by Christmas. For Bilan, her husband Mohamed Hussain and their eight children, who had been living in temporary accommodation three bus journeys away from the children's schools for six months, things finally seemed to be looking up.Seven months later, they are still in "temporary" accommodation in Enfield - a situation they accepted only after being forced to leave their home because of ongoing intimidation from neighbours on the estate. They are still living in limbo, with one parent making the three-hour round-trip to the children's schools, while the other stays at home to look after the youngest. Mohamed is unable to work because of the childcare commitments, and the children are exhausted.Worse than that, the family has experienced problems with new neighbours in their temporary accommodation, where Bilan alleges that she has been physically attacked, followed, and the family called racist names and threatened with death.When police responded to 999 calls after the first alleged incident, on March 1, they arrested Mohamed as well as a male neighbour, and cautioned both of them for common assault. On the last occasion, on March 12, Bilan says that the police took three hours to arrive and were apparently unaware of previous incidents.A police spokeswoman in Enfield, where the family are living, says that they have a record of the incident on March 1, but nothing on the computer about either of the two subsequent incidents, although Bilan insists she reported both. No further police action appears to have been taken, although the neighbours were eventually moved to alternative accommodation by the council. That this is happening to any family is disturbing enough. That it is happening to a family who have already been through the ordeal of an attack, and the subsequent court case, and been forced to move from their permanent home because of ongoing racist victimisation, only to face similar treatment, is deeply shocking.The family's recent treatment is eerily familiar. When Bilan was first assaulted in October 2005, police officers initially handcuffed her husband and accused him of threatening the neighbours. They failed to take statements from the family or ask Bilan why she was bleeding profusely from her face. It was only the intervention of caseworkers at the Black Women's Rape Action Project that led to the case being investigated, and to Read's arrest. Once can be dismissed as a one-off. Could twice be evidence of a pattern?We are told that the police have turned over a new leaf when it comes to racist victimisation, and that local authorities do not tolerate such behaviour. But it took diligent officers at Holborn hate crimes unit to give Bilan's first case the attention it deserved, and a brave officer from that team, DC Angela Reilly, to stand up at Read's trial and say that the officers initially sent to investigate had not done enough.Bilan has now been told that her new home in Camden should be ready at the end of this month. We can only hope that she and her family are not let down again.· Laura Smith writes on race and criminal justice· Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"