Tony Blair yesterday gave the clearest signal yet that his cabinet's determination to impose "responsibilities as well as rights" on socially disruptive families will target housing benefit more intensively than withdrawal of child benefit .It could mean that families found to be repeatedly disrupting the lives of their neighbours could lose the "taxpayer subsidies" which keep a roof over their heads - threatening the risk of eviction or a move to poorer accommodation. Taunted by Conservative and Liberal Democrat critics in the Commons on the level of cabinet support for removing child benefit from families which persistently offend - a Downing Street suggestion - the prime minister chose to deflect the emphasis to the £11bn a year housing benefit budget. "When we have a firm proposal we will put it before people ... if you want to oppose it, then oppose it. We aren't just examining it in relation to child benefit, we're also examining it in relation to housing benefit and persistent anti-social behaviour, and offending families in receipt of housing benefit," Mr Blair told Charles Kennedy. Downing Street officials were later only able to identify the education secretary, Estelle Morris, as supporting the concept of "conditionality" for child benefit, which would make payment dependent on good conduct. In reality, Mr Blair can usually command a cabinet majority. But ministers are privately keener on using housing benefit as a weapon. "Respectable working class families are being harassed on a scale you and I cannot imagine, and the culprits are being subsidised by the taxpayer," one told the Guardian last night. Ministers point to pioneering efforts to impose "conditionality" for benefits in France, Australia and New Zealand as well as the US. Human rights issues can be addressed, they say. Landlords who tolerate anti-social behaviour, and sometimes make huge sums from housing benefit, also stand to lose such payments if two such judgments are made against their tenants over a three year period, under Labour MP Frank Field's private member's bill, which Mr Blair is now backing. "For 100 years voters have come to MPs with problems about jobs and other bread and butter issues. Now it is all about behaviour," Mr Field said last night. One minister commented: "We don't want to evict anyone, we want them to change their behaviour."