Men accused of sex crimes should be granted anonymity to prevent 'trial by tabloid', MPs said yesterday.The cases of TV presenters John Leslie, who will learn officially this week that he will not face charges over 'date rape' allegations, and Matthew Kelly - similarly cleared of child sex abuse claims - have fuelled controversy over the issue. Neither was charged with any crime, but both were subjected to lurid headlines. Oliver Letwin, the Shadow Home Secretary, warned that those wrongly accused faced 'inadequate safeguards' and demanded a review. Tory backbenchers went further, calling for alleged sex attackers to be given the same right of anonymity during a trial as their victims. The Home Office said it would at least consider ways of protecting the identity of suspects who have been arrested but not charged. There was now no way of doing this, said a Home Office spokeswoman. 'If people can come up with a workable suggestion, we will look at it.' Sources close to the Home Secretary, David Blunkett, said, however, that he was not persuaded of the need to protect alleged rapists' identity before any conviction, which critics argue would stop other victims coming forward. 'This argument raises more questions than it solves,' said one source. The former Tory MP Neil Hamilton, who with his wife Christine was wrongly accused of a bizarre gang rape, called this weekend for Parliament to reopen the question of anonymity. He was backed by the senior Tory backbencher Ann Widdecombe, who said yesterday that there should be equality for both genders. 'If we are not prepared to reveal the identity of the accuser we should not be naming the accused,' said Widdecombe, a member of the Home Affairs Select Committee, which is investigating sex offences. 'If she has cried rape four times before, he is not going to know, because she remains anonymous.' While Letwin stopped short of calling for anonymity for defendants - which applied for 12 years before a change in the law in 1988 - he said the Government must 'look seriously' at the issue. 'It is clear that under current rules there are inade quate safeguards protecting those wrongly accused of such crimes and that the consequences of this can be devastating,' he added. MPs may try to amend the Sex Offences Bill now before Parliament, to grant alleged rapists anonymity. Critics argue, however, that this would hamper police investigations because other potential witnesses could not come forward, and undermine open justice. 'The conundrum nobody has resolved is, do we actually say that being accused of sex crimes is more damaging to your reputation than being accused of murder?', said a source close to Blunkett. Leslie's ordeal began when Ulrika Jonsson claimed in her autobiography to have been 'date raped' by a former boyfriend, named by others as Leslie. Police said on Friday that an 'exhaustive' investigation yielded insufficient evidence for a prosecution.Kelly was interviewed over accusations of paedophile activity several years ago, but cleared of any involvement after being questioned by the police. The Hamiltons' accuser, Nadine Milroy-Sloan, was convicted of perverting the course of justice on Friday after the court heard that she was a 'fantasist' who had never met the couple.