A man has been arrested for murder after allegedly going on the rampage in east London this morning, killing his estranged wife and her mother and setting their house on fire before trying to stab himself to death.Sergei Zolotovsky, 42, was under arrest in hospital tonight, under suspicion of murdering his wife, Svetlana, 40, and her mother. Svetlana was found unconscious with her neck and stomach slashed open near a bus stop in Beckton, east London, shortly after 7am. She is believed to have been on her way to work at a hospital in north London when she was ambushed.She had been attacked in the street by a knifeman and identity documents led officers to her family home nearby.They found the semi-detached house on fire, and a second woman, believed to be Svetlana's mother, was found dead on the ground floor with stab wounds.Firefighters putting out the blaze found a man in the loft with serious knife wounds, believed to be self-inflicted.Svetlana's colleagues at the Wellington Hospital in St John's Wood, where she was a pharmacy technician, called her "a cheerful and lovely member of staff".One witness described how he had discovered Svetlana unconscious with the knifeman still standing over her. Michael Herbert, 47, had run to the victim's aid after hearing her scream while he cut a hedge nearby. "She was unconscious. Her throat had been slashed; her stomach was open. She wasn't in a good way. There was a man standing over her."Herbert and a colleague then chased the man across a nearby field. He claimed that the man "turned around and said 'I've got a knife, I've got a knife'. But we kept running after him. He was very fit – I lost him in an alleyway. I was very shaken up," he said.Svetlana's mother, aged in her late 60s or early 70s, moved in after the couple separated more than a year ago.Neighbour Ben Tilley, 28, said "something happened" more than 12 months ago and the man moved away.He said: "I have not seen him for about a year since he moved out. When they first moved here they were a nice couple, a pleasant couple. They were very houseproud. Something happened a year ago and he moved out."Tilley said he was alerted to the attack by police who knocked on his door shortly before 8am. He then saw the suspected attacker being taken away by an ambulance.Two of her colleagues travelled to Beckton during their lunch hour today after she did not turn up for work and did not answer her mobile phone.After discovering that Svetlana was dead, Marlon Da Silva, a fellow technician, said: "It is shocking for us. She is a well-known person. She was a really hard worker. A very reserved person."She came from Latvia. The only thing I can say is she has been working very hard in this country."She had some problems with her husband. She was in the process of going through a divorce. Her mother came here to support her."A spokesman for the hospital said staff were "deeply shocked" at the news. Svetlana had worked for the private hospital for 18 months.He said: "We are deeply shocked to hear of this tragedy. Svetlana was a well-liked and highly-valued member of staff and she will be missed by all who knew her."We would obviously pass on our deepest sympathies to her friends and family who have survived her."