If you renovate a house you start by taking the wallpaper off. Only then do you discover more problems. That's what it is like in the Home Office. But the idea that you stop fixing things because you discover more problems is not my way. No one need tell me that there are problems at the Home Office. I know. That's why when I came in I instigated a root-and-branch overhaul and why I said parts of the Home Office were "not fit for purpose".There are problems in each of the separate "silos" within the department, and with how they relate to each other. Many are problems I inherited - such as foreign national prisoners or overseas criminal convictions. Others have been discovered because of reform, such as the latest concerns about drug offenders' travel orders not being enforced.These problems don't leave me beleaguered. If we weren't discovering more we wouldn't be reforming. Indeed I expect more problems. In each of the rooms of the Home Office are upcoming challenges like pay pressures, prison population pressures, counter-terror challenges and stubbornly high reoffending rates. There will also be problems I haven't discovered yet - and may well be unearthed by others. If we were not open about challenges as we discover them we would not be being serious about reform.Yet even the ground on which the Home Office is built - the Britain of the 21st century - is shifting. Mass migration, the information age and environmental change have changed the world. If we just fix the old structures we will not be prepared for challenges such as identity crime, people smuggling, and illegal migration. I was sent to the Home Office to do a job. Being home secretary is my biggest challenge. But it isn't mission impossible. Judge me not on the challenges but on my response to them.Look at the passport service. A few years ago there were long queues; now the agency has better customer satisfaction than Tesco or Amazon. It can be done when committed public servants change to deliver for the British public. The border and immigration agency is in uniform and a bill is before parliament to give them the powers they need. The first of the new prisons I asked for in July is under construction. And last week's crime figures confirmed a downward trend of the past decade. Policing is becoming visible, local and accountable with neighbourhood teams. On counter-terrorism, I know our capacity isn't up to scratch for future challenges. That's why my plans for enhancing our capability will go to cabinet soon.Last week I was lambasted when the lord chancellor, the attorney general and I set out the big picture on prisons and sentencing to the National Criminal Justice Board. This was unfair - the lord chief justice made clear that I had "not sought to instruct judges to stop imposing sentences of imprisonment".There is pressure on prison places because we are bringing 300,000 more offences to justice every year than five years ago; the most dangerous offenders serve significantly longer sentences; and we asked the probation service and police to enforce community sentences and bail conditions properly for the first time.We have delivered almost 20,000 more prison places since 1997 and I put in place plans for another 8,000 last year. But projecting the prison population is never an exact science. Independent sentencing guidelines laid down that tougher post-release supervision of offenders should be balanced by a 15% reduction in sentence length. This has not materialised. Add to that 1,300 foreign national prisoners awaiting deportation and a much shallower "Christmas dip" than experts predicted.Some people see their main task as changing the ministers at the Home Office. I see my main task as changing the Home Office. The British people need and deserve a Home Office that protects the public, a functioning 21st century public service. It is what I am going to do.· John Reid is the home secretary.