A piece of jewellery belonging to missing 15-year-old Jenna Baldwin was found today on human remains found last night in undergrowth not far from her home, police said.The jewellery was found as police tried to identify the remains, which were found after an anonymous tip led officers to an area known as Fiddlers Elbow, around eight miles from Jenna's home in Abersychan, Monmouthshire.Officers found the remains shortly before midnight after an eight-hour search. The area, near a main road between Abergavenny and Blaenavon, remained sealed off today. A forensic archaeologist and Home Office pathologist were also at the scene. A formal identification of the remains was not expected to take place until late today.Specialist liaison officers were continuing to support the schoolgirl's family as they waited for news. Chief Inspector John Oliver, of Gwent police, said: "The past few weeks have been extremely traumatic for the entire family. Hopefully we will soon be in a position to draw to a close the events which have caused so much pain." Jenna went missing from her home in Abersychan on September 10. She has not been seen since. Factory worker Mike Baldwin, 36, Jenna's stepfather, was charged with her murder earlier this month and remains in custody.Police have carried out a methodical and widespread search for her for the last three weeks. Detectives spoke of their growing concern for the Abersychan comprehensive school pupil early after her disappearance. An unknown man contacted the teenager's school not long after she went missing and claimed she was staying with a friend and would soon return. In recent weeks police teams have been combing woodland and a quarry close to the teenager's home as well as a waste tip. A helicopter using thermal imaging equipment has also been used and sniffer dogs, specially trained to find human remains, have been brought in to help the inquiry. Last week the police search focused focused on areas of water including the Afon Llwyd river and the Keeper's pond, at Blaenavon.