One of the major obstacles often cited for a lack of any real progress in the way we respond to those who cause us harm or distress is the way the media, particularly newspapers, portray the issues surrounding crime and punishment. The first priority of any newspaper proprietor, I guess, is to sell newspapers. But all-too often we are let down by the over sensationalising of relatively meaningless information - a grainy picture of "Rose West in her cell" or the "scandal" of prisoners being fed a festive-themed lunch at Christmas is sold as news - while the real scandals of prison overcrowding, the jailing of the mentally ill and the ever-increasing amount of time prisoners are spending "banged up" in their cells is reported in the most understated manner.Of all the examples of disingenuous and irresponsible reporting of criminal justice issues, however, one of worst in recent years appeared in an edition of the Times this week. Journalist Stephen Pollard reported on an initiative for young offenders being rolled out in Derbyshire. The skills builder course is designed to get young offenders ready for and into the workplace. Pollard quotes Janet Hickey, of Derbyshire Probation Service who says, "Many offenders aren't job-ready, they aren't motivated. They've got no qualifications and they don't feel as if they can compete in the workplace. So this course is about preparing people for the world of work."Now there are two ways of looking at this scheme. Either you see it as a possible means of reducing the likelihood of offenders, many steeped in a culture of recidivism and reoffending - or you see it as a classic case of providing "treats for cheats" - the unacceptable practice of "rewarding" bad behaviour. In his article Pollard chose the latter. "Beat me up! Get free training!" ran his headline. In the body of the piece he explains, "I'm referring to a pilot scheme that has started in Derbyshire, called Skills Builder. Young offenders are sentenced not to prison, not to labouring for community service but to ... being taught skills." The tone of indignation throughout the piece borders on parody and would be more suited, I would have thought, to the letters page of a downmarket tabloid than a news page of what was once one of the most respected "serious" newspapers in the world.Now I may be wrong, but I think that most reasonable people would want those who offend and are convicted by the courts to be less inclined to commit further offences once they have been through the criminal justice process. Well here is the news: there is an army of people who spend their working lives trying to make this dream become a reality. But they are up against it. These people, who could be deemed to be in the "rehabilitation business," I guess, are trying on behalf of the rest of us to make sentences handed down by magistrates and judges work so that we can all benefit in the long run. Fewer offenders reoffending means fewer future victims.This phalanx of teachers, trainers, facilitators and yes, counsellors even, know that the majority of people who are churned in and out of the system year on year are those with limited skills and abilities. They are people with failings, with educational deficiencies, mental health problems, emotional disturbance.Now much as it may appear attractive to hang, flog and crush offenders, either literally or metaphorically by "locking them up and throwing away the key," this has been proven time and time again not to work in the best interests of society. Punishment for punishment's sake is plain stupid as well as barbaric. Inflicting pain on those who have caused us pain may provide a quick fix of somewhat dubious satisfaction, but it has historically been proven not to be a measure that will prevent an offender from going on to inflict further pain on some other unsuspecting victim in-waiting. Unless we are prepared to execute all offenders or lock them up forever, surely we have to look at practical and effective ways of reducing reoffending. And anyway, hanging folk for sheep-stealing may have stymied individual sheepstealers, but it did not stop sheepstealing.There is no excuse for crime. But neither is there any excuse for poor reporting of the efforts that committed people are making in an attempt to reduce it.