A harrowing account was given yesterday of the deaths of 21 Chinese cocklepickers at Morecambe Bay, as police told how they were identified by good luck charms, watches, wallets, photos and jewellery found on their bodies.The inquest in Lancaster heard that it was believed two further cocklepickers drowned but their bodies had yet to be found. Among those caught in rising tides at Bolton-le-Sands on the evening of February 5 and overnight was Xu Yuhua, 37, whose cousins, Lin Youxing, 38, and Lin Guoguang, 36, and his wife also perished. The body of Mr Yu's wife, Liu Qinying, 37, has never been recovered, nor has that of another man. The body of Lin Youxing, married with a son, was found weeks after the tragedy. He was identified by a missing tooth and DNA samples. Lin Guoguang, also married with a son, was identified by DNA samples. Wu Hongkang, 34, was found at 7am on February 6. His wife told police that he had a red bag with him containing items for good luck. He had arrived in the UK two months before his death, and was not known to the immigration service. Steve Brunskill, the detective inspector who led the identification team for Lancashire police, told Howard McCann, the Preston and North Lancashire coroner, that the full scale of the disaster had not been realised until 3.28am on February 6 when an RAF helicopter recovered the first body. By 2.15pm that afternoon, 19 had been recovered. Mr Brunskill said identification was difficult because some information given to immigration officials was false, and several of the victims had used alternative names. The survivors were interviewed on February 7 and 8 - but most had denied being there at the time. One of those who died, Guo Binglong, had phoned his fam ily at 9pm to tell them he was trapped. Detective Superintendent Michael Gradwell, the senior officer in the case, said six people were under investigation for their role in the deaths, and are on bail pending a decision by the crown prosecution ser vice: "I have been liaising closely with the service and I have provided them with a substantial file of evidence." The team has taken more than 1,000 witness statements and seen some 3,000 exhibits. There are more than 100,000 documents in the incident room - many still needing to be translated from Chinese. Mr McCann paid tribute to those who assisted in rescuing 15 survivors from the sea, and to Morecambe council for setting up emergency centres for them: "The events as they unfolded must have been a harrowing experience for the survivors of the tragedy, those involved in the rescue, and those involved in the aftercare." The coroner was hopeful that the bodies could be sent back to China for funerals. The inquest was adjourned. Lancashire police released a list yesterday of the 21 identified bodies. Postmortem examinations showed death by drowning.  Yu Hui,  34, married with sons aged nine and 15. Body recovered at 3.28am. His father reported him missing in a call to police.  Chen Muyu, 30, married with son aged eight. Body recovered at 4.20am. Fingerprints and an immigration photo used to identify him. His sister said a watch on his wrist was a wedding present from his wife.  Guo Nianzhu, 39, married with son aged 15 and daughters aged 14 and 18. Body recovered at 4.20am. His sister-in-law contacted authorities fearing he was a victim. His wife and a survivor identified him from photos.   Lin Zhifang, 19, single. Body recovered at 6am. His father identified him from a passport photo, wallet and yellow metal chain.  Xu Yuhua, 37, married. His wife is believed to have been another victim. Body recovered at 6am. His brother-in-law and friend told police he had contacted his family on February 4 to say he was going cockling with his wife.  Wu Jiazhen, 36, married with son aged 14 and daughter aged 15.  Wu Hongkang, 34, married. Body recovered at 7am. His wife told police he had a red bag with him containing items for good luck, recovered alongside a black wallet. He had arrived in the UK two months before his death, having spent the previous 10 months in Germany.  Xie Xiaowen, 41, married with son. Body recovered at 7am. He had a cockle permit in another name and was identified with immigration records. Police were told he spoke to his sister on the day and told her he was cockling.  Lin Guohua, 37, married. Body recovered at 7am. He arrived in the UK in January and lived in Liverpool. His wife identified wallet and photo found on his body.  Guo Binglong, 28, married with son aged six and daughter aged three. Body recovered at 10am. An immigration photo helped to identify him. His brother said he contacted his family saying he was trapped in the sea. Believed to be a cousin of Guo Nian Zhu.  Zhou Xuncao, 38, married with son. Body recovered at 7am. He had previously been arrested in Norfolk. A trad ing standards officer from Cambridge recorded his mobile number.  Lin Guoguang, 36, married with son. Body recovered at 7am. He had given his parents' names to immigration, and his wife also told police he used another name. A cousin of Xu Yuhua and  Lin Youxing.  Cao Chaokun, 35, married. Body recovered at 7am.  Guo Changmou, 18, single. Body recovered at 7am. An immigration photo and fingerprints identified him. He had been arrested in October 2003 in Southampton.  Yang Tianlong, 33, separated from wife; one son, aged 15, cared for by neighbours. Body recovered at 7.50am. A survivor told police he was contacted by Mr Yang and asked to get help because people were drowning.  Lin Lishui, 33. Body recovered at 7.50am. Brother-in-law reported him missing on February 7. Three survivors identified Mr Lin with photo, and his father identified a watch found on the body.  Wang Minlin, 37, married with son aged 13 and daughters aged 13 and 16. Body recovered at 2.15pm. His wife told of scars on his face and mole under one eye, which matched the body. His father identified a wallet, red bag, photo and yellow cloth with Chinese writing on it.  Lin Youxing, 38, married with son. Badly decomposed body recovered weeks later. He had been arrested in August 2003. His wife told detectives he had a missing tooth, and supplied his mobile number, to identify him. A cousin of Xu Yuhua and Lin Guoguang.  Chen Aiqin, 39, widowed with son aged 14 and daughter aged nine. Body recovered at 6am. A Chinese journalist told police he had been contacted by her brother. Identified by pierced ears and scar from a sterilisation operation.  Zhang Xiuhua, 45, married with daughter aged 15 and son aged 22. Body recovered at 6am. She was reported missing by her family, and an immigration photo was used to identify her. Her husband identified earrings, gold necklace and green pendant found on the body.  Wang Xiuyu, 27, married with daughter aged eight. Body found by passerby at 1.30pm on February 15, lying face down on beach. She lived in Liverpool. Her husband told detectives she had small scar on right knee. Her mother identified her from a silver watch and earrings.