The justice secretary, Jack Straw, today announced a ban on the early release of terrorists from jail following criticism of the government after it admitted a convicted man was freed 17 days early.Yassin Nassari, who was arrested at Luton airport with blueprints for a rocket in his luggage, was released under the end of custody licence (ECL) scheme, introduced in June last year, which allows "non-dangerous" inmates to be released up to 18 days early.The Ministry of Justice later revealed that a second unnamed terrorist had been released early, from Glen Parva jail in Leicestershire. Nassari served just over seven months of a three-and-a-half-year sentence. He spent more than a year on remand before his conviction.The 28-year-old, from Ealing, west London, was released from Wakefield maximum security prison last month, 17 days before his official release date. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said the release of Nassari provided evidence of the government's "perverse" approach to security."On the one hand, they are trying to pass a new law extending the period for holding innocent people – convicted of nothing – when we already have the longest period of pre-charge detention in the free world," he said. "On the other hand, they are releasing a terrorist we have managed to bring to justice, a dangerous man convicted in our courts for researching how to deploy military weapons in this country.A ministry of justice spokeswoman said that the prisoner had "met the criteria for early release" under the ECL scheme.Nassari was subject to "public protection arrangements," she added.She said that the national offender management service had "not been notified of any reoffending by this individual during his period of 17 days on ECL or during his continuing probation supervision since then". The spokeswoman said early release was appropriate for convicted terrorists "whose offences are not considered serious enough by the court to justify a long term of imprisonment". However, she added: "Terrorism-related offences involving serious violence - such as using explosives to commit grievous bodily harm or hijacking - are excluded from ECL." Nassari was found guilty at the Old Bailey of possessing documents likely to be useful to a terrorist. His computer contained documents about martyrdom and weapons training as well as instructions on how to construct the Qassam artillery rocket, a weapon used extensively in the Middle East. Police searched Nassari's home and found several graphic videos of terrorist attacks and beheadings. He was acquitted of the more serious offence of possessing articles for terrorist purposes. His 24-year-old Dutch wife, Bouchra el-Hor, was cleared of failing to disclose information about terrorism. Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of probation union Napo, said the ECL scheme was "flawed" because there was no discretion for staff to exclude individuals."Clearly, anyone convicted of terrorism should have been ruled out of the scheme," he said.The ECL scheme - under which more than 18,000 inmates were released by the end of January - created a presumption in favour of early release for prisoners serving between four weeks and four yearsAn alleged 367 offences had been committed by prisoners on ECL by the end of January.