A custody sergeant accused of killing a church caretaker who collapsed after being restrained at a police station in Devon has told a jury he thought the man had fallen asleep.Sgt Jan Kingshott said he had viewed a CCTV feed of Thomas Orchard lying face down in a cell and saw that he was not moving. But he said: “People go to sleep. I thought that is what had happened here.”Orchard suffered cardiac arrest and brain damage due to oxygen starvation after an emergency restraint belt (ERB) was wrapped around his head at a police station in Exeter. He died in hospital a week later.Kingshott and two detention officers involved in handling Orchard are on trial accused of manslaughter. They deny the offence.Kingshott, the supervisor during the incident, accepted the way Orchard, who had mental health issues, was lifted face down with the webbing belt across his face, was “incorrect”.He also conceded that a position Orchard, 32, was held in at one point was similar to a “hog-tie” – where ankles and wrists are secured behind the back – which could have made it harder for him to breathe.But he insisted it was right for the ERB to be used on Orchard’s face because he claimed the detainee was threatening to bite the officers.Man who died in police custody was never violent, his mother tells court At the start of his defence on Friday, Kingshott broke down in tears as he said he was telling the truth about what happened and wanted the facts to come out.From the witness box, Kingshott, 44, told the jury the case must be much harder for Orchard’s family but he said the incident had “destroyed” him. He said: “I had his [Orchard’s] best interests despite the tragic outcome in mind all the way through.”He became emotional as he insisted he was being honest about what happened. “I just want the truth to come out,” he said. Bristol crown court has heard that Orchard, who had paranoid schizophrenia, was arrested on suspicion of a public order offence in Exeter city centre in October 2012. He was shouting and apparently threatening passers-by and was taken to Heavitree police station, where the ERB was called for. The prosecution said an ERB is primarily used by police by wrapping it around a suspect’s body at the chest, midriff or thighs. It argued the belt could also be used as a “shroud” but should not be used as a “mechanism of securing or control” in the head area.But the prosecution claimed the belt was wrapped around Orchard’s face and he was lifted up to waist height in a face-down position. The jury was shown CCTV footage of officers carrying Orchard into the cell and placing him on a mattress, where he was held for nearly five minutes with the ERB still over his face, before officers left him. Kingshott told the court that “proportionate” restraint was used on Orchard. He said that like all police kit he had believed the ERB was safe to use – and was authorised by Devon and Cornwall police to be used in situations like this. “I had no reason to doubt that the ERB was safe,” he said. He told the court he did not know that Orchard had had mental health problems, but was treating him as a “violent, aggressive person” who had threatened to bite officers. He said he and his colleagues dealt with “angry men” every Friday night who had been drinking and fighting. In cross-examination, Mark Heywood QC, prosecuting, played CCTV footage from the police station that he said picked out Orchard shouting “let go”, but which did not record any threats. Kingshott insisted Orchard had threatened to bite officers. “Those threats did occur. They were real threats.” He added: “A bite is a nasty thing. There are a lot of bacteria in the human mouth.” Heywood pointed out how as Kingshott and his colleagues left the cell with Orchard lying face-down, his limbs just “dropped away”. “They have just fallen,” said Heywood. Kingshott replied simply: “Yes.”In the dock alongside Kingshott are civilian detention officers Simon Tansley, 38, and Michael Marsden, 55. The trial continues.