To the regulars at the back street gym he frequented in Yorkshire, he was just another avid body builder obsessed with working out as frequently as possible, for hours on end pushing his body to the limits.David Bieber went to the Spartan Body Works gym in Barnsley every other day, exercising for between three and four hours on the weights machines with other bouncers equally committed to building up their muscles. Christopher Motherby was one of the doormen who also used to work out there. He supplied Bieber with vitamins and protein powders to help his training programme and sold him a bulletproof vest for £100. Bieber was also a regular at Rail's gym in Leeds where, the manager said, he used to go two or three times a week, paying £3 a session. Imderjit Rail said he was shocked when Bieber approached him and asked if he knew anyone who would sell him a gun. Little did they realise that Bieber, jailed for life yesterday for murdering PC Ian Broadhurst, had been on the run since 1996 from the police in Florida, where he was wanted on charges of murder and attempted murder after he ordered a hit on a love rival and he shot a former girlfriend. A large quantity of Nubain, an opiate which allows athletes to over-train, was discovered by police at Bieber's flat in Leeds. It is a prescription drug which is moved illegally in the bodybuilding world. Bieber had come a long way from his American roots to this world of illicit drugs and body-building. He was born on February 13, 1966, in Fort Myers, Florida, to a respectable but unremarkable middleclass family. His father, Frank, is a retired headteacher and his mother, Sandy, is a retired schoolteacher. He has a younger sister, Michelle, now married. He was apparently a happy-go-lucky teenager and a natural athlete. He lived with his parents in the palm-lined streets of Fort Myers. In July 1992, he was crowned South Eastern USA man's light-heavyweight bodybuilding champion. Mr Bieber senior said his son changed drastically because of the steroids. "That was the beginning of the end," he said. "He was once a nice quiet young man. Who would have thought it would turn out like this?" Bieber was wanted over the murder of Markus Müller, a German-born bodybuilder, who was shot dead in February 1995. Both men had been romantically involved with Danielle Labelle, from Bonita Springs, Florida. She married Bieber a week before Müller was murdered, but left him to be with his rival. Police in the US believe the two men were also bitter enemies in the lucrative steroid trafficking business. Bieber is suspected of hiring John Saladino, 31, to find someone to shoot his rival for $1,000 (about £520). The gunman, David Snipes, is serving a life sentence for first degree murder in the US and Saladino admitted second degree murder and was jailed for 15 years. The supreme court of Florida heard that Danielle Bieber found her lover's body and told police her husband, David, "could have done this". His former girlfriend, Michelle Stanforth, sought a restraining order, claiming he attacked her and had told her: "You'll be sorry." She was shot outside her home in August 1995, but survived. It was a world away from Bieber the talented swimmer who set a Florida state record in the 100-yard breaststroke at the age of 13. Two universities scouted him for their American football teams but his college career never took off after he left Fort Myers high school 20 years ago. He joined the US marines, where he lasted just over a year before he was dishonourably discharged for punching an instructor. He said boot camp in South Carolina did not suit him. "We got to march round like a bunch of idiots and we were yelled at a lot," he said. He gained a sharp shooter qualification, but was at pains to play down his connections with guns, having previously owned a Magnum and an AKS assault rifle in the US. The first sign of trouble came in 1990 when two women sought restraining orders against him - Virginia Boies and her two daughters lodged a complaint that Bieber had beaten them. The lawsuit was dropped after 12 days. His former girlfriend, Michelle Stanforth, also sought a similar court order. Bieber disappeared from his home in Florida after arrest warrants were issued over the two shootings. Although Bieber's name was on a Florida department of law enforcement website, it was not picked up by immigration in the UK when he arrived on a tourist visa with a bogus identity. He met a British woman - Denise Horsley - a divorced mother of two young sons. They married at Kendal register office 17 days before his visa expired. At the time of the marriage, unbeknown to Ms Horsley, he was still married to Danielle Bieber in Florida. The couple had been known as Mr and Mrs Hulk because of their muscular stature. Bieber began work as a doorman at various nightclubs in Kirklees and Selby. Throughout his brief marriage to Ms Horsley he lived out of a suitcase and never bothered to unpack. His behaviour made her suspicious, as he had insisted no photographs be taken at their wedding and he kept many of his belongings in a locked case. She eventually prised it open and found a false ID card, birth certificate, several syringes and a brown substance she believed to be drugs. There was also a large bundle of US dollars. She asked her brother to check out his name on the internet, but it drew a blank as he had been using the name of Coleman. During the police hunt for PC Broadhurst's killer, Bieber's British former wife recognised his voice. She and her third husband were taken to a safe house. The police hunt led to a lockup in Leeds where a bullet-making press and hundreds of rounds of ammunition were found. Five days after the shooting, after several sightings and one false alarm when York station was closed for several hours, armed officers caught up with him at a £29.50 a night hotel 90 miles away in Gateshead. He was naked and asleep. Bieber had checked into the hotel using a false name and address. His odd behaviour and strange appearance - he had died his hair orange and was wearing ill-fitting glasses and a black woolly hat - immediately aroused suspicion among staff at the hotel. The murder weapon was hidden beneath the mattress of his single bed. The gun was ready to fire and had his DNA on the trigger. Among the items removed from the room were £6,006.14 in cash and a birth certificate in the name of Nathan Coleman. Despite the weight of the evidence against him, Bieber maintained it was a case of mistaken identity. He claimed the shootings were carried out by a mystery friend known as Mr X whom he repeatedly refused to name. The description of the gunman had varied wildly - that he was Greek, Asian or of Turkish appearance. Rather conveniently, Bieber claimed one of the few differences between him and Mr X was that he was as pale as a ghost while his friend was tanned. Had he been found not guilty, Bieber could have been deported to the US where he would inevitably have faced the death penalty.Edited transcript of the shootingRoper Do you wanna, er.. put cuffs on him? Broadhurst Up to you, d'ya wanna? Roper Yeah, double safety, mate  [Sound of car door opening, loud whistling] Roper Stop. Hold there, mate, just stop there. Bieber Right Roper Cos we're transporting you, we're having to put handcuffs on you, all right? Bieber No [pause] I got... Roper Claustrophobic Bieber Yeah Roper Well, I'm sorry you can't sit behind us when we're ... er ... [Sound of handcuff ratchet] Bieber Mate, lis ... lis... listen don't, don't Roper He's got a gun  [Gunshot 1, loud screaming. Shots 2, 3 and 4. More screaming] Broadhurst No don't, don't [pause] please, please no.  [Shot 5]