The idea of a close family member of a murder victim standing up in court to describe the impact of the death on the rest of the family carries an unpleasant savour of mob justice and vigilantism, as some lawyers argued in TV studios yesterday when they objected to the government's latest proposals. But this new attempt to put victims nearer to the heart of the justice system changes much less than meets the eye and could answer a strongly felt need.In theory, a murder trial is conducted by the state against an individual, in the interests of all society and in accordance with long-established principles of justice and punishment. But in practical terms, justice is not administered in entirely abstract and impersonal terms. It is often tempered by the circumstances of the crime and, after conviction, by a plea of mitigation from the defendant. For the past two years, the impact of the death on the victim's family has also been a potential factor in the judge's sentence, if the family has submitted a written victim's personal statement.It remains the case, however, that the only non-participants in a murder trial are the bereaved. They sit, invisible to the court, however much the character and record of their dead child, partner or parent is traduced in their eyes and the eyes of the world. Among the many complaints about the criminal justice system, the victims' sense that they have not had their day in court is commonly heard. Giving families of the victim a right - although not an obligation - to make an oral statement to the court after a guilty verdict that might be one influence on the judge's sentencing decision could do something to change this perception.This government often seems no friend of the judiciary and there are those who see this as another barb, a way of making judges look distant and out of touch with the real world. Others point to the mass of reforms already stacked up in the system, such as contracts between victims and the Crown Prosecution Service, and a code of practice ensuring a better understanding of what can reasonably be expected from the system. During consultation and piloting of this latest proposal, the anxiety that in the excitement of new initiatives, implementation is overlooked must be allayed. There must also be clarity, for both the court and the victims' families, about the proper weight to be given to the statement, and it must be emphasised that it is entirely optional. Every murder is a crime that diminishes us all, regardless of the standing of the victim or the eloquence of the bereaved.