Anne Darwin, the woman whose husband staged his own death in a canoe accident, broke down today as she told a court she had not wanted a £250,000 insurance payout but had lied to her sons because she felt trapped.Darwin, 56, a former doctor's receptionist, has denied deception and money laundering, claiming that her husband forced her to act against her will and was present when each offence was committed.The prosecution told Teesside Crown court today that Darwin's explanation was a "last ditch attempt" by a woman who keeps "lying and lying and lying".She was accused of being an accomplished liar who came to enjoy the deception, even embellishing her story by throwing flowers into the sea on the anniversary of John Darwin's disappearance. Andrew Robertson QC, prosecuting, asked Darwin how she had been able to deceive her sons Mark, 32, and Anthony, 29."There can only be one explanation for it: is it that you wanted the money?" he asked. She replied: "I didn't want the money. Money was not important to me."Darwin from Seaton Carew, near Hartlepool, told her sons that their father, John Darwin, had died at sea in a canoeing accident outside the couple's seafront home in 2002. During cross examination today, Robertson asked her: "When you saw what you were saying to your own sons, why didn't you, their mother, take them to one side and say, 'I cannot bear seeing you like this, the truth is that he is not dead. We are in dire financial circumstances and he's had this mad idea to try to claim some money from the insurance companies?' Why didn't you bring their pain to an end?""Because I felt trapped," Darwin replied.There were frank exchanges between the prosecution and the defendant when she was told she could have easily ended her son's torment. Asked why she hugged Mark and said, "I think I have lost him," the day after her husband's fake death, she replied: "I was doing what I thought I should do." Robertson said: "And doing it well." She replied: "I was feeling their pain." Robertson butted in: "Feeling their pain? You, their mother, could have brought it to an end like that. "Can't you speak to your children - 'your dad has gone off the rails for goodness sake, we have to sort it out'." She replied: "It's not as easy as that. We couldn't lay our problems on their shoulders."Darwin went on to say that she thought the pretence would only have to last a few months before their finances would be sorted out and she could come clean to the children. "I thought when it was explained to them they would understand," she said.Darwin said her "overbearing husband" would force her to do things that she didn't want to do.Robertson asked her: "If John had said to you to, 'Anne, I want you to go and jump off a cliff', you would, because John told you to, even if you didn't want to because he had overborne your will?"She replied: "I think that's a very unfair comparison. You were not there to see how I lived."Darwin was asked whether bankruptcy had been a "horrific prospect". She said: "All I wanted to do was keep the family together."The prosecutor said: "To you, the choice was this: either engage in the criminal enterprise with John or go bankrupt. That is the decision to make."She replied: "No. I wanted John to go bankrupt. It was my suggestion. He wouldn't."She was asked why she did not refuse to pick her husband up from the beach at North Gare on the day he disappeared on March 21 2002.She replied: "I was frightened he might leave me."Robertson said: "I'm asking you what it was that was hanging over you to force you to take this action. Was the prospect of him coming home and speaking to you in an intimidating way, the prospect of that so terrible that you had to go through with this fraud?"Darwin replied: "If I didn't pick him up I didn't know what would happen. I was frightened he might walk out on me as I couldn't live on my own."The prosecutor said: "When you put it in those words it shows how pathetic your explanation is.""It may seem pathetic to you," she replied.In later evidence she said she "could not even open a tin without him".She was asked why she repeatedly changed her story while being interviewed by the police. "You push everything to the wire don't you? Stick to the original line, when that's proven to be a lie change tack, when that's proven to be a lie change tack again, and when that's proven to be a lie more lies. "This is the last wire, Mrs Darwin, and you are prepared to fight this case because this is your last hope of getting away with it all."Robertson asked Darwin if conversations she had had in prison by telephone with her husband on their wedding anniversary on December 22 last year had made her change her story. The prosecutor said: "It was decided between the two of you that he would take the major blame and you would see if you could get out of this mess?" Darwin replied: "No." Raising his voice, at one point, Robertson asked Darwin: "It is your opportunity now Mrs Darwin, everybody wants to know, what's the real reason John Darwin after five-and-a-half years came back to the UK? What is the truth?" She replied: "To be reunited with Mark and Anthony and pay back the money."The trial continues.