The motor industry believes it is winning the war against car crime, with figures showing that last year 107,000 vehicles were stolen, compared with an annual 600,000 that were stolen 20 years ago.The thief with a coathanger, screwdriver or "slim jim" is a thing of the past, thanks to improved security features. But fitting immobilisers, compulsory on new cars since 1997, has led to an increase in house burglaries solely to get car keys, say police. And the modern thief is more likely to be equipped with a laptop, as professionals turn to technology to outwit manufacturers.The reduction was "due to the incredible improvements to a raft of security systems including alarms, locks, immobilisers, toughened glass and tracking devices", said Andrew Miller, director of research at the motor insurance repair research centre in Thatcham, Berkshire.Innovations mean opportunists need the keys to start car engines (though more determined criminals can get round this), and "hotwiring" is no longer possible except on much older models.One-fifth of cars stolen last year – 20,000 – had keys taken in burglaries, according to police figures. "It is worrying, because, unlike most burglaries when you need people to be out, for this you need people to be in, because obviously, you want the car," said Det Chief Insp Mark Hooper, at the Association of Chief Police Officers Vehicle Crime Intelligence Service, or Avcis. Burglars are now "more brazen". Where once a fishing rod through the letter box was common, "they'll now walk into the back of the house while you're watching telly," he said.Criminologists point to the drop in joyriding, he said. "You can't simply joyride a car now by touching wires together, and they attribute about 65% of the reduction to the fact joyriding has been boshed," added Hooper.But there are ways round security. Keys can be copied, cars can be towed or put on trailers and engine control units can be bypassed. "Reverse engineering" uses a laptop to reprogramme car processes. High-value cars, particularly at airport carparks, are vulnerable.Another such trick is electronic manipulation of passive or smart keys that open the car from a distance. A study at Zurich University found such keys inside a house within 9 metres of the front door could be abused."It's fast-time stuff. Within eight hours the cars will be in a container, within 24 to 72 hours on a boat. Gone. And they'll earn a lot of money for someone in Karachi, or Tanzania, or Durban. They're turning up all over the world, and someone is making a lot of money," said Hooper.But everyday vehicles remain most at risk, according to Avcis. Statistics show the builder's favourite load lugger, the Ford Transit van, was top of the list in the first quarter of this year. It is irresistible because there are so many, its spares are worth a lot on the black market, and there is the potential lure of tools in the back.Second is the Vauxhall Astra, third the Ford Fiesta; followed by the Volkswagen Golf, Vauxhall Corsa, BMW 3 Series, and Ford Focus. Another van, the Mercedes Sprinter, is eighth, while the Ford Mondeo and Honda Civic round up the top 10.Paul Everitt, chief executive of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, said the industry had to continue to outwit criminals. Linking technologies within the car to communication technologies outside was the way forward."There are crash avoidance systems, stability control systems, as well as satnav GPS systems; that kind of technology could potentially be linked to the owner's mobile, to the police, but also to other vehicles and other infrastructure which would allow things like automatic number plate recognition."If we can find a way to link them together, it will allow us to make it much more difficult for vehicles to be removed, and to be removed from the country."