Since 1997, Labour ministers have created more than 600 new criminal offences - and still counting. To judge by the prime minister's July announcements on law and order, it now seems that the well from which all these new laws have been drawn is far from dry. With crime prospectively at the centre of the general election, ministers are busy honing yet more offences, on everything from the preparation of terrorism to putting out your rubbish bags on the street on the wrong day. If they win a third term, there is a chance that by 2009 Labour will created its very own thousand-law Reich.Yet the government is defiantly untroubled by charges of legislative incontinence. It appears, indeed, to welcome them. To the triangulation strategists planning Tony Blair's election campaign, it is axiomatic that the public can never have enough crack-downs. If liberals protest, New Labour's warped worldview tells them, then so much the better. The 2005 election, we can already see, will be an old-fashioned tough-guy bidding war.Labour's promises of new legislation are invariably voiced in the name of the victim. If challenged that their punishments are disproportionate to the crime or may be counter-productive, the reflex ministerial response is populist. Go and ask what the people who live on the estates in my constituency think, they respond. Then you will see. The crude version of this response is that Labour believes it cannot fight what its core voters read in the tabloids. A more highminded and honourable version is to insist that "our people" are on the sharp end, and that putting the victim at the centre of the strategy is fundamental to ending the social exclusion that blights lives and communities. There is, though, a problem about this. Though justified to the public in the name of the average decent and deserving person, these policies are increasingly causing unexpected and unintended problems for exactly these same decent and deserving people. And if you seek a spectacular example of this failure of what used to be called joined-up government, you need look no further than a little-noticed select committee report published less than a month ago. Civil legal aid is not one of those social policy issues that makes many hearts beat faster. But access to justice is a pretty fundamental fairness issue. If one side in a dispute can afford legal advice and representation, while the other one cannot, then the scales are tipped in one direction. If neither side in a dispute can get advice and representation when both require it, then the scales may not be so uneven, but the denial of justice is even worse. Such an understanding stands at the core of July's report on the civil legal aid system by the constitutional affairs select committee, chaired by Alan Beith MP. It also stood at the core of the Attlee government's thinking on the subject when the modern legal aid system first took shape more than half a century ago. Financial eligibility for legal aid was originally set at a level where around 80% of all households were eligible for either free advice or for advice for which they paid a means-tested contribution. By 2001, however, the proportion had shrunk to under 47%. The decline in eligibility, though, was only one dimension of the deepening problem. Britain has also become a very different kind of country compared with 1979. A long era of possessive individualism, especially in housing, the replacement of collective by individual rights, not least in employment law, the rapid increase in divorce, and the spread of both a rights culture - notably in discrimination law - and a financial compensation culture have all made substantial contributions to the widening of both the opportunity and need for legal advice and representation. But who can adequately provide such advice and representation today? The legal profession has expanded rapidly; there were 50% more solicitors in England and Wales in 2002 compared with 1992. But this growth only theoretically benefits the poorer client. Lawyers become lawyers to make a living, and the accelerating squeeze on legal aid funding means that fewer and fewer lawyers can afford to do legal aid work. This situation is likely to worsen as new entrants to the legal profession arrive carrying higher levels of personal debt in the form of increased tuition fees. Already there is talk of "advice deserts" in some parts of the country. This has happened against a political and economic background in which, as the apostate Blairites Neal Lawson and Paul Thompson put it in these pages yesterday, the country is "saddled with a historically low level of taxation to spend on public services and to redistribute". This is also the key problem facing civil legal aid, which, capped since 1999, accounts for an ever-declining share of the public funds now available for all forms of legal aid and assistance.  This is where the growing negative impact of the 600 new offences comes in. Overall, the government currently spends around £1.9bn on all forms of legal aid - a sum that accounts for nearly two-thirds of the Department for Constitutional Affairs annual budget. The increasing bulk of this money, however, now goes on criminal not civil legal aid. To hear ministers talk, and to read the headlines that their comments provoke, this expansion is wholly attributable to abuse of the system. The less newsworthy reason is simply this: the government is obsessively changing and expanding the criminal law and the asylum system, with the result that the call on public funds from such cases is gobbling up an ever-larger share of a total that the Treasury has already capped and would clearly like to cut. The upshot, as the select committee says, is that civil legal aid has become the Cinderella not merely of the public funded legal service, but of the government's strategy for addressing poverty and exclusion more generally. This is sharp end stuff for "our people", too. It may not generate the headlines that being a victim of crime can, but to be denied access to advice and justice - in a divorce, a housing complaint, or any other category of dispute - is to be just as much a victim, too. It is hard to know which senior minister to blame most: the prime minister, who having long ago pioneered the individual rights approach to employment law now shows no interest in allowing individuals to pursue them; the chancellor, who treats state funding for lawyers as money wasted on a privileged and inefficient service that could be better spent on more popular causes; or the home secretary, whose burdening of the statute book with more poorly conceived and drafted laws makes things worse each year. What is clear, however, is that ever fewer of the people who need it most are now in the position to get the advice and representation they need to make a reality of their nominal rights. They too are victims of a system which supposedly puts victims first. Whatever else this may be, it is not social justice.martin.kettle@theguardian.com