The grandmother of a woman accused of killing her three babies yesterday told a court how she had lost five children in early infancy.Surajben Patel, 80, was flown to Britain from a village in Gujarat to give evidence at the trial of her granddaughter, Trupti Patel, who denies murdering her two sons, Amar and Jamie, and daughter Mia. Speaking through an interpreter, the grandmother told Reading crown court that she could not explain why five of her 12 children had died within weeks of being born. Mrs Patel said that premature birth had been the cause of the first child's death. After that, her six-day-old baby boy died. She said the infant boy had not been ill and she had no idea why he died. The third child to die, a baby girl, died just 15 days after birth. She had red boils on her body, but Mrs Patel said she did not know why her baby died. Mrs Patel said there was no hospital in her village, nor any doctors. The nearest hospital was a day's train ride away in Bombay. She said that none of the deaths had been investigated and she could not explain why the infants had died. "This is something that God takes care of. We leave it to God," she said. She added that her remaining seven children, including Trupti's mother, were all alive and well. The trial then heard evidence from a child bereavement counsellor, Jenny Thomas, who helped Trupti Patel and her husband, Jayant, after the deaths of their children. Ms Thomas said she had never once had any suspicion that Mrs Patel had harmed her children or played a part in their deaths. "All the time that I have known the Patel family I never once got even the vaguest feeling or suspicion of anything," said Ms Thomas. "I found Mrs Patel to be a really loving mother, a very good mum, and her interaction with her babies was absolutely what I would expect. "I knew that [child abuse] was a possibility, I knew that it could happen, but it was never something that I had any suspicion about." Ms Thomas broke down in the witness box as she recalled the interaction between Mrs Patel and her daughter, Mia. Wiping away tears, Ms Thomas said: "She [Trupti] was very, very proud of her [Mia]. She was a very little and very feminine girl and Mrs Patel said 'did I want a cuddle?' so I washed my hands and I held her." Ms Thomas said that when the Patels came to visit her after Mia died they were "very, very distressed" that they had lost a third child. "They were completely devastated," she said. "They could not really even speak, they just sobbed." The trial continues.