Three men were today beginning life sentences for the "utterly evil" murder of a couple who were shot at their seaside bungalow.John Russell, Michael McNee and a 39-year-old, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were yesterday convicted of conspiracy to murder Joan and John Stirland at their home in Trusthorpe, Lincolnshire.The unnamed defendant - described as the gang leader who organised the killings - was told he would serve at least 35 years.His co-defendant Russell, 29, of Northcote Way, Nottingham, was sentenced to a minimum of 30 years. McNee, a 21-year-old of no fixed address, was given a minimum sentence of 25 years.Sentencing the men at Birmingham crown court, Mr Justice Treacy said there were no mitigating features to the case. "These were shocking murders by any standards," he said. "They were nothing less than executions of totally innocent people. "The Stirlands were killed in their own home for no reason other than that one of the victims was the mother of somebody you wanted to take revenge on."You could not get to that person directly, so you carefully planned these murders to get at him by proxy. You also wanted to make a gesture to confirm your own perceived criminal status in areas of Nottingham."During the three-month trial, the court heard that the catalyst for the murders was a shooting carried out by Michael O'Brien, Mrs Stirland's son by a previous marriage. O'Brien had argued with an 18-year-old man at a pub in the Bulwell area of Nottingham in August 2003.As the 18-year-old, who cannot be named, drove away from the pub, O'Brien aimed a gun at him and opened fire. He missed the teenager but killed his best friend, Marvyn Bradshaw.The teenager who had been with Mr Bradshaw struggled to come to terms with the shooting. He became depressed, turned to drugs and died of pneumonia soon after O'Brien was convicted.The gang leader, who was described by his defence counsel as a "notorious" criminal, enlisted Russell and McNee to help organise the killings out of a "perverted desire for revenge", the court heard.Mr Justice Treacy described the man - who was sent to the cells before sentencing after he began hurling abuse - as "a crook, a villain and a large-scale drug dealer". He said what he had done was "utterly evil".Addressing Russell and McNee in turn, the judge said each had played a crucial role in the murders. "You may not have pulled the triggers but your actions enabled that to be done in a direct way," he told Russell.The judge told McNee that although his role was the same as Russell's, his sentence was lower because of his age. "You were just 19 at the time of the murder," he said. "You were a vital member of the conspiracy, fully in the know and giving vital help right to the point of the shooting." Following sentencing, Mr Justice Treacy asked retired Detective Superintendent Graham White to step into the witness box. Mr White, who led the investigation before leaving Lincolnshire police, was praised for the work undertaken by his team."This was a murder which shocked the nation," the judge said. "You were faced with a vacuum of evidence at the start of the inquiry. By pursuing a painstaking and detailed inquiry, you have brought some of those responsible to justice."He said it was "plain from the evidence in this case there were others involved who have yet to be brought to justice" and told the court he hoped the case file would remain open. Mr Stirland, 55, and his 51-year-old wife were killed on August 8 2004, days after the death of the teenager who had witnessed the shooting carried out by O'Brien and eight months after they had fled Nottingham following an attack on their home in the Midlands city.A further five defendants, all from Nottingham, were yesterday cleared of conspiracy to murder following the three-month trial.