Police investigating an arson attack that killed three children and their mother's partner are questioning a male friend of a teenage girl who was one of the dead.Detectives are talking to the 31-year-old about the blaze last Thursday night in which 16-year-old Samantha Carter, her sister Patricia, 10, their seven-year-old brother Marcus and Roderick Hine, 44, the partner of their mother Amanda, died. An explosion ignited the fire which engulfed their semi-detached house in Cheddleton, north Staffordshire. Witnesses saw a man running away from the scene just after the blast.The children's mother was out working as a night care assistant at a nursing home. Local media reports described the man as someone known to Samantha. Police believe his relationship with her and the rest of the family represents a crucial line of inquiry.Magistrates yesterday granted the police a 36-hour extension to go on questioning the man until 11.30 tonight. He was arrested at his home in nearby Leek on Friday morning.Officers refused to reveal what caused the explosion, saying only that the fire had been started deliberately. The police appealed for help from members of the public who may have taken photographs, video footage or mobile phone images at the scene.A specialist demolition crew using a crane yesterday began the painstaking task of removing both an exposed side wall of the shell of the house and the roof to make the shattered property safe for forensic officers to search for clues. Detective Chief Inspector Dave Garrett said: 'Work is expected to continue at the scene throughout the weekend and probably into next week.' A Home Office pathologist, Dr Eddie Tapp, has carried out post mortem examinations.A 12-year-old schoolfriend of Patricia, who was laying flowers at the house, said: 'She was full of life, a very happy person.' Heather Johnson, a local resident, said: 'Rod was a wonderful person. Everyone in Cheddleton is devastated. They were the perfect family.'Relatives released photographs of the victims yesterday with a poignant statement saying they were 'shocked and totally devastated ... Manda, Roddy and the children were a very close, loving family.' Amanda Carter is being comforted by relatives, as is the children's father, Mark, who lives near her.· A five-year-old girl whose home in Birmingham was set on fire by two intruders died in hospital last night. West Midlands Police said her death was being treated as murder. The child's mother and four other children were taken to hospital after the blaze in the Perry Barr area late on Friday.