"Disturbingly high" numbers of prisoners are left locked in their cells in overcrowded jails when they could be doing useful work instead, a report by an influential committee of MPs said today.In a highly critical report on prison rehabilitation programmes in England and Wales, the MPs called for a "radical transformation" of jail regimes to ensure inmates are prepared for life after release. Prisoners should do real work on a nine-to-five basis, and much greater use should be made of day-release schemes and opportunities for education and training, said the House of Commons Home Affairs Committee. The committee said effective rehabilitation would pay off by cutting the rate of reoffending, which currently sees almost 60% of inmates reconvicted within two years of release. The MPs recommended pilot schemes to assess whether prisoners could be paid a full market rate for their work in jail workshops in order to help foster the work ethic. It was "indefensible" that the Prison Service could not find enough work or purposeful activity for prisoners, they said, criticising the government for giving "low priority" to work schemes in jail. More than 1,000 prisoners completed diaries detailing their experience of life behind bars as part of the committee's year-long inquiry. According to the report, the diaries showed that "disturbingly high proportions of prisoners are engaged in little or no purposeful activity. The consequences are too many hours 'banged up' in their cells with harmful impacts on their mental and physical health." Overcrowding was having a "hugely damaging impact" on rehabilitation, and the Home Office's prediction that the prison population would stabilise at 80,000 by the end of the decade was questionable. The committee's chairman, former home office minister John Denham, commented: "Currently nearly three in five prisoners are reconvicted within two years of leaving prison. Prison overcrowding makes it difficult to reduce reoffending through rehabilitation, but not impossible. Overcrowding is certainly not an excuse for poor management. "There needs to be a far greater emphasis within prisons on 'real life' work if we are to stem reoffending. "For many prisoners, experience of a normal working day will be a new experience. However, our inquiry has shown that this is vital if we are to try and prepare offenders for life after prison. Ex-prisoners with stable jobs and lifestyles are far less likely to reoffend." Anticipating potential objections that prison life should be tough, Mr Denham insisted: "Education, training, work and day release are not soft options. "This is about recognising what works, about fostering a work ethic and giving prisoners responsibility for their own future after they are released." The report called for private firms and local communities to be involved in providing work and training opportunities for inmates prior to their release. The MPs noted that the prison service had repeatedly missed its target to provide 24 hours a week of purposeful activity for each prisoner. The Home Office's decision to drop the target may have been motivated by the desire to avoid embarrassment at its continued failure to meet it, they said. Provision of constructive activity for younger inmates aged 18 to 21 was "woefully inadequate". "We recommend that the prison regime should be reconstructed to support prisoners working a conventional 9am-to-5pm working day in education, vocational training or work programmes," said the report. "This would foster the work ethic and encourage prisoners to obtain qualifications and marketable skills. "We also recommend that the Prison Service should run a small number of pilot schemes to assess the impact of paying prisoners market rates for their work, with appropriate deductions to cover the cost of accommodation, food, child support and - as a requirement - reparation for victims. "There should be much greater use of day-release schemes ... to enable prisoners to experience work in the community prior to their release and demonstrate their abilities and trustworthiness to employers." The committee also called for mandatory drug tests and educational assessments when prisoners enter jail, along with a personal record of achievement for each inmate to ensure that rehabilitative work is continued when they move to a different prison. It urged the government to cut the number of women in prison, the vast majority of whom, it said, posed no danger to the public. Except in the most serious cases, all women prisoners should be entitled to home leave, the report argued. Juliet Lyon, the director of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "The Home Affairs Committee blows the whistle on an overcrowded prison system that releases people more, not less, likely to reoffend. "The report highlights the shortcomings of a prison system that is warehousing far too many mentally ill offenders, drug addicts and people serving short sentences for minor crimes such as shoplifting, and failing miserably to address the causes of their offending. "It is vital to improve regimes by providing more opportunities for prisoners to gain employable skills but it is equally important not to turn prison into a second-rate social service. Solutions to reducing reoffending lie outside the prison gate, with properly resourced mental health, drug and alcohol treatment, education and training programmes, social housing and financial support services." The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "The government has had seven years to deal with the problem of overcrowding. Instead, they have ignored prison population projections and not built enough prisons, ultimately putting the public at risk by releasing those who have not undergone proper rehabilitation. "The prison system is a complete shambles and the committee's report is a damning indictment of the Home Office." His colleague Cheryl Gillan added: "It has been 12 months since the government announced the establishment of the national offender management system, but all they have done is increased bureaucracy. There has been no change on the ground, and there is unlikely to be for some time yet."