A senior ship's officer has been arrested on suspicion of the manslaughter of three friends whose yacht is thought to have been destroyed in a collision with a large vessel in the English Channel.The man was working on the bridge of the giant P&O ferry the Pride of Bilbao when the yacht, the Ouzo, was apparently involved in a catastrophic accident.He was arrested on Wednesday morning by detectives from Hampshire police's major crime department and questioned all day before being released on bail.Detective Inspector Nigel Niven of Hampshire police, who is leading the police inquiry, said yesterday they were keeping an open mind but were focusing attention on the Pride of Bilbao.Rupert Saunders, James Meaby and Jason Downer died when their yacht sank last month after they left the Isle of Wight for Dartmouth, in south Devon, where they were to take part in a regatta. They did not have time to send out a distress call, prompting the theory that the boat was run down by a much larger vessel.Officers have already examined the hull of the 37,500-tonne ferry, which sails between Portsmouth and Bilbao, and spoken informally to senior crew members.The man who was arrested is a 61-year-old from Dover, in Kent. He had worked for P&O for 20 years before leaving for an agency but continued to work on P&O vessels. A spokesman for P&O, Natalie Hardy, said: "I can confirm that he was the second officer aboard the ship. He was working in this role on board the Pride of Bilbao at the time that the Ouzo is believed to have sunk."He was a very experienced sailor who had worked full-time for P&O for 20 years before moving to agency work. We are fully cooperating with the police and their inquiries."A second officer in the merchant navy is subordinate to the master [the captain] and the chief officer. His duties include acting as an officer of the watch. While the master is in overall charge of the safety of the vessel, the officer is responsible for its safe passage during his period of watch.The second officer who was arrested would have been nearing the end of his career. The usual retirement age in the industry is 61. But there is a shortage of experienced ship's officers.It is known that the Pride of Bilbao was passing the Isle of Wight at around the same time that the Ouzo is thought to have been sunk on August 20.Detectives boarded the vessel after it docked in Portsmouth on August 29 to examine paperwork and other data. At that time they said that "something of interest" had been found on the ship's voyage data recorder - its black box. But officers also said they would be contacting dozens of other large vessels known to have been in the area at the time.The first indication of the tragedy was when the body of Mr Meaby, 36, was found floating 10 miles south of the Isle of Wight. The bodies of the skipper, Mr Saunders, 36, and Mr Downer, 35, were also found after an air and sea search. Mr Saunders and Mr Downer had drowned, while Mr Meaby died from hypothermia and drowning.Some industry sources said yesterday it would be hard to prove that an experienced sailor was guilty of manslaughter through gross negligence.