A senior member of the commission for racial equality is preparing to sue Lancashire police for assault after he was hit by riot officers when he went to calm racial tension in Burnley.Shahid Malik, 33, a commissioner for the CRE, said he momentarily lost consciousness and required stitches to the head after an officer in riot gear hit him in the face with a shield and three others hit him. He had gone to tell Asian youths on the streets to go home to prevent a fourth evening of skirmishes between Asians and whites. Mr Malik, the only ethnic minority member of Labour's national executive council, is the son of Burnley's deputy mayor and a high profile local community leader who had worked with police over previous nights to ease racial tension. Mr Malik alleged he was assaulted just after 7pm on Monday when around 70 Asians had gathered on the streets of Stoneyholme, an integrated neighbourhood with a high concentration of Asian residents. He said many people were sitting peacefully on the grass. Mr Malik said: "It was not a riot. I think one missile was thrown at the police. I was playing what I thought was an important role by telling Asian youths: 'The police are not the target here.' Within three minutes of saying that, I was unconscious on the floor. "I had turned my back to the police, who were about 100 yards away in full combat gear. I turned around and they had advanced considerably. I put my hands up, saying 'There is no trouble here.' Within seconds, one of the officers had lifted his riot shield, turned it 90 degrees and smashed it into my face. I was hit two or three more times by the same officer and three or four other officers and was unconscious for two or three seconds. When I came round, I heard an officer saying: 'Stop fucking acting and get up.' I could see in their eyes all logic had gone." Mr Malik said he was then arrested on suspicion of inciting violent disorder, but not charged. He said the incident had set back Burn ley's police race relations by months, if not years. "It was a completely unprovoked, unnecessary assault by police officers who were ill-equipped, ill-trained and I dare say inexperienced. I hope they have the maturity to say they got it wrong this time. In this case they have made the biggest botch in history." He said he would write to the chief constable for an official apology but would take legal action, as an apology alone was insufficient. Paul Stephenson, deputy chief constable of Lancashire police, said the force yesterday appointed a senior officer and a police complaints authority officer to investigate the incident, even though no official complaint had been received. Mr Stephenson said that on Monday night police officers in Abel Street, the site of previous rioting, had come under "sustained attack" from youths and were therefore replaced by officers wearing riot gear. "At this point the confrontation took place between the officers and Mr Malik. What are the rights and wrongs of this situation? There is video evidence and there is evidence we have. It would be quite wrong for me to sit there and listen to the allegations made in the media and not respond. This is why I have launched an investigation. We have to wait for the outcome of that investigation." He said the use of riot shields was justified if the officer was in fear of his or her safety. "The response has to be proportionately justified." Rafique Malik, the deputy mayor of Burnley, witnessed the alleged assault on his son. He said: "I couldn't believe what I saw. I saw the police officers hitting him when he was on the ground. I have always believed that we should support the police. That aspect of my job will become terribly hard now. How on earth can I say to any young person that their complaints against the police are wrong? They will say: 'Look what happened to your son.'"Privately, of course the police are extremely embarrassed about what happened. This was just a few officers and my good relationship with the police will remain the same." John Knowles, chief superintendent in Lancashire police, said the high visibility of 200 special officers had prevented a repeat of the weekend's big disturbances. On Monday night pubs were closed and shops were boarded up by 6pm to prevent violence. In the early hours yesterday an Asian takeaway was petrol-bombed in Hapton, a village outside Burnley. Elsewhere there was a skip fire and a scrapyard fire and police confiscated knives and clubs, but generally the atmosphere was calm. At least 22 people were arrested in connection with charges including incitement to racial hatred and criminal damage. Police said the trouble was the result of "elements of racism, elements of criminality, thuggery, and issues of deprivation."