Victim support groups today called for clarification of the law after a burglar shot during a raid on a farmhouse was jailed for seven years while the farmer who fired at him was backed by a judge.Derby Crown Court heard how John Rae, 22, had targeted 73-year-old Kenneth Faulkner's isolated home three times last year before the pensioner hit back. Mr Faulkner's treatment contrasted with the prosecution of Tony Martin, who was jailed for the manslaughter of a burglar at his isolated Norfolk farmhouse seven years ago. Mr Martin served two-thirds of his five-year sentence for killing 16-year-old Fred Barras before being freed in July last year. His conviction provoked a tide of public sympathy and his supporters said the 58-year-old should not have been jailed for protecting his property. Today, victim support organisations called for clearer guidelines for householders on what constitutes "reasonable force" when protecting their homes against intruders. Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, backed Mr Faulkner.He said: "The law does not need changing, it just needs to be explained in layman's terms to the public about what reasonable force can they use to protect themselves, their families and their homes. "Every householder has the right to protect themselves and their property and the law says that they can use what force they believe is necessary. "The law is on the side of the householder, not the criminal." Victim Support spokesman Andrew Buckingham said: "We would not condone people taking the law into their own hands. "The law says you are allowed to use reasonable force, but the Home Office itself says there is a lot of confusion about what is reasonable force. "As a law-abiding organisation, we believe that home-owners should follow the letter of the law but the home is the one place you expect to feel safe. "When there is confusion to what reasonable force is, coupled with residents' anger at being targeted, it makes for a very complex set of circumstances." Describing Rae as "an absolute menace", Judge Andrew Hamilton said Mr Faulkner "could not be criticised" for defending his home at Ockbrook, Derbyshire. Rae, of Stanton by Dale, suffered a pellet wound to the leg when he was shot while returning to steal from the property for the third time. Mr Faulkner was originally questioned by police but the Crown Prosecution Service later ruled no charges should be brought against him after deciding he had been acting "in legitimate defence" of his property. A spokeswoman for Derby Crown Prosecution Service said: "The decision was not taken lightly, only after a thorough review of all the available evidence and careful consideration of the specific circumstances of this case. "I would suggest that our decision was reached only after taking into account the particular circumstances of this incident. "It does not mean that anyone using violence against an intruder is above the law and would not face prosecution." Derby Crown Court heard yesterday how Rae had taken an array of weapons and a mechanical digger from the farm. During the first raid, in July 2003, he and two other men broke into a gun cabinet and took five shotguns, a longbow, arrows, a crossbow and bolts. Rae alone then returned early in August, when he took a mechanical digger from Mr Faulkner's garage. He returned the next day but this time his victim was armed. Mr Faulkner fired at the intruder in a bid to frighten him away, the court heard - but ended up shooting him in the leg. Rae admitted three offences of burglary and one of burglary with intent at the farm as a result of his three raids. Passing sentence, Judge Hamilton said Mr Faulkner had lost his wife, was 73 years old and had been burgled twice before. It was "very sensible", he said, for the pensioner to take out a shotgun when he heard an intruder in his home. "For him, it has been a most harassing and terrible incident," he said.