The judge who granted anonymity to the killers of the murdered two-year-old, James Bulger, warned last night that Jon Venables could be murdered if his new identity is revealed.Baroness Butler-Sloss defended the need for secrecy, echoing the position of justice secretary, Jack Straw, who was supported by MPs from all parties for his refusal to bow to tabloid media demands for the immediate disclosure of the reasons for Venables's recall to prison.  James Bulger. Photograph: PAThe crossbench peer and former president of the high court's family division, who granted Venables anonymity on his release from prison, stressed "the enormous importance of protecting his anonymity now, and if he is [again] released, because those who wanted to kill him in 2001 are likely to be out there now".Butler-Sloss's comments in the House of Lords came hours after Denise Fergus, the mother of James Bulger, expressed some support for Straw's position, saying that she was "prepared to wait a bit longer" to find out the full details to prevent jeopardising any future court case.But the justice secretary, speaking at the Commons, did pledge a "thorough review" of Venables's probation supervision since his release in 2001, after Fergus demanded the sacking of "whoever's been protecting and looking after Venables in the nine years of his release".Venables and Robert Thompson, both aged 10 when they murdered James Bulger after abducting him from a shopping centre in Bootle in 1993, were released in 2001 after serving seven years and eight months in local authority secure units. Both were given new identities protected by an anonymity order that is still in force.Straw again tried to defuse the media campaign by explaining to MPs why he was not able to give any more details of the reasons behind Venables' recall after giving further consideration to the matter.The justice secretary did however suggest that Venables' alleged offence – which has widely been reported as linked to child abuse images – was only uncovered as a result of concerns that his new identity was no longer secure."During the week beginning the 22 February, officials in my department learned of the compromise of Venables' new identity. Subsequently information came to light that Venables may have committed a serious breach of his licence conditions."Straw said Venables was recalled to custody on the same day and has since remained in prison while a parole board hearing is pending. He said full details had not been provided because both the police and the director of public prosecutions had advised that the "premature disclosure of information could undermine the integrity of the criminal justice process, including any potential prosecution".Straw added: "It is critical that if charges do follow, it is possible to hold a fair trial – fair for the defence and fair for the prosecution."The latest round of tabloid speculation over the reasons for Venables's recall was sparked by the failure of the government's senior law officers to secure an injunction on Friday night against the Sun newspaper, which reported that his recall followed a serious sexual offence. The attorney general's office confirmed yesterday that it had been unsuccessful in securing an injunction. The implication was that the judge rejected the official claim that publication could breach his anonymity. Legal reminders were issued to the media at the weekend advising them of the terms of the original anonymity order, but this did not prevent the Sunday Mirror reporting details of the new alleged offence.Fergus, in her first broadcast interview, called for the probation staff who had monitored her son's killers to be sacked and demanded to know what offences had been committed.She accused the government of mishandling the recall. "The government just don't know how to handle this now . Because this is so big again, the government are just treating it like a football, kicking it to one another."But she did accept that it may be unsafe to immediately disclose the details."I don't want to do anything to jeopardise this at all. If he has hurt someone else or killed someone else I hope they get justice as well," she told ITV's This Morning. "I was told that if any of them breached their terms I would be informed straight away. Now I believe [that was] not the case. I'm just sick of them closing doors in my face."If these allegations that are reported in the papers are true, then this has been going on in the nine years of their release ... whoever has been looking after and protecting Venables, I'm calling for them to be sacked."In the Commons, Straw also received widespread backing with Liberal Democrat MPs saying the rule of law was more important than the demands of tabloid media competition and Tory MPs warning against "lynch mob justice" in prison.