A paedophile described by police as the UK's most prolific hoarder of pictures of child abuse has been given an indeterminate prison sentence.Daniel Taylor, 31, possessed more than 300,000 indecent images, including a large number considered the most extreme, Bradford crown court heard. Taylor used 47 devices including hard drives, phones, memory sticks and a laptop to store the pictures.Judge Rodney Grant said Taylor must serve a minimum of three years, minus time spent in custody, before he can be considered for release. He said a report described him as "opportunistic and predatory", and he posed a danger to children in the future.Taylor, of Farnley, Leeds, pleaded guilty to 27 charges, including making and possessing indecent images and sexually assaulting a baby. He also asked for three other charges to be taken into consideration.The court was told Taylor, a father of two, filmed himself sexually assaulting a victim twice. None of the charges relate to Taylor's children. During a search of his property, officers discovered a tin in the kitchen containing a covert camera disguised as a lighter which was capable of capturing and storing video images.The court was told the offences were so serious because of the amount of material involved and the horrific nature of the content, with 328 images graded at level 5 – the most extreme category of images of child sexual abuse. More than 5,000 were graded at level 4.Officers also found an instruction video for paedophiles showing them how to abuse children from birth until the age of eight. Taylor, who worked in a family business supplying and fitting gutters, encrypted his web of computers and storage devices, but police used state-of-the art technology to break his codes and access the material.Judge Grant said: "Fortunately, it is a rare occurrence that a court has to deal with a case such as this involving such a huge volume of child pornography and the sexual abuse of a very young child. The making of the video and the taking of photos of a very small child involved a breach of trust."He said Taylor posed a danger and an indeterminate sentence was his only option. He also ordered him to sign the sex offenders register for life and to comply with a sexual offences prevention order.