The disgraced glam rock star Gary Glitter today went on trial in Vietnam accused of molesting two young girls.Glitter - whose real name is Paul Gadd - faces up to seven years in prison if found guilty of committing obscene acts, including kissing and fondling, with a 10-year-old and an 11-year-old at his rented house in Vung Tau last year.The 61-year-old former musician, who served two months in jail in Britain in 1999 for having 4,000 pornographic images of children on his computer, denies the charges. He says he was teaching the girls English at his beachfront home in the southern port city when the allegations emerged last year. Glitter, wearing black trousers, a shirt and a cap, made a two-fingered victory sign and said "innocent" as he walked through a crowd of reporters and photographers into the court in Ba Ria-Vung Tau province. Court officials said the trial - which is closed to the public, including the British embassy - would last less than two days. The verdict is expected to be read publicly tomorrow.When the court adjourned for lunch, Glitter was escorted outside, where reporters shouted: "Are the girls lying?" and "Did you plead innocent?" He nodded in response to both questions. After the afternoon session concluded, police led the former glam rock star to a waiting van and returned him to prison nearby.Yesterday, Glitter's lawyer, Le Thanh Kinh, said his client maintained his innocence. "He says he has not committed any crime," he said. "I will do my best to defend him." However, he added it would be "very difficult". Glitter has been in police custody since November 19, when he was seized in Ho Chi Minh City while trying to board a flight out of the country. Police confiscated his laptop which, according to reports, had hundreds of pornographic pictures on it. During the criminal investigation, police had considered whether to charge Glitter with child rape - which carries a maximum penalty of death - but said there was insufficient evidence. The girls' families wrote to the court in December, asking that the charges be dropped altogether after Glitter paid $2,000 (£1,140) to each. However, prosecutors decided to go ahead with the case and, under Vietnam's legal system, the payments are considered "compensation" counting towards lessening any sentence. Glitter, who hit the peak of his musical success in the 70s, had hits with Leader of the Gang and Do You Wanna Touch, but is perhaps best known for his anthem Rock and Roll, which is still played at sporting events. In 1999, he served half a four-month sentence for possessing child pornography. He then went to Cambodia, but was expelled in 2002. Cambodian officials did not specify a reason for their decision.