Whose police service is it? This is an old question given a new twist by the proactive campaigning by chief constables for the 90-day detention clause in the anti-terrorism bill. Although the campaign failed, Conservative MPs have accused the government of politicising the police by putting pressure on chief constables to lobby for their clause. This raises two issues that need separating: the right of the police to lobby for more powers; and the distance which chief constables should maintain between the police and party politics.There is nothing new about the police lobbying for change. That is as old as the service. What is different is that they now do it more openly. This is both healthier and more democratic. True, even in the old days the Police Federation, which represents the lower ranks, would speak out about the need for more law and order, but the serious lobbying was done behind closed doors by chief constables. In the 1970s, thanks in part to Sir Robert Mark, the metropolitan commissioner of the day, it came into the open. Sir Robert rightly decided to end "much needless secrecy, which was more likely to provoke than allay social disquiet".But, even then, the police kept some distance from government, particularly in the field of operations. Critics accuse the police of acting at Margaret Thatcher's behest in the miners' strike, but this ignores their duty to maintain public order and the fact that Maurice Buck, chief constable of Northamptonshire, refused to comply with orders to send more officers to the Orgreave confrontation.In the last 15 years, the independence of chief constables has been constrained by more centralised controls. A stronger inspectorate along with a standards unit, an improvement agency and specific performance targets have all been applied to a service which previously had huge variations in its performance. Even Whitehall now recognises that their micro-management went too far.But the latest row does not involve a conflict between ministers and police, but an inappropriate closeness. It was proper for the police to speak up for 90-day detention. But it was wrong of the home secretary to ask the Association of Chief Police Officers to lobby MPs. That required them to do more than push for a policy by canvassing to save a government from a politically embarrassing defeat. The police should not have taken part in such an exercise. Their detachment from party politics is a precious precondition for their retention of public confidence and support.