Defendants who are charged with so many offences that they cannot all be dealt with by a single jury trial will face a second judge-only hearing under plans announced yesterday alongside reform of the domestic violence laws.Ministers confirmed yesterday that they had failed to resolve a government clash between the home secretary, David Blunkett, and the solicitor general, Harriet Harman, over whether the defence of provocation should be abolished in domestic violence and other murder cases. The Home Office minister Lady Scotland said it was still an open question as to whether the results of a short Law Commission inquiry looking at partial defences to murder, including provocation and a "Tony Martin" form of self-defence, would be available in time to be included in the bill. She made clear that simply scrapping the defence of provocation as advocated by Ms Harman could lead to more miscarriages of justice. The defence was sometimes used by battered women who were led to kill abusive partners after years of ritual and systematic abuse. Ms Harman's campaign to scrap the provocation defence led to confusion yesterday after a Home Office press release was hastily revised when it incorrectly said the reform of the provocation defence would be contained in the bill. There was also confusion after Ms Harman suggested the legislation would contain powers to grant anonymity to domestic violence victims. It emerged the powers are already on the statute book and will be implemented in January. The domestic violence, victims and witnesses bill, published yesterday, includes powers for police and courts to deal with domestic violence. They include a five-year prison sentence for a breach of a "stay away" non-molestation order; giving criminal courts the power to issue a restraining order even when the defendant has been acquitted; and a decision to make common assault an arrestable offence so a police officer can intervene without a warrant. As expected it will also introduce an offence of "familial homicide" to close a loophole under which parents accused of their child's murder escape punishment by remaining silent or blaming each other. The bill also contains wider reforms of the criminal justice system, including a new method of dealing with criminals who commit so many offences that they cannot be dealt with by a jury trial. This has been a particular problem in multiple thefts, fraud, counterfeiting and internet child pornography. The traditional way of dealing with those who have committed 50 or more offences was to try only specimen counts before a jury, but the judge would sentence on the total pattern of offending. An appeal court ruling in 1998 stopped this practice and said the criminal could only be sentenced on the basis of the charges on which he or she had been tried before a jury. Lady Scotland said this meant that the offender was not punished for the vast majority of offences committed. The bill proposes to remedy this by introducing a two-stage trial with an offender facing sample charges before a jury and the rest dealt with by a judge sitting alone. The Bar Council last night said it welcomed the overall thrust of the bill but criticised the proposal to deal with multiple offending, saying the Home Office appeared to have "a slight fetish" about reducing access to jury trials. Main points· New police and court powers to deal with violence, including five years for breaching "stay away" orders · Common assault to be arrestable offence · Restraining order can be imposed even when defendant is acquitted · New offence of "familial homicide" · Judge-only hearing to deal with prolific criminals· Victims commissioner and code of practice