The eight law and order bills outlined in the Queen's speech yesterday brings the total number of anti-crime bills introduced since the 2001 general election to 34 - more than one for every month that parliament has been sitting.But the package, which includes the introduction of identity cards and an FBI-style crime agency, has more to do with a political game of chicken than the politics of fear or hope. As Conservatives and Liberal Democrats pointed out yesterday, it is totally unrealistic for the government to expect to get all its new bills on to the statute book before the general election. "It is something of a charade. We have got a programme for a year, yet no one expects this parliament to last longer than a few months," said the Tories' policy coordinator, David Cameron. The result is that the home secretary, David Blunkett, knows that only two or three of his many law and order bills will actually make it into law before the election. In fact, the only two measures which are to be guaranteed the priority to make it are the identity card legislation and the bill setting up the serious and organised crime agency, Soca. This is the reason Mr Blunkett has chosen to include in the Soca legislation the politically important measures of cracking down on animal rights extremists, outlawing incitement to religious hatred, and expanding the powers of the police and community support officers. Some of these measures would actually sit better in the "clean neighbourhoods" bill, which will introduce on-the-spot-fines for minor offenders, but Mr Blunkett knows they have far less chance of making it on to the statute book before the election. Many of Mr Blunkett's other bills, such as the draft terror bill he will publish early next year and the new compulsory drug tests for those arrested, are primarily there for electoral purposes. Before the 1997 general election Michael Howard, when he was home secretary, pushed through draconian sentencing legislation, including "three strikes and you're out" for burglars, with the key purpose of accusing Tony Blair of being "soft on crime" if Labour voted against it.Mr Blunkett is hoping to play the same game of political chicken with the Tories and the Lib Dems in the run-up to the general election. It is clear from the reaction yesterday that it is Mr Blunkett's plans for ID cards and the possible extension of the government's anti-terror powers that will prove the big battlegrounds in the coming months. There were already signs yesterday that Tory peers might not be prepared to toe the line if Mr Howard decided for electoral reasons not to oppose ID cards. The Lib Dems, however, made it clear that they would not engage in any such law and order auction. "David Blunkett is relying on a climate of fear to push through a scheme which will not guarantee our security," said their home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, who said it would be better to spend the billions involved on the police and intelligence services. Shami Chakrabarti, the director of the human rights group Liberty, shared his concern: "Tough talk and tougher legislation is cheap. It doesn't make us any safer from crime, terrorism and the other great causes of fear. What it will do is to undermine the very democracy that this government and its allies across the Atlantic say they want to defend." The leading Labour barrister Lady Kennedy also made clear that the home secretary will face strong criticism from Labour peers if he pushes ahead with a counter-terror package that abolishes jury trials in terrorist cases, warning: "The rule of law does matter and we are sending out incredible messages around the world when we retreat from those principles." Mr Blunkett, however, explicitly rejects the charge: "This is not about the politics of fear, but taking sensible and commonsense measures to protect people. These measures will make communities safer and strengthen democracy. By doing so, they will provide the backcloth to progressive policies which offer opportunity and fulfilment in place of insecurity and fear." Surprising as it may seem, the eight law and order bills in the Queen's speech do not represent a total victory for Mr Blunkett. In the face of stiff opposition from some cabinet ministers he has had to postpone a bill creating a new offence of corporate manslaughter, which will now only be published in draft.Cabinet criticism has also meant he had to accept a much longer timetable for the introduction of compulsory ID cards - now 2009 at the earliest - and postpone the introduction of his counter-terror package until after the general election.