The race is on. Jeff hits a straight section of the A127 and guns the engine of his Toyota. He's up to 115mph in seconds, tyres squealing as he skilfully weaves in and out of slower traffic all around him.Rival Craig's souped-up Peugeot is gaining fast, and it flashes past Jeff as though he's standing still before screeching to a halt half a mile ahead when a battered Transit van fails to get out of the way in time. 'That's one seriously fast car,' says Jeff. 'He must have been doing at least 140 when he came past.' It's 8pm on a Saturday and scores of extreme car enthusiasts, known as modders or cruisers, are heading for Southend in Essex in a series of convoys. Their highly tuned vehicles represent the sharp end of the £3-billion-a-year car modification industry. They are also a growing headache for police who say the cruise scene is closely linked to the fast-growing, potentially deadly street racing subculture. Six people died and 113 were seriously injured in crashes linked to cruising and street racing in Essex in 2002, the last year for which figures are available. Police say the vast majority of the cruisers' cars travel at more than 100 mph on Saturday nights on the A127 road, which links London and the resort. One of them was clocked at 134mph earlier this year. Measures taken by the Essex force, including high-profile patrols and threats to seize vehicles involved in racing or dangerous driving, have done little to stop the rapid growth of the cruising and racing scene. 'It used to be an elite thing,' says Jeff, 'but now you go and there are people all over the place. Too many people have found out about it, and to my mind that's making it much more dangerous.' The numbers involved have been boosted particularly by more women getting involved in the scene. 'I'm just a normal girl. I like my shopping and I love getting my nails done but I like fast cars as well,' says Nicki, 22, a bank clerk and self-confessed car nut who heads for Southend most Saturday nights. 'Some of the cars here are modified for show, some of them are modified for go. I'm not really into the body styling side of things. I'm more into horsepower.' She is not alone. While such magazines as Max Power and Fast Car tend to portray women as sex objects, more of them are turning up behind the wheel of modified cars. The website girlracer.co.uk, devoted to women interested in motorsport and cruising, gets 8,500 hits per day and will launch its own magazine on the newsstands later this year. Nicki drives a Ford RS Cosworth, a popular 'go car' with a cult following in the UK. It's easy to see why. A basic Cosworth generates 220 brake horsepower, taking it from 0-60 in about six seconds on its way to a top speed of 145mph. Nicki's car, however, has been tweaked to produce 400 bhp and, theoretically, it is capable of at least 180mph. This is nowhere near the limit. Cosworths producing 600 bhp are not uncommon. 'I'm a careful driver,' she insists. 'I just like knowing that the power is there. I sometimes go along to watch some of the street racing but it's more of a social thing. I don't like to get involved. It's all a bit too dangerous for me. If I've got a few mates in the car, it's late at night and there's a clear stretch of road, I might put my foot down but that's as far as it goes.' As night falls on Southend the Saturday night cruise is in full swing. At least 600 cars are parked nose to nose in the middle of the street all the way along the promenade. Dozens more drive endlessly up and down the promenade, bringing traffic to a virtual standstill. During the most popular cruises, the five-minute journey from one end of the prom to the other can take as much as 90 minutes. The variations are endless. There are models with huge spoilers and enormous alloy wheels, cars that produce jets of flame from their exhaust pipes and others so stuffed full of amplifiers and giant speakers that there is no room for seats. Dozens of cars have television screens built into their sun visors, which is illegal, or the backs of headrests. Invariably they are used to show hardcore porn or scenes from the cult films The Fast and the Furious and its sequel 2 Fast 2 Furious, both about illegal street racing in Miami and said to be responsible for increasing interest in cruising and racing in the UK. While plenty of cars are here mainly for show, most of the drivers are keen on the the boy racer - and girl racer - end of the scene. Every so often there is a deafening squeal as a driver attempts a 'burn out', a skilled manoeuvre that involves holding the car still with the handbrake, while allowing the wheels to spin so fast that smoke pours from the tyres. David Hall, a founder member of the Essex Boyz club and a Southend regular, says: 'Most of the cruise scene is about the social side. People come to meet up with friends, show off what they've done with their cars and have a bit of a laugh. You get a few people who have no respect for their tyres but a lot of it is about how flash you can be. 'A friend of mine just had his BMW retrimmed in Gucci leather. He was going to have it done in Louis Vuitton leather but the Gucci was more expensive so he went for that instead. 'The racing does go on and some of the same cars are involved, but a lot of people are against it because all the cruisers end up getting tarred with the same brush. Some of these people have spent thousands of pounds making their cars look good. The last thing they want to do is risk writing them off in a race.' Hall, 23, has two cars, a Ford Focus 'show car' with £5,000 worth of interior modifications including TV screens in the backs of the headrests, a DVD player and an ultra-powerful stereo system. Three weeks ago he bought a Cosworth. He now plans to sell the Focus and spend the money on tuning the Cosworth's engine to develop 600 horsepower, making the car capable of more than 200mph. Though Hall admits having been a spectator at illegal street races, he insists neither he nor anyone from Essex Boyz was directly involved. 'Why would I want such a powerful car? It's just a hobby. It's about having something that you do to the best of your ability. It's about being able to say, "Look what I've done to my car, look how much power I've got out of the engine," nothing more than that.' For those who insist on going a stage further there are two options. First there are the impromptu races on main roads. A favourite is the year-old A130 which runs between Canvey Island and Dunmow. It has become an unofficial test and race track for modified cars, thanks to its smooth surface and relative straightness. One cruiser interviewed by The Observer claimed to have hit 170mph on this road as a passenger in a Nissan Skyline, a high-powered car made famous by the Fast and Furious films and sold in the UK only as an unofficial import. The other option is to get involved in highly organised street races in which a half-mile of straight, public road is illegally blocked off as two drivers compete to see who can reach the end first. While cruises and convoys are openly organised on the internet, those behind the races keep well out of the limelight. Further along the seafront a man using a wheelchair shakes a packet of Tic Tacs at girls driving past. Known as Legs, he wears a black bomber jacket with the words SEC printed on the back in large white letters. In the street racing world, SEC - South East Cruises - has attained near-legendary status. This club is said to organise almost all of the illegal street racing in south-east England and beyond, and to have developed a sophisticated system for staying one step ahead of the authorities. When Legs learns that a journalist is nearby he becomes highly suspicious. 'What are you writing about? That we're a bunch of lunatics who the police think are worse than rapists? It's not like that,' he says. 'People look at someone doing a burn-out and say what's the point, but what's the point of going down the pub, drinking 15 pints then getting into a fight and pissing in someone's doorway? I don't know, but that's how some people choose to spend their Saturday nights.' Legs points along the promenade. 'Look around - very few people drinking, no one doing drugs. There's no trouble. The only thing the police are trying to do people for is parking violations.' Asked about SEC's alleged role in illegal street racing, Legs suddenly become evasive. 'Street racing? What's that? Doesn't happen. Never heard of it. Sounds like something that happens in films and all that.' Simultaneously, a tall man emerges from a nearby BMW convertible with TV screens lit up in the back of the headrests. 'Hey Legs, come have a look at this video of me street racing,' he says. 'For fuck's sake,' gasps Legs. 'Don't say that, there's a journalist here.' The man showing the video won't give his name but reluctantly admits to being involved with illegal street racing and the SEC. 'We're a club for people who love cars. We organise cruises and get-togethers, that's about it really. Most of the other clubs have websites but we don't. 'If we did and I put a note up there saying there would be a meet on Saturday night, the police would get there before we did and shut the whole thing down. We organise by text message and word of mouth, and we use flyers. That allows us to be flexible. 'Some people might think it's dangerous but we take precautions. There have been accidents, but no one's ever been killed at one of our events. We have lookouts with walkie-talkies, the roads we choose are straight and in the middle of industrial estates. Apart from the odd lorry making deliveries, there's no traffic at all.' Just after midnight hundreds of cars from Southend begin to make their way back down the A127 to the Mayflower retail park in Basildon. Here, in the shadow of a 24-hour McDonald's restaurant, the cruisers stock up on food and drink. One group gathers in the car park of a KFC shop, surrounding a high-powered pick-up truck to watch a video of a man having sex with a horse which is being projected on screens in the back. The area is close to where two teenage girl pedestrians were killed last summer, mown down by the first of a convoy of cars heading for the burger joint. The Mayflower is so well known as a venue for illegal racing that police normally station a patrol car at the top of nearby Paycocke Road to prevent Saturday night contests. This weekend, however, Essex police resources are stretched by the need to keep order in the town centres during Euro 2004, and there are no officers around. When The Observer arrives, dozens of cars are lined up along each side of Paycocke Road to watch the action. Streams of other vehicles race each other, flying at full pelt down the narrow, two-lane road. At each end they make sharp U-turns, and then race back again in the opposite direction. Two blonde women in a white Ford Escort convertible are among the spectators. 'We started off in Southend and then we came up here. Why? It's just fun seeing people rag the bollocks out of their cars,' explains one of them. 'How long are we going to stay? Until the police come. But then we'll move on somewhere else.' tony.thompson@observer.co.uk