Traders in Salford's Shopping City, which was blitzed by looters on Tuesday night, began pulling down shutters at lunchtime on Wednesday.The violence in Salford, four miles from Manchester, caused greater disruption to the daily life of a deprived neighbourhood.In Manchester city centre, stores selling jewellery, trainers and electronic goods were targeted.At Shopping City, a complex in the Pendleton area of Salford, the shops hit ranged from pawnbrokers and cobblers to a travel agent. The post office was shut after its windows were smashed. Outside, residents said elderly people had been unable to collect their pensions.Fearing renewed violence, many shops closed before 2pm – chiefly those in the worst-affected area of the shopping precinct, though larger stores were trading as usual.Rioters had smashed windows to loot a branch of Timpson before setting it ablaze. Darren Brown, the area manager for Timpson, was supervising the boarding up of the store.He said: "The cost of putting this place back together will be massive. It will also affect the confidence people have in coming back to Salford. We expect it to go exactly the same as it did yesterday."Police said they had not advised businesses to close early, but a self-imposed curfew took effect this afternoon.Local traders said the looters were unafraid to attack shops even in daylight.Residents were dismayed at the damage done to the city's reputation.Anthony Kirwin, 24, who works at the Wilkinson bargain homeware shop, said: "Salford's not a bad place at all. I've worked here seven years. We have a lot of shoplifting, but stuff like that never happens."Steve, a resident who refused to give his surname, said: "A lot of people say how much they love Salford – then why are they going out and smashing things up? If you were to line up all the people who did this we would know at least 50% of them."A bakery worker, who did not want to give her name, said: "We are just disgusted. I can't make sense of it. They were just walking around laughing. It is pathetic – where are these kids' parents?"Barry, who was pulling a blue tarpaulin over his pet food stall, said: "We feel terrible it is happening to a place like this. Everybody knows everybody else in Salford. I fear for my kids and my grandkids."