The government could learn a thing or two about tackling violence against women from the US vice-presidential candidate. No, I don't mean the gun-toting, anti-abortionist Sarah Palin. I'm referring to Joe Biden, senator for Delaware and Barack Obama's running mate for the Democrats. For Biden is the man who wrote the groundbreaking Violence Against Women Act (Vawa, pdf) in 1994 that was renewed – and strengthened – in 2000 and 2005.The Vawa has led to programmes, laws and initiatives including a national domestic violence hotline, improved criminal justice responses, better legal access for poor and immigrant women, prevention programmes and – critically - funding for support services such as domestic violence shelters and rape crisis centres. Administered by the Department of Justice, more than $5bn has been awarded to governments and community-based responses under the Vawa. It's no wonder that Biden says he considers the act the "single most significant legislation that I've crafted during my 35-year tenure in the Senate".In America, the Vawa represents a concerted national effort to tackle gender-based violence. Closer to home, the Scottish government has also been addressing violence against women more strategically and a national violence-against-women fund has led to the expansion of Rape Crisis Centres. In contrast, there is a fractured, criminal justice-driven approach in the rest of the UK that has resulted in a funding crisis for women's support services. The Rape Crisis sector south of the border is being decimated as one group after another closes because of funding cuts.There are now just 38 affiliated Rape Crisis Centres left in England and Wales – half the number there were in the 1980s – and no funded centres in Northern Ireland at all – meaning that most rape victims do not have access to the specialist support they deserve. A one-off injection from the government of £1m to shore up centres facing immediate closure is welcome but not a long-term solution.In fact, one-in-three local authorities across the UK do not have domestic violence shelters or other specialist services at all as was graphically demonstrated by End Violence Against Women and the Equality and Human Rights Commission last year in our Map of Gaps report. Nevertheless, ministers are digging their heels in by maintaining that funding for life-saving services is not possible at a national level, rather it is the responsibility of local authorities. Unfortunately, as a result of local commissioning processes, local authorities are increasingly turning to larger, generic services such as housing providers or faith organisations which are cheaper than women's organisations but do not have the expertise on gender-based violence that's been developed over decades in the women's sector.In addition, services for ethnic minority women, which deal with issues like forced marriage, are being squeezed by community cohesion guidance from the government on the funding of single strand groups. Ealing council in west London has recently been forced to rethink its decision to stop funding Southall Black Sisters after High Court action. Other councils are also facing legal action as Trevor Phillips, chair of the Equality and Human Rights Commission, has warned that the commission will use the Gender Equality Duty against local authorities if they fail to ensure that women have access to specialist services. So you could say it's all a bit of a mess. Meanwhile in America there is the prospect of a vice-president who believes that national funding of violence against women services is one of the biggest achievements of his political career. Ministers here could take a leaf out of senator Biden's book.