Fresh concerns over the corrosive impact of prison overcrowding are voiced today by the chief inspector of prisons after the lord chancellor admitted yesterday that the record jail population of 72,522 in England and Wales was "insupportable".The report by Anne Owers into Norwich prison, published today, reveals that during her official inspection more than 200 out of the 250 inmates on one main wing had no access to meaningful work or education, and most of those who did were making breakfast packs. She reveals that there were dirty cells on the graffiti-strewn wings and the prison's anti-drugs and bullying programmes were ineffective. Her dismal "snapshot" of conditions at an ordinary prison, where 750 inmates were packed into cells meant for 561 during the inspection in September, comes as the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, defended new sentencing guidelines that were designed to keep most first-time and some second-time non-violent burglars out of jail. Lord Irvine, the government's most senior law officer, said in a BBC interview yesterday that he believed that most people were sophisticated enough to understand that community sentences worked more effectively than prison terms in rehabilitating inmates. He said that the "vital issue" was whether the public was best protected by a "vigorous programme of community service" rather than "ever increasing" expensive jail sentences. He said the prison population was "insupportable". He added: "If the prison population continues to expand beyond the capacity of the prison estate to accommodate prisoners then all the beneficial things that can be done in prisons which are not overcrowded cannot be achieved and prison is more likely to be nugatory." The report into Norwich prison said that the jail was working well with young offenders but its work in all other areas was a cause of significant concern. Standards of cleanliness were less than acceptable with graffiti left on cell doors. Access to work and education was found to be limited. In the prison's "training" wing only eight out of 45 inmates on one landing were in education and none was undertaking meaningful work. One in five of the education places that did exist were not being filled. "This is not an acceptable level of activity for a training prison," said Ms Owers, calling for urgent and dramatic improvements. Phil Wheatley, the deputy director general of the prison service, said that Norwich had been operating close to capacity due to the rise in the prison population. "This has increased the pressure on the prison and has affected its performance, particularly in the adult part of the prison, which has experienced the most throughput of prisoners," he said. He added that despite the overcrowding pressures it was a "considerable achievement" that 784 inmates had obtained qualifications or accredited courses at Norwich in the past 12 months.