He was a rarity when he joined the police 34 years ago - he studied at Cambridge and left Emmanuel College with a degree in economics. There was no fast-tracking procedure then, so he had to work his way up through the ranks, starting as a PC based in Hartlepool.He has been frank about the policing methods he found. "It was not uncommon for there to be brutality," he said. "But if you're brutal to someone, all you're teaching them is to meet force with superior force. You achieve more by setting a good example." In 1983 he was appointed assistant chief constable of Greater Manchester, managing to double the number of recruits from ethnic minorities. When he moved to West Yorkshire as deputy chief constable, he pioneered domestic violence and child protection units. But it was as chief constable of Sussex, a job he was given in 1993, that his distinctive style was given full rein. He refused to sign his performance-related pay contract, arguing that the force should "reward teams, not individuals". In 1997 he supported a recruitment manager's decision to advertise in a gay newspaper, and was delighted that the officer had not asked him for permission - a sign, he thought, that his progressive views were understood. "If you go to Brighton you are going to see a lot of people who happen to be homosexual," Mr Whitehouse said. "The gay community believe we don't behave properly towards them; it comes back to the same principle, the need for the service to have proper relationships with the whole community." The decision to recruit in the gay press was criticised in some quarters; Mr Whitehouse was even phoned by one of his own PCs, who told him he thought the ad would make life difficult for officers on the beat. The chief constable could have bawled out the junior officer for having the nerve to ring him, instead he agreed to meet him the following day - in uniform - to walk the streets of Brighton. The same year Mr Whitehouse infuriated some of his fellow chief officers by claiming that 10 of the country's 43 forces were probably being run by freemasons. He was also one of the first chief constables to endorse the findings of the Macpherson report into the death of Stephen Lawrence, agreeing with the inquiry's conclusion that the police service is "institutionally racist". Mr Whitehouse's views on drugs flew in the face of Home Office policy. Last year he admitted that "the prohibition of drugs is not working", and suggested that cannabis should be legalised. His willingness to challenge the system, though, has been overshadowed by the Ashley case, and the incidents involving his daughter. In the past two years Frances Whitehouse has been convicted three times of violent offences. In January she was given a year's probation after a court was told she had kicked one of her father's officers in the head. A few weeks earlier she was given an 18-month conditional discharge for possessing an offensive weapon. Before that she was ordered to do 150 hours' community service for attacking two constables as they tried to arrest her. In an interview with the Guardian Miss Whitehouse said she thought she had been victimised by officers because she was the chief constable's daughter, and said she resented the way she was portrayed in the press as a hooligan who "goes out every night and gets off her nut". She claimed that her boyfriend had been violent towards her, yet the police routinely ignored this and brought charges against her instead. Whatever the truth, the coverage humiliated Mr Whitehouse, who was forced to send an email to staff to explain he had not known his daughter was giving interviews to papers from the family home. It said: "While I cannot be held responsible for my daughter's actions, I recognise the depth of feeling those actions have stirred. I sincerely regret that."