A senior member of the Congolese cabinet was attacked in London by a gang who beat him around the head and body with a baseball bat, stripped him and posted pictures of his clothes on the internet.Scotland Yard last night launched an investigation into the assault on Leonard She Okitundu, the chief of staff to Joseph Kabila, the president of the Democratic Republic of Congo, amid questions over why a foreign dignitary should be so vulnerable. The politician was left in the A&E of the Middlesex Central hospital with no trousers, covered in a blanket. "The police didn't seem to care. No one helped me and I was naked, that would never happen in my country," he said."I wasn't seen by a nurse for two hours and not by a doctor until 2am. I explained that I was a VIP ... but no one cared to give me a pair of trousers. The Foreign Office have done nothing to help me."Mr Okitundu believes the humiliation was orchestrated by Mr Kabila's enemies in London. He was due to appear on the Original Black Entertainment TV channel when he and two colleagues were assaulted by more than 20 men outside its studios in Park Royal, north west London.His clothes were forcibly removed and his briefcase, containing passport, money and credit cards, as well as official papers, were stolen. His attackers posted pictures of Mr Okitundu's monogrammed suit, his Mont Blanc pen and the business cards of the MPs and officials that he had met that day, as well as condoms that were in his pocket. His underpants were captured on a cameraphone turned inside out.Mr Okitundu told the Guardian: "I left the Foreign Office and went to the television station and the people were waiting for us in the car park. I didn't even have time to open the door of the car before people attacked me with baseball bats."They pulled me out of the car to beat and kick me. They took my jacket and my trousers, my shirt and my pants. Then they dragged me and left me lying naked."A Foreign Office spokesman said President Kabila was informed of the incident by British diplomats in DRC. "We were on the phone very quickly and explained what happened." He added that the FCO could have arranged for security to accompany Mr Okitundu's party but were never asked.Mr Okitundu went to hospital with the two other victims, former ambassador Henri Nswana and his party's UK chairman, Placide Mbatika. He was in London visiting the all-parliamentary group of the Great Lakes Region of Africa as well as the Foreign Office.He had been discussing the recent elections in the DRC in which President Kabila won 45% and his rival, the former rebel leader, Jean-Pierre Bemba, polled just 20%. The two are due to face each other again in another presidential election on October 29. Mr Bemba's supporters accuse Mr Kabila of being a puppet of the west and other foreign agencies. The majority of Congolese expatriates in London support Mr Bemba. Albert Mukendi of the group Congolese Rights said the attack and humiliation of Mr Okitundu was "a very bad thing". But he added: "People are not happy about him being here. Many Congolese here do not like Kabila."Philippe Mandangi, a London spokesman for the opposition UDPS party said: "The situation is very tense here in the UK and people are very angry."Mr Okitundu said his attackers shouted that he was working for the Rwandans and that they would kill anybody who obstructed Mr Bemba. "This is part of their campaign to sabotage President Kabila's presidential campaign. To my knowledge, these people didn't act of their own will. They have been told to do it."A spokeswoman for the Central Middlesex Hospital said Mr Okitundu was "treated appropriately in a consulting room".Eric Joyce, chair of the all-parliamentary group, met Mr Okitundu on Wednesday. He said: "It is shocking. I presume it was the diaspora who are loyal to Bemba."BackstoryThe Democratic Republic of Congo, the former Belgian colony ruled and looted for many years by President Mobutu Sese Seko, is striving to recover from a devastating five-year civil war which cost an estimated 3m lives, many from starvation and disease. The population now stands at 55m. The conflict pitted government forces, supported by Angola, Namibia and Zimbabwe, against a multitude of rebel militias backed by Uganda and Rwanda. Much of it was driven by the desire to control the country's rich mineral resources. With the largest UN peacekeeping mission and widespread violence continuing in the east, progress has been slow. A peace deal was agreed in 2003 and the country is now in the throes of an extended election campaign that has been marred by violence. In the first round of presidential elections in July the current President Joseph Kabila took 44.81% of votes and Vice President Jean-Pierre Bemba 20.03%. The run-off second round takes place on October 29The DRC gained its independence in 1960. In 1965 Mobuto seized power and renamed it Zaire. He ensured US backing by allowing the country to host operations against Soviet-backed Angola. Rwanda invaded in 1997 in pursuit of the Hutu militias who had led the horrendous massacres against their Tutsi rivals. Emboldened by the invasion anti-Mobutu rebels marched on the capital, Kinshasa, and installed President Laurent Kabila. He was assassinated in 2001 and his 30-year-old son, Africa's youngest head of state.