The relatives of a family-of-three bludgeoned to death by a sex attacker have spoken of how the actions of "one perverted individual" will haunt them for the rest of their lives.The family of Beverley Samuels, and her teenage children, Kesha and Fred Wizzart, said their "whole lives now surround the day" the trio were brutally murdered by Pierre Williams in their own home.In a statement read out by police after Williams was found guilty of three counts of murder and two of sexual assault, the family said: "It is beyond our understanding how and why anyone would want to kill a mother and her two children in cold blood who have individually and collectively brought nothing but love and happiness to everybody they met. "The loss of Beverley, Kesha and Fred has been, and will continue to be, the most traumatic experience of our lives."The ripples of their deaths have permeated far and beyond our imagination. Our whole lives now surround that terrible date. Birthdays, Christmas and anniversaries are all now lost to memories."Mrs Samuels, a 36-year-old nurse at Manchester Royal Infirmary was described as "a warm, caring and hard-working mother."Kesha, 18, "in the prime of her youth," and Fred, 13, a "lovely, carefree young man with the world at his feet" both reflected their excellent upbringing, the statement added. "Between the three of them, Beverley, Kesha and Fred were an ordinary, happy family living a regular happy existence and their names have now been thrown into the spotlight because of the perverted actions of one evil individual." Williams, the family said, should never be allowed into society again. "He is a weak man who is a danger to women and children." The 33-year-old qualified gym instructor had just been sentenced to a minimum of 38 years in prison for the murders committed in July last year at Mrs Samuel's home in Manchester. The mother had been tied up and assaulted before being beaten around the head with a 2lb (900g) hammer. Kesha had suffered the same fate.Fred was found dead in the same room as his mother. Williams screamed in fury at the jury after hearing the first guilty verdict and had to be dragged out of court by seven prison officers before the other findings were read out.He had a history of sexual violence against women, Manchester crown court heard.A former girlfriend testified that she had twice been bound and gagged before being raped by the "evil" Williams.The prosecution told the jury that Samuels and her family had been bludgeoned to death in a "coldblooded execution" to satisfy Williams's perverted sexual pleasure.Samuels lived with her son in the Fallowfield area of the city, but Kesha lived with her father in Cheshire. She had decided to sleep at her mother's house on the night she was killed after returning from London on a late train. The teenager appeared on ITV's Young Stars in Their Eyes talent contest in 2004 and had won a scholarship to study law at Manchester University. Manchester police are appealing for other possible victims of Williams to come forward and speak to them, if only to receive help. 