Being shallow and easily led, I've decided that I'd quite like an Asbo. It was the introduction of the new mini-Asbo last week that swung it, although there's a part of me that wants to wait until they've got pastel coloured ones and have come down in price.I've actually been thinking for a while now that 'a badge of shame' sounded like a really quite cool sort of badge. And this was way before the human rights commissioner for the Council of Europe, Mr Gil-Robles, got all excited last week and claimed that we're in the grip of 'Asbomania'.Dammit. There I was thinking: 'Well, I'm ahead of the game on this one!' But no. And although I'd concede that his reasoning is possibly stronger than mine - i.e. that dishing out Asbos like sweeties to pre-pubescent nippers, without trial, on the evidence of only hearsay and then violating their fundamental human right to privacy isn't necessarily the kind of thing that a liberal democracy should feel proud about - it just goes to show that this is some kind of tipping point. And you're going to have to act quickly if you want to get in on it before the Little Miss Asbo dolls start hitting the shops. Luckily, there's really nothing to these new ones: all you have to do is get a bit squiffy and then fall off your new platform wedges. No waiting around either: a copper or 'council official' can issue one on the spot. Personally, I'm considering applying for an EasyAsbo. It's the 'budget-flight binger' option, which isn't, technically, an Asbo offence yet, but since I read about it in the Daily Asbo, sorry, Mail, it's pretty safe to assume it won't be legal for long. In this latest national crisis, young people have been using budget airlines to fly to nice places in order to have fun. What's more, the trend is now spreading to Britain. 'With places like Bournemouth,' the article claimed, 'people will travel a few hundred miles away from home and spend a whole weekend going out.' That's the thing, see. It's going to get to a stage soon where it'll be uncool not to have an Asbo. You'll be known as the sort of person who spends a whole weekend staying in. And then people will start collecting them. And flogging them on eBay and - I'm going to raise a potentially thorny issue here - has the government actually trademarked the word? We could be looking at a whole load of knock-off Asbos and then what? The government will have to withdraw them and dream up new ways of having a pop at working-class young people. Birching, for example, or if they're really set on this 'name and shame' thing, there's the good old branding iron. Because you can dress it up any way you like, but an Asbo is just another way of calling someone an oik. And however much snakebite Prince Harry drinks, no dustman is going to arrest him and ban him from Chinawhite. But then the great thing about social phenomena, language and words is that they drift upwards, not downwards, and if you think that because some policy wonk has decided that Asbos are, tut tut, shake head, a bad thing, think again. They're in the throes of being what cultural theorists term, 'appropriated' and what others might call 'nicked'. A vew word I read about last week crystallised all this. Not chav, which has also been admitted to the Collins dictionary. No, this is a word of rare beauty, a coinage so perfect that not only do you not have to be told what it means, you also wonder how you managed without it: n. wanksta. Yes, you, white boy, with your gold chains and your diamond knuckledusters. That's right, Mr Guy Ritchie, you've just been named and shamed. It's not just Prince Harry who's going to miss out on this season's Asbomania. I'm a Carole, not a Caroline, you'll note, and as anyone who watches 9pm BBC dramas knows, we tend to marry wife-beaters and then overdose all over our Dralon sofas. But I can't get the hang of the glottal stop in 'Fuckoffyewcun' and even if I do go out, have a couple of lager shandies, insult a stranger and then, say, fall off my bike on the way home, I'll just apologise politely and explain that I neither do a manual trade nor work in a call centre and that'll be it, surely? I'm reluctant to admit this, but since there's an outside chance that Collins might just pick it up, I will: although I am chav-like, I suspect that, actually, I'm a chavsta. But then Asbos are just the word chav made concrete, a vehicle for old-school class hatred made over to look all pretty. Hang on until next January, though, and they'll be half price in Argos.