Lee is 16 but he has the mental functioning of a 9 year old. He is serving a short sentence in a young offenders institution (a prison for young people) for joy riding. Lee is being bullied. He says other boys make him take drugs. He spends a large part of his time in his cell because the prison does not know what to do with him. They are concerned about the bullying but, with four officers responsible for the sixty boys on the wing, are unable to stop it. Lee can go to education classes but the lessons don't help him. There are no special needs teachers at the prison. They are mainly higher education teachers who do not have the training or experience to work effectively with Lee.If the Children Act applied in prisons Lee could be referred to social services. Child protection staff could examine whether he is at risk of significant harm. If they found he was they would liaise with the prison to resolve the problem or even recommend he be moved to a different establishment where he would be more safe. A 'child in need' assessment could be done to identify his individual needs - for instance special needs teaching - and social services would liaise with the prison to ensure it is provided.The Children Act 1989 brought into British law the obligations enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is the single most important piece of legislation setting out the state's responsibility to protect children, and the Howard League believes that it is unlawful for the government to exclude children held in prison from these safeguards.There are currently over 2,600 under 18s (known as juveniles) held in prisons in England and Wales. The Howard League is bringing a judicial review against the Home Office on Tuesday because of a long-standing concern about the inferior conditions and treatment of these children. A concern which was expressed on numerous occasions by the former Chief Inspector of Prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, who is supporting our case and by the current Chief Inspector, Ann Owers. Children in prison are routinely treated in ways that in any other circumstances would trigger a child protection investigation for abuse. For example, between April 2000 and January 2002, segregation (essentially solitary confinement) was used on juveniles 4,437 times. 976 of these children were locked up alone for more than one week. During the same period, control and restraint techniques (which involve the intentional infliction of pain) were used 3,615 times on juvenile prisoners.In addition, the Howard League is concerned that when a child self-injures or attempts suicide in prison, this is not considered to be a child protection issue. Self-harm is endemic in our prisons, with recent figures showing that one in twenty young prisoners cuts, burns or otherwise injures themselves. Tragically, two children have taken their own lives in prison already in 2002.As Cherie Booth QC points out in the December edition of the Howard League's magazine, the UK has recently had a second critical report from the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child with particular reference to children and the criminal justice system. "Unless and until the UK government recognises the concept of the human rights of a child... it will remain rightly criticised... " she writes. Sir David Ramsbotham, HM Chief Inspector of Prisons from 1995 to 2001, repeatedly expressed deep concern during his tenure about the conditions for and treatment of children in our jails. In his statement which will be presented before the court this week, he reveals that such was his concern that he planned to mount his own legal challenge of the failure to apply the Children Act to prisons. Sir David agreed to abandon these plans only after being given assurances that the government would ensure that the specific legal obligations contained in the Act would be applied to prison. It is the government's failure to keep this promise that has left the Howard League no choice but to take this action. The application of the Children Act to prison is a legal issue and that is why we have mounted this legal case. But it also poses a question of fundamental importance about the way we view children in this country. The Howard League, and the six national children's charities that are supporting our case, believe that a child (even one who has broken the law) is a child first and foremost. The children in our prisons are extremely vulnerable; many have suffered physical or sexual abuse, half have been in care and the majority have been assessed as having special needs. These are children who need the protection of the state more, not less, than children in other institutional settings. Failure to provide this constitutes no less than an alarming abuse of basic human rights and a negation of our legal and international obligations.If the Howard League wins its case it will bring about a massive change in the way that not only prisons but social services and other service providers work with child prisoners. Currently few social service departments have an adequate strategy for working with children in their local young offender institution, for example, currently not a single social service department visits their local prison to monitor the treatment of the children held there. If the Children Act were to apply they would have to radically alter their approach. In addition, prisons such as Onley, Brockhill and Huntercombe which have recently been severely criticised by the Inspectorate for their deficient approach to child protection, would have to fundamentally re-assess their procedures, regime and the treatment of the children placed in their care. Frances Crook is Director of the Howard League for Penal Reform which is bringing this week's judicial review case. About Observer Comment ExtraThe Observer website carries additional online commentary each week, with articles responding to recent pieces and offering additional coverage of the major issues. Please get in touch if you would like to offer a piece and see Observer Comment for this week's pieces. Online commentaries are also trailed in the print pages of the newspaper.