Those of us vilified by the forces of Boris for suggesting before the election that he might not be the best of the choices available to run London have ample cause to be smug today.Not least of the reasons Johnson seized power was the patronage of Associated Newspapers, yet on Saturday the front-page headline in the Daily Mail was "Tory turmoil as Mayor Boris Johnson is forced to axe the deputy who lied about his past".And yet even those who have been critical of our admittedly amiable mayor need to see that there is genuine tragedy here. Ray Lewis has gone, a figure disgraced, and the manner of his departure provides much ammunition for those who wish to embarrass the mayor, and David Cameron.But we need to put this in context. Lewis did not seek the sort of limelight that has led to his fall from grace. He was a man who ran a project, whose uncompromising philosophy saw him adopted by the Tories at national level. They gave him connections, he gave them much-needed credibility in the sphere of social policy. When Boris decided to make youth crime a touchstone election issue, Central Office inevitably sent him to Lewis, and the attractions for the community worker of being associated with a man who had so many well-heeled supporters were obvious.Even so, he rejected the initial entreaties from the Johnson camp to join the administration. The mayor himself begged him to do the job. A more perceptive figure than Lewis, knowing about the squalls and controversies of his life, would have followed his instincts and stayed in the background. That he chose instead to take the title of deputy mayor for young people and the £124,000 salary tells one all about his naivety and, to be charitable, about his determination to find out whether the philosophies developed at that Eastside Young Leaders Academy could be successfully applied across the capital. But there are questions here for the Tories. Why were they so keen to have him play such a central role? What was there in his background to suggest that he could handle the politics associated with such a key policy? His experience was minimal, but he was black and he was able to stand beside a mayor dogged by accusations that his writings showed disdain towards black people. This is his tragedy. His work is highly controversial, but many will say the Leaders Academy has successfully intervened in the lives of many troubled youngsters. With the academy so closely tied to him and his reputation damaged, how long before the Tory trustees move on and the funders melt away? But there is, of course, a much wider issue. The issue of guns and knives and the deaths of young people on London's streets gave Boris a handy stick to beat Ken Livingstone with, but he can't be faulted for raising it. The situation - 18 deaths already this year - is grievous and seems to be getting worse. It is deep-seated, and Boris Johnson's administration of business types and old chums from Westminster Council may not be the best placed to handle it. We see that already. But for the next four years, this is the administration that will run the capital. At some stage, someone with the skills and experience sadly lacking in Lewis and perhaps with fine liberal credentials will have to join the high Tories of the Johnson administration to stop it floundering for the next four years in territory which becomes ever more murderous and on ground that it hardly understands. When that happens, the correct response will be to consider the circumstances, admire their fortitude and to leave them to get on with it. There is much to oppose in Boris's programme, but in this vital area he must be helped to succeed.hugh.muir@theguardian.com