A man has been arrested after human remains were found on a farm in north Glasgow during the search for missing student Karen Buckley.Formal identification of the remains, found at High Craigton farm on the outskirts of Milngavie, had not yet taken place, Police Scotland said in a statement on Wednesday night, but it was believed they may be those of Karen Buckley. Relatives were told of the discovery.A 21-year-old man was detained by officers on Wednesday and police said they were “following a definite line of enquiry”. Early on Thursday morning they announced the arrest. He will appear at Glasgow sheriff court on Friday.Buckley, 24, was reported missing after a night out in Glasgow at the weekend.She was last seen on CCTV in the early hours of Sunday outside the Sanctuary nightclub in Dumbarton Road. She reportedly travelled in a man’s car to a flat in Dorchester Avenue, about two miles from the club.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karen Buckley went missing after a night out in Glasgow on the weekend. Photograph: Police Scotland/PAOn Wednesday the focus of the search moved from Dawsholm Park in Glasgow – where Buckley’s handbag was found on Tuesday – to High Craigton farm, north of the city. Officers cordoned off land around the farm and near Windyhills Golf Club on a country road between Milngavie and Drymen and a number of support vehicles and fire engines arrived at the scene.Police had previously appealed for information about a grey car spotted on the road between 11am and 3pm on Monday. Specialist officers carried out fingertip searches at a flat north-west of the city on Wednesday, while a second team of detectives, aided by a helicopter crew, combed the nearby park where her handbag had been discovered.Buckley’s friends said they arrived at the Sanctuary nightclub at about 11.45pm on Saturday and at about 1am she told her friends she was going to the toilet. But she failed to return and left her jacket.Buckley, who began an occupational therapy degree at Glasgow Caledonian University in February, was previously a nurse at the Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow, Essex.Her parents, Marion and John, flew to Glasgow from their home in Ireland. John Buckley, 62, told a press conference on Tuesday that his daughter’s disappearance was out of character and they were “extremely concerned”.At Buckley’s home in north Cork a special prayer service was arranged on Wednesday for local people to show support for the family. The private mass of hope, as it was described, was held at the Church of Saint Michael the Archangel, Mourneabbey, near the town of Mallow.Ireland’s minister for foreign affairs Charlie Flanagan said thoughts and prayers were with her parents. He said: “On behalf of the government, I wish to express appreciation for all that has been done by the Scottish authorities, and especially Police Scotland in Glasgow, to find Karen and to support the Buckley family throughout this very difficult time.” Scotland’s first minister Nicola Sturgeon said: “My thoughts today are very much with the family and friends of Karen Buckley.” The Press Association contributed to this report