When asked about the idea of becoming the new England football manager, Harry Redknapp, the overwhelming favourite for the job following the resignation of Fabio Capello, said that he hadn't "even thought about it". The Football Association, his prospective employers, will have been impressed. Redknapp had fulfilled the first condition of this most doomed of jobs: he had avoided showing any interest in taking it.Such are the strange initiation rituals that attend what has been described as the second toughest post in the country, after that of prime minister. But what can be so difficult about coaching the country's finest footballers, particularly when the job commands a salary up to 40 times greater than the PM's and is effectively part-time?The answer, in short, is inflated national expectation, a hysterically volatile media, the FA's culture of panic and the team's self-fulfilling fear of failure. Together, they make a toxic combination that few England managers survive with their reputations – or sanity – intact. Even Sir Alf Ramsey, the only England manager ever to win a major international tournament, was ignominiously sacked.Yet if anyone can manage these competing demands, then it is Redknapp, who has shown himself to be a master of public relations, not least in his recent trial for tax evasion. During the course of two weeks at Southwark Crown Court, Redknapp charmed the press, the public gallery and, no doubt, the jury, with his unaffected personality and lively wit."You talk to anyone at the football club," he said, explaining his laxity with note-taking and accounts. "I don't write. I couldn't even fill a team sheet in." With a characteristic mixture of self-deprecation and comic exaggeration, Redknapp planted the image of a man chaotically lost in football in the way that an artist might be hopelessly consumed by his art."Old school" is the description that's often applied to Redknapp's management, in contrast to the more modern approach of the continental technocrat, exemplified by Arsenal's data-crunching Arsène Wenger. It's a phrase that, while sometimes used as a synonym for "authentic", usually refers to the sheepskin-coat wearing caricature of the traditional English manager.In fact, at West Ham, he was an early adopter of foreign players, coaxing the best out of the mercurial Paulo Di Canio, and a strong advocate of youth, giving debuts to future England stars Rio Ferdinand, Joe Cole, Michael Carrick and Redknapp's nephew, Frank Lampard. And despite his youthful indiscretions as a player, which involved boozing sessions in the East End's Blind Beggar pub, Redknapp has been outspoken in his dislike of British football's attachment to alcohol.But Redknapp is old school in the best sense, in that he holds to a bygone respect for fair play. He seldom criticises referees and shows little of the anger for which Wenger and Alex Ferguson are renowned. His Tottenham side have won plaudits for their adventurous style of play and surge up the Premier League table, but it's surely a reflection of their manager's principles that they also tend to finish around the top of the Fair Play league.Known, and well-liked, as a warm and genial figure, Redknapp has made very few enemies in the game. Aloof is not a accusation that has ever been levelled at him, although the England managership usually develops into a friendless task. Yet for all his affability, Redknapp has a more tenacious side. He showed flashes of it in court, demanding that a detective stop staring at him, and ridiculing the prosecution barrister's erratic line of questioning.The ability to engage an audience and impose your will are vital managerial qualities and they have served Redknapp well in a long and largely successful career. But underlying the ebullience and determination, there is also a sensitivity that, were Redknapp to become the next England manager, might be sorely tested.Eighteen months ago, he responded to a Sky Sports reporter's suggestion that he was a "wheeler-dealer" by telling him to "fuck off". At the trial, which ended with his acquittal, Redknapp argued that he had originally come under suspicion because his name was Harry and he had a cockney accent. "People don't know me," he complained, "and I'm sick and tired of it." Being judged by people who don't know you might be the job description for England manager. With his facial twitch, the result of a serious 1990 car crash, and colourfully expressive manner, Redknapp has struggled to cast off the spivvy image that has dogged him through inconclusive Panorama and police investigations into his finances.Christened Henry James, Redknapp was born in Poplar, east London, the son and grandson of dockers. He, too, was marked down for the docks – then a family closed shop – had he not broken into professional football. Although he started out playing youth football with Tottenham, he moved to his local team, West Ham, when he was 15.Redknapp speaks with pride of his working-class roots and fondly recalls the way footballers were steeped in their local community when he was a player. "West Ham was a great club back then because we were all from the same background," he has said.Like his good friend Ferguson, who was a graduate of the Glasgow shipyards, Redknapp places a high premium on the foundations of family. He has been married for almost 45 years to Sandra, a former hairdresser, daughter of a docker and twin sister of Frank Lampard's late mother. They live in a £10m home in Sandbanks in Dorset and have two sons, Mark, a model, and Jamie, who has also modelled, but is better known as a former England footballer and now TV pundit. Jamie appeared in court alongside his father every day of the trial, a show of filial loyalty that may not have gone unnoticed by the jury.Redknapp senior played in the same West Ham side as World Cup winners Bobby Moore, Geoff Hurst and Martin Peters, and still speaks in awe of Moore, whom he briefly assisted as manager at lowly Oxford City. Never a footballer to match that exalted triumvirate, he none the less established himself as a winger in the West Ham side for the better part of seven seasons.After dropping down the leagues to Bournemouth, he planned to become a taxi driver on the south coast. Instead, he was asked to become a player and assistant manager for the Seattle Sounders, in the US. The experience led him back to Bournemouth, where in 1983, in his first season as manager, he not only saved the club from relegation but also delivered a historic FA Cup victory over Manchester United.He took charge of West Ham in 1994 and gained a reputation for playing the transfer market. Having taken the perennial relegation strugglers to fifth spot in the league, he left in mysterious circumstances. Controversy also stalked his seven years at Portsmouth (initially under the chairmanship of his co-defendant, Milan Mandaric), bisected by a disastrous few months as manager of their arch-rivals, Southampton. It all ended happily, however, when Redknapp guided Portsmouth to their first FA Cup in 2008, shortly before he decamped to Tottenham. Well, happyish. Within two years, Portsmouth were relegated and placed in administration.All of which has left Redknapp watchers divided between admiration for his coaching skills and suspicion about the legacy of his management style. Certainly with Tottenham, currently third in the Premier League, the exhilarating football (which continued yesterday with a 5-0 victory over Newcastle) has spoken more eloquently than any concerns about his business practices.By all accounts, he has had nothing to do with financial dealings at Tottenham. He says he doesn't even know what his players are paid. In any case, such matters are of no relevance to the England job. There is no transfer market in international football. No wage negotiations, no agent fees, nor any other commercial distractions.There is, instead, a squad of talented and experienced players who have collectively and serially underperformed. Turning that situation around will require managerial inspiration, psychological guile and tactical know-how, talents Redknapp has in abundance.In these respects, he resembles his fellow east Londoner Terry Venables – a man with his own financial question marks – who proved to be England's joint-most successful manager at tournament level since the great Ramsey.If Redknapp accepts the job that will almost certainly be offered, he may yet match or even surpass the achievements of those two and remind the world that cockneys are not just wide boys. They can be winners too.