The men accused of killing Stephen Lawrence could face a second prosecution for murder under proposals issued today by the law commission recommending reform of the law on double jeopardy.The ancient law states that no one can be tried a second time if he or she has been acquitted or convicted of an offence based on the same facts. The commission, the official law reform body for England and Wales, is recommending that a new trial should be possible in serious cases where strong new evidence has emerged. It is seeking views on whether the change should be retrospective, which would allow defendants such as the Lawrence suspects to be tried again. The collapse in 1996 of the Lawrence family's private prosecution against three of the five men suspected of killing the black teenager sparked outrage. Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and Gary Dobson were acquitted after a judge ruled that identification evidence was unreliable. The inquiry into Lawrence's death, headed by Sir William McPherson, recommended that the issue of double jeopardy be referred to the law commission, with the suggestion that "perhaps in modern conditions such absolute protection may sometimes lead to injustice". In July the home secretary, Jack Straw, asked the commission to look into the matter. One concern was that such a change might breach the European convention on human rights. But the commission is convinced that reform would not violate Britain's obligations under the convention or fall foul of the human rights act, which comes into force next October. A crucial question for any prosecution of the Lawrence suspects is whether the change could be made retrospective. Changes to the law that create new offences may not be backdated, but the commission says there is no bar on making procedural changes retrospective. It makes no firm recommendation on the point at this stage, however, and also seeks comments on whether there should be a time limit on launching secondary prosecution. It will produce final proposals and a draft bill next year. The commission recommends that the double jeopardy rule should be retained, with a new exception in cases where: • new evidence emerges mak ing the prosecution case "substantially stronger"; • the evidence could not have been obtained before the first trial "if the prosecution had acted with due diligence"; • the offence is serious enough to be punishable by at least three years in jail; • it is almost certain the defendant will be convicted; • the court is satisfied a retrial is "in the interests of justice". Prosecutors would have to go to the high court to win consent for another trial. Lawyers believe that any attempt to prosecute the Lawrence suspects would be thrown out because the barrage of unfavourable publicity during the inquiry means they could never get a fair trial. The paper says cases that could be covered by the reform include those of "stranger" rape where the defendant claims mistaken identity and is acquitted, but later new DNA tests are developed enabling police to identify the accused. It recommends that the existing exception to the double jeopardy rule, which allows a retrial where jurors or witnesses have been interfered with or intimidated, should be extended to cover such treatment of judges and magistrates. John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty, said: "People who have been arrested and prosecuted and who may have been detained for months in prison before trial should be free once they have been acquitted by the jury. They should not have to go through this all over again merely because the prosecution have found new evidence."