A convicted double killer has been jailed for life and told he will serve a minimum of 40 years after admitting murdering a 66-year-old man who went to the aid of an elderly neighbour during a robbery.Ian McLoughlin, 55, was on day release from prison when he stabbed Graham Buck in the village of Little Gaddesden, Hertfordshire, in July.Buck was fatally wounded as he tried to help 86-year-old Francis Cory-Wright, a convicted paedophile who was jailed for 30 months in 2011 for indecently assaulting a 10-year-old boy in the 1970s. McLoughlin met Cory-Wright while in prison, and turned up at his house on 13 July under the pretext of seeking his help in setting up a charity to support elderly ex-offenders.But instead McLoughlin tied Cory-Wright to his bed, stuffed silver family heirlooms into a pillowcase and demanded his bank card and pin numbers. Buck, who lived two doors away, went to help after hearing shouting from his front garden.In a police interview, McLoughlin told officers: "I'm not sorry for what I did to the nonce, but I'm sorry for what I did to the pensioner." He said he was confronted by Buck as he tried to flee Cory-Wright's house, and stabbed him in the neck.Witnesses described seeing Buck with his throat slashed "wide open", said the prosecutor, Ann Evans. He died on his front lawn, with his pet dog sitting beside him. McLoughlin was arrested in London a few days later.Sentencing McLoughlin at the Old Bailey, Mr Justice Sweeney said the law prevented him from handing down a whole-life term, but added: "Even for a man of 55 years of age, the minimum term of years must be a very long one indeed."The judge read part of the victim impact statement from Buck's wife, Karen, who said: "To kill him was the most senseless, vicious act of violence. His family, friends and I will never be able to make sense of what happened. There was no justifiable reason and we will be left with that thought, and of his pain and suffering, for the rest of our lives."McLoughlin had killed twice before, the first time in 1984 when he hit Len Delgatty, 49, over the head with a hammer several times after a row and left his body in a cupboard. He was jailed for 10 years for manslaughter, reduced to eight years on appeal.After his release he went to live in Brighton, where Peter Halls, a 55-year-old barman, offered him work. McLoughlin said he assumed Halls was gay and thought that he may be expected to sleep with him.Evans said: "The defendant claimed that Mr Halls confessed to liking young boys and … that he took holidays in Morocco for under-age sex." McLoughlin stabbed Halls several times, and in 1992 was jailed for 25 years for murder, serving a total of 21 years behind bars.He was on day release from Spring Hill open prison in Aylesbury at the time of Buck's murder.Outside court, Karen Buck said the long sentence reflected the seriousness of McLoughlin's crimes but did not change anything. "Many questions still remain unanswered at this stage, and I await the Ministry of Justice's inquiry into day release of prisoners with interest," she said. "Graham's death has left a hole in many people's lives. He will be missed but he will not be forgotten."