David Blunkett will this week unveil a new children's unit charged with rescuing a 'lost generation' from crime, disaffection and social exclusion.It will oversee a £450 million drive to help troubled primary school children before they are locked into a spiral of classroom disruption, educational failure, truancy, juvenile offending and unemployment. Older teenagers - reformed offenders and their victims - could be recruited as mentors to children at risk, while a wider network of children's clubs will offer group activities and advice for parents. The move follows criticism from children's charities that the Government has failed to co-ordinate efforts to tackle child poverty, raise pupils' expectations and prevent juvenile offending. Experts say children aged between five and 13, the 'lost years' when much of the damage may be done, are falling through the gap. The Children's and Young People's Unit to be launched by the Education Secretary and the Chancellor on Wednesday will oversee the spending of the Children's Fund on this age group. Ministers want to build on the success of organisations such as the National Pyramid Trust, a charity that works in more than 85 schools offering group therapy to children in Year Three who are withdrawn, have difficulty making friends, struggling with work or disruptive in class. 'We are looking at the kind of children who in adolesence will drop out of school, will fall into depression, get into trouble with drugs or the police,' said the trust's chief executive Allan Watson. 'For decades people have focused on pre-school children and older teenagers but they have forgotten about the primary school years.' Studies by Guildford University researchers had shown children who had been through the Pyramid increased their social skills, and also produced better creative work. The cash from the Children's Fund, whose creation was announced in last year's budget, will be concentrated on voluntary agencies, health workers and schools, largely bypassing local authority social services departments. The Children and Young People's Unit will be based in the Department of Education and Employment, but will work closely with the Home Office and the Treasury. 'The key is early intervention, before children get caught in these traps. The earlier they can be identified the better they are likely to do,' said one DfEE source. 'It will be about building on projects already known to be successful. It could be mentoring, such as older peers talking to children at risk of becoming involved in crime, or it might be parent education on communicating with children and resolving conflict, or out-of-school activities.' The Children's Fund is meant to plug the gap between Surestart - the scheme targeting under-fives from deprived backgrounds to prepare them better for school - and the Connexions system of mentors to help older teenagers stay on in education.