The trouble with politics is that certain ideas, even certain words, fast become the property of one side over another. It gets so bad that the key word has only to be uttered for the competing partisans to scuttle into their red or blue corners, ready for predictable battle. So, in the Thatcher era "freedom," "the individual" and "choice" all became banners of the right. Their mere mention would instantly set left teeth on edge. Of course, no progressive was actually against freedom, the individual or choice - but their use in political combat made that hard to remember. They sounded like the weapons of the enemy.Crime is rather like that. Conservatives pounded away on the issue for so long, liberals became dazed: every time the word was spoken, they went, Pavlov-style, into a defensive crouch. They would reflexively question the right's assumptions, their statistics, their whole approach. The effect was to put liberals in the strange position where, because the Tories were so passionately against crime, liberals sounded like they were somehow for it. In the 1990s the Labour party got out of this fix thanks to a line from Tony Blair which must rate as one of the greatest slogans in contemporary politics: tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime.That helped Labour, but the wider liberal left has not quite shaken the oldhabit. Crime is still a touchy subject for progressives. The caricature of the caring, sharing Guardian reader, less angry with the criminal than with the social hardship that led him to crime, is not complete fiction. Liberals still worry as much about the things that can go wrong when dealing with crime - from police racism and the violation of civil liberties to prison brutality - as they fret about the impact of crime itself. Perhaps more. All of which will make them desperately keen to dismiss the latest entry into the debate on criminal justice - a new book by flame-thrower columnist and self-described reactionary, Peter Hitchens. A Brief History of Crime will confirm every prejudice the left has about Hitchens, still fondly referred to as "bonkers" in some quarters, but also about the right and crime itself. But it should not be ignored. For contained within its stew of nostalgic yearnings for a lost golden age, its tirades against the permissive society and its general fist-shaking rage against modernity itself are some nuggets of important wisdom - and several pressing challenges to liberals and the left in particular. His starting point is that crime has got much, much worse over the past century. In 1921, there were just 103,000 recorded crimes in England and Wales. By last year, that figure had reached 5.5m - including more than 2.25m thefts, 878,000 burglaries and 813,000 acts of violence. Even allowing for the increase in population, that is a huge leap in crime and the misery it causes. What explains it? It can't be blamed on poverty, as the bleeding hearts always insist: we are much richer now than we were then. Nor should we listen to police whingeing about short staffing: there are around 130,000 police officers now, a far greater increase than mere population growth would demand. And they have legal powers and equipment - from computers to helicopters, radios and guns - to make their 1920s predecessors marvel. So if poverty and resources aren't the explanation, what is? Plenty of liberals would rather duck the question, firing off data that point the other way. Crime is going down, they say, recently experiencing the biggest fall in a century; and it's been heading that way for eight years. Burglary and car crime have fallen by a third. That's welcome news but it hardly answers the point: even if we've gone from Everest to Ben Nevis levels, we're still way higher than we used to be. Others say we record wickedness now that hardly registered as crime in the 1920s: rape, child abuse, domestic violence. That's true, but it's not as if statistics include all of today's wrongdoing either. Even now, there is still much brutality that stays in the dark. But let's say the pre-war figures are a gross underestimate, and today's numbers are overly lurid. That still leaves a huge gap. Whichever way you cut it or slice it, crime is more prevalent now than it was. Hitchens has his own explanations, most of which progressives will want to giggle at or disregard. The villain of his story is Roy Jenkins, the 1960s home secretary who fathered the battery of liberal social reforms which still appal gut conservatives. Hitchens constructs a list of culprits, ranging from the rise of the woman police officer to the vegetarian option in prison meals. His proposed solutions will similarly bring ridicule from liberals: few will be detained by his call for a return to the death penalty or for citizens' right to bear firearms. But that should not obscure his more urgent message. For Hitchens argues that much of the blame for Britain's crime problem lies with the very people who are meant to fight it: the police. Here, then, is the argument which should engage the left. Over the past four decades, the police has morphed from a devolved force with local roots into a remote, semi-national, armed wing of the state. The old-style bobby on the beat has been replaced by a Robocop figure, jangling with radio, pepper spray and weapon, or a paper-shuffler holed up in some faraway police station. No longer a constant, physical presence on the streets, their function has shifted from prevention to (inevitably less effective) reaction after the event. When did this happen? Maybe it was the shift from foot to car patrol, from Dixon of Dock Green to Z Cars. Maybe a turning point was the use of the police as a paramilitary force, imposing the will of government during the 1984 miners' strike. Either way, the role has changed. Today's police are not as their 19th century founders envisaged: a group of citizens with few greater powers than their neighbours, paid to guard their own communities. The force is no longer with us. Instead they are now often armed to the teeth with a muscle that was once unimaginable, whether it's hacking into our emails or, as Hitchens details, arresting us for waving placards or delivering the wrong kind of street-corner speech. There is a right-wing way to talk about this. It is to say that today's police force is the last, unreformed nationalised industry, its low detection and conviction rates proof of its inefficiency. And there is a way that should be instinctive for the liberal left. It would insist that smaller, more devolved police forces work better than large, bureaucratic ones. That police powers should be rolled back, making the force the kind of humble, close-at-hand, citizens' guard Robert Peel dreamed of - not the armed gendarmerie Peel's opponents feared. Where both left and right can unite is in saying that the current set-up is failing badly, clearing the way for too much crime - a menace which brings misery, especially to the lives of society's poorest. If that isn't a concern for progressives, I don't know what is. j.freedland@theguardian.com