A man who served 25 years in prison for the attempted murder of a nine-year-old boy fought back tears yesterday after his conviction was quashed by the Court of Appeal.Paul Blackburn was 15 when he was found guilty at Chester crown court in 1978. He was sentenced to life, but always protested his innocence while serving time in 18 different prisons. After his conviction was ruled unsafe by the court yesterday, 41-year old Mr Blackburn said he felt both elation and fury. "Of course I'm feeling angry," he said. "I've always felt angry. But what do you do with that? Do you destroy your own life by being angry all the time? You can't. I tried that when I was in prison and it's just so destructive and damaging." Mr Blackburn, from Warrington, Cheshire, was released on life licence in March 2003. He always maintained his innocence and since leaving prison has struggled to pick up the pieces of his life. "What is a normal life after 25 years in there being treated like shit, being treated like an animal?" he said. "I'm still very unsettled and have great difficulty with relationships and being around people. There are times when I need to find a lot of space and isolation for myself." Mr Blackburn lost an earlier appeal against his conviction in 1981, but has always said he did not receive a fair trial. His QC, Tim Owen, argued that his detention had been "clearly prolonged" by his persistent assertions that he was wrongly convicted, but Mr Blackburn felt he had no other option. "That's the truth and that's what happened," he said yesterday. "What am I supposed to do about that other than fight it?" His case was referred back to the Court of Appeal for a fresh review by the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the independent body which investigates possible miscarriages of justice. In his judgment yesterday, Lord Justice Keene said the Crown had conceded that linguistic evidence was now available suggesting there was "significant police involvement" in the wording of the admissions Mr Blackburn wrote in July 1978. That evidence called into question the credibility of both the senior police officers who carried out the crucial interview and testified on oath that they sat quietly while Blackburn wrote his own statement. "We are conscious we have not heard from them as they have not been called, but we cannot escape the conclusion that they cannot have told the truth on the subject of the written confession," the judge said. Mr Blackburn, who was a teenager at the time, should have been told of his right to consult a solicitor and been given the opportunity to do so, the judge said. The interview should have taken place at a police station where notices about the right to legal advice would have been displayed and not at the approved school where Mr Blackburn was in care. A parent or his assigned social worker should have been present as the house warden there on his behalf did little to safeguard his interests. And Mr Blackburn was questioned for more than three hours without a break before he made any admission. "Such a lengthy questioning of a 15-year-old boy without a parent or guardian present gives us real cause for concern," the judge said. He concluded that Mr Blackburn would have regarded a reference by the officers to an earlier incident and a possible further charge as a threat to be made good if he did not cooperate. "When we put all these circumstances together ... we are clear that none of the appellant's admissions should have gone before the jury," the judge said. "Certainly, in the light of current standards, they cannot be seen as reliable." Outside the court, Mr Blackburn said he could remember little about his police interview. "I was a young kid. They say there was nothing mentally wrong with me, but I was in an approved school for setting fire to my own school. Is that normal? Well of course it isn't normal. It was a very confusing, scary and frightening time for me." Mr Blackburn said he was waiting to hear from his legal team if there would be an application for compensation. Asked about his immediate plans he replied: "Get drunk."