A Glasgow MP today warned that rightwing groups such as the British National Party may seek to "exploit" the murder of a 15-year-old boy by stirring up racial tension in the city.Labour MP Mohammed Sarwar, whose Govan constituency includes the Pollokshields area where Kriss Donald was snatched from the street before being beaten to death, said: "We have to be very cautious that we don't allow the BNP and other right-wing organisations to exploit this tragedy to harm the race relations we have enjoyed over the years in Glasgow."He said "all the local communities" in Pollokshields - the only Scottish seat with a significant non-white population - were united in wanting to catch the culprits. Racial tensions that flared up about six months ago had since been resolved through police action and community meetings."There were problems in the past, but one thing is certain, there are only a few people, who I believe are thugs, causing disturbance and trouble in this area, and police are well aware of these people," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.Fears of renewed racial aggravation in the Govan area - where about one-third of the population is Pakistani - have arisen following reports that the schoolboy's murder was carried out by a gang of Asian men.He was snatched from the street near his home in Glasgow's South Side on Monday, as he walked with his friend Jamie Wallace, 19. The attackers were said by police to be of 'Asian' appearance.While the friend managed to escape, Kriss was bundled into a silver car, thought to be a Mercedes or a BMW. Less than 16 hours later, his badly beaten body was found behind a Celtic supporters' club in the east of the city, a few hundred yards from the football stadium.A Scottish newspaper today carried an interview with members of the boy's family, suggesting that the two teenagers had been targeted because of a feud over an Asian girl.Kriss's sister Samantha, 17, told the Glasgow-based Daily Record that the attack related to a girl Jamie had been going out with.She said: "The girl was seeing an Asian guy. He got wind of it and it caused a lot of bad feeling. Kriss and Jamie had been victimised in the street and warned they were going to be seriously hurt."Unnamed friends cited by the paper claimed that Jamie had been attacked twice in the days preceding the assault that led to the younger boy's death.But Detective Superintendent Elliot McKenzie, who is leading the investigation, today said it was too early to establish a motive. He said the victim's family were devastated and said questioning remained "sensitive". Mr McKenzie declined to comment on claims the murder was racially motivated but acknowledged the area's ethnic mix could complicate the community's reaction to the killing. He said: "Any community from which a 15-year-old is snatched in broad daylight would be shocked but there are additional sensitivities. Obviously we are looking at the impact the abduction and death will have on the local community." Another Govan Labour MSP, Gordon Jackson, also played down a racial motive. He said: "Every area, particularly in a city, has young men getting into bother from time to time. What I do not want to do is put down young men's behaviour to a race problem."Mr Jackson said there was a "substantial Asian population" in the community but speculation of a racial motive could create a problem where none existed. He said: "I am horrified that all of a sudden people want to suggest that is what it is about and that is a problem. Frankly, it just creates a problem that was not here in the first place." There have been reports of a "gang culture" in the area but Mr Jackson denied there were any more problems than other communities. He said: "In the past we have not had any more trouble than we would expect with young men in any area." Anyone with information on the murder is asked to call the incident room at London Road police station on 0141 532 4750. Witnesses who wish to remain anonymous can contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.