Man Group is the most phenomenal money machine the City has seen for decades. Its trick was to catch the rise of hedge funds at their outset in the 1980s and pursue the growth of these "alternative" investments at a pace few rivals have been able to match.The result is a FTSE 100 company worth £5bn, managing assets of £25bn. The sheer size of the business is also testament to Man's reputation as a professional operator with strict internal controls that is happy to accept scrutiny by regulators.Investors do not expect to hear allegations such as those being aired in the US district court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania. Man is an establishment firm that can count five of the City's richest individuals among its shareholders and directors. Chairman Harvey McGrath has company shares worth £100m and his chief executive, Stanley Fink, son of a lampshade maker, is worth about £75m.On top, Mr Fink has collected about £10m in salary in the last three years and his personal investments include a hotel in the Alpine ski resort of Courchevel.The term hedge funds covers a wide variety of investment techniques, and Man's contribution was to popularise momentum-following. Its involvement arose almost by accident. Until the 1980s, ED&F Man was primarily a trader in commodities such as cocoa, sugar and coffee. It found itself increasingly trying to use financial instruments to protect itself against the fluctuations in the prices of these commodities. In other words, it wanted to hedge its risk.That led it into the game of trying to predict price movements. In 1984, it entered a partnership with a statistician who claimed to have developed a system of following trends in market prices.Man liked the results and in 1989 it bought a little-known investment management firm named Adam, Harding & Lueck that was employing a similar trend-following model. It was the deal that would see ED&F Man jettison its dull past in commodities and enter the go-go world of hedge funds.The appeal of hedge funds is the promise of consistent returns. Traditional fund managers too often fail to beat the general stock market, and the switch towards hedge funds has transformed the business of money management. There are about 8,000 hedge funds in the world and they are reckoned to account for about half the volume of shares traded daily on the London Stock Exchange.Man has developed a long way from its original techniques. It now owns a fund-of-fund business which invests in both its own and third-party hedge funds. But the most rapid growth has been seen at Man Financial, the broking division named in the Pennsylvania court case.The primary case is an action by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), a regulatory body, against Paul Eustace, who set up the Philadelphia Alternative Asset Management Company (PAAM).The explosive allegations against Man Financial are made in a motion to the court by the receiver to Eustace's fund. The receiver is trying to uncover the full story of the collapse and is thought to have recovered only about $75m so far for investors."Man Financial has hindered the receiver's investigation by refusing to turn over relevant documents, and this motion seeks to correct Man Financial's misconduct," says the motion to the court.While Man says it has provided "over 4,200 pages of documentation", the receiver says this is still less than full disclosure. In particular, he says the documents do not explain why details of the "50 account", which was allegedly used to disguise losses, was not made available to investors or to UBS, the other broker to the Eustace fund.Man, saying it is "surprised and disappointed by the actions of the receiver", added: "The receiver's actions are at odds with public statements he has made to the effect that he has received a high degree of cooperation from most parties involved and no one has yet refused to provide documents requested. Man Financial has a demonstrable record of cooperation and compliance with regulatory bodies in all the jurisdictions in which it operates. In this case, we have complied with all requests for information from our regulator, the CFTC. We remain committed to working closely and constructively with both the CFTC and the receiver to PAAM."Since this issue is still subject to legal and regulatory investigation, we have no comment to make on the broader content of the receiver's motion."