Public confidence in the supervision of high-risk offenders released from prison suffered a fresh blow yesterday with the disclosure that 79 have been charged in the last year with a further serious crime, up to and including murder or rape.The figure includes seven offenders among the 1,072 categorised as level 3 or the "critical few" who are under the highest level of probation and police supervision.This year's figures for serious further offending by those under the supervision of the multi-agency public protection arrangements - made up of police, probation and prison staff and known as Mappa - show only modest progress. The figure of 79 compares with 83 high-risk released prisoners involved in further serious crimes in 2006/07 and 62 the year before.The figures will revive the debate surrounding the quality of police, probation and prison supervision in cases such as Anthony Rice, who murdered Naomi Bryant after his release, and the murder of city banker John Monckton by Damien Hanson and Elliott White.The annual Ministry of Justice figures show that 50,210 offenders are under probation or police supervision after release from prison. This includes 31,392 sex offenders who have to sign the register and notify the police of any change in their circumstances - an increase of 3% over the previous year.Only 5,778 of the 31,392 sex offenders are considered to pose sufficient risk to require higher-level supervision, 600 fewer than in 2006/07. The statistics show that out of the 50,210 offenders 12,806 are under the higher level 2 or 3 supervision. Of this group, 1,659 were returned to prison in 2007/08 for breaching the terms of their licence.The justice minister, David Hanson, said the figures showed the Mappa system was monitoring a record number of offenders to protect the public since its introduction seven years ago."The offenders dealt with under Mappa are those whose behaviour can be aggressive, irrational and confrontational. This means that the risk of further offences is ever present - that risk can never be eliminated entirely - but the majority of those subject to active Mappa management do not seriously re-offend due to robust and effective management."He said the management of sex offenders in the community was being further tightened with pilot schemes on the selective disclosure of the names and addresses of offenders in the community and a consultation launched on the use of lie detector tests. But the Conservative justice spokesman, Edward Garnier, said his response was complacent given that the figures showed an increase in the percentage of serious offenders breaching their release conditions."There has been a 27% increase in the number of sex offenders breaching sex offender's register requirements and yet David Hanson is happy to say that there has been a reduction in the risk to the public," said Garnier. "And why does the government statement say nothing about level 1 offenders, who make up over two-thirds of those covered by Mappa. What has the government got to hide?"The figures also showed that only one person was given an order stopping them from going overseas. Foreign Travel Orders can be imposed to prevent paedophiles going abroad if they are thought likely to commit further offences. Gary Glitter was given one last month. But only five have been handed out since 2005. The Home Office has launched a review of the orders after concerns over low usage.