A gang of young killers were sentenced yesterday for an attack in a park which left a 17-year-old boy with fatal head injuries. Amar Aslam was kicked, hit with a pole and robbed by the gang of four in Crow Nest Park, Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, in May.A judge at Leeds crown court sentenced Amin Hussain Ali, 20, and Asif Khan, 16, to life imprisonment for the murder. Ibrar Hussain and Hassan Ali Rehman, both 16, were each sentenced to 24 months' detention and training orders for manslaughter.Mr Justice Maddison told the youths: "On Sunday May 25 of this year all of you ... took part in what I accept was an unpremeditated but, nevertheless, senseless and brutal, sustained and cowardly attack on a defenceless youth, Amar Aslam ... during which he received such a severe beating that he suffered no less than 41 marks of injury."He ordered Khan to serve a minimum of nine years and Ali 12 years in prison, and imposed a three-year concurrent sentence on both for robbery.Ali and Khan, both of Ravensthorpe, West Yorkshire, entered guilty pleas last month, on the day their trial was due to begin. Hussain and Rehman, both also from Ravensthorpe, admitted manslaughter a day later.The four youths spent the day of the killing drinking in Crow Nest Park before encountering Amar, who was trying to speak to two young girls, near an area of the park known as the Secret Garden.James Goss QC, prosecuting, said Amar had learning difficulties following a car accident in 1999. "He became more introverted and sensitive, as well as abusive and rude on occasion," Goss said.He continued: "The effects of his head injuries may have made him appear strange and impulsive to others."After repeatedly kicking and stamping on the teenager, who was found with prints from boots and trainers on his body and face, Ali filmed himself on his mobile phone, jeering at his prone victim.Ali and Khan then took cash, a chain and some cannabis from Amar, before the gang left the park, boasted about their attack to members of the community, and spent £10 they had stolen on dinner.Amar's sister, Samreen Aslam, 25, said yesterday that she was shocked by the length of the sentences given to the four."I'm really upset ... I think it's far too lenient for killing my brother, who had 41 injuries, and to just give them such a low sentence, I was shocked."In an emotional speech outside court, she said: "I just thought ... we waited so long for this day ... that there would be some justice and those people who have done such a terrible crime, that they would make an example out of it so young kids will learn it's not easy to go and kill someone and take a video and brag about it."In my opinion they've made it more easy by giving such a low sentence, so everybody can watch somebody dying, like my brother died."Detective superintendent Chris Thompson, of West Yorkshire police, said: "Amar Aslam was a vulnerable young man who was in the park alone on the evening in question, and it is this alone that brought him to the attention of his killers."When he went to a secluded area in the park he was immediately subjected to a ferocious and sustained attack. The levels of violence used against him were appalling. The killers showed him no mercy and no compassion."