The Metropolitan police has officially closed the door on Brian Paddick returning to his job as commander of Lambeth by appointing him to another post and signalling that he will not be able to return to the south London borough even if he is cleared of allegations that he smoked cannabis, the Guardian has learned.The move to a less high profile position in a new department was sanctioned by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, and his deputy, Ian Blair. Their decision will infuriate Mr Paddick's supporters because it pre-empts the findings of the crown prosecution service, which is expected to announce within 48 hours that the officer who pioneered the "softly softly" drugs strategy will not face criminal charges relating to claims in a "kiss and tell" story published in a Sunday tabloid. The choice of job for Mr Paddick has also raised eyebrows within the Met. He has been appointed joint number three of a new intelligence unit, even though he has limited experience in the field. The department is to be headed by Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, the country's most senior Asian of ficer. Below him will be Deputy Assistant Commissioner Mike Fuller, the country's most senior black officer. Mr Fuller will be the direct line manager to Mr Paddick, the country's most senior openly gay officer. None of them has recent experience in intelligence work. Mr Ghaffur is currently head of the Met's directorate of performance, review and standards, and Mr Fuller is in charge of the Met's drugs strategy. "They are all highly talented officers, but this could be a case of the blind leading the blind, leading the blind," said one source. The trio will be part of a team responsible for implementing an information sharing system known as the national intelligence model, a task that is regarded as one of the most complex in policing. The decision to block Mr Paddick's return to Lambeth, though, is likely to spark the most immediate controversy and will be a focal point of a rally demanding his reinstatement, which is being staged at the end of the month. The commander has consistently denied allegations by his partner of five years, James Renolleau, who said in the Mail on Sunday that the officer smoked cannabis and allowed it to be stored at the flat they shared during their five-year relationship. Mr Paddick has admitted being present when his former partner smoked the drug and was questioned by detectives about whether he broke police guidelines by not telling his superiors that Mr Renolleau was on bail for an alleged fraud offence when they met. The officer was moved from Lambeth pending an investigation by the police complaints authority, whose report on the matter is now being considered by the CPS. The furore led the mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, to say that Mr Paddick had been the victim of a "profoundly intrusive homophobic press campaign". The Mail on Sunday paid Mr Renolleau £100,000 for his story and it is believed that he offered investigators from the PCA no evidence to support his claims of drug use. If CPS lawyers decide there are no grounds to press charges against Mr Paddick, the Metropolitan police authority will convene a committee to decide whether he should be disciplined. Rather than wait, and fearing more controversy if he returned to south London, the Met's most senior officer decided last week to press ahead with a plan to move Mr Paddick permanently. The decision to act now also pre-empts a report by an independent firm of management consultants, which is being paid £60,000 to review the ranking and borough structure of the force. Last month Lee Jasper, chairman of the Lambeth police consultative committee, said Mr Paddick enjoyed "unprecedented levels of support from the Lambeth community. "The sooner [he] is back behind his desk in Brixton the better for all of us," he added. The following apology was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, October 11 2002In the report above we quite wrongly suggested that Deputy Assistant Commissioner Mike Fuller, the country's most senior black officer, who has been appointed head of the Metropolitan police's intelligence unit, had no recent experience in intelligence work. From 1999 to 2001 he was head of Operation Trident, a high profile operation tackling black-on-black gun crime, which was primarily intelligence led. Mr Fuller's current role as head of the drugs directorate involves the assessment and use of intelligence work. In the past two weeks he has submitted a review of the Met's intelligence systems and made recommendations for improvements. He will be responsible for introducing these in his new role as director of intelligence. Apologies for the misleading impression our report conveyed.