Supervisors of offenders on unpaid work schemes are increasingly being subjected to threats, and verbal and physical abuse, with many complaining of feeling intimidated and afraid, according to a new survey.Most of the threats are made by the offenders, but in London there have been three shootings, allegedly by rival gang members, targeting those doing unpaid work who are not from their area. The most serious case was last month in Hackney, when a 19-year-old offender was left in a critical condition after being shot five times when leaving a placement, the survey by the probation officers' union, Napo, reports. In another incident in east London, an offender was shot and injured in the shoulder.The report details hundreds of incidents in London, Merseyside and Hertfordshire over recent months. In Hertfordshire, one offender told a male supervisor he was going to kill him and rape his four-year-old-daughter. Another slashed the car tyres of a female supervisor and told her: "I know here you live and I'm going to get you and your family."At least two supervisors have had to lock themselves in a vehicle to escape physical violence and one member of staff was left cut and bleeding after a stone was thrown at him by an offender.The situation has become so serious that a protection system has been set up for supervisors in the south-west of England.Last year, 55,000 offenders were sentenced to unpaid work in the community, two-thirds of them in group work placements. Napo says placements are increasingly staffed by sessional workers who are paid at an hourly rate – on average £8.50 an hour.Staff have told Napo that the present ratio of up to a dozen offenders to one supervisor is unsafe; it was previously six to one.Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of Napo, said: "Reports of abuse and threats are now occurring every working day. It is of great concern that there have now been shootings. There are clear implications for the health and safety of staff, offenders and the public. It is quite scandalous that staff are paid £8.50 an hour to be systematically abused."Fletcher said that while unpaid work had an important role in sentencing, it needed to be properly run. "There is a need for an urgent review of the staffing and training of unpaid work. A combination of a workforce who do not want to be there and staff who are not trained to motivate spells major problems for the future."The survey records supervisors as saying they were reluctant to report abuse because it would be tantamount to saying they were unable to do their job properly, therefore they would not be offered more work.Concerns over the safety of offenders and staff have led to probation services in London, Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool no longer sending gang members who have been given unpaid work to do placements outside the individual's own postcode area.Police have expressed concern that risk assessments are not carried out before setting placements for offenders. A police source said: "There are a lot of risk assessments in everything we do and one of the biggest issues I have seen is that people are not really assessing risk in community service work."If people from one area were put into another, added the source, "then you can get all sorts of violence ensuing – obviously there can be a danger to the public".