Harold Shipman, a trusted family doctor who became Britain's most prolific serial killer, was yesterday convicted of murdering 15 elderly female patients, and may have killed dozens more, it emerged last night.Sources close to the police investigation said files had been prepared on 23 more deaths and detectives had looked into a total of 141 deaths, although not all were thought to be suspicious. The Manchester coroner, John Pollard, said Shipman may have killed 150 of his patients. At Preston crown court yesterday Shipman was given 15 life sentences and the trial judge will recommend to the home secretary that he remains in jail for the rest of his life. The jury of seven men and five women took 33 hours and 55 minutes to unanimously find the doctor guilty of all the murder charges and forging the £386,000 will of his final victim. Shipman, a 54-year-old family doctor from Mottram, near Hyde, Greater Manchester, had injected each of his victims with a lethal dose of morphine and then claimed they had died of natural causes. He stared straight ahead as the foreman of the jury read out the verdict to the packed courtroom. His wife, Primrose, who had loyally sat in court for 52 days since the trial started last October, was in her usual seat in the front row of the public gallery in the oak- panelled courtroom. Mr Justice Forbes told Shipman that the sheer wickedness of what he had done was shocking beyond belief. "Each of your victims was your patient and you killed each and every one of your victims by a calculated and cold-blooded perversion of your medical skills," he said. He told Shipman that he had grossly abused the trust that his victims had put in him. "You were, after all, each victim's doctor. I have no doubt that each of your victims smiled and thanked you as she submitted to your deadly administrations," the judge said. "Yours was not a healing touch. None of them knew that it brought them death, which was disguised as the caring attention of a good doctor." The judge said Shipman had not shown the slightest remorse or contrition to the victims' families, who had to relive in court the tragedy of grief he had visited upon them. Shipman forged medical records to support the causes of death he recorded on death certificates and then lied to the families when he said he had called ambulances for the women he had murdered. Many relatives of victims complained that he had treated them callously. After the verdicts, it was disclosed that an earlier investigation into the suspicious number of deaths among Shipman's patients was abandoned for lack of evidence. Police examined the dead patients' medical records and compared them with their death certificates in March 1997, 18 months before Shipman was arrested and charged, after a local GP expressed suspicions to the coroner. He went on to kill three more patients before he was arrested. Vincent Sweeney, the assistant chief constable of Greater Manchester police, said yesterday: "Decisions were made and conclusions reached about that investigation - by the police and the health authority - that were based upon information in records which we now know to have been fraudulently altered by Dr Shipman. The absence of any evidence to support a concern effectively meant that the investigation could go no further. Without evidence, there can be no criminal investigation." West Pennine health authority last night suspended a medical adviser, Alan Banks, who had examined the patient records as part of the investigation. The authority said the suspension did not imply wrongdoing by Dr Banks. It also emerged last night that Shipman had a 1976 drug conviction, relating to obtaining by deception supplies of the pain-killing drug pethidine when he was a newly qualified GP. At the time, Shipman admitted his addiction, saying he was "seriously depressed and confused". The General Medical Council had been informed of his conviction but told police no paperwork was available relating to it. After psychiatric tratement, the GMC allowed him to continue in practice without monitoring or supervision. During the trial, no real motive emerged as to why the apparently caring family doctor, with 3,100 patients, had become a serial killer. With the exception of Mrs Grundy, none of the victims was wealthy and he had nothing to gain from murdering them. The only clue to a motive emerged during the opening of the trial when Richard Henriques QC, prosecuting, said he was "exercising the ultimate power of controlling life and death". But it also emerged that Shipman's mother, who died of cancer when her son was 17, had been treated with morphine by the family GP in the last weeks of her life. Robert Davies, of the crown prosecution service, said last night: "The CPS, the police and prosecuting counsel have worked together to bring to justice the most prolific serial killer this country has known." He said they had been considering files sent to them by the police on a number of further allegations against Shipman but a decision has not yet been taken whether to pursue those allegations. Ann Bell, Shipman's solicitor, said the GP, his wife and their four children were "devastated" at the verdicts.