Gareth Myatt was just three days into a six-month sentence at Rainsbrook Secure Training Centre in Northamptonshire when he was restrained by three members of staff after refusing to clean the sandwich toaster. He tried to tell them he couldn't breathe, but they did not release him. As they held him down, Gareth choked on his own vomit and died. He was 15.The five-week inquest into Gareth's case, which ended last Thursday, found that his death was an accident. But the jury also found that he might still be alive if the Youth Justice Board (YJB), which oversees privately run centres like Rainsbrook, had carried out adequate safety checks into the types of restraints staff were being trained to use on the children in their care.Gareth's mother Pam Wilton is on a rare day home from attending the inquest when we meet at her house on a post-war council estate in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire. In the front room, framed colour photographs of her three children adorn the wall. Gareth, the eldest boy, appears aged six months, wearing little shorts, braces and a cardigan. "He was gorgeous," says Wilton. "He had the biggest, loveliest smile, big brown eyes, a cheeky grin."Gareth was mixed race. Wilton, who is white, did not tell his father, who is black, that she was pregnant before they split up, and Gareth grew up without him. As a little boy, he was confident, and Wilton shrugged off comments from neighbours about her brown baby. But when he started school aged five, things began to change. "He used to come home upset and he never said why," says Wilton, who has the weary blink of somebody who has seen enough for one lifetime. She says people regularly came outside the house to call him "black bastard".Gareth began to struggle with his identity. Although he had plenty of friends, the absence of contact with his black relatives made his adolescence confusing. "I used to ruffle his hair and play with his curls," says his mother. "He had lovely hair and gorgeous skin. He would say, 'No I haven't - I hate it.' He never said he wanted to be white in so many words but if you mentioned anything about the other side, he just didn't want to know."Wilton says she can't remember the first time Gareth came to the police's attention, but that in the years leading up to his one and only conviction, whenever anything went wrong locally, officers would turn up at the door wanting to talk to him. "I thought they were picking on him because of his colour," she says. Wilton admits her son was "no angel", but believes his confusion over his identity may have made him more vulnerable to influence. "He wasn't a bad lad. I think he followed the others to fit in because all his mates were white and they accepted him, but others didn't."Whether the police attention was a result of his race, his actions or a combination of the two, a stint in custody seems to have been almost inevitable. Even so, it came as a shock to his family when he was convicted of stealing a bottle of beer and assaulting a residential social worker at a children's unit. He was sentenced to a 12-month detention and training order, including six months in Rainsbrook. "It was obvious we were all upset," says Wilton, lighting the latest in a long line of cigarettes. "I said to him, 'I'll come and see you. It won't be long, it will soon go'."On the evening of April 19 2004, Gareth refused to clean the sandwich toaster in the dining area. Two members of staff followed him to his room and began removing things. When one of them tried to take away a piece of paper from the shelf, Gareth became upset and staff say he lunged at one of them. It later emerged that the paper contained his mother's new mobile phone number, thrust into his hands by his solicitor as he left court three days earlier.In the ensuing struggle, the two members of staff, Diana Smith, a training assistant and David Beadnall, a training supervisor - joined by David Bailey, a training assistant who had by now entered the room - began to restrain Gareth, who was 4ft 10in and weighed under seven stone. They used a technique called the seated double embrace, which involves two members of staff forcing a person into a sitting position and leaning them forward, while a third takes care of the head.The next few moments were related in appalling detail by Smith at the inquest. "Gareth was doing a lot of shouting and swearing. He did say at one stage that he couldn't breathe. Somebody said, 'Well, if you are shouting, you can breathe.' Gareth said he was going to shit himself. Somebody said, 'Well, you are going to have to shit yourself, because we can't let you go while you are like this,' Bailey looked back and said he had actually shat himself. The struggling seemed to go on for a while and then he seemed to settle down. After a few minutes we realised something was wrong. I looked at his face and he had something coming down his nose and he looked as if his eyes were bulging. I can't remember much more. I've tried to get it out of my mind."Gareth Myatt's death prompted three separate inquiries, and in June 2004, the seated double embrace - which had been approved for use on children by the Home Office and the YJB as part of a series of techniques known as Physical Control in Care - was withdrawn from use within juvenile custody. It has not been used since.At his inquest it emerged that before Gareth died, at least four other children had complained of being unable to breathe while being held in the seated double embrace. One boy was taken to hospital with breathing problems and haemorrhaging that left blood in his eyes, and a girl was left wearing a neck brace for five days. After Gareth's death, an investigation into the use of restraints at the centre found that the methods used in two-thirds of the cases examined were "potentially lethal".Yet those in charge do not appear to have appreciated the dangers. David Tuck, the YJB's monitor at Rainsbrook, said that although he expressed concern about the technique, he did not recommend that its safety be examined because it did not occur to him that somebody could die. Mark Perfect, YJB chief executive at the time, has admitted that on his watch the only review into restraint techniques used on young people in custody was carried out by the National Children's Bureau and failed to investigate the safety of the procedures in place - though it has since emerged that it would have cost only an extra £1,500 to do so.Deborah Coles, co-director of the campaigning group Inquest, which has worked with Gareth's family for the past three years, says it is a scandal that such serious failings came to light only through Pam Wilton's tenacity. "Gareth died a terrifying death that was entirely preventable," she says. "The shameful failings of the Youth Justice Board resulted in dangerous techniques being routinely used - behaviour which in any other setting would be seen as child abuse."Ellie Roy, chief executive of the YJB, was not available for an interview but said in a statement: "It is clear that everyone working with young people in custody needs to learn lessons from this tragic case. The Youth Justice Board is clear - restraint must be used as a last resort." Yet the YJB backs new rules, put in motion by the Ministry of Justice and due to come into force this Friday, that would allow staff in secure training centres to make even wider use of restraint, including inflicting pain on children who refuse to go to bed or be quiet. This is a significant extension of the existing rules at the institutions, which state that restraint can only be applied where there is a genuine risk to people or property, or the chance of escape.The first Wilton knew that anything was wrong was when police knocked on her door at around 5am the next day to tell her Gareth was dead. "I waited until 9am and rang up Rainsbrook," she says. "They got back to me at about midday. All they said is, 'It happened while he was being restrained.' And right up until the inquest they didn't tell me anything else, so I didn't know anything." She says she received no phone call or letter expressing regret, no offer of help or support, and her attempts to get information were blocked at every turn. She says the first apology she received from anyone was from Mark Perfect outside the inquest.Wilton does not like to think about Gareth's last moments. Pausing to think about how her life will be now that the inquest is over, she closes her eyes and is silent for some time. "There are so many things I wanted to say to Gaz if I had known," she says finally. "I speak to him now and it helps. He gives me strength. We were close and I believe that if he can, he won't be far away. I get through it by thinking he is in a better place; nobody can hurt him now. He is safe".