The body of the missing schoolgirl Vicky Hamilton has been found by police searching the garden of a house in Kent, it was confirmed today.Police said the remains, discovered in the garden of the three-bedroom terrace house in Margate on Monday, belonged to Vicky, from Redding, near Falkirk, who went missing 16 years ago when she was 15.They were found during a police search for another teenager, Dinah McNicol, from Essex, who also went missing 16 years ago.A Lothian and Borders police spokesman said today: "We can confirm that the body found in the house in Margate, Kent, on November 12 is that of Vicky Hamilton."A man has been arrested in July 2007 and charged in connection with the disappearance of Vicky Hamilton, and a report submitted to the procurator fiscal."The man cannot be named for legal reasons. The remains were uncovered by forensic archaeologists from Essex police.Detectives said a second body belonging to 18-year-old Dinah McNicol could still be at the property in Margate.Detective Superintendent Tim Wills, of Essex Police, told a press conference: "We had reasons to come here. Those reasons still exist. We came here for Dinah. And we haven't yet finished."There is a chance that she is here. In fairness to the family we need to fully answer the question as to whether she was here at any time."Earlier Wills confirmed to Sky News that inquiries into "previous occupants" of the property were a "line of investigation".Essex police said last week that the McNicol case would be re-examined following a review by its Serious Crime Review Team. A spokeswoman said that detectives had received information that led them to the house in Irvine Drive, Margate.Officers have been keen to stress that the family who have lived there for the last 12 years "categorically have no involvement in this investigation". They have been moved to temporary accommodation while the property is searched.McNicol disappeared in August 1991 on the way home from a music festival in Liphook, Hampshire. She was last seen by a male friend with whom she was hitchhiking.Detectives believe the pair were picked up on the A3 by a man in a car, who dropped her friend off at junction 8 of the M25 near Reigate, Surrey. Neither the man nor the car have been traced.Around this time, £500 was drawn from McNicol's account at cash machines in Sussex and Hampshire, officers said. She had saved around £2,000 to go travelling, after which she was planning to go to university.The missing woman's father, Ian, 68, would not comment yesterday. "He's in bed, he's finding this very difficult," a friend said, speaking from his home in Tillingham.Previously he had welcomed the search, saying: "There is 99% of me which thinks she's dead, but until the police can produce a body or find anything there is 1% of me that is still hopeful that she is alive."I am very pleased about the new investigation. Having someone go missing is worse than someone dying. I lost my wife in a car accident in 1980. I went through hell but got over it. With Dinah, I can't get over it because I don't know what happened."I want to die in peace knowing what happened to my daughter."Detectives released a new photograph of the woman yesterday, taken at her grandmother's Lincolnshire home shortly before she left for the music festival. Wills said the picture could prove important as it showed "the vibrant bubbly girl her family describe"."The photo publicised for the last 16 years shows Dinah sporting a striking gothic image in a formal pose," he said. "This image shows a distinctly different and more relaxed looking young woman and it may be enough to trigger someone's memory.At the time when she disappeared McNicol wore her dark hair in plaits or dreadlocks, or covered in a headscarf, the officer said. She also wore black Dr Martens-style boots and carried a green drawstring bag.