Republican dissidents opposed to peace and power sharing have killed two men, in Derry and Belfast, over the past 72 hours. Both victims were members of the nationalist community who had crossed the terror group styling itself as the New IRA.The murders came just hours after the new head of MI5, Andrew Parker, predicted during his first public speech that the security forces would defeat the dissident republicans whom he branded "ragged remnants of a bygone age".  Barry McCrory. Photograph: PSNI/PABarry McCrory, 36, who was shot dead on Thursday morning at his flat in Derry city centre, is understood to have ignored warnings from anti-ceasefire republicans to leave the city over allegations of criminality. He was shot in front of his partner in the flat above business premises.There was widespread condemnation of the killing with one local member of the Northern Ireland Assembly, Pat Ramsey, describing harrowing scenes outside the flat when the victim's mother, father and younger brother arrived around lunchtime."It was a terrible, harrowing, disturbing thing to see the anguish on their faces," he said."This is an appalling and disgraceful incident. I was in the vicinity this morning and heard the shots that have resulted in the tragic loss of life."My condolences and sympathies are with the family of the victim at this time. I would urge anyone with any information about this incident to contact the police."Ramsey said the Diamond/Shipquay Street area, where the murder happened, is covered in CCTV cameras and footage might provide a clue as to the killers.Deputy first minister and Sinn Fein's chief negotiator during the peace process, Martin McGuinness, said: "Over the past 24 hours two men have been murdered in Belfast and Derry. I condemn these murders without equivocation."Those responsible claim to be dissident republicans. They are not republicans of any shade. They are entirely motivated by criminal intent."The murder in Derry took place just a few hours after the New IRA admitted killing Kevin Kearney, 46, a father of four, in north Belfast. His body was found in a lake inside Alexandra Park off Antrim Road on Wednesday afternoon. A search had begun after his partner became anxious that he had not been seen after walking his daughter to school from their home in the nearby Dunmore estate on Tuesday.The New IRA said Kearney was shot after the group carried out "an investigation" into allegations of criminal behaviour by him.The organisation, which claimed responsibility for the Belfast murder and is thought to be behind the Derry killing, is an amalgam of the Real IRA, independent republican terror units in areas such as east Tyrone, as well as members of Republican Action Against Drugs (RAAD) in Derry city.Before the merger of these illegal armed groups in the summer of 2012, RAAD carried out dozens of "punishment" beatings and shootings directed mainly at young men they had accused of drug dealing in Derry.