In the beginning there was sheer horror, a shared revulsion. And then, almost hour by hour, such emotional unity fragmented. Somebody, something, somewhere must be responsible for the carnage of Woolwich? Blame radical clerics touring BBC studios. Blame the police for arriving too late. Blame leftwing apologists or rightwing merchants of hate. Blame MI5 for not trawling deeper in a muddy pond of extremism full of small, deluded fish. Blame newspapers and television cameras and smartphone streamings. Blame the internet. But blame, of course, doesn't do the job.Five days after Drummer Lee Rigby was hacked to death – and the two Michaels, Adebolajo and Adebowale, were shot and arrested – we still can't quite explain what madness lies below the surface of sickening events. It's easy to conjure up theories. Theories, from experts real or self-proclaimed, are two a penny. What is much more difficult is fitting them into the melting pot of south London life. Eltham, where Stephen Lawrence died, is only a few miles south. Peckham, where Damilola Taylor died, is a few miles west. This area of our capital city is full of terrible deeds and terrible memories. The murder of Drummer Rigby seems different, perhaps. There are the blood-drenched hands, the rantings about Allah, the video footage shown time and again to remember. But there is also a single word that appears to set Woolwich apart: terrorism. Lee Rigby was a soldier slaughtered by terrorists.And it is here that there's need to pause and reflect. We all think we recognise terrorism when we see it. The twin towers crumble, Madrid trains incinerate, buses and tube stations explode across central London.These kind of attacks – concerted, orchestrated from lands far away by fundamentalists – have insidiously come to dominate our lives. They are part of the supposed "war on terror", which succeeded the cold war. They summon politicians to the ramparts of rhetoric and underpin billions upon billions of spending on the hardware of death. They are used to justify invasions of Iraq or Afghanistan and the distant drones that fall on the remote tribal areas of Pakistan. We are invited to see this new war as a threat to our own concepts of civilisation, our way of life. We are told that we must respond.Yet Woolwich sends a more complex message. Even though Barack Obama offers his backing and David Cameron calls for the steadfast defiance, there seems precious little that really binds 9/11 and a mundane avenue in SE18.Do you remember Richard Reid, the "shoe bomber", so amateurish, so totally inept that he couldn't light the blue touchpaper and blow up a plane full of passengers? Woolwich crown court will remember, only three months ago, the Birmingham plotters who bungled and blathered their way into prison. And as for the alleged murderers of John Wilson Street, who can ever forget their inexplicable video posturing? This berserk, incompetent brand of malevolence may be closer to Charles Manson's "family" and its satanist roots or to the Branch Davidians of Waco than anything that can truly be called war.Trying to respond to it by deportations, air strikes and hectoring Google may give it a status that hinders, not helps understanding. Is what we deem "terrorism" in south London so very different from the reactions of some Waziristan villager hunting for bodies of his wife and children after a drone blast ordered up from DC? No: terrorism is a catch-all concept that catches too many strands and too many confused or innocent people in its net. It has become an automatic response for politicians abandoning the "war on drugs" for simpler campaigns. Call for Cobra! Put a nation on alert. Construct a web of perverted religion that seems to make what happens somehow comprehensible, controlled by forces that we can target in return.But that's not how it is in reality. Sometimes there is no explanation but crazed credulity for what happens next. Sometimes the perpetrators – from Boston, Massachusetts to Romford – don't deserve the grand title of conspirators. Sometimes there are no easy answers, just fortitude and watchfulness. Terrorism didn't start on 9/11. A terrorist started the first world war. The madness of inhumanity is always only a shot or a knife thrust away.