Cambridgeshire Police appear to have said relatively little following the revelation that police attempted to recruit a young activist to spy on students and other campaigners.However Simon Parr, the Cambridgeshire chief constable, has intimated that his force was only doing what police forces across the country are doing.The BBC has quoted him as saying :"We are gathering intelligence from a number of sources as every force does, on things we believe may be of interest in keeping the public safe."It seems clear that what happened in Cambridge was not an isolated case.Around Britain, officers have for years been recruiting activists to spy on their friends and comrades.How many in the country have been converted into informants is a closely-guarded secret within the police. There are no published figures on that, but the total is likely to run into the hundreds.The police have different ways of recruiting informants. They often use blackmail, confronting an activist with some sort of embarrassing private or political secret that he or she is desperate to keep quiet. (It is not alleged that blackmail was being used by Cambridgeshire police when they were attempting to recruit the young activist). Others may agree to become an informant in return, say, for the dropping of criminal charges. Some sign up out of a sense of public duty or service to the country.Some are driven by feelings of jealousy towards other campaigners after they have lost a power struggle.Some are worried that their group is becoming too militant, according to a claim by the police.A police officer who unsuccessfully sought to recruit an environmental activist, Tilly Gifford, in 2009 suggested that some activists become informers as they are concerned that others in their group are "getting a wee bit too hotheaded." (The recording of the attempted recruitment is here, along with some background on that story here and here).However, a common inducement appears to be cash. You can hear the police officer in the bungled operation to spy on students and other protesters in Cambridge trying to establish (in this clip here) if the activist he is trying to recruit was driven by the lure of financial reward."You are not doing it for the money. Some people do…. That's a motivating factor for people. That's absolutely fine. My question to you would be - is that a motivating factor for you, because I would need to know that," says the police officer.The financial rewards enjoyed by individual informers are also kept secret by the police. Police sources have talked about a sliding scale that depends on the value of the information handed over.Here's an insight from Ken Day, who worked for the Metropolitan Police Special Branch between 1969 and 1998.Interviewed by the BBC for a 2002 series on the secret state, he said that in the 1990s, Special Branch were running around 100 informers in animal rights groups.He added :" …there were one or two that were on the payroll earning quite considerable sums, probably up to £10,000 a year. £10,000 I would be wanting 22 carat gold information from them."In 2009, another of the police officers trying to entice Gifford raises the prospect of large sums that could be channelled her way. On the tape, he says : "Years gone by people have been paid tens of thousands of pounds."Contrast that, though, with the other end of the scale. The officer trying to recruit the Cambridge activist suggested he would receive £30 for going to an UK Uncut or Unite Against Fascism meeting.