A rise in the prison population has contributed to an increase by 28% of inmates committing suicide, a penal reform group said yesterday.A total of 94 prisoners took their lives in 2002, compared with 73 the previous year, according to Home Office figures released yesterday. The Howard League said a big rise in inmate numbers had overburdened the system, and constituted a recipe for disaster by which "people have paid for with their lives". The prison population rose 6,840 in 2002 to a record 72,500. The Home Office predicts continued rises which by 2009 could see the number in jail reach more than 109,900. In a damning comment this month, the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, condemned the "debilitating and chilling effect of prison overcrowding". In her annual report she wrote: "There can be no doubt that most prisons are less safe than they were a year ago, and many are also less decent places." Suicides fell for two years when measures were taken to identify vulnerable prisoners. This decrease was at a time of rising numbers. Yesterday's figures show the suicide rate is rising faster than the prison population: 133 for every 100,000 this year, compared with 110 in 2001; the peak was in 1999, 140 for every 100,000. Beside those who died in 2002, a further 141 prisoners were resuscitated by staff. Hilary Benn, the prisons minister, said: "Over the last 18 months we have worked hard to develop our suicide prevention strategy, and we will continue to do all that we can to try to keep safe those vulnerable prisoners in our care." A spokesman for the Howard League said: "The main cause is prison overcrowding. It's not just because more are in prison and at risk of suicide, but it is also the conditions in jails - the huge number behind bars puts massive pressure on the system and individuals. It's a recipe for disaster for which people have paid for with their lives." The spokesman also said that the prison service faced staff shortages. The chief inspector said in her report that some inmates were locked in cells 23 hours a day, and some prisons failed to assess properly the risk of arrivals attempting suicide. The prison service director general, Martin Narey, said: "Staff skill and alertness have undoubtedly saved many other prisoners from killing themselves, but the service faces a very challenging time due to a combination of the effects of increased prisoner throughput and an increasingly risk-laden population." Juliet Lyon, of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "Suicides can be reduced, not by turning prisons into hospitals, but by increasing court diversion for the mentally ill, developing drug treatment for offenders in the community, and avoiding needless use of remand."