William Hague will today attempt to exploit the public outcry over the jailing of the farmer Tony Martin by pledging to change the law to give greater protection to people who are forced to defend their homes against intruders.In one of his most populist moves since taking over as Tory leader, Mr Hague will promise that a Conservative government would introduce into the law a "strong presumption" in favour of the likes of Martin, who was convicted last week of the murder of a teenage burglar. Speaking on the local election campaign trail, the Tory leader will say: "The Tony Martin case lit a touch paper that has led to an explosion of anger among the millions of law-abiding British people who no longer feel the state is on their side. "Politicians aren't doing their job if they don't listen and respond to the unprecedented public outcry which has greeted the murder conviction for this Norfolk farmer who was defending his home against burglars. I understand that outcry and I share it." Mr Hague will qualify his remarks by insisting that there is no place in a civilised society for vigilantes. But he will say that the law had to distinguish between hardened criminals and people forced to defend their property. "There is all the difference in the world between the career criminal who sets out deliberately to burgle a house and the terrified homeowner who acts to protect himself and his home," he will say in a campaign speech in Alcester, Warwickshire. "Unless our laws reflect natural justice, then they fall into disrepute. The next Conservative government will overhaul the law with a strong presumption that, in future, the state will be on the side of people who protect their homes and their families against criminals." Mr Hague's speech will delight Tory backbenchers, including the former cabinet minister and Norfolk MP Gillian Shephard, who have expressed deep anger at the jailing of Martin for the shooting dead a burglar who broke into his Norfolk farm. However, Mr Hague's speech will once again confirm the fears of moderates in the party that the Tory leader seems determined to reach out to a small rightwing core of hardline Tory supporters. To announce such a major policy within days of a court case will also lead to criticism that Mr Hague's circle have few ideas of their own and are happy to follow the latest fad. Labour immediately accused Mr Hague of "knee-jerk opportunism". A spokesman said: "He is trying to latch on to a well-publicised case but he has no coherent policy to offer." The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes accused the Tory leader of "ill-considered populism". Despite Labour's criticism of Mr Hague, the government has itself responded to the outcry over the Martin case. Over the weekend, government sources let it be known that they were planning to make more resources available for policing isolated rural areas in the chancellor's comprehensive spending review in July. Officials were quoted as saying that the case had a "strongly political dimension". In an attempt to drum up Tory support ahead of next week's local elections, he will also spell out other Tory policies to act tough on crime, including reversing the fall in police numbers, ending the automatic early release of prisoners on licence and extending the "two-strikes-and-you're out" regime. "What is the point of having a police service and prisons when three criminals, with 114 convictions between them, are allowed to wander about free to terrorise rural communities," he will say. "What has happened when career burglars and muggers get a few dozen hours community service, or a couple of months in prison if they're unlucky, while people defending their homes risk long prison sentences?"