A pair of boys aged 10 and 11 have become two of the country's youngest convicted sex offenders after an Old Bailey jury found them guilty of the attempted rape of an eight-year-old girl.Both boys, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were acquitted of two charges of rape at the end of what the judge called an "extremely difficult" trial today. Earlier, Mr Justice Saunders had admitted that the provisions for dealing with child witnesses were "not ideal".The boys, who had sat next to their mothers in the Old Bailey for the last two weeks, showed little reaction as the verdicts were returned.But the case has re-opened the debate on how children are treated in court, with a leading children's charity describing the way the case had been dealt with as "absolutely wrong".Michele Elliott, director of children's charity Kidscape, said: "Obviously if these boys did something they need help. Their young age and the young age of their victim makes it absurd that this took place in an adversarial court situation."I think it reflects horribly on our whole system, that a case like this with children should be tried in this way. The whole thing is horrific, all the way along."As a concession to the defendants' age, the judge and counsel had dispensed with wigs and gowns for the case.Proceedings were also kept short to help the boys follow what was going on, with the day divided into sessions designed to mimic a primary school timetable.But despite the special housekeeping arrangements, and Mr Justice Saunders' patient and avuncular manner, the prosecution had told the jury of six men and six women that it would hear evidence of a most serious crime committed last year in Hayes, west London."This case concerns rape by two boys still at primary school of a girl younger than them," said Rosina Cottage, prosecuting. "They took her to different locations near where they lived in order to find a sufficiently secluded spot to assault her."On 27 October last year, said Cottage, the girl's mother went to look for her daughter and was told by a little boy that she was in a field with two boys who were "hurting her and doing really bad things". The prosecution said that the boys, both 10 at the time of the incident, had repeatedly assaulted the girl in a block of flats, a lift and a bin shed before taking her to the field and raping her.The jury was also shown a recorded interview shot by trained police officers the day after the alleged assaults. In it, the girl played with a teddy bear while she told one of the officers how the boys had exposed themselves, pulled down her pants and raped her.However, the girl's story changed radically when she was cross-examined via videolink. She said she had lied to her mother as she had been "naughty" and was worried she would not get any sweets.In a series of questions, she was asked if any parts of her body had been penetrated by the boys. She replied each time: "No."But the judge refused to throw out the case, saying it was up to the jury to decide whether a witness could be trusted.The problem, said Chetna Patel, counsel for the younger boy, was that there was "no useful medical evidence, no DNA evidence and no forensic evidence; nothing" to support the prosecution's case.Linda Strudwick, defending the older boy, told the jury the case was about a children's game gone wrong. Strudwick told jurors: "What this case is about is not a serious crime. It is about children. There is a game called 'You show me yours and I will show you mine'. Maybe it went too far, maybe it went to touching, maybe they were doing something they had seen on television, maybe they were playing that age-old game, doctors and nurses."However, the jury disagreed. After deliberating for a day-and-a-half, they convicted the boys on two charges each of attempted rape by majorities of 10 to two. Thanking the jurors yesterday, Mr Justice Saunders said: "It was an extremely difficult case, no doubt it was traumatic for you in this case as well."The judge released the boys on conditional bail and adjourned sentence for eight weeks while reports are prepared.He also invited views on how the case had been conducted, adding: "At some stage I will be sending my views about procedure to those most concerned with it. That is not to indicate there is anything wrong, but we should do everything we can to improve how we deal with these things by looking at the lessons we can learn."The Crown Prosecution Service was quick to defend its handling of the case today, saying that the girl had made very serious allegations and was entitled to same legal protections as an adult."This was never going to be an easy case for a court to hear but that does not absolve the CPS of its duty to prosecute where there is sufficient evidence to do so and a prosecution is in the public interest," said Alison Saunders, of the CPS."In this case the allegations made by the young girl were very serious. She had given a clear and compelling account to the police and her account was consistent with the medical evidence and with the accounts given by other witnesses to the police."She has the same right to the protection of the law as an adult and that is why, after very careful consideration of all the evidence, the case was put before a jury. The decision to prosecute was not taken lightly."