A British man has been jailed for 42 years after a Thai court convicted him of sexually molesting at least eight street boys in Bangkok and distributing photographs of them on the internet, Thai media reported yesterday.Robert Errol Wood, 24, was found guilty on Monday of luring the boys, reportedly aged seven to 14, into a rented room in the Thai capital, where he sexually abused them, sometimes with others, between August 2002 and January 2003. He was also convicted of photographing the naked boys and distributing the images to paedophiles in Britain. When an interpreter read out the verdict and sentence - one of the longest given to a foreigner for paedophilia - Wood, who reportedly lives in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, banged the table and shouted abuse at the judge. This was in spite of the judge cutting the sentence from his intended 63 years because of the defendant's "cooperative behaviour" during the trial. After being removed from the court until he calmed down, Wood was brought back to be sentenced to another two months for contempt of court. He has 30 days to appeal. Wood had arrived in Thailand last August, according to a Thai police spokesman, and rented the room to which he brought the boys, most of whom sold garlands on the city's streets.The spokesman said he was arrested at Bangkok airport on January 14 while trying to board a flight to Dubai after a tip-off from Manchester police. "They told us he was wanted in connection with alleged internet pornography," he said. A spokesperson for Greater Manchester police yesterday declined to comment on the case but said that last year the force's abusive images unit "came into possession of a number of photos of the abuse of boys which were circulated on the internet". "Inquiries to trace the person responsible for distributing the images led to a British national living in Thailand. The case was passed to the Thai authorities." Thai police seized computers and digital photography equipment from Wood's room. The Foreign Office said that the Bangkok embassy would provide Wood with "the usual consular assistance" if asked. Abuse of young boys and girls across south-east Asia by western men is rampant. Many Bangkok paedophiles pick up boys in shopping centres or at the station. Several British men were arrested in the resort of Pattaya last year on paedophile charges, but were released after they reportedly paid off the victims' families. Detectives in Pattaya are also trying to trace a Briton, reportedly a teacher, who organises a package tour to the town every summer for men to have sex with young boys.