The most sickening aspect of the past week has been the speed with which political opinion, much of it self-styled liberal opinion, has scuttled for cover from the accusing finger pointed at our society by the Macpherson inquiry.Sententious condemnation of the report's shortcomings has come from the pages of newspapers which between them can barely muster a score of minority journalists among the thousands they employ. All the disreputable tricks in the book have been hauled out.First, find a scapegoat. Sir Paul Condon resisted, and the Home Secretary backed him. Second, came attempts to rubbish the inquiry team's competence. They did not help themselves by the careless decision to leave the names of potential witnesses in the appendices to the report. However, the error does not in any way vitiate the accuracy of their account of Stephen Lawrence's death and subsequent events.Let us remember, in a story of bungling, incompetence and crass insensitivity, Macpherson and his colleagues are amateurs; the Met have turned out to be Olympic champions.Then came the diversionary appeal to the Englishman's ancient rights of free speech. Should Macpherson have recommended that the law be extended to forbid racist speech in other than public places? Actually, yes, he should. First because, as a society, we either believe that calling someone a nigger is wrong, or we do not.If we are disgusted by the vitriolic abuse and intimidating behaviour we've all now seen on our TV screens, and if we believe it should have no place in our society, should the thickness of the glass in a living room window protect the racists and frustrate justice?And should the likes of Bernard Manning be allowed to humiliate and abuse minorities in front of audiences of white police officers on the grounds that they do so in private gatherings?If your answer is yes, you surrender any claim on democracy immediately; the rule of law exists more than anything else to protect the rights of those who are not part of the majority.Please get this right: racism never has been and never will be a private matter. It is not about whether you like me or not, whether you have black friends or not, or even whether you like Bob Marley. These are as irrelevant as the assertion by one police officer giving evidence to the inquiry that she could claim special sensitivity towards the black community having spent many years in Africa.From where I stand, this an example of what Macpherson calls 'unwitting racism' - experience of Africa won't tell you anything significant about a British family of Caribbean origin, unless you assume all black people are the same. We aren't.Racism is not even only a matter of individual acts of antagonism and violence, though these are some of its symptoms. There are far too many racial attacks - literally hundreds of thousands every year; in spite of recent, rather sloppy press reporting, we know that blacks and Asian people are many times as likely to be victims as anyone else. It is far wider in its reach than these incidents, or their perpetrators.Yet, underlying most British thinking about race relations is the idea that racism is largely a matter of individual likes and dislikes, and were we to isolate and dispose of the small minority of race-haters, our problem would be solved.I'm sorry, that's not quite good enough. Most black people are familiar with the sinking feeling that assails you when you hear the words 'I'm not racist, but. . ." or its more current alternative 'I've never thought about race, everybody's always been the same to me, but. . .', because you know what follows - a catalogue of bigotry usually about some other minority or individual, delivered with the tilt of the head and inclusive smile reserved for private confidences. It may be true for white folks, but the fact is that most black people do think about race a great deal of the time; we know that our race makes a difference - every hour, of every day, of every year of our lives. For the vast majority of us, for most of that time the difference is a negative one.Racial bias is seldom obvious; it does its nasty work in stealth. Research carried out in the United States suggests that most black people have no idea when they are experiencing racial discrimination. A few years ago, LWT's The London Programme did the 'black and white' test: we sent two researchers, one black and one white to seek accommodation and employment in London.The results were predictable - there was rampant discrimination. But what came as a surprise to me was the reaction of our young black researcher - a clever, conscious, personable young graduate. He anticipated some bad moments; indeed, on occasion, at the start of the exercise, he stoutly maintained he believed the honesty of employers who told him that the jobs had gone.But, as we went on, the frequency with which he faced rejection based purely on his colour became devastating. In the end, we drew a close to the research and offered the young man counselling. HOWEVER, the fact is racial bias works, not against individuals, but against groups of people. This, after all, is the meaning of institutional racism - the collective action of many people, most of them self-consciously decent and liberal, has created a Britain in which minority people are less likely to win employment and promotion, less likely to gain higher educational qualifications, less likely to receive equal treatment from health, social services or government itself. And, by the way, all those who proudly point to the success of Asian communities should take a look at the most up-to-date study of minority communities, by Professor Tariq Modood and others, showing that on every single index, these supposedly more successful communities also suffer from racial bias.Remember how all this started. Two police officers arrived at the scene of a crime, saw two black boys in trouble, and jumped to conclusions learnt from older officers - that the boys must somehow have been responsible.These officers are probably decent, hard-working people who are bemused by the accusation of racism. But surely even the most diehard sceptic must now grasp there is something bigger than the individual's will at work here.In London, where I live, few would argue with the proposition that year by year, relations between people of different races are better; a few years ago we decisively rejected the far Right at the local polls.Among young people in the capital, if race matters at all, it is only because black or Asian kids are thought to be that touch more chic and glamorous. Yet even in liberal, open, London, black and Asian people fare worse on every single indicator, including police treatment. The truth is that even nice people can be racist, too.We now have a choice, and it is the hardest choice of all. We could repeat the failure of Scarman, and hope that training and rhetoric will do something to change attitudes. That would be a disaster.On the other hand we could follow the implied thrust of Macpherson's report and insist we need to deal first with the outcomes, and think about individual attitudes later. That means measuring proportions of minorities at every level of every company and government department, checking that the delivery of public services is equal, and insisting managers be held accountable for their failure to meet tough targets.The task must be to enforce equality now; people's desire to be nice can come later, if at all. To put it directly to white folks: black people no longer care if you like them; all we want is to pay our taxes, to go about our business unmolested, and to be treated fairly.