Six teenagers and a man in his 20s were being held by police last night after the fatal stabbing of a 16-year-old in a London street on Wednesday evening. Witnesses claimed the teenager -named by police as Kodjo Yenga - was chased up the road in Hammersmith by a gang of youths wearing school blazers, wielding sticks and chanting "kill him". The schoolboy was knifed in the heart and leg and reportedly kicked as he lay curled up on the road.A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said yesterday that all the seven males in custody were black. Four were 13 years old, two were 15, and one was 21.Friends of the dead boy, who lived in Portland Road, Hammersmith - less than a mile from the attack - said he had been walking with his Staffordshire bull terrier, a status symbol among some young men, and that the gang might have been trying to steal the dog.One resident, Tom Grimes, 42, said he saw the teenager run into Hammersmith Grove and kick a car. After the car's alarm went off he was chased by the gang. "There were about 15 youths hanging around by the shops. There were girls and boys aged 15 or 16, wearing school blazers. They were getting very rowdy. Suddenly I heard very high-pitched screaming from the girls."I looked up and saw another youth who was bigger built come rushing into the street with a dog. He booted a blue BMW, causing the alarm to go off." He said the crowd "went wild", then the boys chased the teenager up the road. "The bigger youth definitely wasn't with the others," Mr Grimes added.Another resident said: "I heard a lot of shouting and screaming, and a dog barking. I thought a girl was being attacked by a dog. I went outside and saw a crowd of about 10 kids chasing one boy along the road in and out of the cars."Some of them had armed themselves with three-foot wooden sticks from a skip. The boy was backing off, and had his arms up to protect himself while they were whacking him with the sticks."There were a couple of girls standing by the Grove pub, who were getting very excited, like they were enjoying the chase. They were all ganging up on that one poor lad, although he was quite big and seemed able to look after himself."They went further up the road, and I could see them throwing things at him as he was backing away from them. Two ladies in my street said some of the kids barged into them and they were really worried because one had a knife, so I called the police."Another local resident, Mariam McLeod, said: "I heard a girl shouting 'What are you doing? What are you doing?' At first it was not very loud and I thought it was just a couple fighting, and then I heard it again, 'What are you doing?'."I opened the window and then I saw this young black man lying on his back in a pool of blood - there was blood all over. The girl was still there, she was crying and was on the phone."Another witness, who did not wish to be named, said: "I saw a fight at the top of the road. There were a big gang of guys chasing a guy with a dog, chucking sticks and shouting. I had to swerve my car because they were throwing things, and the police were there two minutes later."The injured boy was taken to Charing Cross hospital in a critical condition, but died soon after arrival.He was a student at St Charles Catholic Sixth Form College, North Kensington, London.Last month three teenagers were killed in London and a number of other teenagers were stabbed across the country.