A former Pakistan and Essex cricketer yesterday gave a deeply emotional statement about the devastation the "brutal and senseless" murder of his son had brought to his family, as the four killers who beat him to death after playing drinking games were jailed for life.Fast bowler Ilham Mohiuddin's 24-year-old son, "Bobby" Saad Ilham, a bank clerk who lived in the family home in New Malden, south-west London, was kicked and stamped on and left dying on a pavement in the West End in May last year.Minutes before mounting their fatal attack the four assailants had been "power drinking" at a nightclub to celebrate a birthday. After seeing who could consume the most alcohol in the shortest time, the drunken mob urinated outside a nearby bar, smashed a glass door and punched members of staff before randomly setting upon Mr Ilham.Jeremy Donne QC, prosecuting, told the Old Bailey that as Mr Ilham left a nightclub with friends he was chased and attacked by the gang, who beat him with belt buckles during the frenzied attack."The men who ended his life beat him until he could no longer defend himself and kicked and stamped on his head repeatedly until he was a bloody mess and any possibility of his surviving had gone," he said. "He suffered a very public and brutal death. He was brought to the ground, where he was subjected to a vicious and sustained beating."Sentencing Rashid Tabali, Hassan al-Soltan, Ahmad Alkhateeb and Mishal al-Fahad - all in their late teens or early 20s and from London - to a minimum of 15 years each in jail, Judge David Paget said they had committed an act of "appalling, relentless, unnecessary violence".Two of the defendants, Soltan and Fahad, had fled the country but were brought back to face trial. All denied murder, blaming Mr Ilham's death on each other.The judge praised the "great dignity" Mr Mohiuddin had shown in his statement to court. Mr Mohiuddin described the devastation the death of his "shining light" had brought to his family."On May 1 2005, our lives changed for ever," he said. "Our dear and beloved son, Bobby Saad Ilham was brutally murdered by a gang of relentless thugs."Bobby was the shining light of our family. He had a fantastically bright future, a future filled, as was his past, with a bright smile and time for all those around him."Bobby was the epitome of a loving son, a loyal and loving brother and a wonderfully loving and generous uncle. His nieces and nephews are still uncertain as to why their doting uncle is nowhere to be seen."The gap left in all our lives is insurmountable. Every day we grieve and every day we let our tears fall. Not a day goes past without us wishing he was still here by our sides to give us fresh smiles and new memories."He went on: "With a successful professional career ahead of him, Bobby had just purchased an apartment close to the parental home and was laying down the foundations to beginning marital life."His nieces and nephews miss his attention and often ask when Uncle Bobby is coming back. He was a loving uncle, and would have made a loving and attentive father. The loss for all family members is incalculable and incomprehensible."Bobby was the youngest among three brothers. Since his murder, our lives have changed for ever. As parents who have had to bury their youngest child, our lives are irreparably damaged."The memories of our dear son can only do so much to sweeten the unjust blow dealt to our entire family. Bobby bought brightness to our lives and to the lives of all those he met."That brightness has been cruelly snatched away from us all by individuals who inflicted such cruelty - with every stamp on our son's head they stole his life and murdered the lives of those he has left behind."The financial consequences of our son's death are significant," he added. "Bobby had become the main breadwinner of our family. He was still living with us at home and provided for us in more ways than one."Bobby's financial contributions to the running of the household were significant. The impact of this has been intensified due to my own current state of ill health and mental duress."Bobby's mother, who still waits for her son to return home from work, is still waking up every morning praying this scenario is just a dream. My wife still irons Bobby's shirts, she still telephones his mobile. And most of all, she still prays that she will meet him soon in heaven. Every new day only serves to prove that we are not dreaming. We have been sentenced to our own life imprisonment."We may, one day, come to terms with the fact that our son has been taken away from us, but we will never come to terms with the fact that those that committed this brutal and senseless act of irreversible violence were stamping on our son's head, in a moment of drunken madness, with no regard or comprehension for the devastation being unleashed with every blow."Our once tight-knit and loving family is being chipped away with a sadness that will never leave our four walls.He finished: "They are not murderers, but serial killers, as they have killed me, as well as my wife, and Bobby's loving brothers. This still unbelievable event has badly affected our grandchildren as well."Who cares if someone started a fight or not, a person does not go out with friends and come back in a body bag. Damn you men, damn you all to hell, my families' hell will never end. Life means life."