Crown prosecutors will become US-style "fighters for justice", playing a bigger role at all stages of the criminal justice system, from bringing charges to influencing sentences, Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, said yesterday.Prosecutors will not go as far as US district attorneys and ask for a specific sentence, but they will play a bigger role by making sure the judge is aware of aggravating features that could increase the sentence, by drawing sentencing authorities to the judge's attention, and by objecting to unfair or inaccurate pleas in mitigation by defence lawyers. They will also make judges accountable, by exercising new prosecution rights of appeal in the criminal justice bill if a trial judge throws a case out before it gets to the jury. "It is wholly wrong that if a judge decides to stay a prosecution on the grounds of abuse of process, or to direct the jury to acquit a defendant, or to make a ruling which effectively takes away a crucial plank in a case, he should be able to do so without the possibility of being challenged," said Lord Goldsmith. Speaking to chief crown prosecutors at their management conference in London, Lord Goldsmith challenged them to "move out of the backroom of the criminal justice system for a frontline role convicting the guilty and supporting victims". He said that prosecutors had been too concerned with "process" rather than results. They should adopt a higher profile in local areas and "challenge local defence lawyers who are abusing the process rather than serving the interests of their clients". Measures in the criminal justice bill going through parliament will see prosecutors deciding charges in all but routine cases, and new powers for prosecutors to caution suspects. Lord Goldsmith said the crown prosecution service, set up in 1986, had been under-resourced. "There was a long period of inadequate work, loss of public confidence, and lack of self worth." But from 1999, after re-structuring and better resources, the CPS had entered a second stage. Now it was about to go into its third stage.