A young shop worker who planned the sadistic murder of a police officer's 17-year-old daughter and then sexually violated her dead body has been told he will spend the rest of his life behind bars.Jamie Reynolds, who was obsessed with extreme violent pornography, lured talented head-girl Georgia Williams to his home while his family were away and hanged her.Reynolds, 23, from Wellington in Shropshire, took pictures of the moments before she died, and after her death stripped her, violated her body and took more images.He sent text messages from Georgia's phone to make her family think she was safe before putting her body in a van and going to the cinema to watch an action film that she had refused to accompany him to. Later he dumped her body in woodland.Stafford crown court was told that Reynolds had written detailed fantasies about killing Georgia and other girls. In one, called "Georgia's Surprise", he wrote: "Her feet start to kick wildly as she hangs. She dances wildly at the end of her rope."David Crigman QC, prosecuting, said Reynolds was a "sexual deviant" who followed the "script" he had dreamed up. "The defendant intended to watch Georgia dance on the end of his rope," he said.The sentencing judge, Mr Justice Wilkie, accepted a psychiatric assessment that Reynolds had the potential to become a serial killer. He told Reynolds: "You enjoyed the spectacle of her final ghastly moments as she struggled for life knowing you had betrayed her." The judge also told Reynolds his crime was not an aberration. He had lured at least two other girls back to his home but they had escaped.The court had heard Reynolds showed no signs of mental illness and would have taken "narcissistic and necrophiliac" satisfaction in being in charge of Georgia as she died and after her death. Even the cinema trip was seen as a form of control.Reynolds joins the likes of serial killer Rose West and Mark Bridger, who murdered schoolgirl April Jones, in the list of prisoners who have been told they will never be released. Wilkie said the full life term was justified because Georgia was in law a child, who had been the victim of a murder with a sadistic and sexual motive.The judge took into account a ruling from the European court of human rights earlier this year that whole-life terms, without any prospect of release, amount to inhuman treatment. But he decided that under British law he could still impose the full life term. He acknowledged that the court of appeal in London will look at the issue next month.During the sentencing hearing, Georgia's father, detective constable Steve Williams, told the court that Reynolds, who admitted murder, killed his daughter for a "few moments of evil gratification".He said his wife Lynette is often violently awoken at night by images of what happened to Georgia. He is physically sick when he thinks about what had happened to her. Georgia's sister, Scarlett, struggles to trust anybody.Williams said that by the time his daughter's body was found it had been ravaged by nature and looked "grotesque" – an image that would haunt him and his wife "for eternity". The family, he said, had been "damned by evil".The court heard that Reynolds had more than 16,000 images and 72 videos depicting extreme violence to women. In 2008 he attempted to strangle a 17-year-old girl after asking her to his home. Police were called and Reynolds was given a "final warning" and counselling.Two weeks later, Reynolds's stepfather contacted the police and handed in indecent images of women on to which his stepson had superimposed nooses. In February 2013 Reynolds persuaded another girl back to his house and refused to let her out until she began to scream.Prosecutor Crigman described how Reynolds then "groomed and manipulated" Georgia. She had agreed to go his house in May to help him with what he claimed was a photography project. He told her he wanted to recreate a "fake hanging". The court was led through a series of pictures Reynolds took of Georgia before and after he murdered her. Crigman said she would not have died instantly. "He must have stood and watched her die."An inquiry is to look at previous contacts police had with Reynolds.