Having worked for six years as an emergency physician in an inner-city London hospital, it is difficult to ignore the horrific consequences of knife crime. At King's, we treated 295 stabbing victims last year alone. The number has steadily increased in the last five years from an average of two a week to one a day. In that same period, the age range of victims we've seen at King's has also dropped from people in their early 20s to youngsters in their mid-teens – there are also now more female victims.The reality of this unfortunate trend in violent behaviour among young people is that many are losing their lives and hundreds more are left with scars and disabilities for the rest of their lives. Most people would agree that whatever has been done so far to tackle the problem doesn't seem to be enough; more effective measures are required if we are to turn the tide. Clearly, a better understanding of the problem is essential to guide real and effective solutions. What chance do we have if the police don't have the complete picture of where and when many of these violent crimes are being committed? Part of the reason for the disparity between police figures and those of hospitals is that a proportion of stabbing victims don't report the incident to the police, even when clinicians try to persuade them to do so.To my mind, it is just these sorts of cases that the police need to know about most in order to break the cycle of attack and counterattack. Having agreed guidance about reporting stabbings from the General Medical Council and the Department of Health could be of enormous help to clinicians in discharging their duties to their patients and the local communities they serve. The interim guidance is yet to go through the formal consultation process, but even in its present form it seems to recognise the delicate balance between patient confidentiality and the need for authorities to get at least a near-accurate picture of violent crime. In my view, only in exceptional cases do the police need to be informed immediately and the "public interest" factor is usually obvious in such cases. In most cases, however, details of the incident and where it happened may be all that is required to optimise police intelligence and improve accuracy of figures; these are unlikely to breach patients' confidentiality. As doctors, the health and wellbeing of our patients is our top priority. Although we do our best to save lives and minimise the consequences of injuries, many stabbing victims (and others) would unfortunately come back dead or with more severe injuries if we fail to do our best to ensure that the authorities with the responsibility to protect them (and others) from non-accidental injuries and death are kept in the loop.