A long-term prisoner will go to the high court in London today to try to overturn an official policy that condemns him to remain in jail indefinitely because he is protesting his innocence.Kevin Lane, 40, was convicted of murder in March 1996. He is a category A prisoner and is seeking judgment against Jack Straw, the justice secretary, on the grounds that he is being denied a downgrading of his jail status.Lane was convicted of murdering Robert Magill in Chorleywood, Hertfordshire, in October 1994, in a case controversial from the outset. The original Old Bailey jury was unable to reach a verdict and a retrial was ordered. Lane was then convicted by a 10-2 majority verdict.Because the case was held to be a gangland killing, he was given category A status. These prisoners are subject to the highest level of security. They are closely monitored within the prison, accompanied by officers as they move and forced to change cells regularly.Lane can only be moved off Category A if he takes up some courses. But a precondition for the courses is a prisoner's acknowledgment of guilt. While he continues to maintain his innocence, he cannot be accepted on the courses and cannot progress through the system, and so will never be released.Lawyers and prison observers say prisoners such as Lane, who may be innocent, are subject to a triple injustice: not only have they been wrongly convicted, but they are forced to serve out their imprisonment in much more restrictive circumstances and serve longer terms than those who are plainly guilty. "His prison records state that Kevin is amenable and friendly, with no record of violence," said Simon Creighton, Lane's solicitor. "There is no conceivable risk for the authorities in reducing his status."In theory, the Prison Service is not legally allowed to discriminate against prisoners just because they are asserting their innocence. The [justice] department's lawyers argue that the secretary of state is not discriminating against Lane on those grounds, but there is a serious credibility gap, because in practice, by blocking his progress through the system, that is exactly what he is doing."Lane's cousin, Jacquie Boyd, said: "Kevin knows terrorists with sentences of 30 years or more who have been downgraded within four years, yet he is now in his 14th year of imprisonment and has never caused any trouble, so he is very frustrated that he is still treated as a major security risk."Today's hearing will have important implications for other prisoners who are also protesting their innocence.If the judicial review of the Prison Service's decision is successful, then the judge is empowered to quash the decision and order the matter to be considered again.