A man tortured a pensioner with a knife for her credit card pin number and then beat her to death with a marble rolling pin, a jury has heard.Georgina Edmonds, 77, was "brutally murdered" at her country cottage in Hampshire by Matthew Hamlen, 33, the prosecution alleged on Wednesday.Edmonds, who had osteoporosis, lived in the grounds of her son Harry's house at Brambridge, near Eastleigh, Winchester crown court was told.In January 2008 she was found in a pool of blood in her kitchen by her son and two other people.Paramedics called to the scene noticed puncture wounds to her neck and shoulder and the bloodied rolling pin was found broken.Michael Bowes QC, prosecuting, told the jury: "The many knife wounds penetrated Georgina Edmonds's skin. Their pattern suggests they had been inflicted with some deliberation rather than a significant degree of force. Given the theft of her credit card and its unsuccessful use hours later, the inference is she was tortured in order to obtain her pin and then beaten to death."Edmonds' son went to see his mother after he returned home from work but got no reply at her house, Fig Tree Cottage. He noticed that all the lights were off, which was unusual, Bowes said."The whole place seemed dark and still and he had a feeling that something was just not right."Mr Edmonds tried to phone his mother but got no answer. He later returned to the house with two estate workers. They entered and Mr Edmonds found his mother on the floor."He saw his mother's legs lying on the floor of the kitchen. Her upper body and head were behind the door as he pushed it open," the barrister said."Initially he thought she had fallen. He then saw his mother lying flat on her face, completely still, with a very significant pool of blood coming from her head or face."He saw that her trousers had been pulled down slightly and that on the back of her head there was a significant pinkish dent, as if caused by one huge hit or by several blows in the same place."It was obvious to him that she was dead and that she had been murdered."Bowes told the jury that Edmonds had suffered around 30 knife wounds to her shoulder, abdomen and thighs. The prosecution claims a paring knife was used to jab the pensioner, "part of escalating violence in order to get information out of her". Each wound was "very deliberate", Bowes said. The knife was also dragged across the victim's throat leaving a deep gash.Edmonds was hit so hard with the 2kg rolling pin that it shattered into three pieces, the court heard.Bowes claimed Hamlen, an electrician, had gone to Fig Tree Cottage, at about 2.30pm, walking in through an unlocked back door.He said Edmonds' credit card, mobile phone and handbag were stolen. At 10.38pm on the same day — 11 January 2008 — somebody tried to use the credit card at an ATM outside Tesco Express in Eastleigh. The transaction did not work because the wrong PIN number was entered. The person who used the card tried to hide his identify under the hood of a fluorescent jacket. The prosecution alleges it was Hamlen.Hamlen, from Eastleigh, denies murdering Edmonds.The trial continues.• This story was amended on 16 November. It originally stated incorrectly that the defendant's name is Michael. This has been changed to Matthew.