Manchester Evening News Editorial, October 22 "Greater Manchester Police may not have liked the way undercover BBC reporter Mark Daly went about making his film, The Secret Policeman, and its shocking content... will have caused the force acute embarrassment. But to GMP's credit - and that of Cheshire and North Wales Police - eight officers [were]... suspended from the three forces following evidence of racism uncovered by the programme [six subsequently resigned]..."The fact [the forces] had to take action on the basis of evidence produced by an outside investigation demonstrates that the checks built into training programmes are woefully inadequate and need urgent and thorough review." Herald Editorial, Scotland, October 23 "It has been four years since the Macpherson inquiry into the death of Stephen Lawrence branded the Metropolitan Police institutionally racist. The police will never escape that charge until they can stop undesirables entering the profession... Zero tolerance policies are essential... Once past the recruitment stage, there should be whistleblowers' hotlines for officers to report racist colleagues anonymously. Too much behaviour goes unpunished because good officers are afraid to speak out... "Perhaps the most grievous offence perpetrated by the officers in the BBC documentary is that they might have set recruitment of black and ethnic minority officers back a decade. Shame on them and any force that does not learn its lessons from this experience." Independent Editorial, October 23 "[What] Daly found in his brief spell as a secret policeman was far, far worse than might have been reasonably expected. The racism revealed is simply obscene. That a policeman in 2003 can parade around in a makeshift Ku Klux Klan hood is scarcely believable; indeed, had it not been caught on film many would have dismissed it as exaggeration. "The weight of evidence in the film indicates that 'institutional racism' remains in our police, despite... in many quarters, genuine desire for change... If the new blood coming into the police is as unsatisfactory as this investigation suggests, then there really is little room for optimism for the creation of a racially harmonious multicultural society." Martin Harding Sun, October 23 "As black police officers, we have been saying for years that this problem exists but no one has believed us... "These individuals, if they had not been exposed, would have carried those views into their operational lives as police officers. The BBC was fully justified in using its methods to make this programme. It required an undercover operation to expose racism... The programme was a watershed. Let's tackle racism in the British police service now." · Superintendent Martin Harding is a member of the Greater Manchester branch of the Black and Asian Police Officers' Association Daily Post Editorial, Liverpool, October 23 "Try as he might to deny it now, the home secretary, David Blunkett, stands convicted by his own words... He accused the BBC of an 'intent to create, not report' the story... Even now he cannot bring himself to admit that he made a mistake and jumped to conclusions... "Without this investigation by the BBC, our streets would now be being patrolled by wicked thugs in police uniform... The damage such people have stored up for our society over years past and years to come is impossible to gauge. But it should not have been beyond the wit and the will of either government or police to do for themselves what the BBC has at last showed them so clearly needed to be done."