Like most little girls, I wanted to be like my mother. But the thing was, she was white and English, I was brown and Anglo-Guyanese. I wanted floppy hair instead of an afro that required a whole tortuous afternoon of work on it after it was washed. Perhaps I wanted to look like her because even when I was very small, I knew that to do so would offer me some protection from being called a wog. Still, because I grew up in a liberal, middle-class area, name-callers were in the minority, and when I eventually asked what colour I was, the answer "You're not black or white, you're you," sufficed. Only when I grew up and felt the effects of racism did I realise that although my mother's idealistic heart was in the right place, her reality as a white woman could never be the same as mine. I had to work out quickly that despite my mixed origins I was black.There have never before been so many ways of being black. Being mixed race is one of them. In recognition of the fact, next year's national census will for the first time include a new "Mixed" category. Under the question "What is your ethnic group?" possible answers will include white and Black Caribbean, white and black African, white and Asian and a catch-all, any other mixed background, with space to elaborate. This is ground-breaking because it is an official acknowledgment both that Britain's ethnic minorities are marrying and procreating across racial lines in an unprecedented way, and that the mixed-race population is increasing. A Labour Force survey carried out between 1995 and 1997 found that one in five ethnic minority pre-school children is of mixed origin. Three years ago the Policy Studies Institute in their report, Ethnic Minorities in Britain: Diversity and Disadvantage, found that half of British-born Caribbean men, a third of Caribbean women and a fifth of Indian and African-Asian men have a white partner. Fieldwork carried out for that report in 1994 showed that 40% of children who lived in a household with one Caribbean parent also had a white parent. The next census, unlike the last in 1991, will allow me the opportunity to tick a box that accurately describes my biological parentage. In racial terms, it represents a symbolic claiming of a whole identity. The prospect of being able to do this makes me feel acknowledged and somehow included. But there are those who think that having a mixed-race category is questionable. Ben Carrington, lecturer in sociology at Brighton university, who is of mixed black and white parentage, says: "The problem with 'mixed race' is that it actually reinforces one of the central ideological pillars of racism itself. That is we are all mixed race - nobody is from a pure race. By having a separate category we suggest there are those who are mixed and those who are pure. And this just reinforces racial categories." Separating mixed-race people from black people also points at an unresolved argument within the black community. Declaring oneself mixed race is seen by some to be a rejection of a black identity. On the other hand, some accuse mixed-race people who refuse to deny the complexity of their ancestry of being confused about their identity. In fact things just tend to be complicated. For instance, I am perceived as black even though I have a dual sensibility. And because of my experiences I identify myself politically as black and relate to other black people's struggles against racism. But to some black people I still seem very foreign. There is a pressure among many mixed-race people to prove their "black credentials". This conflict arises from living in a society built on racist foundations, where being half white, being less obviously black than "real" black people means that you blend into the mainstream with more ease. Historically, being paler has conferred privilege - in Jamaica mixed-race slaves were freed before others - and still does, in more subtle ways even today. It is no longer enough to simply attach ourselves to a racial or ethnic label as a way of identifying and accounting for ourselves. Everyone, if measured by their tastes and lifestyle, is a little bit of everything mixed up together. As academic Stuart Hall says, "Identity is becoming more dependent on what people are willing subscribe to and less dependent on objective criteria such as skin colour or where they're born. Ways of identifying blackness are no longer black or white. It's not a case of us or them, you can now be us and them; like them but different."