A pilot scheme for a new cadre of police auxiliaries who will have wide-ranging powers to detain suspects and stop vehicles has been drawn up by the country's biggest force, it emerged yesterday.In what could prove a blueprint for a radical shake-up of policing in England and Wales, the Metropolitan police has signalled it wants to recruit 1,000 auxiliaries to take on community patrol work. It wants them to have the power to issue fixed penalty notices for disorder, including drunkenness, anti-social behaviour, aggressive begging and traffic offences. Under the proposals, drawn up by the Met's deputy commissioner Ian Blair, the auxiliaries, who will have their own distinctive uniform, will also have powers to stop vehicles and "detain a person suspected of committing an offence pending the arrival of a police officer". This will require changes to current legislation. The auxiliaries, he says, will be "employed, directed, deployed and controlled by the Met". They will be separate from local authority wardens. Mr Blair, a reformer whose support for devolving police powers has made him enemies within the rank and file, says the Met needs to adopt a "new patrol model" because increasing demands on the force, especially since September 11, have left it "unable to deliver policing at a local level dealing with community needs and problems". The auxiliaries will work part or full-time, earning up to £17,000pa, and have two weeks training at the Met's college in Hendon, north London. The plans are in their early stages and though they have won favour with the home secretary, David Blunkett, they have already been rejected by the Metropolitan Police Federation. Its chairman, Glen Smyth, said the force should concentrate on recruiting the 2,500 officers it needs to reach its target strength rather than pursue schemes for policing on the cheap.Nevertheless, a paper outlining the scheme has been presented to the Metropolitan police authority, and Sir John Stevens, the Met commissioner, is known to be keen on the project. He has urged Mr Blunkett to let the Met "lead the charge" for change, arguing that other police forces will follow. With counter-terrorism leaping to the top of policing priorities in recent weeks, Sir John believes that now is the ideal time to introduce a new level of officers who can undertake high-visibility "reassurance and deterrent" duties. Every day since September 11, the Met has had between 500 and 1,500 extra officers on the beat in central London, a commitment that has put the force under enormous strain. In Mr Blair's paper, Auxiliary Police Patrols, he underlines that the Met cannot provide London with the "sustainable beat patrol" that it needs, and says that other types of security wardens do not provide the reassurance or intelligence gathering skills offered by Met officers. The Met believes the auxiliaries can be recruited on short-term contracts to work full or part-time. "Police auxiliaries will be a borough resource empowered to deal and intervene with low level offences and problems", the paper says. "They will provide an instantly deployable force ... to deal with major incidents or prolonged operational demands such as counter-terrorist duties." It is thought the auxiliaries will supplement rather than replace unpaid special constables who are currently used on routine tasks.