What is toxicology? Toxicology is the scientific study of poisons and how they affect living tissue. Forensic toxicology is carried out by pathologists to try to establish the cause of death during post-mortems.How is it involved in the Shipman murder trial?  Dr Shipman was alleged to have killed 15 women by injecting them with morphine and diamorphine (heroin). Traces of the substance were found in the bodies of several of these women. The defence barrister, Nicola Davies QC, told the court that the case against Dr Shipman relied on toxicology. 'Without it there would be no case,' she added. Toxicology was a 'new science' which was 'untested by proven scientific methods'.Julie Evans, the forensic scientist who analysed the levels of morphine found in some of the victims' bodies, submitted evidence to the court. Mrs Evans said that a 'substantial amount' of the drug was found in samples taken from the thigh and liver of Kathleen Grundy. Samples taken from the bodies of other alleged victims Bianka Pomfret, Winifred Mellor, Joan Melia, Ivy Lomas, Marie Quinn, Irene Turner, Jean Lilley and Muriel Grimshaw also revealed morphine. The other bodies were cremated.Didn't that prove that it was an injection of morphine - which only Dr Shipman could have administered - that killed them?  Not according to the defence. Mrs Evans admitted that the science involved was 'novel'. She also accepted that the levels of morphine found in the bodies might not be an accurate reflection of the levels at the time of death, since decomposition had occurred. Miss Davies described this as a 'crucial and damning concession'. Since it could not be proved that Dr Shipman had administered a fatal dose of diamorphine, it was perfectly possible that his patients had experienced an adverse reaction to the drug or died from some other cause. The doctor himself said that he suspected Mrs Grundy of being addicted to morphine.The prosecution counsel, Mr Henriques QC, pointed out that Dr Shipman had visited each patient on the day she died. The defence countered that this demonstrated his dedication to his job.So how reliable is toxicological evidence?  According to Dr Robert Anderson of Glasgow university's forensic toxicology department, where half a dozen pathologists deal with about 1200 bodies each year, 'it depends on what's happened to the body after death. Usually morphine is relatively stable after death, and it wouldn't decompose very quickly.'However, other factors can come into play. 'Sometimes there is no trace of a poison in the blood because it killed the person too quickly. A heroin addict found dead with a needle sticking out of his arm is an example - sometimes there's no trace of the drug at post-mortem. However, if the person lived long enough [after the morphine was administered] for the blood to get into circulation, it should be present.'He refuted the accusation that toxicology was a new science. 'A lot of the forensic departments which do toxicology started when scientists came back from France in the early 19th century. Glasgow's department was founded in 1830.' Matthieu Orfila (1787-1853), was the first person to systematise the study and classification of toxic substances when he found traces of poison in the liver of a dead dog.'Toxicology is not an new science,' said Dr Anderson. What's new is that things are better understood.'Useful links Society of Toxicology British Toxicology Society Glasgow university's forensic toxicology department What is toxicology?