Downing Street yesterday insisted that the prime minister had "100% faith" in his home secretary, following the emergence of a memo discussing potential problems with the government's respect agenda.Senior sources dismissed reports of a rift between Tony Blair and Charles Clarke. One senior figure, who had spoken to both men, said: "There didn't seem to me to be any tension between them. Someone is trying to cause bad blood." Others suggested that any tensions which existed lay within the Home Office. An aide stressed that Mr Clarke had good working relations with all his officials, but added: "Charles does think ministers, who are the elected politicians, should take responsibility for politics in public." External sources believe he is frustrated by the outspokenness of Louise Casey, the head of the antisocial behaviour unit. She recently attacked liberals who criticised Asbos for "not living in the real world". He is also understood to have been annoyed by comments from Martin Narey, who left his job as head of the National Offender Management Service last week to become chief executive of Barnardos, and Rod Morgan, head of the youth justice board. Harry Fletcher, of the probation officers' union Napo, said: "I understand from Home Office sources that the home secretary is concerned that officials have been blurring the distinction between civil servant and politician and about the content of some of what they have been saying." While some see Mr Clarke as more liberal than his predecessors Jack Straw and David Blunkett, others suggest the difference is essentially Mr Clarke's more consensual style. But Labour sources suggested he might also be chafing at the difficulties of setting his own agenda, because of the mass of initiatives he inherited. His greatest headache is the controversial identity cards bill, but other issues include asylum, counter-terrorism and the battle to create a national offender management service. According to the memo seen by the Sunday Telegraph and Sunday Times, Mr Blair warned of the dangers of "a sense of fatalism" creeping in over yobbery and antisocial behaviour at a meeting on June 20. The government put respect at the heart of the Queen's speech, detailing legislation on issues such as binge drinking and sales of knives to teenagers. Whitehall sources dismissed claims that the meeting amounted to a "dressing down". Mr Clarke's aide said the story was untrue and a Downing Street spokeswoman said: "We don't comment on leaked documents, but it shouldn't be any surprise that the prime minister discusses these issues with the home secretary. He has 100% confidence in him." According to the Sunday Times, the document reveals that Ms Casey has been given a new role promoting the respect agenda across Whitehall and will report directly to Mr Blair as well as Mr Clarke. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "It is not good enough for the prime minister to rebuke his latest home secretary for the public perception of his actions. These are the results of eight years of failed policy, not seven months of inadequate spin."