The trigger for the senseless killings of two police officers and a father and son could scarcely be more pathetic: a bottle of WKD, thrown by a drunken woman at a member of a family she didn't like.The alcopop bottle was chucked by Theresa Atkinson, matriarch of the Atkinsons, a family notorious in the Droylsden area of east Manchester for their petty criminal ways.Her target was Raymond Young, whose response, according to witnesses in Droylsden's Cotton Tree pub, was to slap Atkinson with the back of his hand.Young was a close associate of the equally well-known Short family, longtime rivals of the Atkinsons. Neither family were big-shot criminals, said one east Manchester resident: "Nowhere near mafia league, just small-timers who operated in their local areas – though they bigged themselves up."As one police source said: "We were aware of them, of course: there have been various small-scale tit-for-tat incidents over the years. But they weren't hugely high up our priority list."Most people would put the row down to drink. But not Atkinson, who – the jury was told – left the pub in fury, saying: "I'm going to try and get you done by my sons." It was the prosecution's case that this booze-fuelled row was the catalyst for a four-month terror spree that left four dead and put 10 men in the dock at Preston crown court.The prosecution claimed that one of Atkinson's sons, Leon, 35, had vowed to get revenge on the Short family, starting with the murder of 23-year-old Mark Short, who, Droylsden locals told the Guardian, ran an extortion racket in Droylsden's pubs along with his father David, 46.But Atkinson – who was charged with Mark's murder – was found not guilty: the jury were not convinced that he had ordered the killing. Instead, jurors decided three of Leon's friends were responsible for the murder of Mark in the Cotton Tree on 31 May 2012 and trying to kill three others shot during the gun attack: the soon to become notorious Dale Cregan, 30, from Droylsden; Luke Livesey, 27, from Hattersley; and Damian Gorman, 38, from Glossop. Two other men – Ryan Hadfield, 29, from Ashton-under-Lyne, and Matthew James, 33, from Clayton – were found not guilty of the same murder.It was never clear in court whether Mark Short was the trio's real target. If they were hoping to kill his dad, they were disappointed: David Short was in the pub toilet when they opened fire. But his luck did not last long.Mark died in his father's arms and David Short gave a statement to the police recounting the WKD-throwing incident, and suggesting the Atkinsons were behind the murder.After Mark's funeral, David visited his son's grave at Droylsden cemetery every day: a ritual noticed by Cregan, who had enlisted his friend Anthony Wilkinson, 34, to help him finish the job he had botched two months earlier.The day Cregan chose to kill Short at the cemetery was 10 August. But when Short failed to turn up, Cregan and Wilkinson staked out his home in Clayton, waiting in a hired van kitted out with duvets and pillows for what they thought could be a long wait.When Short went to fetch something from his car, Cregan and Wilkinson attacked. They chased him through the house, firing at least nine bullets, then back outside, where he fell. In a bizarre coup de grace, they then detonated a hand grenade on his body.Later, in custody, Cregan told a psychiatrist he had the best night's sleep of his life after killing David Short, who he claimed had been threatening to rape Cregan's toddler as revenge for the shooting dead of his own son."I shot David Short point-blank in the head, three times, but I would have preferred it if I would've used a knife," Cregan told James Collins. "I felt calm before killing David Short but, after, a big relief rushed through my body. If I'd had time, I would have cut his head off and arms and legs. I would've gone and got a knife from the kitchen and used that. The thoughts were such, I knew I would have to do it. However, after I killed Mark Short, he said he would rape my son, he said he would set him on fire. He threatened my whole family. He told me: 'The gloves are off.' So I was always going to kill him."With David Short dead, the men were driven by another defendant, Jermaine Ward, 24, to Luke Road in Droylsden, where they were caught on CCTV throwing a grenade at a house. In court Cregan and Wilkinson admitted the attack but denied actively trying to murder the occupant, Sharon Hark, who the prosecution claimed belonged to a family with whom Cregan had a grievance. The jury believed them, finding both men not guilty of attempting to kill Hark. A third grenade was detonated in an attempt to destroy their rental van. Cregan, Wilkinson and Ward then went to see Mohammed Imran Ali, who drove them to a safe house in West Yorkshire. Ali was found guilty of assisting an offender.Greater Manchester police soon recognised Cregan and Wilkinson from the Luke Road CCTV footage and put up a reward of £50,000 for their capture. Cregan should have been easy to spot: he was missing an eye and would wear a mismatched onyx eye in a startling black in its place. But no one turned him in."It's not hard to work out why," said one Droylsden resident who claimed to know Cregan. "The Shorts being taken out was the best thing to happen to Droylsden for years. Bullies, they were. Bullies and thugs. Cregan was a hero round here – until he went and killed the policewomen. None of us can understand that."What Cregan and his associates were up to while the police were looking for them was partially explained by evidence given by Ward in court. He broke ranks to claim he acted as a getaway driver "under duress", and that Cregan had "rammed" a gun against his head.He told police he was kept as a "slave" in an apartment for nearly two weeks with Wilkinson and Cregan, who threatened to kill his brother or mother if he tried to escape. They eventually set him free and on 23 August he gave himself up at a police station in Huddersfield.The jury didn't believe his show of innocence and on Thursday Ward was found guilty alongside Cregan and Wilkinson of David Short's murder.One of Cregan's associates told the Guardian that Cregan and Wilkinson regularly visited people in east Manchester while the reward was on offer. These people protected the men, believing Cregan when he said David Short had threatened to harm his toddler.On 2 September Wilkinson was arrested in a park in Openshaw, east Manchester. However, police could not find Cregan, despite what was described as an unprecedented operation. It was galling because they had arrested Cregan after Mark Short's murder, but had to let him out on bail while they gathered evidence.It was only on 18 September 2012 that Cregan came into contact with police again. The day before, Cregan had turned up at 30 Abbey Gardens, a cul-de-sac on the Hattersley estate in Mottram, east of Manchester city centre. The householder, Alan Whitwell, had once cut Cregan's hair. This tenuous link was enough for Cregan, who barged his way in and demanded a crew cut, sending his barber out for beer and cigars. Before bedding down for the night he showed off a hand grenade and his loaded Glock pistol.In a statement read to Preston crown court Whitwell said he was "horrified" to be confronted by Cregan. There was "no way" he was going to try to alert police, he said, insisting he did not even think of the £50,000 reward. "If someone has got a gun and a grenade I will do whatever they want," he added.At 10.16am on 18 September, Cregan had a bath, changed into a new pair of shorts and called 999 to report a burglary at 30 Abbey Gardens. He ended the call with the chilling words: "I'll be waiting."PCs Fiona Bone, 32, and Nicola Hughes, 23, were dispatched from Hyde police station to the scene. As they walked through the small front garden, Cregan opened the front door and fired his Glock. Both women were shot in the chest, but their body armour prevented the bullets from penetrating their skin.The officers made a "tactical retreat" but Cregan was in pursuit, firing shots that hit Hughes' back, paralysing her. As she lay on her front on the garden path, he shot her three more times before turning his attention to Bone.She was trapped in front of the living room window and he discharged 24 shots at her. She managed to fire her Taser but missed, and Cregan killed her with a shot to the heart. He then returned to Hughes, firing three more shots into her head. Before he fled he left what had become his calling card: a fragmentation grenade, which he threw at the women as they lay on the ground.He then drove at speed to Hyde police station where he turned himself in, announcing he had killed two officers. "Sorry about those two that have been killed, I wish it was men," he said, adding: "I've dropped the gun at the scene and I've murdered two police officers. You were hounding my family so I took it out on yous. I'm wanted by the police and I've just done two coppers."When interviewed, he refused to answer most questions. When it was put to him that he was a coward turning himself in, he said: "Cos youse couldn't fuckin' find me, could youse?"Despite his confession, he insisted on pleading not guilty to all the charges against him when his trial opened in February. One week in, he changed his plea to admit murdering the officers.It was not until almost the end of the trial, when even his mother had appeared in the witness box to tell the jury her son had killed the Shorts, that Cregan admitted he was responsible for those murders too.It was a confession, his barrister said, that would lead Cregan to die in prison.• Additional reporting by Amy Collin