One in every hundred forensic tests performed on the DNA of suspected criminals may give a false result, according to the first research of its kind into laboratory error rates.The study is the first evidence of widespread mistakes in the sophisticated system of tests. DNA testing is widely used to convince juries of a suspect's guilt or presence at the scene of a crime, and was thought to be almost flawless. The findings will shock British DNA laboratories, which deny that errors exist. Statisticians in Austin, Texas, gained access to the first accuracy tests carried out on DNA laboratories, which were conducted anony-mously. Researchers had asked the labs to match a series of DNA samples. They knew which ones were from the same person, but found that in over 1 per cent of cases the labs falsely matched samples, or failed to notice a match. The statisticians then calculated that a substantial human error had occured in 12 in every 1,000 tests. British forensic experts expressed alarm at the errors and stressed they were more numerous than expected. Jonathan Koehler, a teaching professor at the University of Texas, Austin, who carried out the statistical research, said: 'The controversy over error rates is not over my calculations, but over the concept of an error rate.' DNA testing is controversial in the United States, but in Britain - where a similar number of samples are held on the nationwide database, despite our smaller population - government scientists deny that errors are possible. Professor Derek Pounder of the Department of Forensic Medicine at the University of Dundee, said: 'The increased quality controls that have been introduced to laboratories over time are a reaction to errors being found.' The first problems with DNA evidence emerged two years ago, when British forensic scientists admitted at a private conference with their American counterparts that they had found two people with DNA that seemed to match when tested. The Forensic Science Service denied that mistakes reached the courtroom. Chris Hadkiss, manager of the DNA laboratory at the FSS, said: 'People make mistakes - no one is disputing that - but we have a quality system here and have external auditors. The mistakes are not allowed to go to court.' nick.walsh@observer.co.uk