In her new guise as Saga minister, with the tricky job of disguising the pensions crisis as a spanking-new opportunity for those individuals previously known as drooling old bigots whose continued existence is not worth the price of NHS intervention, Patricia Hewitt has announced the end of Labour's infatuation with youth. Although it may not be possible to pulp all the existing copies of Tony Blair's 1996 New Britain: My vision of a Young Country, in which the prime minister urged us to embark with him on the "riskier but ultimately more satisfying search for a new future", Hewitt assures us that such statements are now, themselves, relics of the past. Bygones. "It was meant to be about modernisation, change, a new beginning," she explained, "but it didn't work, and we were quite right to drop it." Doubters are invited to contemplate the career of Hewitt, who, at 54, appears to have been appointed the cabinet's token old person. "Fifty is the new 40," she declared, "Sixty is the new 50; 70-year-olds don't want to be put in a box marked 'old'." Quite. At the very least one hopes for an attractive lined casket in varnished oak.Presumably, in all the hurly-burly of the recent reshuffle, Lord Falconer - aged 42 in the new Hewitt system - failed to notice this important bit of repositioning. For just before Hewitt selected the Daily Telegraph in which to offer her tribute to experience, and to regret the routine pairing of "old" with "fuddy-duddy", Falconer issued yet another headline-grabbing proposal to add to the stream of liberal-propitiating wheezes which have followed his singularly old-fashioned style of appointment: the idea that lawyers in their 30s should become judges. Were it not for this slightly unfortunate timing, you could see the attraction. Not only would the younger dudeships - one pictures them wigless, of course, mostly Ally McBeal types, not a few of them breastfeeding - represent a living rebuke to pervy, costume-loving enemies of reform, they would protect the judiciary from embarrassments of the "who is Gazza?" variety which have so often exposed our legal system as tragically remote from popular culture. A youthful Falconer appointee would, you feel, instantly grasp the meaning of "shizzle my nizzle", (the phrase which recently confounded Mr Justice Lewison), even, where relevant, employ demotic speech the better to communicate his or her own deliberations to the court, eg, "Is it a book that you would even wish your bitch or your ho to read?"None the less, the plan has its own complications, not least because, unless fixed-term appointments were introduced, it could lead to judicial careers lasting 40 years. Do we want to introduce yet another legal career path, even if the judges thus created were commensurately more sackable? Or does Falconer want judges to be appointed after conventional, but limited professional experience, long before current practice would allow it? Presumably the back of Lord Falconer's envelope is simply covered with reasons why groovy career judges, appointed by Blair's appointed committee, might be an improvement on the hoarier variety. In delicate situations, they might well be far more dependable, being more eager to protect their careers than some of the stubborn elderly men who have recently shown themselves so uncooperative to both Blair and Blunkett. Whatever the ultimate decision on youthful judges, the simultaneous arrival of this proposal with Hewitt's anti-discrimination legislation should be a useful reminder, to older people at least, not to get too excited by her effusions of empathy and respect. After all, if age and long experience are not allowed, even in the judiciary, to amount to valuable wisdom and gravity, then where are they going to be appreciated? Certainly not within Blair's government which, despite being the worst advertisement for extreme youth since little Jimmy Osmond, is still so age-conscious that the prime minister's 50th was the occasion for a public conniption fit. "I must be honest with you," he told Saga magazine. "I've been dreading 50." Why? How long for? Was there something important he had hoped to achieve first? A now never-to-be-fulfilled ambition to go bungee jumping? If genuine (and there is no reason, it must be admitted, to assume that this was anything more than another bit of deliberate youth-flattery) this is the observation of someone with a horror of age so advanced as to be virtually pathological. To a man like this, the prospect of the law lords must resemble nothing so much as a walking, talking heap of memento mori, all the more ghastly to him when they advance in dusty wigs, tights and buckled shoes. Small wonder, in the circumstances, that Hewitt's exciting new anti-discrimination legislation, turns out to be little more than a necessary act of compliance with an EU directive combined with an attempt to avert a pensions deficit which will do nothing to ease, for many old people in this country, the real grimness of being either disregarded or resented as a barely tolerable burden on the state. Still, mustn't grumble: if, as Hewitt says, 60 is the new 50, then 70 is the new 60 and I calculate that if you work until the newly recommended threescore years and 10, the government has actually given you five years off! Brilliant. The sauce of all evilIt will be no surprise, to those familiar with his formidable screen personality, that there should be an insatiable public appetite for products bearing the image and endorsement of Loyd Grossman. I would certainly put my faith in any form of pest control, from scarecrow to mousetrap, adorned with the Grossman features, all the more so if it were accompanied by an audio loop in which he demanded, over and over, "who'd live in a place like this?" It is, however, something of a shock to find that Grossman's face is shifting an annual £25m worth of pasta sauces, making him the most successful media-cook brand, far more so, according to the Radio Times, than Jamie Oliver or even Nigella Lawson. Only recently, after all, his improved hospital menus proved so unpopular in some areas that patients preferred the more traditional NHS pigswill. But Grossman is not the only mystery. In second place came Antony Worrall Thompson, and with him, the emergence of a troubling pattern. Not only do we not understand food and dislike having to cook it, we are actively stimulated, where our appetites are concerned, by the endorsement of a nationally ridiculed figure. Before long, no doubt, Ann Robinson, Jeremy Beadle, and Robert Kilroy-Silk will want to test this thesis with their own rival sauces, but I suggest the real trial will be the keenly awaited Heather Mills McCartney range of vegetarian dishes. If this blameless but universally lampooned and resented pretender to McCartney's hand can sell her tofu, then we are, as has long been suspected, in the grip of a national eating disorder.