A 14-year-old girl who was shot dead as she returned from an evening out with a group of friends at Nottingham's medieval Goose Fair was yesterday described by her headteacher as "beautiful, vivacious and popular".As the hunt for Danielle Beccan's killer continued, a special assembly was held yesterday morning for hundreds of pupils at Elliot Durham school. Many signed a book of condolence. Valerie Penny-Stewart, the headteacher, said: "She had immense potential and was one of our brightest students. She had a wide circle of friends who loved her. All are immensely saddened by the violent and cruel way in which her life was ended. "We, as a school, stand together to ask for peace in our society and to demand justice for Danielle's death." She urged the community to "knit together as never before" at this time. Nottinghamshire police continued to search for a gold Citroen car with blacked out windows which was seen to pull up near the group of friends. One of the friends noticed a gun and told Danielle to get down on the ground, but she was too slow. At least six bullets were fired and Danielle collapsed after being hit in the stomach. Her mother, Paula, who has two other young children, heard the gunshots and ran round the corner to find her daughter on the ground. Danielle died on the operating table at Queen's Medical Centre. Last night Assistant Chief Constable Sue Fish said the police were anxious to identify the occupants of the car and she issued a warning to anyone who was in the vehicle. "It may be that there were some people in the car who did not know what was going to happen. "It may be events that night went further than they thought and I would appeal to anyone who was in that car to come forward and tell us what happened. "I want you to look in the mirror and if the person looking back at you is not prepared to come forward and speak then you are as guilty as the person who pulled the trigger." Superintendent Dave Colbeck said the police had not established a motive for the killing. "Danielle was not part of any drug or gang culture," he said. "She was an innocent girl on her way home from a fair. I shudder to think that someone has targeted a 14-year-old girl - and we need to establish a motive." Police denied the situation was out of control and said that unlike two years ago, they were getting a great deal of help from members of the community desperate for a change in the inner-city suburb of St Ann's. Yesterday a man who had been questioned in connection with the incident was released. In a brief statement, Danielle's grandfather, Alvin Beccan, said: "It's been very rough. Her mother is just about coping. We are all very, very shocked." The leader of Nottingham city council, Jon Collins, said: "This is an absolutely senseless crime and a tragic waste of a young life. I want to encourage anyone who has information about this crime to come forward and help the police with their investigation. Whoever did this is dangerous and needs to be caught and brought to justice. "The incident is a dreadful reminder of just how damaging gun crime can be to people's lives and the life of communities in places like Nottingham. The tiny minority of people who are prepared to use guns with criminal intent need to understand that society will not tolerate such appalling behaviour." He acknowledged that gun-related crime was a serious issue in Nottingham, but it was not unique to the city. "Unfortunately, it's very easy to label Nottingham following an incident like this and jump to conclusions about how safe it is to go out at night, but most people would not recognise Nottingham as being that place," he added. "While even one shooting is one too many, the last incident before this happened in May, so Nottingham is no different to any other large city in its experience of gun-related crime."