A top barrister from the same law firm as Cherie Blair was today named as the new head of the crown prosecution service (CPS) - sparking a new row over "cronyism" in the government.Ken Macdonald QC will take over as director of public prosecutions (DPP) in the autumn. He was a founding member of Matrix Chambers, where the prime minister's wife practices under her maiden name of Cherie Booth. But Conservative spokesman David Davis said the appointment was not appropriate. "Many people will find this appointment astonishing. "We have already had one lord chancellor who was the prime minister's boss and the current one who is his former flatmate. "Now we learn that the new director of public prosecutions is a founder member of the same legal chambers as the prime minister's wife. "Under this government there appears to be no institution which is safe from the prime minister's rampant cronyism." The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith QC, said: "I am delighted to announce today that Ken Macdonald will join the crown prosecution service as director of public prosecutions in November. "He brings to the job a distinguished record in the criminal law, strong leadership qualities and a commitment to a firm and effective CPS, prosecuting in the public interest. "He will oversee the introduction of the charging proposals in the criminal justice bill, which in pilots have led to a 15% increase in convictions. "I look forward to working with him to continue the reform of the CPS and to enhance the role and status of prosecutors." Mr Macdonald, 50, will replace Sir David Calvert-Smith, who has held the post for five years. Mr Macdonald was appointed by a panel comprising: the permanent secretary for the former Lord Chancellor's Department and clerk of the crown in Chancery, Sir Hayden Phillips; the permanent secretary for the Cabinet Office, Sir David Omand; and the lord justice of appeal, Sir Robin Auld; under the chairmanship of the first civil service commissioner, Lady Usha Prashar. The £145,000-a-year post was advertised in the national media. Mr Macdonald said: "This is obviously one of the most challenging and exciting posts in the criminal justice system and I am very much looking forward to taking it on. "I am also delighted to be joining the crown prosecution service at this crucial period in its development." He added: "I agree with the attorney general and Sir David Calvert-Smith, the present DPP, that it is time for prosecutors to take their proper place at the heart of criminal justice. "We shall release the full potential of the immense reservoir of talent that is to be found within the CPS, and we shall place it at the disposal of the community. "A transparent, fair and effective prosecuting authority is one of the hallmarks of a great liberal democracy. This is our aim." Lord Goldsmith went on: "I would like to pay tribute to Sir David Calvert-Smith, who leaves after five years as director of public prosecutions. "Sir David has been an outstanding DPP, leading the organisation into a new role at the heart of the criminal justice process. Recent increases in staff and resources are now allowing the CPS to realise its potential. "David Calvert-Smith has done a huge amount to consolidate the CPS's record as an independent, fair and highly effective prosecuting authority. "His personal and professional qualities will be greatly missed by all who have worked with him, both inside and outside the service." Mr Macdonald was educated at grammar school and at St Edmund Hall, Oxford. He was called to the Bar in 1978 and took silk in 1997. As well as being a founder member of Matrix Chambers he was chairman of the criminal bar association, and has sat as a part time crown court judge since 2001. His workload has ranged from many cases of domestic and international terrorism to city fraud, gangland violence, child abuse and money laundering. He lives in London with his wife and three children. He was a junior defence barrister in the Matrix Churchill arms-to-Iraq trial and in the appeal over the OrdTec arms-to-Iraq case. More recently he represented one of Britain's first convicted al-Qaida terrorists. Illegal immigrant Baghdad Meziane, 38, was jailed for 11 years at Leicester crown court in April after he was found guilty of raising funds and recruiting people for Osama bin Laden's terror network. The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said: "I have no reason to doubt that Ken MacDonald is up to the job, but this is a provocative appointment. "This is becoming more and more a government of who you know rather than what you know. "Whether or not it is intended, jobs increasingly appear to go to people who are 'one of us'." Later, Lord Goldsmith said the appointment had been made on merit. The recruitment process at every stage had been open and transparent in line with Nolan rules, he added. "Ken Macdonald was an outstanding candidate and his appointment has been warmly welcomed by those in the know," his statement said.