Jails are facing a breakdown of discipline following a human rights ruling that punishment hearings were illegal, prison governors and staff warned yesterday.They claim there have already been a number of disturbances in prisons after the decision which has stopped governors from adding time to sentences for offences committed in jail. The Prison Governors' Association says that the government did not move to put in place a new system before the European court of human rights' ruling. They say that unless a new system of adjudicating on prisoners' alleged offences is imposed quickly, more inmates could try to take advantage. Last month the Strasbourg court ruled it was a breach of the right to a fair trial for a governor to sit as "judge and jury" in internal disciplinary hearings for offences that would be considered criminal outside prison . The government was forced to begin releasing around 900 inmates who had had up to six weeks added to their sentences for each disciplinary offence. Ministers also braced themselves for compensation claims which could run into millions of pounds from prisoners who had served extra time illegally. About 80,000 "added days" had been imposed on inmates each year. The prison service is considering an alternative internal disciplinary system, possibly using a panel of independent legally qualified people. Human rights activists argue that prisoners ought to have more access to legal representation during internal hearings which have been branded kangaroo courts by some campaigners. David Roddan, general secretary of the governors' association, said: "People are annoyed that the prison service seems to have been taken by surprise especially as Scotland seems to have been ready for some time." Mr Roden said prisons were facing "operational difficulties". A backlog of disciplinary cases was growing and in the last two weeks there had been "half a dozen" cases of "concerted ill discipline" from prisoners who had cited the European ruling. Governors have told the association that they are confused as to how they should be acting. One day they had a sys tem of punishment that they believed worked well, the next day it had been removed. The national chairman of the Prison Officers' Association, Colin Moses, said that unless a new disciplinary system was introduced quickly, there was a "real danger of disturbances". He said: "We know prisoners are stretching the system in the belief there is no deterrent." The Home Office minister, Lord Falconer, said the prison service was working to produce quickly a "sensible, workable alternative". He said a new system could be put in place "within weeks". Speaking on Radio 4's The World At One, he said he did not believe there would be the sort of "disasters" which had been predicted and denied that the government should have acted sooner.