Detectives have rejected claims that they have any evidence the disappearance of Tia Sharp is similar to that of Shannon Matthews, whose family faked her abduction in a bizarre publicity stunt four years ago.The Guardian has been told such suggestions are "deeply unhelpful and potentially damaging" to the hunt for 12-year-old Tia, who went missing a week ago on Friday.As the seventh night passed on Thursday with no sign of the schoolgirl the concerns for her safety grew hourly. Despite a massive public appeal for information there have been no confirmed sightings of her since she was last seen by her family on Friday.More than 80 officers are engaged in the investigation into her disappearance. Officers have been pulled off Olympic duties to carry out searches in the New Addington area of south-east London where she was last seen.She disappeared after telling relatives she was going shopping at the Whitgift Centre in Croydon. She is believed to have been last seen at the home of her grandmother Christine Sharp, who lives with her partner Stuart Hazell at the Lindens in New Addington.Hazell, who is thought to be one of the last people to see Tia, was questioned as a witness by police on Wednesday and later denied having anything to do with her disappearance. He has not been arrested.Speaking to ITV News, he said Tia had a "loving home"."Did I do anything to Tia? No, I didn't. I love her to bits. She is like my own daughter," he said."I know deep down she walked out of here. I know deep down she walked down that path. What happened after that I don't know."An intensive hunt in the area of the Lindens continued on Thursday. Police used sticks to search through rubbish bins around the estate and had cordoned off a landfill site where rubbish collected from the 2,000 houses on the estate is taken.Police have collected more than 800 hours of CCTV footage from buses and trams, and viewed more than 120 hours of the material in the hunt for Tia.Searches have covered a 500 metre radius around Tia's grandmother's house, including woodland, garages, lock-ups and a school.But the inquiry is keeping an open mind as to what has happened to Tia, whose family say she has never gone missing before.Media speculation that officers on the Shannon Matthews investigation had been drafted in to help Scotland Yard were dismissed by the Metropolitan police on Thursday. The Guardian understands senior officers are angered at the claim, saying it could damage the investigation into Tia's disappearance.Matthews' mother was jailed in 2008 for kidnap, perverting the course of justice and false imprisonment after faking her daughter's disappearance in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire.Scotland Yard is liaising with several forces who have investigated the disappearance of children, but detectives say that is usual procedure. A spokesman said: "We would like to make it clear that officers who worked on a particular missing person case in West Yorkshire are not involved in the investigation to find Tia Sharp. Media speculation around other missing children cases is extremely unhelpful and diverts attention away from our desire to trace Tia."Metropolitan Police area commander Neil Basu said police could not be "absolutely sure" who was the last person to see Tia on the estate.He stressed the investigation remains a missing persons inquiry, with no suspects. "I am looking to find Tia safe and well," he added.Basu said he did not feel the schoolgirl would have left the area and the search was focused on the neighbourhood and Croydon, where Tia was heading.The local community has pulled together to search for the missing girl, and friends and family are walking the streets wearing "Find Tia" T-shirts and handing out leaflets to passing motorists.A candle is burning outside Tia's grandmother's house, which was searched by a police dog on Wednesday. Candles and tealights have also been left at a makeshift vigil at a bus stop nearby, along with handwritten messages asking for the schoolgirl to be brought home.Phillip Wheatley, her headteacher at Raynes Park high school in Merton, described her as a friendly young person who is well-liked by staff and students and enjoyed a successful first year at the school.He said: "Our thoughts are with Tia and her family at this time. I would urge anyone who thinks they may have seen Tia, or who has any information on Tia's whereabouts, to contact the police immediately."