The modern news argot contains a chilling phrase, replete with hidden meaning, but so regularly used as to be almost banal. It denotes not just unimaginable suffering, but on the part of people who must have known about it, indifference and neglect. Every day, journalists will obediently tap it into yet another horror story: "Years of abuse".Last week those words were all over reports of the case of David Askew, a 64- year-old man with learning difficulties, apparently bullied to death by out-of-control youths. He lived in Hattersley, east Manchester, where the idea of baiting him each night had reportedly passed from parents to their children, and he had suffered for at least a decade. Blame was eventually focused on the local council, for failing to rehouse Askew and his family, though one other thing burns through the subsequent reports: his neighbours presumably heard most of what happened, but never came together to bring it to a stop.And so to some other cases. Gloucestershire, 2007: Kevin Davies, an epileptic man kept in a garden shed for four months by a trio of sadists, and tortured to death. Leicestershire, 2007: Fiona Pilkington, who killed herself and her disabled daughter, Francecca, by setting fire to her car, after years of livng "under siege" from youths. Bedfordshire, 2010: Michael Gilbert, a court hears, was murdered by a family with whom he had lived for 11 years after continual cruelty, much of it filmed on a mobile phone.Other stories we know all too well. From last week: the unnamed Sheffield man who abused and raped his two daughters for 28 years, leading to the birth of nine children; and Khyra Ishaq, the girl starved to death in Birmingham. Baby Peter. In most of these cases, "years of abuse" are present and correct, and the usual question springs to mind: aside from failures by the authorities, why is there always that sense of a society that would rather draw the curtains than intrude? In the Ishaq case, consider a sentence from the Birmingham Mail, best read slowly: "Neighbours saw her taking stale bread from a bird table, as well as trying to eat grass." According to one of these people, Khyra's mother upbraided her for leaving the crusts and crumbs outside. The next time this woman saw something untoward, she said: "I looked away quickly because I didn't want another row."Around accounts of these cases there is an inevitable mess of cliche, as tragedies are recast as the modern equivalent of Hogarth etchings. Future historians will presumably go straight to the apocalyptic howls Melanie Phillips contributes to the Daily Mail, and their cast of grotesques: feral children, negligent social workers, parents whose moral sense has been squashed by the welfare state. Meanwhile, politicians' thoughts are inevitably lost in charges of opportunism: witness David Cameron's apparent attempt to channel the zeitgeist via his take on the brothers from Edlington, in South Yorkshire – the victims, naturally enough, of "years of abuse" – who hideously tortured two other boys, one to within an inch of death.Well, here comes the controversial bit: at least he, and those shrill voices on the right, have something coherent(ish) to say. On the liberal left all is vagueness and evasion: a few mutterings about the downsides of individualism, the odd counterblast against the right's attempts to blame the state, and claims that to talk about things we have lost is to succumb to hopeless conservatism. To use the Tory phrase, if parts of society are broken, this is part of the problem. Among those who should have something to say about the decline of social bonds there is an uneasy silence, as if the issues are too complex to consider.Yet the basics are simple enough. Between individual and state is the vacuum where there used to be what policy wonks call intermediate institutions. Some of this the left has no problem talking about, as with deindustrialisation, the forlorn places it created, and what all that has meant for a web of organisations – chiefly those underrated providers of social glue, unions. Other subjects, however, are problematic. To celebrate secularisation as a great flowering of personal freedom may seem reasonable enough – but to deny that the hole left by the decline of the church has never been satisfactorily filled strikes me as a pretty miserable kind of denial.More fundamentally, what about the family? Sometimes, perhaps, it's best to prise apart the words "liberal" and "left", and realise that if you claim to base your politics on such ideas as mutual concern, you'd better start with the institution in which most of us first learn what it means (and yes, that entails a long-overdue conversation about the importance of fathers).If that kind of talk brings you out in a rash, there are plenty of other good places to start. Contrary to the cartoons sketched out by Phillips and her ilk, there are plenty of inner-city housing projects – a good example is the Eldonian Village in central Liverpool – where a culture of brass-tacks involvement not only cuts across the idea that being atomised and indifferent is the inevitable modern condition, but also points up how priceless self-organisation can be. The point is not to fall for the rightwing idea that government can be replaced by little platoons, but to understand that in their absence, the state will never be enough. Horrors like the Ishaq case need more than an anonymous 999 call: if the worst is not to happen, people need to be drawn out of their homes, to commune, converse and organise.Relative to the horrors described above, the fine details of all this will sound mundane, and rather pious, though they shouldn't. The "Red Tory" thinker Phillip Blond, for example, talks about superseding the idea of Neighbourhood Watch with a more proactive idea of Neighbourhood Concern, and pointing out the benefits of an active citizenry via small steps: "If you can exercise power over painting the lift shafts, you think, 'Well, actually, I can exercise power over other things'… and then you start to think about looking after old people, or those who are vulnerable or abandoned. The moment you take responsibility for one thing, it grows." Today, the stairwell; tomorrow, the courage to hear the scream from next door and do something about it.One thing, though: all this runs far beyond the usual cliches about deprivation and dependency, as proved by a figure who embodies no end of 21st century nightmares. Josef Fritzl was not poor, nor resident on a council estate. And in keeping with the cloistered indifference that defines far too much of modern life, none of his neighbours thought to ask him anything.