Laurence DavisDid you read Dostoyevsky while you were incarcerated? If so what are your reflections on Crime and Punishment?Erwin's answerYes I did. I read it a couple of times. It's a dour book that wrestles admirably with the question of individual responsibility. It explores interesting ideas, particularly with Raskolnikov's argument that the superior or "extraordinary" man is exempt from moral responsibility, though to a certain extent I also found this idea lacked merit. But why we act the way we act and how we become who we become are questions I spent a lot of time thinking about in prison. In this regard I found Crime and Punishment helpful. I entered the prison system uneducated, inarticulate and bearing a chronic lack of self-worth. The most brutal aspect of my imprisonment was the discovery that potentially I could have had a much more worthwhile, appropriate life. It was in this latter respect that I found myself relating very much to Raskolnikov. . John AmesWhat is your attitude to the "broken window" or "zero tolerance" theory - that if you take a tough line against comparatively minor acts of incivility you prevent the growth of more serious crime? Would encountering such a policing attitude early on in your life have prevented you from committing the crime that resulted in your life sentence? Thank you.PS: I have enjoyed your column for many years, will be buying your book and placing it next to Jeffrey Bernard on my book shelf, and following your future writings with interest.Erwin's answerI may be wrong, but to me, a "tough line" usually means coming down heavy on vulnerable and easily targeted people. And anyway, to my mind "getting tough," is disingenuous rhetoric that doesn't really help anyone. If anything it only muddies the water and makes it harder for many people to look beyond the unacceptable actions of others to the reasons for them. I received a lot of punishment in my formative years. It produced little that was positive in my later life.  Roger Fletcher If you were home secretary, what three things would you do to reduce the number of prisoners in UK jails? That is assuming you think there are too many already.Erwin's answer There are too many people in prison but I think it would take more than three things to have any real impact on the numbers. However these are the first three things I'd do if I were in the home secretary's shoes:· I'd take a little more thinking time before reacting to "public concern" as generated by headlines in the popular press.· I'd introduce measures to ensure that people were not spending more time in prison than was strictly necessary, (and ensure that while they were there they were offered every opportunity to gain appropriate work skills).· I'd talk to the minister for education to see if we could introduce programmes into schools that would better prepare children for adulthood, ie parenting skills, thinking skills, social skills. A long-term strategy, way beyond the four or five-year term of a government is the only way we are ever going to create a prison system that future generations might be proud of. Lucy Gampell, director Action for Prisoners' FamiliesHow difficult is it for prisoners to maintain good family relationships while in prison, and what could the Prison Service do to improve the situation?Erwins's answerVery difficult. Following the 1990 Strangeways riot the Woolf report on prison disturbances recommended that every effort should be made to hold prisoners in prisons as close to their home towns as possible, yet prisoners are still regularly located in prisons hundreds of miles away from friends and family. In spite of the pressure of prison numbers, locating prisoners nearer their homes should be of paramount importance. Many prisons still do not have visitor centres where visitors can relax and compose themselves before entering the visiting hall. All prisons should have visitor centres manned by non-uniformed staff. Visiting start and finish times should be respected by all prison staff, who should also ensure that visitors are treated with the utmost courtesy at all times. One major improvement over recent years is the introduction of occasional "family visits". Such visits can last up to six hours and in the summer months may even take place outside, depending on the facilities of the prison. Such family visits bring great relief and strength to people in prison and their families and also offer prison staff a terrific means of gaining positive job satisfaction. Family visits should be available in all prisons. AlanCan I first of all take this opportunity to wish you every health and success to enjoy your new found freedom. As a serving Samaritan volunteer who also undertakes visits to Maghaberry Prison and a young offenders centre here in Northern Ireland, I would be interested to hear your views on whether you feel Samaritans can play a greater role or have more positive input through our weekly visits and our involvement in the listeners scheme.Erwin's answerSamaritans already play a vital role in prison life. The weekly sessions and support for prison listener schemes is one of the most refreshing and encouraging developments in the prison system in the last 10 or 12 years. I think they give as much support as is practical. At present, though I'd like to hear the voice of the Sams shouting louder in protest at the disgracefully high numbers of self-inflicted deaths in British prisons. Sheila KeighleyDo you not feel that most people serving sentences in prison would repay their debt to society more effectively, both personally and publicly, within the community, attending a more potent, highly financed probation service?Erwin's answerIt depends on the nature of the offence committed. It makes sense to me that anyone who causes or threatens harm to others should lose their right to be a part of the community for a relative period of time. What concerns me greatly is that prison life is not conducive to the creation of responsible, considerate human beings. Having said that, many programmes exist in prisons which do offer opportunities for prisoners to make an effort to contribute to the wider community. Workshops where items for the disabled are manufactured and Braille transcription undertaken in cells or in special workshops are just two examples. As for the probation service, there has been so much ill-thought out political interference over the last 10 years or so that I think it has struggled to hang on to an authentic sense of purpose. I was lucky that during my time in prison I had just two outside probation officers both of whom contributed a great deal to my development by their supportive, encouraging, understanding attitude. To my mind that is the kind of attitude that should epitomise an effective probation service.Mick FureyGood to hear you're out, mate. I followed your articles all the way, not knowing that my own grandson would finish up in Lincoln after a motiveless assault on an elderly woman while high on cocaine and beer. Like yourself, he's making no excuses; he's ready for sentence when it comes (after psychiatric assessment). We just hope it's not too long. He appreciated your book after I sent it in; I hope he's learnt something from it. I'd appreciate your thoughts on the future shape of prison policy, especially young prisoners (he's 21). I don't want to think that he'll come out worse than when he went into the system, as so many others have. Any ideas? As to the future, I wish you every success rather than good luck because I don't believe in luck. Thanks for your insights.Erwin's answer I'm really sorry to hear about your grandson, but pleased for him that he has such a caring and supportive family. For a young man to act in such a way towards an elderly person is almost beyond comprehension and I know it is a hell of a thing to happen to you all. Hopefully the victim is receiving lots of support to aid recovery. As for your grandson, so long as you don't give up on him there is hope. There will be opportunities for him to grow in prison and he'll meet some inspiring people who'll be able to help him. But how he is when he comes out will depend largely on how he reacts to difficult times and the efforts he makes to sort himself out while he's in there. I wish you all well. "blindern"I am a French reader and I have discovered that you wrote in the Guardian when you were in jail. My question is about the problem that faces the young. I have been surprised about the invention of the antisocial behaviour order (ABSO). It made me afraid at first, because it can be used to control the young of the lower classes, creating special treatment for them.Erwin's answerI worry too about ASBOs. As a society we seem to be too quick to blame young people for their bad behaviour. I'm afraid that's just the easy way out. Adult influence is the biggest deciding factor in the type of adults that most children grow up to be.  Christine HollandDuring your time inside did you have an official prison visitor? If so, what did you think of them? Very keen to find out what you think here as I'm an official prison visitor.Erwin's answerOfficial visitors - or "prison visitors" - are people who visit prisoners who normally do not have much contact with the outside world. Prison visitors are usually well adjusted regular people who are able to offer isolated prisoners conversation and an idea of life beyond the prison landings that they might not otherwise have. It is often a mutually beneficial relationship. And so it should be.Diarmuid FogartyWhat kind of person becomes a screw?Erwin's answer It's a difficult job, but somebody has to do it. During my 20 years inside I met many very good people who worked as prison officers, not all were just "screws". Svetlana Sellers How do you handle issues of confidentiality when writing about other prisoners? (I know you use nicknames but do you get their permission?) And any advice for a trainee probation officer? Erwin's answerIf the story is a particularly sensitive one but I thought it deserved to be told I would mention to the people involved that I wanted to write about it to get their approval. I've never had anyone tell me they didn't want me to write about something concerning them. If I need to put someone in a not very good light and can't really ask for permission I rely on what I have always done anyway: changing names, locations and time frames. The people and events I have written about are real and true in every other way. On being a prison officer, never forget that the people who you will have to supervise are real people, not just "clients" or "offenders". If your life had been different you might have ended up sitting in their seats.Helen GrayshanHaving been a victim of several minor crimes recently, I am interested in the idea of confronting the perpetrators and trying to make them understand my point of view. What do you think about schemes that encourage offenders to meet with their victims? Have you thought about doing it yourself, or have you any plans to find out what happened to those you offended against 20 years ago?Erwin's answerThe concept you are talking about is one that is being explored already in different parts of the country and is commonly known as "restorative justice". In principle it appears to be a very good idea. But I think whether it achieves anything positive depends totally on the individuals concerned. I do know however that there are many people in prison who would dearly welcome the opportunity to apologise to their victims. Eileen MenziesFirstly, good luck. My question is about a system to "employ" literate prisoners to teach illiterate prisoners to read using a special training manual - designed to be used by untrained "teachers". They do this at least five times a week. The "teachers" gain as they help others and of course pupils gain immeasurably. Although there is little for prison staff to do once the system is up and running it obviously takes official authority, organisation and monitoring (a prisoner coordinator does the daily recording of progress) although it does need good will from busy prison staff. In some prisons, furthermore, prisoners have to be unlocked and escorted to the place where the lesson will take place. Although, in others prisoners are released from workshops for a lesson or can have lessons during free association. There is more, but briefly, have you heard of it? Do you have any suggestions on how to get governors to support it? We are having some success in two (at least) London prisons and in about 80 UK-wide, but if prison officers move on or up, it is often difficult to maintain momentum. This is a cheeky question but will you be writing any more articles on prisons? If so, or when, I would be so pleased to put you in touch with the head and founder of the trust if you thought the subject was one you might pursue.Erwin's answerI have heard about a scheme called "Toe by Toe," whereby literate prisoners act as reading and writing mentors to those who are not so able. Perhaps this is the scheme you are talking about. Toe by Toe was set up by the Shannon Trust which was created from the proceeds of sales of one of the most remarkable books I have ever read: Invisible Crying Tree, by Tom Shannon and Christopher Morgan. I think it is a wonderful idea, offering prisoners, as it does, an opportunity to share responsibility and in the process regain some self-respect. Perhaps it should be an initiative that is specifically measured as an auditable key performance indicator. That way the prison governor would have to ensure that resources were available to support it. Chris DabbsFirst, many thanks for your column - it has been a highlight of the Guardian and I am really glad to know that you will continue to write. I am particularly interested in your view on the well-being of prisoners. It is suggested that some 90% of prisoners have a mental health problem (including personality disorder) and/or substance misuse problem. From your experience, what would be the best thing to do to support people to improve their health and well-being, physical, psychological and otherwise? And what more creative alternatives to prison are there that would benefit both offenders and the public more than the current set-up? Finally, my very best wishes to you for the future. I look forward to reading A Life Outside.Erwin's answer The well-being of prisoners is something everyone should be concerned about. Most people in prison are there because they have caused some level of suffering to someone else, that's why for many on the outside their well-being is not something to be overly concerned about. But we should do our best not to let our anger cloud our ability to reason. I' m not sure about the percentage you quote, but there are certainly a high proportion of people in prison with mental health and behavioural problems - it is a situation that contributes largely to the unusual reality of prison life generally. The authorities are well aware that it is a serious problem but I think nobody really knows how to address it. Ordinary imprisonment is not a good way of living for healthy people. For those whose health - mental or physical - is not strong, it is particularly damaging, despite the efforts of the many good people who work in the prison system who do their best to help. I'm in the same camp as the authorities on this one as I also don't know the answer.  Ian AndrewI have followed the column every week, and found it an absolutely riveting insight into how to survive such a long sentence. Hope there'll be many more to come ... do you plan to continue writing - apart from in the Guardian?Erwin's answer It is rare that the voice of the prisoner is heard beyond the prison walls. I consider myself greatly privileged that for four years through A life Inside, mine was allowed to be heard. Writing has been very good for me. I have loved writing for the Guardian. The response from Guardian readers to my contributions has been encouraging and inspiring beyond measure and I want to say a huge thank you to everyone who has taken the time to send me good wishes in cards, letters and e-mails. I do intend to explore the possibility of other writing projects, but for now I'm happy to continue chronicling my observations on this odd experience in my favourite newspaper.