Seven years ago, Tracey Hill's partner, Ronald Hinkson, was stabbed to death outside a club in Camden Town, north London. The trial of the man accused of killing him has just concluded at the Old Bailey with an acquittal.Hill found the way her partner was portrayed in the trial to be one of the most distressing aspects of the case. Now she believes - as do victim support groups - that the relatives of murder victims should have a legal right to correct inaccuracies about the life and character of the dead person during the trial and not merely afterwards. Hinkson, a 32-year-old computer graphic designer from Kentish Town, was celebrating a friend's birthday on the night he was killed. One of the group he was with had been smoking a joint in the Barzaar club and was told by the manager, Matthew O'Connor, to put it out. This led to an altercation which ended when Hinkson was stabbed to death in the street. O'Connor, a licensed taxi-driver, fled the country with a false passport after the killing and was traced to Thailand only three years ago. He was brought back to face trial after spending two years in jail in Bangkok fighting extradition. He was acquitted after telling the jury he had left the country not because he had killed Hinkson but because he had been wrongly identified as the killer and feared he would be a target of Hinkson's friends. He said he now regretted going on the run. As Hill sat through the four-week trial, what she found hardest to deal with was the way in which her partner and the father of her young son was painted in court. "The most difficult thing was the fact that Ronald's real life and character weren't aired at all," she says. "He was constantly described as a 'bouncer' when, in fact, he was a graphic designer and it was three years since he had worked as a doorman. It was suggested that he must have seemed 'frightening' and 'intimidating' and there was a constant undertone that this was a very threatening person." The jury were frequently referred to a photo of Hinkson after the altercation had started and his face had been cut with a glass. "I haven't seen the photo and I don't want to," Hill says, "but he had just been cut and was obviously angry. We should have been able to show how he looked normally. "Ronald was the opposite of the way he was portrayed. He was a very hard-working person who was always helping people out and who was tremendously well liked by everyone who knew him. There were nearly 1,000 people at his funeral." Hill says her partner was a very sociable man who liked to try to sort out problems for people. "It was typical that he got involved. The jury should have been given the opportunity to see what kind of a person Ronald really was. I would have given anything to have been allowed to go in the witness box and talk about him. Somebody should have been allowed to defend Ron's character for him. The whole focus of the trial is making sure that everything is fair for the defendant, but there is no justice for the victim." The less sympathy the jury has for the victim, the more likely it is to acquit, so the defence has every incentive to paint the victim in as harsh a light as possible. This is particularly true in cases where defendants are said to have been provoked by the victim or to have acted in self-defence. In the original trial of Tony Martin, the farmer convicted of killing teenage burglar Fred Barras and wounding his accomplice Brendon Fearon in 1999, the behaviour and criminal records of the two burglars was central to the defence. Barras, though only 16, was a petty criminal with 29 convictions and could therefore not be expected to garner much sympathy from jurors. In one of the leading cases on provocation, Sara Thornton pleaded not guilty to murdering her husband, Malcolm, after killing him while he slept in a drunken stupor on the sofa. She was originally convicted of murder but had her conviction reduced to manslaughter on appeal. Vital to her case was the allegation that he was drunkenly violent towards her. His family disputed this portrayal and later protested vociferously about the way he had been presented in court. He had been married twice before and both ex-wives denied that he was violent. One said: "Yes, he was a drunk, but he was a happy drunk." In 2002, in a case recently cited by the organisation Justice for Women, David Cummergen was found guilty of manslaughter after strangling his wife and was given a suspended sentence. The court had heard much of his wife's alcoholism. The judge commented, basing his remarks on the evidence presented: "You put up with your wife's alcoholism - she made your life a misery." The issue of how a murder victim is portrayed in court crops up frequently, says Teresa Reynolds of Victim Support. "We are very concerned about it. The government is looking at the law on murder over the next two years and it is one of the issues that we are suggesting should be addressed." The organisation wants relatives of murder victims to have the chance to counter the "evidence" about the victim, to put the record straight, and to make sure that the court gets to know about the victim. Patsy Cullinan of the pressure group Support After Murder and Manslaughter (Samm) agrees that the problem is "very, very common and very distressing." She adds: "Victims are dead and cannot speak for themselves. That is the crux of the matter. There is no one to speak for them. I have heard this over and over from people ringing us on our support line." The issue is also very much alive in the United States, says Maggie Elvey of California-based Crime Victims United. Elvey, whose husband was murdered in 1993, noticed strangers taking photographs and videos at his funeral. They turned out to be private investigators working for the defence and trying to find out if there was any information that could be used to portray her husband in a bad light. "I thought, 'This is sick'," says Elvey.Of derogatory remarks about a victim in court, she says: "It's hard to listen to that. You're thinking it would be nice if the victim's family had an attorney in the courtroom." Some US courts attempt to exclude victims' relatives in case they were seen to influence jurors. "They tell you, 'You can't cry, you can't talk'. It's very hard." A spokeswoman for the Crown Prosecution Service said prosecuting counsel were given guidance about redressing any inaccuracies about a victim at the time of sentence. However, there is no guidance on dealing with the way a victim is portrayed before a verdict has been reached. The treatment of victims' families in the courts has improved in many ways over the past decade. Prosecutors, court officials and police are now given much fuller advice on how they can help families through the difficult process of a murder trial. One innovation has been the victim impact statement but that comes only after a conviction. Hill says: "I have no criticism of the police. They have given me so much support and I felt that in a way they gave Ronald support, too." However, she feels strongly that the Ronald Hinkson his friends and family knew was not the one that was spoken of in court. She and others who have been in a similar position now want a change in the law to provide justice for the voiceless victims too. · Further details: www.samm.org.uk, www.victimsupport.org.uk, www.cps.gov.uk