Police hunting the man who stabbed Abigail Witchalls and threatened her toddler son arrested a 25-year-old man from Surrey last night.A spokeswoman for Surrey police said the man was detained late last night, just over a week after the attack in a quiet country lane in the village of Little Bookham. She added: "This is only one line of inquiry and police are continuing to follow up other information." Detectives are due to begin working with Mrs Witchalls today to create on an e-fit of the man who attacked her, leaving her for dead. Police officers, who have already spent nine hours interviewing Mrs Witchalls, will return to her hospital bedside again to try to produce as accurate a picture as possible of her attacker. Mrs Witchalls, 26, was left severely paralysed and unable to speak, but through mouthing "yes and no" and using facial expressions she has already managed to provide police with a very detailed description of the man and her ordeal. She told police her attacker drove past her before getting out of his vehicle and chasing her on foot along Water Lane on Wednesday afternoon. He first grabbed and threatened her 21-month-old son, Joseph, with a knife, and then stabbed her, leaving her for dead with a three-inch wound in the back of her neck. Police have so far received hundreds of calls, throwing up a list of names, which they are examining further. Mrs Witchalls had a rest day with her family yesterday. But Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, who is heading the investigation, revealed that police planned to visit her at St George's Hospital, Tooting, in South London, today, her health permitting, to start work on the e-fit. The police will show the victim examples of facial features on a laptop computer and they may also show her photographs of vehicles on a larger screen to try and narrow down details of the car her attacker was driving when she first spotted him. DS Harper said this could prove a lengthy process but added that Mrs Witchalls was an incredibly determined young woman and he felt sure she would help as much as she was able. Police are also scouring national data bases and using offender profiling techniques to try and pinpoint possible suspects. Forensic experts are also working on the case. Any results will take several weeks because samples for DNA testing must be grown from minute particles taken from the scene.