Ed Miliband cannot move more than a few paces along Tottenham High Road without residents grabbing his arm and pouring out their hearts. Anguish is written on faces, and voices tremble as they pull the Labour leader aside for a word.Emotions remain raw a week on from the riots that scarred their community. "It is a disaster," says Irene Allen, a mother-of-six and grandmother-of-16. "Tottenham was just coming up. We were doing so well. It grieves my heart to see what happened to this place."If there had been one problem that transformed anger with the police over the unexplained shooting of a local man – Mark Duggan – into violence, and then to anarchic looting, she thinks it was that "young people in this community don't have anything to do".Just up the road, near the burnt-out shell of a listed building that used to be Tottenham's post office, came a contrary view. "It is rubbish to say there is not enough for young people here," said Kavell May. "There are loads of places for them to go. But whatever they build for these kids, they just trash them."Her message to the Labour leader was that it was pure criminality – not the fault of the community but that of absent parents, and a drug and alcohol culture in which they bought up their young.During an hour on the road where it all began, Miliband met anger, sadness, despair and hope – all competing with one another. If the Labour leader was looking for quick answers or a consistency of view, he quickly became aware he would not find them."It is very complex," he said as he strode towards the leisure centre which, the local MP David Lammy told him with some pride, had been built to help Tottenham haul itself back after the last riots which occurred when Lammy, a local boy, was a teenager. All last week Miliband walked a tightrope as he tried to frame Labour's response to the latest disturbances.In 1985, Bernie Grant, then Labour leader of Haringey council, had been quoted as saying that "what the police got was a bloody good hiding" during violence that year. By contrast, Miliband has been on guard to avoid giving even the faintest impression of sympathy for those involved. He offered full backing to David Cameron's decision to recall parliament and for the prime minister's demands that those responsible must feel the full force of the law. Labour could not be seen to be remotely soft on violence or opportunistic looting.But now Miliband is determined to open some distance between Labour and the Tories. And, in some ways, the mix of views in Tottenham helps his cause. He insists that the complexity of the problems that sparked the riots and the lack of clarity about where blame should lie makes a full public inquiry not only essential but also a duty of responsible government. He accuses Cameron of being simplistic by suggesting that criminality and police errors alone can explain the mayhem."The prime minister said yesterday he thinks it is simple. It is not simple; it is very, very complex," said Miliband. "The idea that you could just have a home affairs select committee inquiry into the policing, into the home affairs issues involved, is ridiculous."He says both sides of the political divide need to avoid putting forward their predictable views and instead should listen to the people. "I think we need to avoid simplistic explanations either from the left or from the right, either saying it is criminality pure and simple and that is the end of the story or saying it is all about society and it is just that there are not enough youth services."He will give the government another 48 hours to respond to his call for a full public inquiry or he will set up his own to listen to the views of people up and down the country in a "national conversation". "We owe it to them to listen," he said.Cameron, he says, takes the view that the riots were caused by a lack of responsibility shown by those involved and their parents. That is, he believes, to look at massively difficult, interlocking problems through too narrow a lens. "Responsibility is important but so is opportunity, so is inequality, all of these things are factors. We have got to understand all of these issues."He does not believe solutions can be found without active state involvement – which is anathema to Cameron, who preaches the merits of a "big society" based on voluntarism and less interference from the centre. "I don't think the smaller state solution is the answer."Another clear divide is over cuts to the police. "The government will have to move on that. The public did not support it to start with and will do so even less now." He believes Labour can frame its approach by extending Cameron's argument about responsibility upwards and outwards so it relates not just to those with least but also to those with most. At present the richest and poorest, he says, often co-exist in close proximity but feel no connection or bond with each other. Their separate lives and lifestyles breed antipathy."In London, in particular, we know that there are huge areas of wealth that co-exist with huge areas of poverty. Those parallel worlds mean that [poorer] people not only don't have a stake in society but feel that actually what matters in society is something that they can't even reach."He insists he is not excusing rioters and looters. "I am not saying that inequality caused the looting because that is far too simplistic, but I do say that giving people a sense that they have a stake in society, and that we are one society and not two parallel worlds, is really, really important. How do you do that? It is partly by showing responsibility at the top. If people see bankers with their millions in undeserved bonuses, what does it say to people about the values and the things that matter in our society?"Miliband wants people to have a stake in finding the solution to last week's problem, too – hence his determination to talk to as wide a cross-section of people as possible over the best part of a year before reaching views. "People who I talked to in Brixton and Tottenham think that after a few days' attention the politicians are going to disappear and not come back."They think they are going to be forgotten. They need to know now that won't happen. They need to know now their voice will be heard."