Two armed robbers who followed a millionaire businessman and his wife home from a shopping trip to Harrods before fatally shooting her in the back and stealing a Rolex watch from her wrist as she lay on the ground were yesterday convicted of murder.Jason James, 29, and Daniel Whyte, 24, both from west London, were found guilty by a jury at St Albans crown court of shooting Giuseppina Martorana, 43, in August, 2000. James was also convicted of the attempted murder of her son, Steven, 18, and his girlfriend, Isabella Agnes, 19, who were shot and seriously injured when they emerged from the house to see what the disturbance was. Mrs Martorana died a month after the attack. She and her husband, Giusseppe, 59, were followed home from the Knightsbridge store after looking for a pair of silver rings to celebrate their 25th wedding anniversary. As Mr Martorana bent down to get a camera out of the boot of the car he was attacked from behind. Struggling with the men he felt his Rolex watch being clipped off his wrist. "One of the men said 'I've got a gun' and I saw the gun being fumbled between them," Mr Matorana told the court. "I turned around and saw my wife screaming. "She was running around the car to get away. They were chasing her and within seconds I heard a gunshot. "I went around to the right of my car and saw my wife. She was just falling." He added: "Almost seconds after the first gunshot, Steven came flying out of the door and shouted 'What the fucking hell is going on.' "The man who fired the gun was pointing it straight at Steven. "Bella followed Steven out and I tried to push her back to protect her. I heard another shot. "I wasn't sure who had been hit, me or Bella. We both fell to the hallway floor. I looked at Bella and saw her motionless. I turned around and I could see the second man (James) who had fired the gun leaning over my wife. He was straddling her. My wife was just lying there." The jury will return today to continue considering verdicts on the two charges of attempted murder outstanding against Whyte.