Hi-tech crime is now one of the major threats posed to the UK by organised crime, says the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS). In its annual UK Threat Assessment report published last week, it lists the leading activities of criminal gangs. Some are expected: class A drugs, fraud, money laundering, firearms, immigration crime and sex offences against children. But, increasingly, the use of computers and technology for fraud, extortion, and other criminal profit is also figuring in their investigations. Malicious viruses, and the odd email swindle or pyramid scheme, have always been a tiresome feature of the internet experience. Historically they've been the work of some backroom scam artist or anarchic individual out to get attention by hacking a system. But organised gangs and professional con-men are working the net for criminal profit "wherever there is money to be made", the report concludes. In short, cybercrime is on the rise. "There are two main categories of hi-tech crime," says Detective Chief Superintendent Len Hynds of the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU). "Traditional crimes revitalised within the digital environment, such as fraud, extortion and child abuse type offences. Then there are newer crimes, offences under the Computer Misuse Act, such as hacking and virus writing."Viruses are the most commonly experienced new hi-tech crime. Systems around the world are still reeling from the effects of last week's Sobig worm, just one in a recent flurry of malicious programs that have propagated themselves across the world's networks in record time. Sobig's distinctive new twist - its potential to turn every computer it infects into a spam relay - thankfully didn't materialise. But many viruses these days contain "Trojan" code to leave "backdoors" open on infected machines. Any hackers with the correct tool can then control the computer remotely and use it to generate huge quantities of spam or host porn sites - without the owner knowing. "If there's no anti-virus, no firewall, they can control huge amounts of machines... It's near perfect and almost untraceable," says Paul Wood, information analyst of internet security firm Messagelabs. "If anyone does trace it, the trail ends with you. And you don't want the police banging on your door in the middle of the night." This is exactly how the F variant of the Sobig virus originated last week. According to the FBI, which was unravelling the trail as it unfolded over the weekend, a hacker - perhaps the author - seized control of a home computer in British Columbia made vulnerable to infection by a backdoor Trojan. Using stolen credit card details, an account was created with a local ISP and this served as a launchpad to unleash the virus on the net. The whole process took minutes. The owner of the computer was unaware until the FBI confronted him. The hacker remains unknown. He is still at large. Among the old-school crimes given new life on the net, fraud is the most widespread. Auction fraud accounts for 46% of all net fraud, according to the FBI. People buy bargain laptops, the latest videogame consoles or rare col lectable Beanie Babies on sites such as eBay, but they never arrive. Expensive watches or software may be delivered but turn out to be counterfeit. Besides auctions, internet con-men rely on a tried and tested standby: spam fraud. Like all scams, spam preys on people's hopes and fears. Offers of bigger penises, cheaper drugs, and money for nothing often lure the unsuspecting into parting with money or revealing bank details. Other spams fake the corporate appearance of institutions or lead to realistic looking but wholly fake financial sites. "This is your final notice," reads the email from the billing department. "Please take a moment to update your credit card information by clicking here and submitting your information." Most users hit the delete key. But a gullible minority don't. "There are always small numbers of people who respond to spam," says Wood. Despite massive publicity, bogus investment schemes like the notorious Nigerian 419 fraud ("I am a senior account officer of one of the banks in Lagos. I have a very urgent and confidential business proposition for you,") still ensnare victims. In the US this year, a secretary of a Michigan law firm fell victim and ended up moving $2.1m (£1.3m) to various bank accounts in South Africa and South East Asia. She said she intended "to pay the money back" when she received her windfall. And in February, the scam claimed its first life when a 72-year-old man entered the Nigerian embassy in Prague and shot the Czech consul dead. The gunman's bank account had been drained by someone posing as a senior Nigerian official in a classic 419 sting. The extent of spam fraud is difficult to monitor since it goes mostly unreported. "Many victims, embarrassed by their naivety and feeling personally humiliated, do not report the crime to the authorities," say the Metropolitan police. For those who don't fall for spam, and are boxed to the hilt with firewalls and anti-viruses software, a more disturbing form of fraud may yet sneak through. Identity theft, where someone uses your personal data to obtain credit cards in your name or even assume your identity, is on the rise. According to the Fraud Advisory Panel, more than 42,000 people suffered some form of identity theft in the UK last year. The crime is still largely low tech. "The thieves obtain information by going through trash outside of businesses and government offices, and by stealing mail," says Beth Givens, director of Privacyrights.org, which advises the public on how to protect their private data. "We are also seeing more cases of multiple identity theft emanating from the workplace. A dishonest employee obtains a printout or diskette, or even a laptop, full of names and details, either of the organisation's employees or its customers." However, electronic means of extracting personal data is becoming more common. The Sobig virus's ability to install Trojans could easily have led to the theft of bank details. As our personal information - passwords, bank details, our mother's maiden name - is disseminated across wider and wider networks of companies, shops and websites, or stored on easy-to-steal handhelds and laptops, the risk increases that it can fall into the hands of those looking to profit quickly. An alliance between organised crime and virus writers is not far away, most experts maintain. As the NCIS report puts it: "Criminals are becoming increasingly technologically competent and serious and organised criminals have demonstrated in other areas that they are willing to buy in skills and expertise, or subcontract to specialists, where there is a need or advantage in doing so." "It's the profitability that attracts them," says Woods. "The lure for them is the same as for any e-business. Low overheads. Potentially high profitability. Massive global reach." Plus the added bonus of relative anonymity. In the UK, at least, cybercrime is still relatively rare. The National Hi-Tech Crime Unit focuses on five main areas: hackers and virus writers, online child abusers, extortionists, drug traffickers and fraud. The growing ingenuity of the cyber villain is a serious challenge to modern law enforcement. Like hackers, organised crime is always on the look out for holes to exploit in the system and has always enjoyed the challenge. "Whenever there is new technology, it will look to adapt that to its illicit use," says Hynds. A lot of the unit's work is preventative, focusing on increasing awareness and encouraging users not to be duped into revealing their personal data. "If a man came up to you in the street and asked you for your credit card details or what your ATM card Pin number is - would you give it? Of course not. If someone on the internet asks you, your answer should be exactly the same," is their advice. Yet it appears a certainty that hi-tech crime will increase. Spam traffic now exceeds that of legitimate email. Viruses are mutating rapidly in the wild. And criminals, in line with the rest of the population, are becoming increasingly technically savvy. The NCIS report concludes on a foreboding note. "It is reasonable to assume that criminal use of hi-tech methods will only increase as banks, businesses and individuals become more reliant on IT and online transactions, and more and more potentially valuable data is stored on networks." Anti-viruses and firewalls are the best way of preventing most of the new or emergent forms of cybercrime, experts say. Unfortunately, as the MS Blaster epidemic proved, many people don't keep their security updated on a regular basis. The internet is at risk of being split into two castes: a higher caste of immunised power users and a lower caste of naive "vectors" who spread the bulk of the infections from their unprotected machines. Not having a firewall, says Wood, is "like driving without insurance, just hoping it won't happen to you."