Linda Bethel was one of the first police officers to attend the scene of the murder. Edmund Lawson QC was counsel for the inquiry.Lawson That night, the 22nd of April, you were on duty with Constable Gleason, is that right?Bethel That's correct.Lawson There were no difficulties as far as you were concerned in seeing the blood coming from his body?Bethel No, not at all.Lawson When you saw the large amount of blood, you immediately called your control room asking them to hurry up the ambulance?Bethel Yes, that's correct.Lawson Did you have a first-aid kit in your police car?Bethel To the best of my knowledge, yes.Lawson Was it ever taken out of the car that night?Bethel No.Lawson Do you know the reason for that?Bethel It wasn't deemed that we could actually use the first-aid kit to any great benefit.Lawson What would your training indicate to you should be done if you came across somebody who has apparently suffered a wound from which he is losing a lot of blood?Bethel We were told that Stephen had a head wound. He was in the recovery position when we arrived. There was no obvious wound to see where the blood was coming from. We believed an ambulance would be there within minutes.Lawson The suggestion that has been made publicly that perhaps an explanation for the lack of first-aid attention was "police officers not wishing to dirty their hands with a black man's blood". Tell us your feelings about that?Bethel I don't see myself as a racist. I don't think I act in a racist manner. I don't believe I am racist. Stephen Kamlish, counsel for the Lawrence family Were you concerned that you had not, in fact, looked for the injury?  Bethel Obviously, because of the amount of upset it has caused and the amount of attention there has been on it, yes. I do now regret that I didn't look at the injury.  Kamlish Have you ever been present when someone has suffered racism in whatever form?  Bethel No.  Kamlish Never?  Bethel No.  Kamlish Never heard a racist comment in the Metropolitan Police by any police officer?  Bethel I'm aware that comments are made, and, yes, they are heard, but I can't specifically recall any. I am not saying it doesn't exist.  Ian Macdonald QC, representing Duwayne Brooks Duwayne Brooks told you that the incident had started off when one of the white boys had said words to the effect, "What, what, nigger?" Bethel I don't doubt he said that. I can't remember. I'm sure he did.