A bullied teenager who beat his best friend to death with a pool cue was today found not guilty of murder.Tommy Kimpton, 19, killed 17-year-old Ben Williams on May 21 last year after inviting him to stay the night at his house in Penryn, Cornwall. Kimpton admitted manslaughter, but the jury cleared him of murder after hearing he had been bullied at school over his weight, thick glasses and big ears and teased by Mr Williams immediately before the attack.Wearing glasses and a blue-and-white hooded top, Kimpton stood with his head bowed and made no reaction as the verdict was read out. Sentencing him to life in prison, the judge, Graham Cottle, ordered that he should serve at least two and a half years in prison before being considered for release. He told the teenager: "You needlessly took the life of a young man whose whole life was in front of him, and the agony of that loss must be felt each day by his parents. "I have no doubt, listening to the evidence in this case, that you are a young man who has had a very deprived and difficult childhood and adolescence, in consequence of which your personality has developed in an abnormal way. "That fact is demonstrated by many instances in your life, about which the court has heard. It is no better demonstrated than by the tragic fact of this case."Giving evidence earlier in the trial, Kimpton told the jury he had wished he was like Mr Williams, who was slim, funny, athletic and attractive to girls. He said: "I did not feel or look the same as everyone else. I was always overweight, and had to wear thick glasses. I have bigger ears and looked goofy. I didn't want to be myself. Ben was the sort of person I wanted to be." He said he had been called names at school, including "four eyes, "fat boy", "chunky", "Dumbo ears", "goofy", "tank ass", "ten-to-two feet", "fat boy slim" and "window glasses". The jury was told that Kimpton had been out drinking with other members of staff from Cornish Linen Service after work on May 20. After leaving the pub, Kimpton walked back to his house with Mr Williams and another friend, Joe Erdman. Mr Erdman left them some time after midnight. During the night, the defendant struck Mr Williams on the head with a pool cue between 10 and 12 times. On May 21, Kimpton bought black bin bags in an attempt to hide the bloody scene in his bedroom before taking an overdose of painkillers. His mother later found him unconscious, slumped across an armchair in the front room. Nearby were a bottle of vodka, empty packets of paracetamol and two suicide notes. Upstairs, Mr Williams's body was discovered half concealed between a cupboard and the wall. Kimpton was taken to the Royal Cornwall Hospital in Truro and kept in for two days before being arrested and charged with murder.