Police forces will receive new funds for more officers only if they meet Home Office targets to cut crime in their areas and to take on more black and Asian officers, it emerged last night. As chief constables learned their shares of the extra 4,000 officers promised nationally over the next three years, the Home Office minister, Barbara Roche, said the government would insist on seeing real results on current targets before it parted with funds for future expanded staffing. "Forces across England and Wales have now been given an unexpected boost to their existing and already enhanced recruitment plans, and will want to work hard to ensure they use the extra ring-fenced resources to improve their crime-fighting capabilities," said Mrs Roche. "In return the government and the public will want to see results - reduction in crime, with more offenders being brought to justice."Police forces have been set individual targets to cut car crime by 30% overall by 2004 and reduce burglary by 25% by 2005. Forces will only get their cash for more police officers if they have managed to meet their targets, and recruit and deploy "to the front line" previously agreed increases in officers. Their recruitment targets include boosting the number of black and Asian officers as well as cutting annual sickness levels from the current average of 11.7 working days per officer.The money for the extra 4,000 recruits was announced by the chancellor, Gordon Brown, in the July comprehensive spending review. It came on top of existing plans to recruit a further 5,000 officers over the next three years, in an attempt to reverse the decline in police numbers. A total of £667m has been earmarked to pay for the project. The expansion will stretch police training places to the limit. A newly-trained constable can expect to be paid better than £18,000 a year outside London and more in the capital.The distribution of the 4,000 extra recruits among the 43 forces in England and Wales has been on the same basis as the annual allocation of budget funds. The total of 9,000 will be spread at the rate of 3,000 a year. There has been no particular allowance made to boost police in rural areas despite the furore over the Tony Martin case, in which the East Anglian farmer shot two burglars. The largest numbers of extra officers are being put into the big city forces, with the Metropolitan police getting funds for 931 extra officers. The West Midlands is to get 213; Greater Manchester 210; West Yorkshire 161 and Merseyside 131.Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, welcomed the plans but warned that the government was likely to break its manifesto commitment to increase police numbers. "Police numbers started to fall under the Conservatives but accelerated under Labour," he said. "The Government's decision to stick to Tory spending plans for the first two years means that most of this money will be used to replace officers lost since Labour came to power. Ministers admitted that they will only get back to 1997 levels of police strength in 2002."