The Vaccines - Bad Mood onMUZU.TV.Reading on mobile? Click here to view videoCan you name the lead singer of popular indie rock combo the Vaccines? No, this isn't a particularly boring pub quiz, but the question concertgoers were asked in order to gain entry to a gig by the band at Venue Cymru in Llandudno, Wales. In an apparent drive to stop pickpocketing, local police reportedly refused entry to anyone who couldn't name the lead singer or one of the band's albums. It didn't seem to matter that the handful of tongue-tied fans they turned away had forked out £18.50 for a ticket.Now I'm sure your first reaction to this needlessly authoritarian crackdown was quite similar to mine: "Er, ummm, errrr, actually who is the lead singer of the Vaccines?"No offence, but Justin Young (for it is he) has hardly burned his name across the nation's retinas. Does it even matter if you know the name of the person hollering into the microphone? Whatever next? Theatre-goers expected to know who's playing the supporting role? Football fans turned away if they can't name the right back for Shrewsbury Town?Having said that, perhaps the police's actions had nothing to do with pickpocketing and were merely trying to prove a point about the dearth of great rock stars around at the moment. Back in the day, everyone knew their Mick Jaggers and Robert Plants. But could you name the guitarist from alt-j? Or the last single released by Django Django? Well, could you?We invented a test to see just how many gigs you could get into with a valid ticket … answers at the bottom (not that you'll need them):1 What is the real name of Bon Iver?a) Justin Vernonb) Hang on, didn't you just say that was the name of the Vaccines guy?c) No, that was Justin Young, must remember thatd) Justin Timberlake2 Which is Babyshambles' best song?a) Snooker Loopyb) Should I Stay Or Should I Goc) Albiond) A trick question – Babyshambles have no good songs3 Who is the lead singer in Laura Marling?a) Kate Nashb) Joni Mitchellc) Caitlin Rosed) Laura Marling, it says so here on my ticket4 Who is the lead singer of the Vaccines?a) Justin Hawkinsb) Justin Youngc) Justin Vernond) Just a minute, I know this … it's, it's … ah, damn, I've forgotten alreadyAnswers: a; d; d; b.