Mr Justice Hooper: High Court judge since 1995  Have I visited a prison? No. I should have done. I've done Feltham [young offenders' institution] and I keep meaning to do others but I've never done them. I plead guilty. It's for us to organise ourselves. My trouble is my four years as presider [presiding judge on one of the court circuits] were so busy I never got round to doing it, but I should have done it. Next time I go out [on circuit] I will do it. I've read Inside by John Hoskison. I think he is now attending the JSB courses [training seminars for judges organised by the Judicial Studies Board] and talking to people about his experiences inside. I sentenced the man - the book starts off with me sentencing him to prison. It's a very, very interesting book.  Mr Justice Moses: High Court judge since 1996  In Chelmsford I went to Chelmsford jail and when I'm in Reading I go to Reading jail. I think some of them [judges] do and some of them don't. I rather hate it. It is so depressing and I hate the "what are you in for" sort of thing. They [the prisoners] must think we're so awful, and you go there dressed in a suit. It's important to see what conditions are like but I don't think they [visits] do much good because you have to give notice, so it's not like the inspector coming and saying, "What's behind that door?" Some of the judges who go round Feltham are shocked. I'm shocked at them all. I think they're all awful. But it doesn't stop our judges sending far too many people to jail. Judge Gerald Butler: Circuit judge 1982-1997   I was a commercial practitioner and had been in a criminal court probably once in my life. I was then appointed a recorder [part-time judge]. I don't know that anyone said it was essential for me to go to a prison, but I did visit Wandsworth and Chelmsford. Later, when I was on the circuit bench, I went a few times. I certainly went to Wandsworth more than once. I went to Holloway once or twice. I went to a young offender institution. It was an eye-opener. It certainly told me this: that you don't send people to prison unless it's essential to do so. That's not to say that I did not send people to prison. But it was certainly in my mind that prison was a really genuine punishment and I didn't forget that. Judge Shaun Lyons: Circuit judge since 1992, resident judge at Wood Green crown court in London   Part of the programme before pupil judges are allowed to sit is that they all have to visit a prison and the probation service. That system has certainly been around since the 80s. I'm a little surprised to hear there are judges who have never been to prison. Although it varies between courts and judges, I certainly arrange visits to prison for my judges at this court. Those of us who have the power to send people to prison should remind ourselves sufficiently frequently exactly what prisons are like. All judges go on refresher seminars from time to time and certainly the opportunity is taken there to encourage judges, if they have time, to visit a prison. Allan Levy QC : Practising barrister; part-time judge since 1990  I went to Holloway once and I went to Feltham once. And, of course, when I used to do criminal work many years ago I visited prisons, but then you only go to the conference bit to see your client. I went to some of the major prisons some years ago when I was defending people charged with criminal offences. When I went to Holloway and Feltham we were shown round and talked to one or two prisoners. You know it's grim and you don't send people to prison unless you've absolutely got to. Since Tumim and Ramsbotham, nobody could have anything other than a highly critical view of prisons, with some exceptions. Their reports have been devastating. Owen Davies QC: Practising barrister; recently appointed as part-time judge  You cannot nowadays sit [as a judge] at all unless you've visited a prison. I had a slot to sit last week and they had to run around trying to find me a prison to visit to get that out of the way before I started. They don't send you to the cosmetically chosen ones because the two I was sent to have been severely criticised recently in prison inspections. One was Feltham. The other was Chelmsford. Feltham was my image of hell. Everybody who works there realises its limitations. It is physically not equipped to do the job it is supposed to do; it is a disaster. It's completely unsuitable - small units that are very heavy on manpower to supervise, connected by windblown, cold corridors.