For decades motorcyclists have flocked to the A537 to test themselves against the twists and turns of the Peak District's most notorious hill road.A 12-mile stretch between Buxton and Macclesfield, known as the Cat and Fiddle run after the pub at its summit, enjoys a reputation among bikers as one of the "last few great roads in Britain". But its reputation also extends to the Cheshire constabulary and the accident and emergency wards of local hospitals. For some of the bikers never make it to the end of the road. Travelling at speeds of up to 120mph, some are unable to deal with the road's unexpected features, and the predicament can lead to fatality. Now, after years of concern, police in Cheshire are planning to enforce a 50mph speed limit along the stretch. "You don't have to go that fast to get the thrill of swinging it through the bends," said Marc Potter, features editor at Motor Cycle News. "A long straight on the Buxton side allows bikers to go well over twice the speed limit past cars and lorries." Like other popular roads, such as the coastal route from Fort William to Oban, the location of the A537 is part of the draw. Motorcyclists meet at the Cat and Fiddle - the second highest pub in England - to enjoy the moors and peaks and a cup of tea, and show off their gleaming bikes. On Sundays a full spectrum of bikes and their riders congregate at the hilltop. On the route down, the accident rate is three and a half times the national average for a rural A road. Tied to a post opposite the pub is a bunch of shrivelled flowers with a poem in memory of a departed son. Police introduced a spotter plane in 1998 to direct ground patrols to speeding motorcyclists. While in that year there were no fatalities, four bikers have died on the road since 1999 and 25 have been seriously injured. "What we tend to find is it's not the local drivers who come to grief, it's the out-of-towners, the tourists," said Sergeant Frank Marshall of Cheshire police. "Most of the fatalities and the serious injuries come from Nottinghamshire, Yorkshire and the West Midlands." Brian Tyrer, from Chester, a biker giving himself and his Kawasaki a break at the Cat and Fiddle, said many came to the A537 to test themselves. "The main danger is people not being able to do it, or thinking they can when they can't," he said. "I've seen a lot of accidents - it slows you down and makes you think what you are doing." Sgt Marshall said the six serious injuries on the road this year could have been fatal "but for the pure good fortune" of the riders. He blamed the motorcycle press for hyping the Cat and Fiddle, but now biker-run websites telling their users how to spot the unmarked police patrols are in on the act too. One, Hot Roads, which bills the A537 as "brilliant" said: "It's fast becoming kind of notorious. The twisting, rising tarmac between Buxton and Macclesfield isn't exactly a forgiving stretch of road." It recommends avoiding the stretch at weekends "when its crawling with dozy car gits, unmarked police helicopters", to leave it "for a sunny, quiet weekday". Another said: "This is the road to get airborne on." But Geoff Owen, a biker from Stoke, said the most dangerous riders were not teenage speed freaks but the "born agains" - those who return to their youthful passion after a break of 15 or 20 years without realising the extent of the power of modern motorbikes."They think, 'I'm 40 now, when I was a lad I had a 750cc'. So they buy a 900. But what they don't realise is that a modern 600 is faster and more powerful than a grand prix bike of their day." Livestock are a further hazard on the roadside in areas as yet unaffected by foot and mouth. This year a biker hit a sheep, wrote his bike off and broke his arm in two places. "There is no level to knowing the road. It's not a race track so you don't know what's on it," said Andy Butterworth who had come to the Cat and Fiddle from Leek, Staffordshire, on a 600cc Suzuki. "It's quite a technical road with all the twists and the turns. Even at 45 or 50mph if you get it wrong you come off." Sgt Marshall said he hoped that when the reduced speed limit is passed by the county council it will reinforce police warnings that the A537 is a dangerous road. But he accepted that there were limits to preventative action. "We cannot stop people using the road," he said. "Ultimately, the individual drivers and riders are responsible for themselves - we can only do so much." Bikers' favourite vrooms with a view Rannoch Moor The A82 running through Tyndrum to Glen Coe and Fort William, offers spectacular views as mountains replace the moor. Further south, the A828 from Ballachulish to Oban hugs Loch Linnhe  Shrewsbury to Holyhead The A5 cuts through north Wales as it makes its way west to Anglesey. The stretch from Llangollen follows the meandering river Alwen, which provides for plenty of corners. The Llanberis pass between Snowdon and the Glyders is one of the most beautiful in the country  Boxhill, Surrey On a hilltop off the A25, between Reigate and Dorking, looking across the North and South Downs,Box Hill sees one of the biggest fortnightly meetings of bikers in the UK. Many complain that police hide speed cameras on corners, forcing motorcyclists to break sharply and lose control of their bikes