The home secretary, Charles Clarke, yesterday described the failure to deport more than 1,000 foreign prisoners when they reached the end of their sentences as a "basic administrative failure".Home Office sources say the root problem lay in the fact that the prison service was poor at telling immigration when a foreign prisoner was reaching the end of a sentence. But even when the prison service did improve its procedures, the Home Office's immigration and nationality directorate (IND) found it could not cope with the volume of cases coming through."I am not going to go down the blame game here. Both the prison service and the IND failed to carry out their responsibilities in the way they ought to have done," said Mr Clarke. "They were either not referred to IND for deportation or if they were, they were not considered by the IND. It is a failure and it is not acceptable and that's what we're putting straight."The scale of the administrative blunder is only matched in recent Home Office history by the prison service fiasco of 1996 when 541 prisoners had to be released early because a mistake had been made in calculating their sentences. In the same year, former home secretary Michael Howard had to admit that the discovery of a centrifuge contaminated with Semtex in the Ministry of Defence's forensic science laboratory put a question mark against 14 IRA terrorist convictions.Yesterday Mr Clarke could do little more than apologise and try to make a virtue out of volunteering details about the blunder before they were forced out of him. The rules about deporting foreign nationals who serve a prison sentence in Britain are fairly straightforward and have not changed in recent years."Our policy has always been to consider serious offenders for deportation before release, or if that is not possible to make a decision about immigration detention, electronic monitoring or restriction orders before release," said Mr Clarke.In practice the policy meant that any non-EU foreign national jailed for a serious crime - defined as a sentence of 12 months or more - was supposed to have the case for deportation considered before the end of his or her sentence. The Home Office said it had looked at 5,500 such cases in 2004 and 2005 and decided on deportation in 3,000 of them. In a minority of cases the court recommends that the individual should be deported at the end of their sentence - this was the case with 160 of the 1,023 foreign prisoners who had been overlooked.The home secretary claimed yesterday that one of the problems that "led to the process falling down" was the increasing number of cases that the prison service was referring for consideration.Former home secretary David Blunkett said he found the failure to deport foreign offenders "astonishing" as the government had tightened up the law in the Criminal Justice Act 2003. "My view is that heads should roll. There are too many people in the system who simply don't care. I fully support Charles Clarke in getting to the bottom of this," he said.The number of foreign nationals held in prisons in England and Wales has risen from 4,259 in June 1996 to 10,265 in February this year. The number includes immigration detainees at three prison service-run removal centres. More staff and resources are now to be allocated to the deportation of foreign prisoners. Mr Clarke has ordered that enough staff be available to enable proceedings to be started 12 months before prisoners are due for release. Sixty immigration officers will also train staff at 40 prisons to identify foreign nationals who should be deported.That is for the future. As of last night, the Home Office was busy trying to find more than 900 former foreign prisoners it was supposed to have deported. List of offencesOffences committed by missing foreign prisonersActual or grievous bodily harm 54Arson 4Assisting illegal entry 16Burglary 41Conspiracy 6Customs 6Deception 66Driving offences 5Drugs 204 False imprisonment 3Forgery 85Fraud 33Immigration 12Kidnapping 4Manslaughter 2Murder 3Rape 9Robbery 93Sex offences (other) 39Theft 52Violence 57Other 126Not available 103Total 1,023