Depriving prisoners in the UK of the right to vote is a legitimate punishment, government lawyers told the European court of human rights today.Taking away prisoners' freedom to vote is designed to "enhance civil responsibility and respect for the rule of law", they told a 17-judge grand chamber which was hearing the government's appeal against an earlier ruling that prisoners should be allowed to take part in polling. The original ruling followed a case brought before the court last year by John Hirst who is serving a life sentence in Rye Hill prison, Warwickshire, for manslaughter. Judges backed his claim that preventing prisoners from voting was a breach of human rights. But at today's appeal in Strasbourg, UK government lawyers contested that ruling, insisting that voting restrictions on prisoners were a legitimate part of crime prevention and punishment. The right to take part in democratic votes is one of the freedoms guaranteed by the European convention on human rights, to which the UK is a signatory. But the government says removing that right is designed to "enhance civil responsibility and respect for the rule of law". In the original case last year, the judges acknowledged that restrictions on UK prisoners' voting rights differ depending on the type of crime and the penalty, and "might be regarded as less draconian than the laws applied in certain other countries". The restrictions affect those convicted of crimes serious enough to justify an immediate prison sentence. They do not apply to prisoners on remand, those in jail for non-payment of fines, or for contempt of court. But in reaching their decision last year, the European court of human rights said that the voting restriction on prisoners stripped more than 70,000 people of their convention right to vote - and the system was too indiscriminate. They said then: "A prisoner sentenced to a week's imprisonment for a minor infraction might lose the right to vote if detained over election day, whereas a prisoner serving several years for a more serious crime might, by chance, avoid missing an election." Mr Hirst, 53, originally took his case to the high court in London in 2001 challenging the UK's Representation of the People Act 1983 which bans convicts from voting in local or general elections. The court rejected his claim that the act was incompatible with the European convention on human rights. But when his lawyers appealed against that ruling at the European court of human rights last year the judges there ruled that denying a prisoner a vote was in breach of the "right to free elections" spelt out in the convention. The appeal is expected to finish today, but the judges will reserve their decision, with judgement expected to be announced within three months. Earlier today, the Home Office and Department of Constitutional Affairs confirmed that 40 prisoners serving intermittent or "part-time" sentences will have the right to vote in next Thursday's general election.The right to vote applies to all the prisoners who are involved in a Home Office pilot scheme introduced last January where they are allowed to serve their sentence either at weekends or between Monday and Thursday afternoons.