Promising action on youth violence is a home banker for a politician. Most of the electorate will agree that it sounds like a good idea. Most of them will also have their own ideas about what needs to be done. As an issue it has an immediacy and relevance that, say, tackling industrial waste or addressing health and safety breaches do not always have. Boris Johnson's new action plan on youth violence will therefore attract headlines and attention that an action plan on potholes or defective street lighting would never do.London is often compared with New York, not least because it is claimed to have the kind of effective policing that London apparently lacks. Yet in 2007 there were nearly 500 murder victims in New York, compared with 160 in London. The number of homicides in London has also fallen in recent years, from a peak of over 200 in 2003. It is, in other words, important to keep the problem of violence in London in perspective.But it is also important not to dismiss the problem of violence out of hand. Admissions to accident and emergency wards for injuries caused by sharp implements rose nationally by 30% between 1997 and 2005, for instance. The number of young victims of homicide have also been rising in London. In 2007 over 30 children under the age of 17 were killed in London, around double the number for the preceeding two years. Overall, homicides in London are very unevenly spread across the capital. Lambeth, Southwark and Newham accounted for 46 alone in 2007. In Harrow, Richmond and Merton, by comparison, not a single murder was recorded.The rise in youth homicide in London, and the concentration of homicide in certain areas, against the background of falling overall homicide rates is therefore worrying. It means that some Londoners benefit from much greater levels of safety than others. In particular, those living in the capital's poorer neighbourhoods appear to be at much greater risk of homicide than those living in its leafier, richer, suburbs.In response to this problem the mayor is proposing a variety of initiatives with suitably portentous names. Project Daedalus will aim to improve education for young first-timers in prison while Project Brodie will tackle truancy. Project Titan will apparently build "character" by, if necessary, compelling young people to get involved in initiatives such as the Scouts, Army Cadets or the Duke of Edinburgh's Award scheme. Project Oracle will audit and evaluate charitable delivery in London.One suspects that the mayor's office spent almost as much time coming up with the buzzwords as they did with the content. There is little in the plan that is genuinely new or innovative. And though it acknowledges that "child poverty is one of the fundamental issues at the heart of youth violence", the plan completely ignores the implications of this observation. Perhaps the most breathtaking illustration of this comes in the mayor's foreword: "There is more child poverty in London than anywhere else in Britain. But the real poverty is spiritual, emotional and intellectual".