The chief suspect for the rape and murder of Jeshma Raithatha yesterday denied the crime when he appeared before a court in Latvia at the start of extradition proceedings.A judge ordered Viktors Dembovskis, who left west London after the attack on the A-level student, to be held in prison for 80 days while the extradition process takes place. If Mr Dembovskis, 42, does not fight the extradition, he should be back in the UK within two months. Jeshma, 17, was attacked on a secluded path as she walked to her home in Greenford, London. She was raped and stabbed in the heart three times. Mr Dembovskis, a Latvian national, had been living close to where Jeshma's body was found in undergrowth last month. He worked as a carwash attendant and shared a home with other immigrant workers. After the murder he is believed to have left London and travelled by coach to Latvia.He was arrested on Thursday under a European arrest warrant at a flat in Livani, 150 miles east of Riga. Mr Dembovskis appeared before a judge at Preile district court in south-east Latvia yesterday morning. A Latvia state police spokeswoman, Kristine Mezaraupe, said: "The court decided to put him under arrest for 80 days while Latvia works on his extradition." Mr Dembovskis' lawyer, Agnese Sevastjanova, said: "He pleaded not guilty to the charges in court, but it's impossible at the moment to say whether or not he wants to be extradited to England." Scotland Yard had been liaising with Interpol and the Latvian authorities in the hunt for Mr Dembovskis. Two members of the team investigating Jeshma's murder had flown to Latvia for the court appearance. Under the European arrest warrant scheme, Mr Dembovskis should be extradited within 60 days if a Latvian judge deems there are "reasonable grounds" for suspecting he committed an extraditable offence. The process could take longer if he appeals against the decision. Jeshma's parents, Suresh and Manjula, were said to be "elated" at news of the arrest. Last week detectives released CCTV footage of Jeshma's final movements in the hope it would jog the memory of anyone who saw her on the day she was killed.