Nottinghamshire police are helping colleagues in Lincolnshire track down the killer of the couple shot dead in the bungalow at Trusthorpe.But they are also investigating two other murders that occurred within five miles and 10 days of each other. Terry Rodgers disappeared after his daughter Chanel Taylor, a hairdresser, was shot in the head at her home in Huthwaite, Nottinghamshire. Detectives described him as their prime suspect. Mrs Taylor's body was found by her husband of seven weeks, Lee, on July 30. Mr Rodgers, who had lived rough after moving out of the house in Derbyshire he had shared for 30 years with his wife Anne, had recently moved in with his daughter and son-in-law. According to friends, he had tried to commit suicide after the separation and had also been in financial difficulties. Last week a shotgun was found at the small terraced house by forensic teams after an intensive search of the murder scene. Detectives said it had not been "clearly visible" in the house. Tests to discover whether it was the murder weapon are continuing. Mr Rodgers was last seen in Hucknall, Nottinghamshire. His car was found abandoned nearby. His son and sister have pleaded with him to give himself up. Police have issued 500 posters in an attempt to trace him but have warned the public not to approach him. Nottinghamshire detectives are also hunting Robert Boyer, who is their prime suspect in the killing of Keith Frogson, 62, who was attacked on July 19 following what may have been row over the 1984 miners' strike. Police are investigating claims that there was a long-running feud between Mr Boyer, who, like many in the county, joined the breakaway Union of Democratic Mineworkers, and Mr Frogson, who remained loyal to the National Union of Mineworkers, led by Arthur Scargill. Mr Frogson, who continued to shout "scab!" at ex-UDM members on the street, was found dead on his doorstep in Annesley Woodhouse, after an evening at a pub. Mr Boyer, 42, is thought to be hiding in nearby woodland; police have received reports of him looking dirty and unkempt. One theory is that the 20th anniversary of one of the bitterest strikes in British history could have reignited differences between the men. A postmortem examination found that more than one sharp instrument was used in the attack; police believe a crossbow found near the scene could have been the murder weapon. Ten days after his death, there was a fire at Mr Frogson's house. A possible link to the killing is being investigated.