The family of Stephen Lawrence is suing 42 police officers involved in the bungled investigation into his racist murder, including Sir Paul Condon, the head of the Metropolitan police.The others range from the rank of constable to that of superintendent. The officers, who were told about the claims last week, are being sued under section 20 of the race relations act, which refers to discrimination on grounds of race.The suit against the officers is the latest attempt by the Lawrence family to see some element of justice done, almost six years after Stephen Lawrence was killed by a band of white youths, all of whom escaped conviction. His murder and the subsequent inquiry chaired by Sir William Macpherson continue to reverberate today.Race issues still bedevil the police force, as research released this week demonstrated. The study by Marian Fitzgerald warned that the police risked alienating a generation of young Asians by misusing their stop and search powers, repeating mistakes made with the black community 20 years ago which triggered the Brixton riots.Ms Fitzgerald said some officers flout the 1984 police and criminal evidence act, which states someone can be stopped if there are reasonable grounds for suspicion, and use searches as a "mechanism for social control".As far as today's case is concerned, some of the officers have left the force, and it was unclear if the claims were being defended, or who would foot the bill for costs or possible damages. Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen Lawrence when he was killed in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993, issued writs against 15 officers in August.Mr Brooks broke legal ground by becoming the first member of the public to lodge such a complaint against the Metropolitan police. He also took civil action against the crown prosecution service alleging racist treatment.Legal action by the Lawrence family and Mr Brooks comes after February's publication of the highly critical Macpherson report into the Met's handling and investigation of the Lawrence murder. In a damning indictment, it found the force to be riddled with "pernicious and institutional racism."The report also said that Mr Brooks was a victim of racist stereotyping. "We do not that a young white man would have been dealt with in this way," it said.During the Lawrence inquiry, Ian Johnston, assistant commissioner of the Met, admitted: "There is a real lesson for us to learn in how we handled Duwayne Brooks at the scene. I don't think we dealt with him very well at all. I think we let him down."The Macpherson report listed 70 proposals to change the "institutionally racist" police force. The moves were designed to ensure greater public control of the police, enshrine rights for victims of crime and extend the number of offences classified as racist. Freedom of information and race relations legislation would also apply to the police.