For any police chief losing an employment tribunal case is annoying, but for Sir Ian Blair this week's defeat was personally painful and risked damaging his reputation.Three white officers who were disciplined over alleged racially derogatory remarks sued the Met and won a total of £90,000.What put rocket boosters under the saga was the chair of the employment tribunal's accusation that Britain's top cop had hung his own officers out to dry to prove his anti-racist credentials.It was a devastating charge, encapsulating criticisms of the commissioner made by opponents of his public stance on diversity, wish to modernise the force and his alleged personal shortcomings.It was the headline in Tuesday's Daily Mail, a popular paper with the rank and file, that made Sir Ian realise this row's corrosive potential. "I'm aware of what an enormously powerful newspaper the Daily Mail is," he says."It hurt the organisation ... it also hurt personally; I knew when I saw it."As Tuesday morning wore on, the commissioner knew: "I've got to do something to repair the damage of the headline. The potential damage is do they [the junior ranks] believe it?"One tactic the commissioner employed may come as manna for his critics, who privately call him an image-obsessed spinmeister. He ordered that 100 staff at all levels of the Met be phoned to discover whether they believed the allegation. They did not.But to supporters and those who believe in modern management techniques, the instant poll on a newspaper headline is an example of Sir Ian's savvy about how the force really works.The Met has 31,000 officers, far bigger than the country's second largest force, making it rare officers that meet their boss face to face so they can judge for themselves. "The scale of the Met makes the commissioner more remote. Officers get their judgment about him from the press, that's why when the press go for the jugular it is damaging," says a senior officer who has known Sir Ian for years and is broadly sympathetic to him.Senior officers who spoke to the Guardian did not want to be named, because they were speaking without authorisation, or did not want to antagonise Sir Ian or, indeed, his critics. All are from the top ranks of chief superintendent or above.Much of the criticism Sir Ian has faced so far has had a personal tinge to it. "Is this man destroying the Met?" one paper asked.Fans and critics agree there are elements in the media and in his own force out to get him, with an intensity other commissioners have not faced.A senior Met officer says the criticism owes its ferocity to the fact that he is the first person to become Britain's top officer on a radical programme of making the force less white and modernising it: "This is a war for the soul of British policing."Sir Ian says the "culture war" about what the police should do and how, is raging more ferociously outside the service, not within it: "I think we are in a culture war: what is this service for, how does it deliver its service. Is it customer shaped?"Nearly six months in the charge sheet against the commissionership of Sir Ian Warwick Blair is this. He is accused of being obsessed with political correctness instead of catching criminals, being too aloof, slippery, not liked by sections of the rank and file, and too close to the Labour government led by his namesake.The first five months of his five-year term have been tough: "I'm not particularly surprised by the baptism of fire," Sir Ian says. "I haven't been appointed to have a comfortable life. I've been appointed to modernise a great British institution."We need constant adaptation to police the most diverse city on the planet."Sitting in his office on the eighth floor of Scotland Yard, Sir Ian says he is prepared to tough out the expected turbulence ahead: "You don't come into here without a pair of copper-bottomed trousers. This is a very tough place." This week's case was funded by the Police Federation, and the chair of its Met branch, Glen Smyth, has sympathy for Sir Ian: "There are people who have it in for him, whatever he does."By Thursday Sir Ian faced a full session of the watchdog he answers to once a month, the Metropolitan Police Authority. He was anything but contrite, saying the tribunal had been wrong to accuse him of hanging his officers out to dry and he made a statement that may yet define his commissionership: "The Metropolitan police service is not for turning about the issues around diversity," he said. "As commissioner I am determined to continue in the way we have."Sir Ian joined the Met in 2000 as deputy to Sir John Stevens, and senior government sources say he was appointed with the intention of promoting him to the top job.Sir Ian studied at Oxford and joined the force as a graduate entrant. During his career he has been in and out of the Met, and served as Surrey's chief constable and was a senior officer at Thames Valley police, where the film-maker Roger Graeff met him.He was making a documentary about police handling of rape cases, and the failings he found led to big reforms. Mr Graeff, now an adviser to the Met, says: "There has always been a tension between the fast-track graduates and the traditional coppers who came up through the ranks. The fact he went to Oxford is held against him by those who did not."Sir John left as commissioner early this year. He had taken over the force branded institutionally racist by a public inquiry after the Stephen Lawrence scandal. Morale hit rock bottom and his commissionership began with low expectations, his job being to stop the force disintegrating.The two men have different styles. Sir John was popular with the junior ranks and could regale the troops with tales of trading blows with villains when he was a young officer in 1950s London. Sir Ian comes across as more managerial, despite extensive operational experience."John Stevens was a man for the moment, we'd been through torrid times," Mr Smyth says."For Sir Ian, it's a bit like taking over a club after its won the Premiership or been promoted, taking it on to the next level is immensely difficult. He's got a highly difficult task following Sir John, the most popular commissioner in living memory."If the ordinary officers' memory of the Stevens era begins to dim, then every week there's a vivid reminder of him in a column he writes for the News of the World, where pithy tabloid solutions are dispensed for what many in the business view as complex problems.Sir John also enjoyed a good press after assiduously courting relations with the media, pretty much becoming the Queen Mother of policing: it seemed bad taste to criticise him."People can measure me against John," Sir Ian says. "I'm not going to try and be John."Mr Smyth has observed both men and their styles close up: "He tends to be reserved and self-contained, he's not naturally gregarious with large groups of people; with small groups he's good."It's true that those who don't know him can be highly critical. Those that know him well have a high regard."Some of his biggest critics on the Metropolitan Police Authority are Conservatives. There is a sense that because of his alleged closeness to the government, damage to him damages Labour's credibility on law and order.During the election he attracted flak for speaking out in support of Labour's plans for identity cards. He also was criticised after the prime minister's car, which is provided by the Met, was resprayed with Labour slogans.In his office, next to pictures of his family, is one showing him side by side with Mr Blair.Sir Ian denies being party political, but says that in his job: "You can't run an institution like this, you can't run the post office, without knowing that you are in a political arena."The branding of Sir Ian as a politically correct zealot is at odds with some of his conduct while deputy.He was nominal head of the corruption squad that spent £3m in a "racist witchhunt" pursuing the high-flying Ali Dizaei, who was a critic of the force, and who was twice cleared of criminal offences. The investigation was criticised by an independent inquiry.By annoying some progressives and with some traditionalists not enamoured of him, he could run the danger of having too few people cheering for him inside the force. But Sir Ian says that on key debates in the service that puts him "in the middle, which is where I think I should be."Sir Ian is trying to find huge savings to put back into frontline policing, and senior sources say it is very difficult to see how that can be achieved without causing more pain.One said: "Ian is trying to produce £300m in savings to reinvest in the frontline, through a service review. For someone not popular, being slated in the press read by rank and file officers, he's got it all to do."By Sir Ian's own estimation, one in five of the force are fully signed up to his agenda of diversity and modernisation, with the vast bulk in the middle.A senior Met officer said there were elements of the commissioner's style he did not like, but because of what was at stake he would have to back him: "Whatever you think of Ian Blair, you can not let him fail, as it would set policing back years, and that is the dilemma for [progressive] people who don't like him."If the commissioner falls, the whole diversity, liberalising and modernising agenda is dealt a severe blow."Identity paradeSir Ian Blair QPM, MA, Commissioner of Police of the MetropolisBorn: Ian Warwick Blair, 19 March 1953 in Chester. His father was a Lever Brothers transport manager, the son of a doctor.Family: Married to Felicity, a retired family lawyer. They have two teenage children.Education: Wrekin College, Shropshire, Harvard high school, Los Angeles, and Christ Church, Oxford. A contemporary of Tony Blair, he gained a second class honours degree in English language and literature.Career: His father hoped he would become a doctor and Ian had youthful ambitions to be an actor but joined the Metropolitan police in 1974 under the graduate entry scheme. His first posting was as a constable in Soho, which he described as "an interesting end to a liberal education".In 1985, as a superintendent he led CID at Kentish Town where he was responsible for the identification of those killed in the King's Cross disaster. In 1988 he managed the Metropolitan police crime investigation project, redesigning the structure of local CID offices. Three years later, he was appointed staff officer to Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary, based at the Home Office.Returned to the Met in 1993 and was appointed the officer in charge of Operation Gallery, the largest police corruption inquiry in London for a decade.In 1994, he was appointed assistant chief constable of Thames Valley police where he was in charge of policing the Newbury bypass protests. In 1997 he became designated deputy to the chief constable of Thames Valley police, then chief constable of Surrey the next year.In February 2000 he returned to the Met as deputy commissioner, and this February he succeeded Sir John Stevens as the Metropolitan police commissioner.Honours and interests: In 1999 he was awarded the Queen's Police Medal for Distinguished Service, and a knighthood in 2003 for services to policing.A visiting fellow of Nuffield College, Oxford, and an honorary member of the senior common room of Christ Church. In 1998 he was made a visiting fellow of the International Centre for Advanced Studies, New York University, where a speech he made on the relationship between public policing and the private security sector won widespread publicity.He has been instrumental in the development of police community support officers and is one of the main spokespeople for the police service on criminal justice reform.In 1985 he published the book Investigating Rape: A New Approach for Police, which affected the way the police investigate serious sexual assaults.He has been called "the PC [politically correct] PC" and "New Labour's favourite copper".His principal leisure interests are skiing, tennis and the theatre.