Claims that the jury in the Tony Martin murder trial returned a guilty verdict because they felt intimidated were referred to police and the Lord Chancellor's Department yesterday.The dramatic turn of events came when a woman phoned a local Norfolk radio station claiming to have been one of the six men and six women who found the farmer guilty of the murder of teenager Fred Barras. The woman, who did not go on air, said that the decision she had made would remain with her for the rest of her life. Last night it was still unclear whether the caller to Radio Broadland 102 was a genuine member of the jury or someone adding to the hype surrounding the controversial trial. Martin was sentenced to life for the killing of Barras, 16, a market trader from a Gypsy travelling family based in Newark, Nottinghamshire, after a late-night incident when the teenager tried to burgle the farmer's home last summer. Michael Ballinger, Martin's solicitor, said: "We are certainly concerned about the jury being nobbled. There was something that happened during the trial. We are certainly concerned about jury intimidation and we will be investigating this matter immediately. I would appeal to any juror who felt intimidated to make their concern known to the appropriate authority, in this case Norwich crown court." The Martin case was conducted under high security and jurors were given numbers so their names would not be revealed in open court. The judge told the jurors that if they were approached last weekend about the case, they should immediately dial 999. The court also heard that a £60,000 price had been put on Martin's head. Peter Tidey, the chief crown prosecutor for Norfolk, said: "I'm aware that there was one incident during the trial at which there was communication between the judge and the jury. Precisely what that was about I have no knowledge of at all. If there's a complaint that an offence has been committed then the constabulary is going to have to investigate." The case has provoked an angry reaction from those who believe that Martin should have been entitled to shoot at a burglar in his own home. Norman Brennan, director of Victims of Crime Trust, said the farmer's conviction was another example of how the justice system could make criminals out of crime victims.People in the farmer's local village of Emneth were shocked at the verdict and said there was a very real fear of crime in the area. Ann Fullwood, who moved to Emneth from Watford last December, said: "The thefts round here are terrible. You cannot leave your lawnmower out. There is a large travelling community here and I hate to feel this way towards them because we are leftwing but cars and lorries are stolen. We have been surprised at the crime level, its just so senseless." Another resident, who did not want to be named, said: "I have got a lot of these travellers near me and I have had a lot of burglaries. I am very sorry that the farmer has been treated in this way. Like many other people, I could have been in the same situation. If I had a gun I might have fired off a warning shot and my aim is hopeless. I might have had a similar mistake." Anthony Bosanquet of the Country Landowners Association said: "The very remoteness of rural communities and the isolation of individual homes makes them easy prey for burglars. Effective policing cannot be carried out from a distant, urban police station. Extra resources must be given to rural areas." Norfolk's acting chief constable, John Bligh, said his was the lowest police/population ratio in the country and had "suffered a traditional paucity of funding". But he said rural areas still had considerably lower crime than urban areas.