A shop worker has been jailed for 30 months for trying to falsely claim a customer's winning lottery ticket worth £1m.Farrakh Nizzar, 30, checked 77-year-old Maureen Holt's ticket at a convenience store in Oldham, Greater Manchester, and told her she had won nothing. When he asked whether she wanted the ticket back, Holt and her husband, Fred, told him to discard it.Later, Nizzar phoned a lottery hotline to say he had purchased the ticket from the Best One shop where he worked, but subsequent checks showed Holt had purchased it from a Tesco Express in the town using her Clubcard.At Oldham magistrates court in July, Nizzar admitted fraud by false representation. Passing sentence at at Manchester's Minshull Street crown court , the recorder Philip Cattan said: "This goes to the heart of public confidence in the National Lottery. The courts must demonstrate to you and to others that this type of fraud will be met by significant custody."Camelot, the National Lottery operator, carried out security checks on Nizzar after he claimed the prize, and called in police when suspicions arose. It has since removed its lottery terminal at the Best One shop, which is run by Nizzar's cousin.Detective Constable Kate Carnally, of Greater Manchester police, said Nizzar's actions were "foolish at best, and at worst extremely cruel".She said: "He knew this woman had a winning ticket and chose to lie to her, deliberately duping her out of a life-changing sum of money that would have meant financial security for her and her husband into their retirement."It had been callous and underhand, she said. "Thankfully he did not get away with his scam," and the genuine owner of the ticket "has been paid out what was always rightfully hers".The Holts said: "We are glad that justice has been done and that this matter is now behind us. We can now look forward to enjoying our lottery win and spending some time with our family and friends."Camelot said such incidents were rare, with millions of transactions taking place daily."We take matters of propriety very seriously," it said. "In order to do this, we adhere to the highest standards in player protection. Our operations and processes are subject to the scrutiny of our internal auditors, independent external auditors and representatives from our regulator, the National Lottery Commission. The sentence handed down provides clear evidence that Camelot will not allow trust to be undermined in any way."Prize claimants have to go through a number of security procedures as part of the ticket validation process to determine that they are the rightful owner. All players of the National Lottery are encouraged to sign the back of their tickets and check whether they have won before presenting them at shops.