Comedy actor Chris Langham's 30-year showbusiness career had just entered a new "golden" era when his arrest on suspicion of child pornography offences brought it all crashing down. Thanks to his role as bumbling government minister, Hugh Abbott, in the BBC satire The Thick of It, the 58-year-old was named best comedy performer at last year's Baftas. The Thick Of It gained such widespread appeal that it was said even former prime minister Tony Blair's office requested a copy of the comedy for Christmas. The satire also won a Bafta for best sitcom while a second series of the BBC2 show Help, which Langham wrote and starred in alongside fellow comic Paul Whitehouse, was named best comedy programme. Married and a father-of-five, Langham added to his increasing stock by scooping the best television comedy actor title at the British Comedy Awards in 2005. Popular acclaim came relatively recently in a career which began in the 1970s. Langham was born on April 14 1949, the son of theatre director Michael Langham and actress Helen Burns. He dropped out of reading english and drama at Bristol University, after suffering a nervous breakdown when his parents split up and went on to write sketches for Spike Milligan. He became the sole British writer on The Muppet Show, winning two awards from the Writers Guild of America for his work. He was then part of the original Not The Nine O'Clock News line-up in 1979, alongside Rowan Atkinson, Mel Smith and Pamela Stephenson, but was dropped after one series and replaced by Griff Rhys Jones. The incident, which he subsequently described as a "total shock", sent him into a spiral of depression, exacerbated by the fact that he was abusing alcohol and drugs at the time."I could not look at a newspaper for two years, because if I saw a picture of Rowan, Pam or Mel, I would have to go into purdah for a week," he said. "I would burst into tears. I felt very ashamed."Appearances in The Comic Strip and Alas Smith And Jones followed, but his problems with addictions to cocaine and alcohol persisted. He admitted that his first marriage, to actress Sue Jones-Davies to whom he had three sons, broke up because of his alcoholism. "My career was being a drunk and work was something I did if I had a spare five minutes," he previously said. "I was self-destructive. It wasn't just the drinking, it was the mindset - you don't like yourself if you are an alcoholic and other people don't like you either, because your behaviour is appalling. You are dishonest, disloyal, full of self-pity." Langham sought counselling for his addictions and still attends weekly sessions of Alcoholics Anonymous after more than 20 years. He drew on his experiences to co-write Help - the same show that Langham, who has two children by his second wife, the stage director Christine Cartwright, claimed he was conducting research for when he downloaded child pornography. He said that Help introduced a character, called Pedro, to explore the stance society should take against paedophiles, and it was against this background that he downloaded the images. The second series of Help was never made. Langham's other roles have included playing a counsellor in the 1998 sitcom Kiss Me Kate, which he wrote with Amanda Holden and Caroline Quentin, and in 1999 he played film-maker Roy Mallard in the critically-acclaimed spoof documentary series People Like Us. He also appeared in a BBC adaptation of Gerald Durrell's My Family And Other Animals, but did not appear in last Christmas' special of The Thick Of It. The BBC said it was always the intention not to feature Langham in the festive special because the show was set among the Opposition. Following his arrest, Langham said his life had "completely fallen apart". "Offers of work have almost entirely disappeared, at a time when I was looking forward to something of a golden year," he said at the time. The actor, who lives in a farmhouse in Golford, near Cranbrook, Kent, announced his withdrawal from all BBC projects pending the outcome of the court case. 