By day two we were back on track. Psychiatrists penning stock trauma articles; criminologists probing the "evil that lurks in all of us". Were we supposed to blame Derrick Bird's rampage on a row at a taxi rank or the giant spectre of the Inland Revenue? "Psycho cabbie flipped over £100k tax bill", said the Sun. Endless speculation plus detailed explanation plus poignant reporting of the kind Fleet Street does best (with the tweeters beginning to resume normal service as well). But what about day one?Bird shot himself at 1.40pm on Wednesday after three hours of driving and killing. Paul Lewis of the Guardian, following his trail along winding country lanes, explained that "the remoteness of these places explains why some bodies were not discovered for hours". And Cumbria itself is about as remote from London's newsrooms and TV headquarters as it's possible to get.In the circumstances, 24-hour news found itself off the pace, stuck with official spokesmen reading deadpan statements way into the evening and nothing much in the way of arresting images. Getting to Cumbria at all was a scrabbling feat; getting a vivid story once there was a feat too far.Newspapers, with slightly later deadlines, did better. But in spite of all the reporting names on the top of stories, there was still little in the way of eyewitness reports. Most lead stories had been pulled together in London, and read like it. Maybe 25 years earlier, when Manchester was still a great national news centre, you'd have seen a stream of reporters charging up the M6. Not now.So pause and pay tribute to a thoroughly unfashionable cause: simple, old-fashioned local papers. The Whitehaven News has six reporters. You can read their names on its website. It belongs to the Cumberland News group, a splendid, surviving family business with many more reporters to deploy. Local websites were swamped early on – because they were local. If you wanted to know what was happening, it was happening here. And in the time that followed, the facts of this dismal matter – as opposed to the theories – were there for all Whitehaven (and the world) to read.A sense of community? Yes, on the website again, as the dance-workout classes at St Cuthbert's Old Convent in Wigton went on. A sense of indispensability, before London arrived and after London left? Absolutely.