A call was issued yesterday for a new type of England fan to try to break the stereotype of the shaven-headed racist hooligan normally associated with the team.The Football Association announced that it is to comply with a Home Office report released yesterday suggesting that the 30,000-strong England Members Club (EMC) be scrapped and replaced with a new supporters' club.The new organisation will be known as Club England and will be formally launched in the summer. A Club England roadshow will also tour the country in an attempt to recruit more ethnic-minority England fans.The EMC, which organises travel to matches at home and abroad, has been accused of being dominated by white males, many of them racist.The report, which was chaired by Home Office minister Lord Bassam, makes several recommendations on combating football hooliganism and widening the support base of the England team.The report concedes: "It will not be easy to attract a more diverse following, particularly when England matches are shrouded in an atmosphere of xenophobia and violence."One aim of Club England will be to make "supporting the national side a more attractive option to those sections of society currently under-represented, families, women and minority ethnic communities."It is unacceptable for any section of the community to feel excluded."All 30,000 members of the existing EMC will be asked to reapply to join Club England. All new members will be asked to declare any convictions. The Home Office and the FA are currently working on guidelines which could rule out people with certain types of convictions. During matches, covert filming of England fans could also take place. If any club members are found indulging in anti-social behaviour, they could be expelled. Members will also sign up to a code of conduct before being admitted to the club.The report also calls for England stewards to travel with fans to away matches. It suggests that some of these stewards should be capable of speaking the language of the country England are visiting.The report was compiled by organisations including the FA, supporters' groups, players' representatives, anti-racism groups and members of the England Members Club.Regarding the domestic game, the report calls for clubs to improve the standard of stewarding to tackle anti-social behaviour and ensure crowd safety. It also calls for clubs to encourage self-policing amongst fans so that they can point out troublemakers.Lord Bassam said: "Football has a key role to play in fostering a positive national identity and combating social exclusion. We are not prepared to tolerate our national game being blighted by violence."