Two teenagers have been arrested after a 15-year-old boy was stabbed to death following an apparent confrontation between a large group of youths who had attended an event run by an anti-violence charity.The boy was stabbed several times in the chest in Whitwell Road, Plaistow, east London, at about 10.45pm on Saturday. He was taken to hospital, where he was pronounced dead. It was the first violent death of a teenager in the capital for two months.Friends of the victim identified him as Steven Lewis, who lived locally. A photograph of the teenager was placed on the MySpace social networking site alongside messages including "Ull never B forgotten" and "Rest in perfect peace, bruv".The pair arrested, both male and aged 16 and 17, were detained in the early hours of Sunday on suspicion of murder, police said.Local people said the stabbing took place after a large group of teenagers spilled out from the hall of St Philip and St James church on Whitwell Road at the end of the event."There were between 50 and 100 kids and there was a lot of screaming and shouting. Lots of them were running around," said one woman, who asked not to be named.The vicar at the church, the Rev Eugeniah Adoyo, said the event had been organised by an anti-violence group. "It's meant to be a charity that deals with violence among black people, specifically youths," she said.Two women, who said they were from Steven's extended family but asked not to be named, said his brother and sister were with him when he was stabbed."His sister was holding him when he was dying," one said. "She's 16 herself. His brother is 13 and saw everything."Detective Chief Inspector Simon Moring said police had "an open mind" as to a possible motive and were looking for witnesses to what happened between the break-up of the event at 10.30pm and 10.45pm, when police dispersed a large group of youths on Whitwell Road and found the stabbed teenager."I want to know what happened in that 15-minute period," he said. "I want to know who was there and I want witnesses to come forward, because clearly there are a lot of people locally with information."Last year 28 teenagers were murdered in London, 23 of them in stabbings. The Metropolitan police responded to the deaths with a crackdown on young people carrying knives.Operation Blunt II saw almost 50 officers deployed on the capital's streets to conduct searches for knives. Between May and December there were more than 175,000 searches, with almost 4,000 knives seized.After the operation knife crime fell by almost a third in nine out of 10 major knife crime areas in London, according to police figures.Earlier this month, it emerged that passengers who buy train or tube tickets in London could in the process automatically give their consent to be searched under proposals to assist with efforts to find those carrying knives.Saturday night's incident is the first violent death of a teenager in London since 8 November, when 19-year-old Nabeer Bakurally was stabbed through the heart in Ilford, east London. Three men were charged with his murder and will appear in court next month.Also on Saturday night, a 14-year-old boy was shot in the head in Tulse Hill, south London. He was not seriously injured, police said.Last week a 17-year-old boy was left in a critical condition after he was stabbed outside Wembley Park underground station in north-west London.