Few more repulsive characters have stood in the dock at the Old Bailey than Levi Bellfield, convicted last week of the murder of the teenager Milly Dowler. But should the grim nature of his crimes and the distasteful way in which he conducted his defence, thus causing further hurt to the Dowler family, be exploited to usher in major changes in the law?Last week was not the first occasion that Bellfield had been convicted on murder charges at the Old Bailey. In 2008, he was charged with killing Marsha McDonnell and Amelie Delagrange and the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy. He smirked and winked his way through the proceedings as though facing a charge of speeding rather than one of misogynistic murders.Kate Sheedy, the young woman who survived Bellfield's attack, gave impressive evidence against him. But when she appeared in the witness box, a vulnerable young woman who had been run over twice by Bellfield as she attempted to escape, she was asked, among other things, about her drinking on the night. At one stage, when Sheedy was clearly distressed giving evidence, the trial judge, Mrs Justice Rafferty, intervened on her behalf.At the end of the trial – and this is worth noting – the judge told Bellfield: "You obliged your counsel to put Kate [Sheedy] through indignity after indignity in the witness box. The families of all three have waited months as during this trial you took every point from the ludicrous to the bizarre." She ruled that Bellfield should never be released.In the Milly Dowler case, Bellfield used irrelevant evidence uncovered by the police in the wake of the murder to put her parents through further pain and embarrassment. Bellfield knew already that he would never be released so his decision to make the Dowlers endure this shed light only on the depths of his depravity. So should he and his counsel have been prevented from doing so?First of all, the judge has responsibility for the conduct of a trial and can intervene at any time, whether prompted by counsel or not. As Rafferty showed, it is possible in this way to limit the humiliation of witnesses. Some changes have already been introduced in rape trials where, for too long, defence counsel were allowed to exploit a victim's previous sexual history, clothing or state of inebriation in an effort to secure an acquittal.Keir Starmer QC, the director of public prosecutions, can make it clear that judges should step in early if gratuitous insinuations are being made that serve to muddy rather than clear the waters. He has already acknowledged that the case has raised "fundamental questions about the treatment of victims and witnesses". There is nothing to prevent a judge from clearing a court while a potential line of questioning is explored, thus ensuring that such prurient details are not reported, often a major factor in the humiliation of a witness.Bellfield was on trial last week not only for murder but for the attempted kidnap of Rachel Cowles. The jury was still in the process of deliberating the latter case when full details of Bellfield's past were published in the wake of his murder conviction. This led to the jury being discharged and the Cowles case left on file. Some of the newspapers calling most vociferously for changes in the law to protect the Dowlers are the same ones who helped to scupper Cowles's chance of justice, leaving her, in her own words, "hurt and angry".Relatives of murder victims and survivors of attacks are treated – both by the police and the courts – with much greater sensitivity than they were 20 or 30 years ago, when they often appeared to be almost irrelevant to the proceedings. Many families speak of their gratitude to police family liaison officers, whose job is to escort them to court and to try and shield them through a hellish time. Obviously, victims' families still need far greater care and protection from the system than the Dowlers and others were afforded, as the upcoming report to the justice secretary from the victims' commissioner, Louise Casey, will surely indicate. But the ultimate logic of what is now being called for in some quarters would be the restriction of a defendant's right to ask painful questions.British courts have an adversarial rather than an inquisitorial approach to discovering the truth. This has led on more than one occasion to a guilty man escaping justice, thanks to a silver-tongued QC or a flat-footed prosecutor. But, equally, the truth has sometimes only emerged through diligent, if bruising, cross-examination. Bellfield failed in his creepy attempts to confuse the jury. So how much does the law need to change?This government has just shown, with its retreat over Kenneth Clarke's justice reforms and its attacks on legal aid, that it will respond to whichever of its rightwing media chums shouts loudest – and one can imagine that crowd-pleasing measures, which will be presented as victim-friendly, are already being planned. There will certainly be some measures worth debating, but to weaken the rights of all defendants in the wake of a horrific case would be to give Bellfield a status he does not deserve.