Heavy drinkers would be forced into 'detox' treatment or alcohol education courses under Government plans to tackle Britain's alcohol-fuelled yob culture.Draconian powers in the planned Mental Health Bill, which defines addiction as a psychiatric illness, will allow hardened alcoholics to be locked up and compulsorily treated.But Ministers are also seeking new ways of making excessive social drinkers - who are not addicted to the bottle, but drink too much and then break the law by drink-driving or brawling in pubs - confront their behaviour. Such so-called 'hazardous drinkers' are typically outwardly respectable people who hold down jobs and families and would never regard themselves as having a drink problem, despite sinking between 30 and 50 units of alcohol a week. Yet they, rather than alcoholics, are responsible for most social problems caused by alcohol. The Prime Minister's Strategy Unit - which is drawing up a national policy on alcohol - is studying plans to offer medical intervention or classes explaining how to cut down to people whose offending is triggered by drinking. The treatment would not be compulsory, but those who refused help would be likely to face stiffer court penalties under the proposals, forcing them towards treatment. 'I think we will be going further down the road to some kind of compulsory treatment and I don't think the objections to it are strong enough to stop it happening,' said Richard Phillips, director of policy and services at Alcohol Concern, which has submitted recommendations to the strategy unit.'For drink-drivers, reconviction rates are far lower for people who have done these courses and so you could imagine similar things for people who are violent offenders who consistently are drunk when they get picked up.' Up to 40 per cent of crime is committed by someone under the influence, while alcohol-related illness costs NHS hospitals £3 billion a year. Alcohol Concern's submission, now being considered by the strategy unit, calls for 'criminal justice interventions providing referral routes into treatment for many of the most problematic of drinkers', adding that alcohol-related offenders 'should be encouraged through formal mechanisms such as appropriate arrest referral schemes and enhanced cautioning provisions to undertake alcohol education courses or alcohol treatment'. Courts can already send drink-drivers on re-education courses, and Ministers are understood to be looking at extending the principle to other offences. The Home Office is monitoring two pilot projects in north London under which people arrested for drunk and disorderly behaviour are referred to alcohol counsellors instead of being locked up overnight in police cells. Ross Cranston, the former solicitor general now heading the all-party alcohol group, said it was time to reconsider links between alcohol and crime. 'There is an association, and maybe we need to think about this sort of referral mechanism being extended to alcohol,' he said. Ministers are, however, nervous of a heavy-handed approach since alcohol is legal and enjoyed by millions. The Department of Health has repeatedly insisted it had no plans for compulsory treatment. But Health Minister Jacqui Smith admitted last week that the planned Mental Health Bill will define alcohol dependency as a mental illness - allowing the severest cases to be forcibly detained and treated. The Bill would provide 'a legal framework for compulsory treatment' compatible with policies including 'the Government's commitment to implementing the national alcohol harm reduction strategy', she said. However, alcohol experts say up to one in 13 men are dependent on alcohol. 'We simply do not want legislation that allows that many people to be compulsorily detained,' said Phillips. He said experts were also divided over pushing more moderate drinkers into treatment to tackle offending, which could be 'counter-productive'. The strategy unit is also understood to be considering more so-called 'brief interven tions' for hazardous drinkers in GPs' surgeries, where practice nurses explain the consequences of drinking and suggest ways of cutting down. 'People see two brackets - alcoholic or normal, and that is quite dangerous because the people in the middle are the most at risk and get into a whole range of other harms,' said Phillips. The alcohol strategy will be published later this summer.