From the 1960s onwards, the first words Glaswegian career criminals were likely to utter after being arrested were “Get Beltrami”. The client list of the Scottish lawyer Joseph Beltrami, who has died aged 82, reads like a Who’s Who of Glasgow’s hard men, and included the compulsive safebreaker Johnny Ramensky, “Scotland’s most violent man”, Jimmy Boyle, and the one-time undisputed king of the Glasgow underworld, Arthur Thompson.Over the years Beltrami & Co would become the firm of choice for Glasgow’s many and often extremely violent criminals. Before the abolition of capital punishment, he acted in 12 death penalty cases, and he had the proud record that none of his clients went to the gallows. Known affectionately as “Big Joe”, Beltrami was frequently described as the first man to make a profession out of criminal law in Scotland. He instructed in more than 350 murder cases and appeared in every court in the country, from Shetland to Duns.Perhaps his most celebrated case was that of Patrick Meehan, convicted on a majority verdict of the murder of 72-year-old Rachel Ross in a botched robbery in Ayr in 1969. After the trial, William “Tank” McGuinness came to see Beltrami to tell him that he and another man had been the robbers, and not Meehan. In 1976 McGuinness died in the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, 13 days after a savage beating. With permission from his family, Beltrami then handed McGuinness’s statements over to the police and Meehan was pardoned.Beltrami continued to work on Meehan’s behalf and obtained £50,000 in compensation for him, declining to take any fees. But Meehan, described by Sir Nicholas Fairbairn, the barrister Beltrami had instructed at the trial, as “a psychopath, just a horrible, nasty, evil, loathsome crook,” was not grateful and in 1990 wrote a book in which he blamed Beltrami for his conviction. Beltrami decided not to obtain an injunction, and Glasgow shops did not stock the book.On the lighter side, in 1980 he acted for the wrestler Andy Robin, whose bear, Hercules, against whom Robin would wrestle, went absent without leave in the Western Isles. When Hercules was finally retrieved, Robin was charged with failing to keep a wild animal under control; an offence that could have resulted in the confiscation of the bear. The charge was dropped after Beltrami successfully argued that the bear was not wild but was a working animal. As a side issue he had threatened the procurator fiscal with demanding  an identity parade involving five other bears if the prosecution continued.The son of an Italian-Swiss father and Scots mother, Beltrami was born in Rutherglen. His father ran a fish and chip shop in Glasgow Cross and his parents saved up enough money to send him to St Aloysius’ college, a private Catholic school in Garnethill. Initially he intended to become a teacher, but after meeting a friend on a tram who told him that legal aid was coming to Scotland, he changed his mind and studied law. He graduated from the University of Glasgow in 1953.During national service he was a sergeant in the intelligence corps, spending a period as an interpreter and translator at the British embassy in Paris and then compiling and analysing intelligence with a field security unit based in Taunton, Somerset. He qualified as a solicitor in 1956, but at the time in Glasgow many Protestant firms would not employ a Roman Catholic. It took 30 applications before he found a job, and to avoid having to go through the same agonising process in the future, in 1958 he set up his own office with a secretary in Buchanan Street, Glasgow. He launched his career at a time when many of his clients needed someone to stand up for them against what was sometimes an overbearingly robust local police force.Beltrami – who recalled the time he stopped an identification parade on which his client was to be the only red-haired man – flourished in such an environment. Aside from his tenacity and ability, one key to Beltrami’s success was that, unlike so many solicitors who fall into the trap of becoming friends with their criminal clients, he always maintained his distance. To them he was “Mr Beltrami” and for him they were “Mr McGuinness”.Towards the end of his career, in 1993, he became the first solicitor advocate (a solicitor qualified to represent clients in court) to plead in the court of criminal appeal. He retired in the mid-1990s and in 2008 was awarded honorary life membership of the Law Society of Scotland, the highest honour it could bestow upon a Scottish solicitor. In 1988 he published The Defender, an account of his more famous cases, to be followed the next year by A Deadly Innocence, a detailed account of the Meehan case. Essentially a shy man, outside the law he was a keen if latterly sometimes critical supporter of Celtic football club. One idiosyncrasy was that he would never accept the first hotel room offered to him. He is survived by his wife, Delia, and his three sons, all of whom became lawyers.• Joseph Beltrami, lawyer, born 15 May 1932; died 24 February 2015