It was the coup to beat all coups. An interview with the five men accused of the murder of Stephen Lawrence. As a starting point for a new programme it is about as good as it gets. It appears that Granada will be in a position to run the interviews this week but one thing is for certain: the new current affairs programme upon which so much is riding is already getting talked about.At 10pm on Thursday, Tonight with Trevor McDonald will be launched on ITV, the biggest current affairs revolution Britain has seen since the launch of Newsnight. Fraught with problems, maybe, but Granada has achieved one, essential thing. At last the public will be able to sit down, listen to and see five men's recollections of a spring night in 1993 when one black teenager lost his life and Britain started on a path of racial soul-searching. The rumours first started last September. The five men wanted to talk, they wanted to set the record straight, to right all those wrongs that they and their families insist have been perpetrated against them. One of the men, believed to be Gary Dobson, got in touch with probably the only PR fixer most people have ever heard of: Max Clifford, who gave his advice for free and received death threats in the post. 'I told them it was about standing up and being counted,' Clifford said. 'If you want to change public perceptions you have to be willing to take a real grilling and answer all the questions. I said they should do it on live television.' The men - Dobson, Jamie Acourt, Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and David Norris - had already received a cascade of offers from newspapers and television companies. One of the letters sent to Henry Miller, Jamie Acourt's lawyer, came from a certain Martin Bashir, the man who had interviewed Princess Diana and Louise Woodward. 'I was wondering if there was any chance of a brief meeting with you,' the letter said. 'I confirm that any conversation would be strictly confidential and would not be published, transmitted or repeated to a third party without your prior consent.' The five suspects were interested. But there was a problem. Throughout the multiplicity of police investigations, inquests and the public inquiry, the men had stuck to their right not to speak. Their legal advice had been as consistent as it was nationally unpopular. Say nothing that will incriminate. A television interview would surely undermine their silent defence. All was not clear blue water on the BBC's side either. Friends of the Lawrence family asked the perfectly pertinent question: if the men truly wanted a public hearing why had they not taken that chance when asked to give evidence at either the inquest into Stephen's death or at the public inquiry? 'It smacks of contempt for the inquiry, the inquest and for Stephen's family,' Suresh Grover, a spokesman for the Lawrence Family Campaign, said at the time. 'Having a black journalist interview the five smacks of a publicity stunt. John Birt should stop it.' With such reservations the negotiations foundered. What was important for Bashir, though, was that it was his name that was fixed firmly in the suspects' minds.The publication of the Macpherson Inquiry brought another flirtation. Again the five wanted to 'set the record straight'. This time so did the parents who had been approached by BBC Radio 4's Today programme for an interview. Ignoring legal advice this time, the parents decided to speak, motivated by that 20th century desire for the world to 'hear my side'. Silence always smacks of guilt in Britain. If they didn't do it, why are they hiding? Although compelling listening, the interviews failed to cast any light on how Stephen died but the parents thought they had been given a fair crack of the whip. The suspects' resolve to move into the limelight strengthened.Bashir, too, had moved. From the hidebound confines of the BBC to the nimbler, risk-taking Granada. Although Bashir did not come with the interviews in his pocket, his approaches while at the BBC certainly helped. Dobson again got in touch with Clifford and said that, this time, they were definitely going for it.Clifford suggested the five got in touch with ITN and said that Trevor McDonald should be offered the interviews. But given that ITN, with news slots at 6.30pm and 11pm, did not have the ideal outlets the name Bashir again came onto the radar. They had been contacted by Granada and this time the suspects agreed, whatever their lawyers said.Bashir and Granada knew that if they were to avoid any public backlash against the programme they would have to be as tough as possible on the suspects. No money could be offered and there could be no control by the suspects over the questions Bashir could ask. After negotiations the five men agreed that they would be interviewed separately, would not be able to communicate with one another during the two days of interviews and would answer every question. The interviews were filmed last month in a secret, neutral location.Granada executives knew that the police, still investigating Stephen's murder, would hear about the interviews. So it was not wholly a surprise when last Tuesday afternoon a writ was served on Granada by the Metropolitan Police. Using powers laid down by the Police and Criminal Evidence Act, the police wanted to view the interview tapes. They believed there were reasonable grounds to suspect Granada had new evidence. The police wanted it. Straight away.On Wednesday, Detective Chief Inspector Michael Jones, leading the investigation into Stephen's death, arrived at the Old Bailey at lunchtime, in good time for the private hearing before the Recorder of London. Representatives from the Crown Prosecution Service and Granada were also waiting. When the protagonists finally arrived in the courtroom an adjournment was called to give the barristers time to discuss such a complex legal matter. To and fro the barristers went, hammering out an agreement that the police would only seek to view the material after it had been transmitted.For Jeff Anderson, Tonight's editor, such a tough piece of journalism is an ideal starting point. He knows the weight of expectation riding on the programme. As does Charles Tremayne, the executive producer. As does David Liddiment, ITV's director of programmes. As does Richard Eyre, ITV's chief executive. Its content will be strictly monitored by the Independent Television Commission, which pointed out last week that ITV's 1998 current affairs output stood at just 1 hour 25 minutes a week, the lowest figure on record.Anderson, formerly the editor of This Morning, is a populist to his finger-tips and makes no apologies for it. Sources say ITV will expect the programme to at least match News at Ten's highs of between 6 and 7 million viewers with regular big hitters well above that. Anderson explains his thinking: 'You look at any rundown of single issue current affairs programme series and it tells you what the viewers like. Panorama will get just over 2 million looking at the machinations of the Welsh Labour Party but it will get over 6 million if it does supermarket prices.'Now it is important that Panorama does those things and it is also important that this programme looks at important public policy issues. But we are a commercial station and we can't afford to have just over 2 million people watching. But what we can do, we can support stories. I remember 3D did an item on Rwanda but around it they did really popular stuff. As a result they brought 6 million people to Rwanda. Now that to me is doing a good public service job.' He knows that he will probably be accused of dumbing down, as if somehow making something popular means that it lacks significance. Anderson is a man who also likes stunts, tricks employed to bring home subjects to viewers - such as when the former MP Matthew Parris spent a week on the dole, a trick thought up by Tremayne which brought in 13 million viewers and got World in Action into the Top Ten. 'If using your imagination is dumbing down,' Anderson said, 'then I'm a dumber downer.' Each programme will have four or five items except, as with the Lawrence interviews, when they have a more broadly significant story which they want to run for longer. Although Anderson and Tremayne have to be bullish they have not had everything their own way. Three of the people trumpeted in the proposal document which clinched the contract - Fiona Gough, Quentin McDermott and Andy Bell - have not joined the programme. Neither has Jeremy Paxman, despite Granada originally saying that he was their first choice. 'My first choice was wrong,' Anderson said. 'Now we've seen Trevor on the pilot he absolutely the right man.' There has also been talk of tensions with ITN, which will provide some packages for Tonight and whose news operation Granada will have full access to for the first time. Who makes the final call on how or whether a story should be done, Anderson or ITN? Critics also point out other problems - the £200,000 an hour budget is not huge and is dwarfed by the amount America spends on similar programmes.Anderson knows that there are many who think the programme will fail. Try something new and there is always a constituency who will shake their heads, suck in their cheeks and sigh that it is simply not possible. He is now the head of a popular current affairs programme which he says will return the genre to the mainstream. He says such a programme is long overdue. And with the Lawrence interviews already completed he is guaranteed at least one big hit.