Two police officers who shot an unarmed man dead in a London street will not face criminal charges, the crown prosecution service ruled yesterday.Harry Stanley, 46, died after being shot in the head and hand by two firearms officers who mistook a wooden table leg in a plastic bag for a sawn-off shotgun in September 1999 in Hackney, east London.The CPS said it had concluded that officers had been negligent and had failed in the duty of care they owed Mr Stanley. But the CPS yesterday said there was insufficient evidence to bring charges, after a 12 month review of its earlier decision that the shooting was a tragic accident. Officers were responding to a call from a pub that Mr Stanley, a grandfather, was an Irish terrorist and was carrying a gun. The dead man's family said he was raising his hands to surrender after the officers shouted a warning when the first shot was fired hitting him in the left hand which was at around waist height. They say the plastic bag containing the table leg was in his right. The CPS judged that the scientific and expert evidence contradicted the account given by the two officers, but was not sufficient evidence that their actions were unlawful. The officers' accounts of the position of his head and the bag were wrong, a CPS official confirmed. It also concluded that the the scientific evidence "may provide some support for the conclusion that the police officers may have been inaccurate or even lied about their respective positions in the street. However this would not be sufficient evidence from which the jury could conclude they were acting unlawfully." But the CPS saids this did not provide "evidence upon which the jury could conclude that there was gross negligence deserving of the description 'criminal'". It would be very difficult for prosecutors to disprove the officers "honestly believed that they were facing a sawn-off shotgun", the CPS said. Mr Stanley's widow Irene said: "Their decision effectively gives the police a licence to kill." ·Three officers involved in planning a raid in which an unarmed, naked man was shot dead in front of his girlfriend will face 15 disciplinary charges. Sussex police have agreed to act against the men, believed to be Christopher Burton, 44, Kevin French, 48, and Christopher Siggs, 32. At worst, the officers could be dismissed. James Ashley, 39, died after police raided his flat in St Leonard's, near Hastings, east Sussex in 1998.