Commander Brian Paddick, the policeman in charge of a part of inner-city London, is one of the rarest figures of the modern day. Prepared to engage in frank and liberal conversation with the people he serves, Commander Paddick appears an offbeat and welcome voice in public life. But his latest outburst of honesty is unlikely to be well received by superiors in the Metropolitan police. It is not certain how much of the Met logs on towww.urban75.com, a Brixton-edited website favoured by anarchists and anti-capitalists, but many will be now pointing their browsers there.Here they will find "Brian: The Commander" offering himself for a chat on the site's bulletin boards. Some of it is philosophical musing, which surprisingly for a policeman has Commander Paddick attracted to anarchism and the ideal that "the innate goodness of the individual... is corrupted by society". Some of it is telling the world about the way it is. "I have some of the bravest, fearless, unarmed cops who care enough to tackle gun-carrying drug dealers... and still go back for more." Some of it is remarkably personal, given that Commander Paddick is the first openly gay commander in the Met. "Someone has found out which gay club I go to and is trying to cause some SERIOUS shit for me." All of it is compulsive reading. Perhaps other officers should face public cross-examination on the web. Rather than being cheered, there are calls for Commander Paddick to be sacked from the right-wing press, former officers and the Metropolitan Police Federation. But the attack from these canteen culturalists, motivated in part by a barely disguised loathing of a successful progressive policeman, should be shrugged off. Commander Paddick is an asset in a Met, where Londoners look and rarely see themselves. Brixton, where drugs and guns are all too visible, needs someone like Commander Paddick who is prepared to take the fight to the criminals. His forward-thinking has put him ahead of the curve. Before the Home Office planned to decriminalise dope, Commander Paddick experimented with cautions rather than arrests for people caught with small amounts of cannabis in south London so police could spend more time tackling the society-sapping menace of cocaine. A success, the scheme has saved 2,500 police hours, and arrests for harder drugs rose by 19%. As urban75 put it: Respect To The Commander.