Today a report on the Rochdale child abuse case revealed that some officials believe sexually exploited children are "making their own choices". It's hardly surprising to hear that some under-16-year-olds are having sex: a one-size-fits-all age of consent doesn't accommodate individual differences. What is surprising is that the children in question weren't exploring sex with their peers, but were having sex with much older adults. Consider this scenario: A 12-year-old is repeatedly raped by a family friend who tells her it's their little secret. She doesn't scream and cry each time, she doesn't try to fight him off and she doesn't tell anyone. Did she consent to sex? No, of course not. Why then is it such a struggle for some to grasp that teenage victims of child sexual exploitation (CSE) don't consent either?Although many victims engage in risky behaviour, this isn't an invitation to be raped. Initially, hanging out with older men (or women), may seem enticing, with its promise of free rides, drinks on tap and something different and exciting. But when adults use attention, affection and small treats to extract sexual favours from children this isn't a mutually beneficial relationship, it is abuse. If a child is abused after accepting a lift or attending a "party", they are still not culpable. Low reporting rates do not detract from the severity of the issue. Consider, for example, that research suggests only 5-25% of rapes are ever reported.Above and beyond the sexual violence of CSE, victims may be subjected to physical assaults or threats against themselves and their families. Victims may believe, often justifiably, that these adults have both the will and the capacity to hurt them physically. Offenders often know their addresses, further heightening fears of retribution. Psychological manipulation is effective too. When a victim is told they "love it really" during a rape or labelled a "slag" afterwards, the illusion of complicity and guilt is reinforced. Some victims are deeply attached to their abusers: this may be the first time in their life they feel wanted. If that means they must have sex with friends of their "boyfriend", so be it. Confusion and memory loss, exacerbated by trauma and excessive drink or drugs, don't help matters. If you are scared that you won't be believed, why bother putting yourself through the pain and embarrassment of reliving it all?CSE victims respond in different ways, including with self-harm, depression, substance abuse, violence and aggression. Understanding CSE complexities and reasons why victims may not present as the "ideal victim" is critical. Both child-protection agencies and jurors in CSE trials need a better appreciation of consent and must not assume that repeat incidents and delayed disclosure signify complicity. Much progress has been made since the days when CSE victims were dismissed as "promiscuous" or "streetwise", or even criminalised as "child prostitutes". Agencies responsible for child welfare and crime prevention must be properly trained, aware of CSE's indicators and prepared to persevere. There are places in the UK with excellent CSE counter-measures, but just as many that need to grasp every chance to learn, and quickly. Although effective responses aren't cheap, they tend to pay off in the long run: if we value children's wellbeing, funds must be made available.First, we must put paid to the delusion that CSE victims choose and freely consent to their abuse. How can a child give informed consent when they are at such a stupendous disadvantage physically, emotionally, cognitively, socially and even economically? CSE is not consensual: it is the wilful manipulation and abuse of children who cannot adequately protect themselves. This is why they need protection, even if they neither ask for it nor accept it graciously when offered. This goes not just for under-16s, but for 16- and 17-year-olds, who have for too long represented a "grey area" between the age of consent (16) and the age of adulthood (18).Last week, Megan Stammers ran away to France with her teacher; initially French authorities showed little interest in the case, as 15-year-old Megan is above the local age of consent. This shows a spectacular lack of comprehension around the lack of consent inherent in child sex abuse, CSE included. British authorities are treating Megan's case as a clear child-protection issue: now they must do the same with those endless CSE cases where victims don't disappear to France but rather up the road a few nights a week.