The mother of a five-year-old girl who was shot and paralysed in a gang attack broke down in courton Tuesday as the jury was shown footage of the moment her daughter was hit in the chest by a masked gunman.Sharmila Kamaleswaran cried as clips of her daughter Thusha playing and then moments later lying slumped on the floor were shown at the Old Bailey.Thusha was shot in March last year when three men chased people they thought were members of a rival gang into a south London convenience store and fired through the open door.The attack also left Roshan Selvakumar, 35, who had been buying groceries, with serious injuries. He was hit in the face by a bullet which remains lodged in his head.CCTV footage played to the jury showed Thusha "playing happily" in the shop with her 12-year-old brother and three-year-old sister before the two intended victims rushed in. Along with a group of adults she is then shown moving towards the front of the store. But as the gunman opens fire the group rush past Thusha, leaving her in the line of fire. Moments later she is shown slumped on the floor after being hit by a bullet that went through her chest and out of her back.The court heard that after the shooting Thusha went into cardiac arrest on the shop floor. The prosecutor Edward Brown QC said that although she was initially responsive her breathing was laboured and she had "a blank or bewildered look on her face"."She would squeeze the hand of the police officer who was tending to her," he added.Thusha underwent emergency surgery in the street. Her condition deteriorated on the way to hospital where the jury heard she was "clinically dead" before being revived.Kazeem Kolawole, 19, Anthony McCalla, 19, and Nathaniel Grant, 21, all deny causing grievous bodily harm with intent to Thusha and to Selvakumar.All three also deny the attempted murder of Roshaun Bryan – one of the two men who ran into the shop – and having a firearm with intent to endanger life.Brown told the jury the attack was the result of a feud between rival gangs in Brixton and nearby Stockwell. He said the defendants were closely associated with the OC or Gas gang in Brixton and had been on "a mission" into rival territory in Stockwell on the night of the shooting.The jury was told the defendants had met earlier in the evening and tested the gun by firing it at a tree before donning masks and setting off. Witnesses said they were cycling fast, as if on "a mission" as they headed from Brixton into Stockwell.As they arrived outside the shop Brown said there was widespread alarm and shouts of: "They're coming, they're coming."Jurors were told that Selvakumar, who was hit by the first bullet, felt a "crunching sensation" in his head but did not at first realise he had been shot.Brown said: "He remembers trying to shut the door on the gunman and then felt a blow to his face, and a crunching sensation inside his head. He didn't know he had been hit by a bullet. He thought perhaps it was a bottle."Brown said GAS stood for Guns and Shanks or Grinds and Stacks, while OC is One Chance or Organised Criminals. This group had "an ongoing and violent tit-for-tat dispute" with the ABM gang, based in Stockwell.Brown told the court the shooting "had all the hallmarks of a gang shooting"."There can have been no other reason but that they thought he was a rival gang member," Brown said. "The trio had travelled prepared and into enemy territory and, of course, were prepared to use that loaded gun in what was another depressing chapter in an increasingly violent series of attacks."The trial continues.