Amnesty International is turning its gaze on sexual terror again; but these human-rights abuses are not unfolding in Abu Ghraib or Guantánamo; they are taking place in a back room in a pub in Reading; down an alley in Oxford; on a sofa in someone's flat in Edinburgh. A report published this week by the human-rights organisation presents a picture of an epidemic of unreported, unpunished sexual assault in the UK. The most shocking bit? That a large number of the polled respondents are not shocked.According to the study of attitudes toward rape in the UK, one third of those surveyed believe that women who flirt are partly at fault if someone rapes them. A third see women as being "partially or wholly" responsible for being raped if they are intoxicated. Finally, more than a quarter of those interviewed think women invite rape to some extent if they wear seductive clothing.There is also a sort of "fair game" attitude at play: almost 15% thought a woman would be partly responsible for being raped if rumour had it she had slept around; 8% thought a promiscuous woman would be totally responsible for being raped.Unsurprisingly, the reporting and prosecuting of rape is going down in Britain. The numbers are truly stunning: almost 13,000 rapes were reported to the police last year - which, according to the British Crime Survey, is probably only about 15% of the total number of rapes. Would you report a rape, given these attitudes?Yesterday's news of a rape case that collapsed after the alleged victim told the jury she was unconscious from excess alcohol and could not remember what had happened will certainly do little to encourage victims to come forward. Despite the Sexual Offences Act of 2003 stating that someone who is asleep or otherwise unconscious will not be taken as having consented, the prosecution dropped the case saying, "drunken consent is still consent".Your nightmare is only just beginning if you are brave - or foolish - enough to go to the police: the conviction rate for rape is 5.6% - the lowest ever recorded. Remember, that is 5.6% of the rapes reported. Believe it or not, things were better for British rape victims in 1977 in some ways: at least then, a third of rapes reported got a conviction.Reading these numbers filled me with a series of horrific flashbacks. Twenty years ago, I worked in a rape-crisis centre in the UK. The stories I heard were horrific enough: the lovely, pale girl with the long black lashes who was gang-raped in the back of a truck and thrown out on to the road when they were done with her; she could scarcely venture out of her basement flat. The working-class home-maker who was raped by her neighbour, and was terrified her housing estate would find out because she would be ostracised. The teenager who was out with friends drinking one night on the high street and was pulled down on to some steps and raped by another teenager; she worried that because she had been drinking it was somehow her fault. There was the time I visited the high court for a trial of a man who had committed a brutal rape that had left his victim hospitalised; I remember the defence barrister set up the suggestion that this was all the result of a bit of sexy S&M play. Then there was the trial at which the judge held up the flimsy red underpants of the victim - for everyone in the court to smirk at.This is what was clear: the agony of the rape was only the start. What remained toxic for years, if not for ever, for these survivors of rape, was exactly the kind of self-recrimination that the attitudes polled by Amnesty brought about: why did I walk down that street? Why did I have that second glass of wine? Why did I wear red underwear? Why did I smile at that man at that party? I learned from these brave, tormented girls and women that the crime itself is something you can eventually recover from, less easy to recover from is the social trivialisation of what happened to you, let alone the notion that it was your own fault.How striking, in contrast, were the words of Elizabeth Neuffer, a gutsy Boston Globe reporter who died in Iraq last year. She came to talk to young women leaders in a gathering I hosted once about courage; and she told the story of having tried to cross a checkpoint in war-torn Bosnia. She was taken by the border guards and raped. Eventually she got away. What was new about her story is that she had no shame. It was something bad that happened to her, as bad things sometimes happen to people. But she told her story in a totally straightforward way, and it was clear that she had no sense of having been broken or damaged by this bad thing. Partly, it was the circumstances of the rape: if any rape could be seen as "pure" by the Amnesty respondents, it would be Elizabeth's. But partly, it was her attitude: "I refuse to be shamed."But you can only have that attitude in a country in which shame and blame and criminal punishment really do fall on rapists and not on their victims. God knows we are getting things horribly wrong in many ways in America now, but sex-crime issues are getting better. There has been a sea change: 10 years ago, women were still "asking for it".Today, there is a widespread understanding that if you are raped it is a crime someone else has committed. Police have been trained to deal sensitively with rape victims. Politicians try to outvie one another on being tough on rapists - indeed, Michael Dukakis lost the presidential election in 1988 because he was seen as not being tough enough. If a judge were to talk suggestively about a victim's clothing or drinking, he would lose his post. There is still work to be done: but last week a middle-aged attorney showed up for the belated DNA-driven sentencing of a man who had raped her two decades before. She insisted on using her own name in the papers: "I am not ashamed of having been raped," she said.How did we get this shift? Not by a vague call for "changing attitudes", which is what leaders who feel powerless often ask for. The only way to change attitudes is, as the Amnesty spokeswoman said, through changing penalties. When rapists began to be locked up for rape - even rape of their wives, their dates, their ex-girlfriends, the kinds of rape that had been tolerated before - then attitudes on the street began to change. And when victims began to bring civil suits against their assailants, then attitudes really began to shift. The answer is not in softball advocacy but hardball politics.Here is the problem for Britain: the parliamentary system. Because money doesn't play the role in UK politics that it does in the US, special interests can't put as much direct pressure on, for better or worse. Big Oil is a special interest - but so are rape victims.The UK needs a high-profile national women's pressure group. Yes, it has the Women's Institute, but I doubt the major parties quake in their boots if they don't keep that membership happy. A women's lobby has to have the membership of a plurality of voters to scare the big boys. They need to say to politicians: look, here are our demands. We will throw the election to the party that takes sex crime seriously. Because, guess what? Potential sex-crime victims are not a minority. We are the majority.I don't want to have to consider in 2005 the same anxieties we had in 1985. What will women think after yesterday's reports of another rape case thrown out of court because the victim had been drinking? It's not awareness that is going to dry those tears: it is slap-the-old-boys-around politics.Funny how quickly attitudes change - when a jail cell is really open, when a crime is really a crime.