Police performance league tables are to be introduced within two years as part of the £2.9bn a year increase in resources for the fight against crime announced yesterday.The dispute between the Home Office and the Treasury went to the wire with final agreement reached only on Sunday afternoon. The extent to which the home secretary, David Blunkett, has managed to get his radical criminal justice reforms fully funded will not be revealed until tomorrow. The outcome of his battle for an extra 10,800 prison places to meet the jail population crisis will also become known later this week. But Mr Blunkett said last night: "This is good news for the Home Office, and despite this being a tight year financially, ensures that we can press ahead with our major programme of reform for policing, asylum and criminal justice - the three core areas." A significant slice of the extra £1.5bn for the police over the next three years will be used to fund their new pay and conditions package which is designed to boost the role of the frontline police officer. The Home Office is in line to hit two of its three key Treasury targets, for reducing car crime by 30% by 2004 and domestic burglary by 25% by 2005. But the latest 28% rise in robbery leaves the target of a 10% fall in street crime off the mark. The Treasury also admits the number of offences for which an offender is brought to justice has fallen. These targets will be supplemented by new measures designed to reduce the gap between the performance of the best police divisions and the worst. The unrealistic drug targets which were set by the ex-drug tsar Keith Hellawell are to be revised this autumn. More money will be put straight into local police divisions, with a fund of £50m for use by those basic command units in high crime areas and to reward local police commanders who most improve their performance. From 2004-05, comparisons of the performance of police forces in cutting crime and arresting criminals will be published and used to determine distribution of extra resources. Police commanders will also be asked to give clear information to local householders on their performance each year.Cash from the preventative children's fund will be used to invest in youth crime prevention programmes, including services to treat children and young people with mental health problems. New money is also promised to tackle truancy and boost support for parents. Extra funds are to be provided for increasing the use of drug abuse testing, doubling the number of addicts in treatment, and reducing drug-related crime. A new target is to be set of doubling the amount of criminal assets seized to £60m by 2004. More than £650m is to be spent over the next three years on computer systems to link the police, crown prosecution service and the courts to cut unnecessary paperwork delays in court cases. The inspection regime for the criminal justice system is to be reformed so that it sets standards and monitors performance. In particular, it is planned that the performance of individual prisons will be assessed every seven years.