Some stories lumber down the track for months, announcing their approach with bells, whistles and a final ear-shattering fanfare: the 2012 Olympics is a case in point. Others appear to come out of nowhere, catching everyone – or nearly everyone – by surprise with devastating consequences. The death of Mark Duggan, 29, on Wednesday 4 August at Tottenham Hale in north-east London, at the hands of a police firearm specialist, is in the second category.He is not the first person to be shot by police in the course of arrest. And his death was not even front-page news for two days. A group, including his fiance and community workers, went to Tottenham police station on Friday 6 August, to try to find out more about what had happened. Later that night youths tried to break through police lines to get to the police station.The riots in the Tottenham area spread out over the country and over the pages of the Guardian and its website throughout last week. Reporters struggled in extremely dangerous circumstances to get as many and as accurate witness reports as possible into the Guardian in print and online. Overall I think they achieved a very high standard of accuracy and fairness over the four nights of rioting (although we should have made clearer, sooner, that these were English riots rather than UK-wide).However, and probably inevitably in such a highly charged situation, where language is an issue in itself, the Guardian has been criticised for some aspects of its reporting. Terminology is crucial, and one lapse from the Guardian's style guide occurred when the term Afro-Caribbean was used instead of African Caribbean.Any description of the makeup of the groups on the streets – an exercise vital to fairness in the reporting and understanding what was actually happening – was fraught with difficulty. A report in Monday's paper of the scenes in Tottenham and the surrounding area contained these sentences in an 1,800 word report: "The makeup of the rioters was racially mixed. Most were men or boys, some apparently as young as 10. But families and other local residents, including some from Tottenham's Hasidic Jewish Community, also gathered to watch and jeer at police."More than a dozen emails were received by the readers' editor's office, including one from the chief executive of the Board of Deputies of British Jews. The complaint was that we had unfairly singled out one ethnic group, the Hasidic Jewish community.In consultation with Paul Lewis, a reporter who covered the riots in London and other cities, the sentence was expanded within 24 hours to give specific details of the other groups on the streets that night. The reporter was not trying to blame the riots on the Hasidic community. He was on the scene and trying to make clear that representatives of part of the multicultural community in that area – the Hasidic Jews – were on the streets. He was trying to paint a picture of what the streets were like at this time. He was careful not to say that he saw members of the Hasidic community rioting, as he didn't. From the Guardian's coverage of the death of Mark Duggan as a whole it was clear that many of those in the crowd were from a multicultural background. But read in isolation the original story did not make that clear enough – and we regret that.Online social networks played an important role – for different reasons – for reporters and rioters. But the multitude of reports could be confusing. Paul Lewis, who had been following the riots every one of the four days and nights, saw an incident on the evening of Tuesday 9 August in Enfield, where a small group of white men chased at least one black man through the streets. He heard the men yell that they wanted to get the "blacks" and "Pakis" and tweeted this incident as part of his coverage.However, there were other peaceful groups of white men and other multicultural groups on the streets that night guarding properties, and they did not see what Lewis saw. The incidents became confused. A complainant to the Guardian believed the reporter was deliberately stirring trouble. I have spoken to the reporter and he was with a colleague, who confirms his account of the first incident. In addition, the Guardian has some reader video footage that supports their eyewitness accounts. But the speed of Twitter and the anger of those on the streets has made this difficult to disentangle.