Armed robber Terry Smith, once Britain's most-wanted man after a daring escape from jail, beams with pride as he talks about his most recent job - kidnapping the £1 million racehorse Lucky Harry from its stable in Newmarket. 'To be honest, getting hold of the horse was the easy part: we had someone on the inside. The tricky bit was trying to get our hands on the ransom money without being caught.' Smith had plenty of help: his specially recruited gang included a leading computer hacker, a top burglar, an extortionist, and was led by a former associate of the Kray twins. But what made the Lucky Harry job truly remarkable was that each and every step of the operation was caught on camera for a new Channel 4 show, The Heist .The three-part project, to be broadcast next month, is the brainchild of documentary maker David Glover and film-maker Rudolph Herzog, son of the renowned German director, Werner. 'We were thinking about some great heist movies of the past, such as The Ladykillers and The Lavender Hill Mob ,' Glover said. 'Then the thought was: why don't we do this for real - recruit our own gang of real criminal masterminds and get them to try to rob places. 'Getting permission from the people and places we targeted was quite tricky. Some were worried that we'd expose flaws in their security, others were just a bit snooty and said no outright. But there were some who were confident in their security and bold enough to let us put it to the test.' The first show features the gang attempting to steal a painting - Andrew Gifford's The View from the Bandstand - from the Business Design Centre in Islington, north London, a building said to be impregnable. The second show centres on an attempt to hijack a prototype TVR from the Earl's Court Motor Show. The third show features the kidnap of the racehorse. In each case, the owners knew about the attempted heist, but security guards and staff were kept in the dark. 'In many ways, it was much harder than it would have been in real life,' says Terry Smith. 'We had all sorts of restrictions, such as not using violence or causing criminal damage. 'We couldn't just do a crash-bang-wallop job; it had to be something a bit more sophisticated. Whereas in real life we might just have driven a bulldozer right into the place, we had to find other means of getting in. 'That didn't make it any less real, though. No criminal wants to get caught, and getting caught and having it all on TV would be terrible, so, as far as we were concerned, the stakes were almost as high as if we could have ended up going to jail.' Smith was one of five reformed criminals recruited by the programme makers, each with a different area of expertise. The others include retired burglar Peter Scott, once known as the human fly, who stole around £30 million worth of jewellery and paintings over the space of 35 years. Mixing in high society, his victims included Sophia Loren, Lauren Bacall, John Aspinall and Elizabeth Taylor. Electronic counter-measures for the gang are provided by Matthew Bevan, who was arrested in 1996 after hacking into the computer network at an American airforce base. The CIA originally believed the hackers were working for Chinese intelligence and claim Bevan almost started World War III. The Crown decided it was not in the public interest to prosecute him and Bevan now works as a computer security consultant. Arno Funke, a German criminal lovingly referred to as 'the Kraut' by other members of the gang, is the ransom expert. He was convicted of six bomb attacks and trying to extort money from department stores during the late Eighties. He became a folk hero in his home country because of his repeated narrow escapes from the police. The final member of the gang - and in overall command - is Joey Pyle, a former gangster who was best man at the wedding of Ronnie Kray. Pyle's minder, Mitch, also lends a hand. 'We met some wild characters on the way,' said Herzog. 'Some of them we could not use because they were too crazy or had some sort of dark past that made them unfeasible. We kept the members of the gang apart and only let them meet on camera. That way, they could only interact within the universe of our film and we could see the whole problem-solving process as it happened.' In the finished episodes there are times when it is clear that the gang members have forgotten they are taking part in a TV show and are acting as they would have during the height at their criminal careers, but Glover denies glamourising crime. 'All those on the team have suffered as a result of their lifestyles - some of them have spent decades in prison - and they are all fully reformed. Although they don't recommend crime for others, they enjoyed doing the series, because they got to show off their secret expertise. We wanted them to forget the camera, which they did.'  The Heist begins on Channel 4 on Tuesday, 7 December at 9pm. Tony Thompson was a consultant on the programme