Robbers yesterday fled with £4.6m in a meticulously planned heist at Heathrow, embarrassing both the airport authorities and British Airways which had brought in tougher security measures after September 11.The gang overpowered a BA driver in a supposedly secure airside area and transferred the cash, which was in US dollars and was being transported in eight heavy duty red plastic cargo boxes, from his van into another BA vehicle. It is understood the money, which arrived at Heathrow on a scheduled jet from Bahrain, was destined for New York. Scotland Yard's flying squad was investigating how the gang managed to enter the secure area and how they knew the money was on the flight. The raid follows a series of lapses at British airports which have taken place despite the extra security measures. A police spokesman last night refused to say if the incident had prompted a new review of security at Heathrow, adding: "Security is always under review." The flight had left Bahrain at 2am local time yesterday and was due to land at Heathrow at 6.45am. When the Boeing 777 touched down shortly after 6am, the gang was already in place. The plane taxied to a stand 300 metres from the main terminal four building. Passengers were taken to the terminal in a bus while their luggage - and the $6.5m - was unloaded. The money was put into a BA van and was to be transferred to another flight due to leave for New York's JFK airport. The gang pounced on the 35-year-old driver at 6.30am in a secure area near the terminal building and bound his wrists with plastic ties. They transferred the cash to a Renault Master van painted in BA's grey, red and blue livery, which was later established to be a genuine BA vehicle. It had not been reported stolen. Fifteen minutes later, the van was found burned out in Feltham, three miles away. There was no sign of the cash. It is assumed the men were either picked up by accomplices or they had left another vehicle there. Airport police found the BA driver on the floor, his wrists still bound. The man, who was shaken and had minor wrist injuries, said at least two men had attacked him. He had not seen firearms. The reason for moving such a large amount of money on a scheduled flight is not known. Bahrain is one of the most important banking centres in the Middle East but it is unlikely an institution was transferring the cash on such a flight. BA and the airport operator, BAA Heathrow, said the security implications of yesterday's heist would be investigated. A BAA spokeswoman said it was possible the robbers had legitimate passes to gain access to a security-controlled zone. Privately airport officials said the gang must have had a detailed knowledge of security procedures as well as the routes in and around Heathrow. Heathrow airport has tempted gangs before, most famously in 1983 when six armed robbers posing as security guards raided a Brink's-Mat warehouse and fled with ingots, travellers' cheques and diamonds worth £26m.