Soon after my memoir, Criminal, came out in 2008, the Guardian commissioned me to write a series of blogs on my Write to Freedom project (W2F), the last of which is published today. W2F was born from my experiences as a writer and my lifelong love of wilderness. Its focus is on supporting socially excluded individuals and groups, offering them a safe place for reflection, connection to nature and a positive model of creative community.This work has been unbelievably challenging, and I've been battling with whether to continue with it since the first writing workshop in Somerset in 1999. I've been plagued by an uncomfortable feeling that people were somehow looking to me, a successfully rehabilitated ex-offender, as some kind of answer to the "problem with youth".While I'm clearly not a one-off, I've discovered that getting away from drugs and crime as young as I did is a rare thing. To expect your average 16- to 18-year-old to "get" rehabilitation so young, drop the criminal behaviour and become a model citizen is at best deluded, at worst dangerous. It's said that young people need to get into the right kind of trouble. Coming up against hard boundaries was essential in helping me discover who I was and where I belonged in the world. It took me a long time to be ready to quit drugs and crime, and change the direction my life was going in.We've worked with more than 40 freedom writers since 2008. Evidence tells us every student has got something powerful from the simple process of writing down their story. We regularly receive feedback in which youngsters tell us they never thought writing could help but it has, and they will continue to use it on their journey. That, for me, is amazing and all I really hoped for.If we want to help bridge the gap between destructive youth culture and productive, responsible adulthood, we need to wake up and realise that the adrenaline-fuelled buzz of crime and gang life is a bright light that some young people cannot resist.We need to be there for them when they are ready to come in from the cold, not stand in judgment. Young people can spot bullshit a mile off. We have to come to youth work clear in our motives and in what we have to offer as individuals. We will have our boundaries and buttons pushed to the limit. Testing our integrity, authenticity and ability to hold their anger and pain is in a young adult's DNA. If we are unclear about why we are in this work, we will be exposed and mocked in a real and often painful way.We cannot speed up the process of rehabilitation to suit our needs. Life is messy, and in my experience nothing runs to a timescale or agenda. Egos looking for glory need to be checked at the door. We need to know that we may never truly discover how successful our work has been. No project can be set up to quick-fix a problem and get offenders back on track, but we can be here for them when they are ready.I've gone through a decade-long rite of passage with this work. Pushing myself out of my comfort zone time and time again has forced me to grow up and form the kind of leadership I always wanted from older, trustworthy men but never found. This has brought W2F to a place where we are now clear where we're heading. We'll be starting a year-long course this November, working with men and women from age 18 up. Older ex-offenders will be encouraged to mentor younger ex-offenders. In turn, we will mentor them into creating community projects using their own unique skills. This isn't a forced Community Payback approach but a model that will derive its energy from the personal motivation of the individual.Working with young adults who have been involved in crime is a long-term investment. There are, in my experience, no glitzy, media-friendly solutions to make the latest government look like it's discovered the holy grail of rehabilitation. My challenge to any politician is to show courage, foresight, leadership and investment. Human beings don't work to pre-set timescales and tickbox funding streams. Wounds take a long time to heal. This work needs investment initiatives that will extend into years not months.This kind of patient, realistic and human approach to this work is what's needed to provide a safe, creative space for any individual who finds themselves on the fringes of society and is ready to make the change. If we can do this we will discover, as I have, that there is a wealth of talent, passion and commitment in the criminal justice system that could make our society a richer and ultimately safer place to live.• Caspar Walsh is an authour and journalist and founder of Write to Freedom. His first novel, Blood Road, is published by Headline on 5 August.