Police are examining CCTV footage which reportedly shows a gang of robbers executing the Hatton Garden jewellery heist over the Easter weekend.A video obtained by the Mirror shows at least six men arriving at the Hatton Garden Safe Deposit company’s building in the London jewellery quarter on Thursday evening.The paper said the men made two separate visits before leaving on Easter Sunday with the contents of 72 safety deposit boxes in wheelie bins and bags, and making a getaway in a white van.A Scotland Yard spokesman said officers were aware of the footage before it was published by the Mirror, along with images captured by other security cameras, after criticism that the paper seemed to have obtained the video first.The force has also “not made any links” between the raid and a nearby underground fire in the Holborn area days earlier which caused widespread power cuts and road closures, the spokesman added.It comes a day after it emerged that police were alerted to an intruder alarm just after midnight on Good Friday but did not respond. Scotland Yard said it was “too early to say if the handling of the call would have had an impact on the outcome of the incident”.“They’ve obviously taken the view that this is not high priority. They’ve got a graded response system and they’ve graded this very lowly. How could you possibly do that?” said John O’Connor, a former head of the Metropolitan police’s flying squad, on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. “I can’t believe they can be so utterly incompetent.”It is thought that millions of pounds’ worth of jewels, gold and cash were stolen in the raid. Many of the owners of the high-value deposit boxes had no insurance on items worth several thousands of pounds.The CCTV footage appears to confirm reports that the men had several days to carry out the raid, with the heist taking place over the Easter weekend. A source was quoted as saying: “This was clearly the work of a professional gang who planned this job down to every last detail. But they may have made a mistake in leaving this footage behind.”Cops and ex-robbers on Hatton Garden heist: 'This is no bunch of mugs' In a 17-minute video published on the Mirror’s website, the camera centres on a doorway, with an adjacent intercom, at the bottom of a stairway to the street.Several men appear wearing hi-vis jackets and masks, and are seen carrying toolboxes and holdalls. Some manoeuvre wheelie bins in and out of the building, before a white van – which the paper says contains the bins and bags – is driven away shortly before 7am on Easter Sunday.It was not until Tuesday morning – more than four days later – that the raid was discovered.Ex-robbers told the Guardian on Friday that the expensive goods could already have been taken out of the country. One said: “This is no bunch of mugs. They’re never going to be nicking this stuff without it having a place to go to already arranged.”Depositors reacted with fury to the news that police did not respond to the initial alarm. One identified only as Simon, 46, said his brother had an uninsured box worth £150,000 containing diamonds, platinum and gold.