Jersey's attorney general has hit back at claims the island's judicial system is unable to cope with the scale and intricacy of the child abuse investigation over the Haut de la Garenne care home.Critics claim conflicts of interest are rife in an island with a population as small as Jersey's. They want prosecutions to take place in the UK to avoid political interference.But William Bailhache said he was confident the island's legal system could deliver justice.In a rare interview with the BBC, Bailhache said that although the inquiry could be difficult and slow, it was "more important that justice be done".His comments came as the outgoing head of the child abuse inquiry, Lenny Harper, said he faced "political hostility" during his investigations, and MPs in the UK and Jersey made a two-pronged attempt to get the justice minister, Jack Straw, to intervene in the investigation and bring charges against the accused on the mainland.In an interview this morning on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Bailhache said: "The delivery of justice is an objective process, and it's difficult sometimes for those who are caught up in this sort of process to understand all the ramifications of how it works."One can feel sorry for that but it's more important that justice should be done. We've been delivering justice in this island for centuries and I don't see how this makes any difference."It is difficult for people outside to understand that in a small place you are particularly aware of the need to behave properly, behave appropriately, to have the integrity to take decisions which need to be taken. "I have had to consider the position of politicians and ministers and I have done that." He said that as an independent appointment he was in a position to take "fearless" decisions. Police are investigating abuse claims dating from the early 1960s to 1986. More than 80 suspects have been checked and three people have been charged.Stuart Syvret, the Jersey States senator who drew public attention to the allegations of child abuse at the home, and John Hemming, a Liberal Democrat MP, have called for a judicial review of five cases where suspects have not been charged.The Labour MP Austin Mitchell has tabled a Commons motion calling for an independent inquiry to be carried out by a judge from the British mainland. He said he lacked confidence in the island's authorities and feared a "prevailing desire to sweep scandal and abuse under the carpet". Harper, the deputy chief officer, who retires next week, said he thought many on the island would support Mitchell's proposal but said the island's parliament had not been supportive."What has made this significantly different from many similar inquiries I've been involved with is the political hostility it has engendered," he said."Politicians one would normally think should be crawling over themselves to offer support to the inquiry and the victims - with a few notable exceptions that hasn't happened here. The only intervention most of them seem to have made is to criticise the investigation." Yesterday, Harper said a murder inquiry might never take place, despite the discovery of remains of at least five children at Haut de la Garenne, because an exact date could not be put on the remains. Experts who have analysed bone fragments found at the care home said they could be dated anywhere from 1650 to 1960.Harper said a number of valuable pieces of evidence had been found that "substantially corroborate" accounts of abuse at the home. He stressed no final decisions had been made.Jersey police started an exploratory search of the home and made their first significant discovery on 23 February when they found what they believed to be a skull fragment. It came two years after the start of a covert investigation into abuse following allegations by former residents.