One of Stuart Hall's victims is convinced that colleagues at the BBC were aware he was a sexual predator around young girls.Amy (not her real name) was 17 and working in a hotel when the veteran broadcaster assaulted her during a break in the filming of an edition of It's A Knockout."I went along to the auditions to see if I could take part in it, and I was chosen to be a cheerleader," she told ITV News."We had afternoon tea in the town and about early evening, because I worked in a hotel, I had a staff room and I met him in the hotel where I worked."The teenager had walked through the hotel lobby and got to the top of the stairs leading to the staff rooms when she heard "this voice behind me"."It was him, and he started talking to me. Obviously if you work in a hotel you talk to the residents."Then, as I went to go through to touch the door-handle, he pushed me up against the wall and he tried to force himself on to me. He grabbed hold of me and he started kissing me and then he tried to force himself on me."I struggled, I tried to push him away, and it was only the fact that there was someone walking along the corridor and the floors creaked that he stopped and I managed to get away."That was 40 years ago and I never told anyone."She added: "I will never, ever forget that voice and that's the part … over the years every time I've heard his voice on the television, on the radio, I just think: 'How can you do it, how can you be like that in full view of everyone after everything you've done?'"She said the incident had had a profound effect on her."After it happened I did go off the rails a bit when it came to relationships, and it has made me very cold towards people in general."I don't let people into my life easy and I don't make friends easy because of it. It's as if I don't want to say too much in case people then try to force me into things I don't want to do. I'm very much a person who will live in their own world so to speak."Amy said she thought there was a fair chance that colleagues at the BBC knew of his behaviour towards young girls.Asked whether she thought they should have acted, she replied: "When are they going to do something about it? Would they have done something about it? You don't know what groups he moved in – and were they the same?"She said she was left incredulous by his vehement denials of the allegations on the steps of Preston crown court earlier this year – "especially with the look on his face".Now, after he admitted assaulting 13 girls over almost 20 years, she said she was pleased that he would soon "be given what he deserves" for his crimes."I'm so pleased it's all coming to an end … very, very relieved that it's nearly all over. I can start thinking that what happened at that time wasn't my fault."He's made out all the way through that he was the innocent one, as they do. But knowing I was the innocent one, now I'm the stronger one and he's the weaker one because he's going to get his just deserts."In the aftermath of the Jimmy Savile sex abuse scandal, Amy said she had a gut feeling that eventually Hall would also be brought to justice."I said to people in my family: 'You wait, it'll be Stuart Hall next'. And within three weeks it happened … I said to my husband: 'What should I do? What do you think is best?'"Because my husband has known for 36 years of the past what happened. When I heard it on the radio I got in touch with the local police."Amy said she hoped the judge would not treat Hall lightly when he passed sentence on 17 June."He's got to be shown that these things should not being going on, and that in the future men think twice before they do these things to women. It shouldn't happen and he should get the strongest penalty."We have to say women will not stand for this violation and men have to learn that we're not just there for their benefit."Amy said she hoped to meet the other victims so she could discover how the trauma had affected their lives."I could have been a different person to what I am now if it hadn't happened, and it might be the same for them."