Heroes are everywhere. In sodden England, they are ministering to the flooded. On BBC 2, the eponymous American TV series tells how ordinary citizens with 'something special' become superhuman vanquishers of evil. And, at Westminster, the Prime Minister launched his second book on extreme valour.Britain's Everyday Heroes is not The Iliad. Its indestructibles cannot jump off skyscrapers or feed their arms down waste disposers like the TV avatars. Instead, they are the sort of community stalwarts who will henceforth be dominating the honours list. They are thoroughly good people, but are they heroes?Humanity has always craved icons of god-like stature and pristine souls. The battlefield of conquest produced Napoleon and Nelson, just as the war of justice and ideals served up Martin Luther King and Nelson Mandela. Everyone has private heroes. Mine, though I don't believe in God, is a Catholic priest serving Christians and Muslims in Bangladesh.Discounting Ant and Dec, great modern public figures are in short supply. It isn't simply that myth and history add lustre to dead heroes, but that the aspiring titans of the 21st century are often so flawed. Tony Blair's plunge into the Iraq war lacked legality and reason, but no one could say he was short on valour. As he may have reasoned, if the likes of Achilles and Hector had to stick around waiting for UN security council resolutions, mythology would look thin.The schoolboy jailed last week after telling his parents that he would see them in 'the garden of paradise' was, in his mind, a hero of Islam. The suicide bomber and the airport jihadist are, to many, martyrs far outshining Joan of Arc. Nor is courage exclusive to the virtuous. Saddam Hussein also went bravely to the gallows.9/11 may have ushered in a heroic age, but, like most disasters, it also produced the aberrant behaviour seen, in microcosm, in the water-grabbers and vandals of the English floods. Our wars, far from breeding heroes, are fought by soldiers often portrayed as victims, and sometimes brutes. Nor do modern challenges lend themselves to heroics. Creating a better world involves unflashy crusades, such as diplomacy and recycling, and old challenges are void. If wishing to visit Arabia today, TE Lawrence might be going by Ryanair.But Brown is nostalgic. So out go those Chequers dinner-party guest rosters that read like Dale Winton's Christmas card list and in come ordinary heroes. The Methodist Central Hall where he launched his heroes' charter evoked a Victorian era in which there were poles to conquer, colonies to subdue and the poor to nourish with a crust of charity. As Brown knows, promoting good works can be an artful dodge by which the state foists its duty of care on to God and mercy. So he also stressed government's role. This wasn't just about gongs for the humble. But nor, as a school choir sang and a tea urn burbled, did it seem to be about heroism.The next day, I saw a play about a boy who never made it into Brown's 'good society'. Mischa Niering had one heroic attribute; the risk-taker's impulse that no ordinary person possesses. He used it badly. Mischa ran with a gang that attempted to rob Sloane Street jeweller Tiffany's. As he fled on a motorbike, he crashed in front of a police Mondeo that dragged him for 15 yards. His aorta was severed, his skull torn open and he died instantly. He was 19.His family has collaborated in a drama, co-written by his aunt and called As the Mother of a Brown Boy, which moves to the Edinburgh Festival this week. Chickenshed's play does not seek to glorify Mischa's life; simply to explore how a talented, mixed-race boy met such a fate. The clues are familiar: failure at school, prejudice, an absent father, insecurity, gang culture, and a poverty - of money and hope - that made Mischa attack a temple of materialism and so become the first civilian martyr of celebrity culture.The play centres on his mother's raging loss. 'What have I brought this son into - that I have to work that much harder to make his footprint seen?' she asks. This is not, on any obvious level, a story of heroism. But afterwards I chaired a debate and heard real stories with the power of myth. One mother in the audience described how, long into her son's drug-addicted adulthood, she was struggling to keep him out of prison. Another wept as she talked of trying to rescue a child placed, by failure and fury, far beyond her reach.A primary teacher said performance targets stop him tailoring lessons to the five-and-six-year-olds who have pulled knives on him. We are raising 'a time-bomb generation', he warned. The occupants of that hall are never going to be called heroes. Yet there was, among them, the scent of despair that can also be the DNA of heroism. But the political spotlight falls elsewhere, on firemen or carers who are not Dantes and Napoleons, any more than flood rescuers are Francis Drake with a hot Thermos. Some are simply doing the job they are paid for: others are kind and loving volunteers who prove that the vital human qualities of peacemaking and nurture are a commonplace, not an exception. Most would gladly swap their hero status for the extra state funding they deserve.Besides, Brown's homilies risk echoing the old battle of good versus evil, cloaked in a fusty cassock. Though his instincts are good, he might do better to stop lionising the 'good' society and start exploring the 'bad' one, which is often a reservoir of positive anger and frustrated dreams. Mischa Niering's play will be in Brown's backyard from Friday. I urge him to see it.He will get a glimpse of a world in which mothers routinely mourn sons who are all thwarted heroes. They want to be rich and happy, but they lack skills and self-belief, and the education system spat them out long ago. And so they end up on drugs, or jailed, or dead, as their mothers grieve. These women are not sink-estate Niobes, wringing wan hands. Many are thoughtful, resourceful people who strive to counter the forces of alienation.On the night that Mischa, a good son and brother, set out, he must have seen himself as a daredevil hero. Chickenshed, which trains young people - including Mischa for a time - and his family have ensured that his name lives on, not to excuse his folly but to show the baby he was and the man he might have been. Their purpose is that no other mother's son should die so needlessly. That seems a heroic aim to me.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk