The father of missing four-year-old Madeleine McCann said today that his Catholic faith would be "severely tested" if his daughter was not found safe and well.In an interview, both Gerry McCann and his wife, Kate, spoke about how their faith had given them strength since Madeleine vanished 43 days ago from their holiday flat in Praia da Luz, Portugal.But the McCanns, who briefly met the Pope in Rome last month and who also visited Portugal's holy shrine at Fatima, also acknowledged that there had been times when their faith had been under strain. Mr McCann, a consultant cardiologist, told Catholic newspaper The Tablet: "If we don't get Madeleine back alive and well, I am sure our faith will be severely tested. "At the end of it, we will still have our faith and we will also have comfort that Madeleine will be looked after. We haven't dwelt on that but I think that is what we will be left with. Our friends, our family, the Church have really rallied round."Mrs McCann, a part-time GP, told the newspaper: "I have felt guilty asking, 'Will this make or break my faith?' And yet at the same time you could argue that what's happened in the first place could make or break your faith and it hasn't. It's done the opposite. It has given us hope and strength." Earlier today, Portuguese police called off a search of Algarve scrubland, nine miles from where Madeleine was abducted.Police vans, one carrying sniffer dogs, moved in at first light to the tiny village of Arão. Officers cordoned off the road as they carried out their search but the road was reopened at about 9.30am.It was not clear how extensive the search had been, but police said they had no plans to return to the area, the BBC reported.It emerged on Wednesday that Portuguese police were acting on information received in an anonymous letter, alleging that Madeleine had been buried under rocks in the area.The information was sent in a letter to a Dutch newspaper, De Telegraaf, claiming her body was about seven metres from the road.Portuguese police started investigating the claim earlier this week but it has taken until today to start formal searches.The officer leading the case, Olegário Sousa, has said he is taking the letter seriously but its contents were imprecise about the location where the body was allegedly hidden.The village, just north of the main road through the Algarve, is surrounded by a network of hillside tracks, which fan out into farmland and wooded areas.The weather was overcast, with some showers of unseasonal rain, as police carried out their search. The police vans were accompanied by seven unmarked cars.A source close to the McCanns said the couple had been told that searches were likely to take place this morning.He stressed that police had already investigated the area and were going back to "double check" that they had not missed anything.Yesterday, Mr McCann condemned De Telegraaf for publishing the details before Portuguese police had a chance to investigate. He described the move as "insensitive and cruel". Television crews, photographers and journalists poured into the area after rocky ground north of the village of Odiáxere - about two miles from Arão - was highlighted as a possible crime scene.The anonymous letter sent to De Telegraaf was taken seriously because it was similar to another note the newspaper received last year, which correctly identified the location of two dead Belgian girls.The bodies of Stacy Lemmens, seven, and her stepsister, Nathalie Mahy, 10, were found in Liege 19 days after they disappeared while playing outside a bar.The letter alerting police had contained a map with crosses marked on it. A similar map, with a specific area of the Algarve highlighted, was received by De Telegraaf on Monday.The McCanns met at medical school in Glasgow and now live in Rothley, Leicestershire.