On the face of it, the discovery of a knife and a metal bar at a former home of two of the original suspects in the Stephen Lawrence murder looks like a wonderful, opportunistic breakthrough. Detectives have inspected many knives but have never been satisfied that they have identified the weapon used in the racist killing. Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen when a gang attacked them in Eltham, south-east London, seven years ago, has said one of the thugs wielded a bar of some sort. None has ever been found. So far so good.If forensic scientists can prove that the knife and the bar, which were found by the new owners of the house when they were digging up the patio, were the murder weapons, detectives at Scotland Yard may yet bring the killers to book.They will also receive a great deal of carping over why the garden was not searched thoroughly before - a sweep by a metal detector would have pinpointed the location.The Met might be on the verge of prosecutions - we all hope so, anyway - but there are reasons why the latest developments should be treated with a little caution.The announcement of the discovery by Scotland Yard yesterday afternoon was the latest in a series of disclosures by officers from the racial and violent crimes task force, the unit investigating the murder.They are gradually cranking up the pressure on the people they believe were behind Stephen's stabbing. Not just the suspects, but their friends and their ex-girlfriends. The yard knows the revelations will always make headline news.These are legitimate tactics. In January, there was a fresh appeal for information on the BBC Crimewatch programme. A week later, assistant commissioner John Grieve hinted he was mining a significant seam of new information. Last month, there was another Crimewatch appeal. Mr Grieve spoke of the inquiry being at a "very, very delicate stage". The sense of anticipation rose to new heights when three men were arrested and questioned. But within 48-hours they were released without charge on police bail. Now they have found a knife and a bar. Could either have incriminating fingerprints or DNA? Would the person who hid them not have had the sense to wipe them clean? The tests will tell us soon enough.Until then, it is too early to hope that Doreen and Neville Lawrence are about to get justice for their son.