A nurse with a “malign intention to cause havoc” has been convicted of murdering and poisoning hospital patients. Victorino Chua, 49, injected insulin into saline bags and ampoules while working on two wards at Stepping Hill hospital in Stockport, Greater Manchester, in June and July 2011.These were then unwittingly used by other nurses on the ward, leading to a series of insulin overdoses.After police were called in Chua allegedly “changed tack” by sabotaging prescription charts, doubling and trebling dosages – some with potentially lethal consequences – which led to his arrest in January 2012.The Filipino father of two showed little reaction as he was found guilty at Manchester crown court of murdering Tracy Arden, 44, and Alfred Weaver, 83, who was known to his family as Derek.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   (L to R) Tracey Arden, 44, Arnold Lancaster, 71, and Alfred Derek Weaver, 83. Chua was found guilty of murdering Arden and Weaver and attempting to cause Lancaster grievous bodily harm with intent by poisoning. Photograph: Greater Manchester police/PAArden, who had multiple sclerosis, was admitted for a “mild” chest infection and would have expected to “sail through this storm”. But she was pronounced dead eight hours after admission after being treated with a saline ampoule contaminated with insulin.Weaver was admitted with a chest infection and, after being given a saline drip, “appeared to be in agony, eyes rolling back in his head”. He died 10 days later.Chua was also found guilty of 22 counts of attempted grievous bodily harm, one count of grievous bodily harm, seven attempts of administering poison and one count of administering poison. He will be sentenced on Tuesday. He was cleared of murdering Arnold Lancaster, 71, who was suffering from cancer, but convicted of attempting to cause him grievous bodily harm with intent by poisoning. He was also acquitted of one count of manslaughter and one count of attempting to administer poison.Zubia Aslam, who survived her saline drip being contaminated, said: “Life has not been the same and never will be. This has turned my life upside down, but also that of my family, and I still have questions about how this was allowed to happen in the first place. What measures have been taken to date and will be taken going forward to ensure that this never happens again?”Prosecutors told the jury Chua had taken out his personal frustrations on patients “for reasons truly known only to himself” but drew attention to a self-penned letter found at Chua’s home after his arrest.Described as “the bitter nurse confession” by Chua, he said he was “an angel turned into an evil person” and “there’s a devil in me”. He also wrote of having things he would “take to the grave”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stepping Hill hospital in Stockport, Greater Manchester. Photograph: Dave Thompson/PAIn his closing speech, prosecutor Peter Wright QC said: “What may lead an otherwise caring, unassuming and conscientious nurse to act as we say he did is impossible to fathom.” Greater Manchester police has described the investigation that led to Chua’s arrest and conviction as one of the the biggest and most complex it has ever confronted.Some 3,291 statements were obtained and 5,394 items were exhibited, while the prosecution file exceeds 30,000 pages.Detectives also flew to Chua’s native Philippines, where they were able to establish that he left one hospital after being caught stealing. They also visited the now defunct Galang training college, where he claimed to have obtained his medical qualifications. As a result of investigations conducted, serious doubt has been cast relating to the authenticity of them.DS Simon Barraclough, who led the inquiry, said: “Hidden in plain sight and using unsuspecting colleagues to carry out his sinister plan, Victorino Chua deliberately poisoned and murdered those who were under his care and those who were at their most vulnerable and most in need of help. “He would then watch the fruits of his labour unfold, as absolute chaos ensued across the wards as colleagues fought to save patients whilst attempting to comprehend what was happening.”Sir Peter Fahy, chief constable of Greater Manchester police (GMP), said the force nearly shut down Stepping Hill hospital at the start of the investigation, to protect patients.He said: “At one point we were pretty close to it but I can only tell you when you get into that and start looking at how the NHS operates, you realise that that would have been a huge challenge.“What we were faced with is if we had to close the hospital, or even part of the hospital and in particular if we had to move very frail patients to another site, that in itself could have led to deaths and could have caused enormous risks.”Fahy apologised to nurse Rebecca Leighton, who was initially arrested on suspicion of Chua’s crimes and spent six weeks in custody.He said: “We are very sorry that Rebecca Leighton ended up spending some time in prison. It showed to some degree the amount of pressure everyone was under, not just the police, the hospital, Crown Prosecution Service, to try and make progress in the case, and we are sorry this happened.”Ann Barnes, the chief executive of Stockport NHS foundation trust, which runs Stepping Hill hospital, said: “Our storage of saline and management of prescription charts at the time of the incident was typical of those in other hospitals across the country.“Whilst no hospital’s systems and processes can offer a complete guarantee against the actions of a determined criminal, additional measures are now in place which go beyond standard practice.”She added: “Whilst Victorino Chua’s crimes are truly dreadful, we are sure patients will understand that they have no bearing at all upon our care.”