 BristolIn the years following the Bristol riots of the 1980s, the public had lost faith in the police, says Superintendent David Warren, district commander for the central Bristol area, who gave evidence to the Stephen Lawrence inquiry when it visited the city in November. Determined efforts were made to earn the trust of ethnic minority groups by asking what they wanted from the police. A partnership approach to dealing with racially motivated crime was developed, and racist comments became a disciplinary matter.  But for all the progress since then, it is clear that the Bristol police still have much to do to persuade people at street level that attitudes have changed.  Young black people in the city's St Paul's and Easton districts were critical yesterday of what they saw as the racist attitude of officers. Many complained of the way they were frequently stopped by police for no good reason.  But for 17-year-old Nathan, whose father was the victim of a vicious racist assault by four white men in September last year, the criticism went deeper.  'He managed to get home and the police were called. They took notes but nobody has been arrested,' the teenager said.  'If four black guys had beaten up a white guy they would have done something about it ages ago.' He hoped that the Macpherson report would bring about change by showing society how badly black people were treated by the police, but he did not expect it to come quickly and feared that if Sir Paul Condon were to be removed, he would be replaced by someone 'who is just as bad'.  Bradford  Retired High Court judges are not the usual toast of the Young Lions Cafe, a largely Afro-Caribbean hangout in Bradford's Lumb Lane, but Sir William Macpherson had plenty of admirers there yesterday.  His key themes of institutionalised police racism and the need to tackle prejudice at school age found immediate echoes round the bar and pool table, busy with lunchtime punters.  'I've had this problem all my 45 years in Bradford,' said Gilbert Pinto, a retired builder fresh from a bruising row with a police officer at the city's main police station. 'That man was so racist and I was complaining so loudly if it hadn't been for this Stephen Lawrence affair, they'd have locked me up, I swear it.'  Mr Pinto's problems are linked to suspicion of drugs involvement, a police attitude which others in the Young Lions reckoned almost impossible to break. Peter, working in the clothing trade, said: 'I see it when the kids come home from school, man. They bring these pictures: white man doctor, lawyer, business. Black man crime and drugs.'  The Lawrence report might start to shift attitudes, Young Lions patrons thought, but only slowly.  The obvious reform of recruiting more black and ethnic police met heavy scepticism. Gilbert Pinto said: 'They want them to use against us.'  Manchester  Five black students, most of them newly arrived in Britain, have already discovered that they cannot entirely relax when they are on the streets.  Two moved to Britain after the volcano eruption which devastated the island of Montserrat in the Caribbean; one came from Jamaica, another from Nigeria, a third from the Congo. All five are studying at Manchester's College of Art and Technology and hope to go on to read engineering at university.  All five have kept track of the Lawrence case. 'We know that the likelihood of that happening to one of us is great," said Miles Benjamin, aged 34.  One of the group has been physically attacked by white youths. But mostly they have noticed the petty face of racism. 'Not every white person on the street is friendly," said Carlo Henry, aged 27. 'Some are, but others look at you in certain ways."  They are all constantly on their guard.'When you sit down next to a white person on the bus, they shuffle away from you,' said Mr Benjamin. 'If a white person is looking for a seat, they won't sit next to me."  Nigel Hercules, aged 34, tells of going to buy a paper at a corner shop. 'A white woman was going into the shop to buy something and I was coming out at the same time," he said. 'She stopped, looked at me and said 'Nigger'. I just said nothing.  'I was a police officer in Montserrat for eight years," added Mr Hercules. 'I think the investigation [into the killing of Stephen Lawrence] is a complete scandal.'