The review of the Damilola Taylor murder investigation published yesterday concludes that the Metropolitan police have learnt many of the lessons of the Macpherson inquiry into the death of Stephen Lawrence.While it highlights that mistakes were made - particularly in the preparation of the case in the run-up to the trial - the 54-page document suggests that imbalances in the criminal justice system were more to blame than the conduct of detectives. The police investigation The report says the police "correctly anticipated the sensitivity and potential scale, complexity and importance of the case on the very first evening and designated the matters as being in the highest category of murder offences." The authors were "impressed by the commitment of the senior investigating officer", Trevor Shepherd, and his support staff. There was, however, "a lack of clarity...about where ultimate accountability for the case as a whole lay", and the involvement of many of the Met's most senior officers "may have created a false sense of reassurance about the progress of the investigation". The involvement by the police of independent advisors, and family liaison with Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria, are described as "models of best practice". After a 12-year-old alleged eyewitness came forward, the crown prosecution service (CPS) said there was enough evidence to take the case to court, but prosecutors and the police realised she was "vulnerable to attack" under cross-examination. The report highlights that "there was and is no mechanism within the criminal justice system that would allow her evidence to be tested in advance". But they failed to act quickly enough on two important pieces of evidence. Calls made from mobile phones owned by two of the suspects minutes after the murder were not "properly pursued ... in a timely way". There were also delays in establishing whether a shoe owned by one of the accused held forensic opportunities. The report says the use of rewards "created uncertainty" about the motivations of some witnesses. It also highlighted that a leak to a newspaper about an important piece of information - that Damilola had a marble wedged in his throat - "had a damaging effect on the case". Post-charge investigation After the four teenagers were charged, a treasury counsel barrister "identified and requested a significant amount of extra work to be done". But the inquiry team was cut back drastically and there were "insufficient resources", the report says. Though the police's attempt to gather "cell confession" evidence from the suspects was "innovative", it was "inadequately resourced and lacked overall direction and control". While pressure on the Met's resources was "intense", senior Met managers failed to appreciate "the nature and scale of the preparatory work post-charge". "The transfer of resources to other pressing cases left the investigation with insufficient staff to rapidly progress the additional work." The trial The report says the judge's decision to exclude "crucial evidence" was a factor. Most importantly, Mr Justice Hooper refused to allow the jury to hear remarks made by one of the defendants to an outreach worker which were "tantamount to a confession of involvement in the crime". "Rulings made in favour of the defence ... eroded essential parts of the prosecution case" and had the effect "of preventing critical evidence reaching the jury". Conclusions The report concludes that "overall, the Met's response to Damilola Taylor's murder is a manifest example of how the (force) has moved on since its unsatisfactory investigation of the murder of Stephen Lawrence." The flaws in the inquiry "did not critically or solely influence elements of the trial process in such a way that substantially predicated its eventual result". Recommendations The 23 recommendations include: government to consider rules governing evidence that can be excluded from trial; defence lawyers should be obliged to disclose their case to prosecutors; the CPS to have a right of appeal against decisions that exclude important evidence should be given "careful consideration"; the police should not reassign resources from an investigation until "a post-charge assessment of the outstanding and predicted work is available". The CPS A separate report by the CPS was not published in full, but a summary of the findings of Sir David Calvert Smith, the director of public prosecutions, concluded that the "initial decision to charge the accused was correct". Though there were deep concerns about the reliability of the eyewitness known as Bromley, it was considered that she was "capable of belief" because other evidence suggested her "core account" was true. Sir David's review points out that the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, declared before trial that her evidence was admissable, then struck it out. He says the mobile phone evidence was complex. The police could not prove that the phone was owned by any of the defendants or used by them. The police could not say how the boys got from the murder scene to the spot where analysis showed the calls were made. Sir David concedes the prosecuting team should have provided evidence to show the "various possibilities", but points out that this would have required the kind of speculation the judge regarded as "impermissible". He concludes that the evidence gathered by the police "required the case to be put before a jury". Key figures in a difficult caseDetective Superintendent Trevor Shepherd The senior investigating officer in the case was praised in the report on the Damilola Taylor murder investigation for his commitment to the case in difficult circumstances. But the decision to cut Mr Shepherd's team from 100 officers to 22 detectives and support staff following the arrest of the suspects meant police were unable to pursue preparatory work with speed and efficiency, at a point when the crown prosecution service was saying a huge amount of work still needed to be done. In particular, the report says the mobile phone evidence was not "properly pursued".Mark Dennis The senior Treasury counsel who conducted the case was under pressure from day one of the trial. The report into the police investigation and the separate inquiry by the CPS highlight how poten tially crucial evidence was excluded by the trial judge, Mr Justice Hooper. Prosecutors could not have anticipated this, or the way that the key witness, Bromley, reacted to cross-examination. The CPS report says the decision to take the case to court, taken by Mr Dennis's junior, Brian Altman, could not be faulted. Richard and Gloria Taylor Damilola's parents have expressed grave concerns over the criminal justice system in the past. Yesterday Mr Taylor said he was disappointed that the police had switched resources from his son's murder to other cases once the four teenagers who faced trial were charged. "The defence were able to attack the deficiencies that occurred," he said. "We have not seen justice and we are still hoping that justice will be done". Mr Justice Hooper The trial judge was not directly criticised by the police or the CPS report. But both highlighted how he excluded important evidence and there were calls yesterday for prosecutors to be able to challenge such rulings. Sir David Calvert-Smith, the director of public prosecutions, pointed out that the judge ruled the evidence of alleged "eyewitness" Bromley was admissible before the trial, then struck it out once she had been cross-examined. Witness Bromley She was 12 when Damilola Taylor died, and 14 when she gave evidence. She claimed to have seen the murder, but her account was savaged under cross-examination. Defence claims that she was improperly induced by the police were not addressed in yesterday's reports. The CPS said yesterday the decision to use her was correct because she was "capable of belief". Bishop John Sentamu The author of the report on the police investigation is the first black diocesan bishop in the Church of England, in Birmingham, and was the only black member of Lord Macpherson's inquiry into the Stephen Lawrence investigation in 1997, which found the Metropolitan police infected by institutional racism. He was born in Uganda, where he rose to high court judge before fleeing the Amin regime in 1974.Nick Hopkins and Stephen Bates