A plastic Father Christmas and flashing reindeer sleigh light up the dark morning outside the house. But inside her sister's home, Jackie Annable is not feeling festive. This Christmas she knows she will be homeless, and she is pretty sure she will not be able to spend it with her 15-year-old son, Shane.One month since Ms Annable's eviction from her two-up, two-down home on the grounds of Shane's unreasonable behaviour, the family remains split and homeless. Ms Annable and Shane are the day-to-day reality of the government's social policy: zero tolerance for anti-social behaviour. Tony Blair and David Blunkett want more and more anti-social families to be evicted from their homes; but what happens to the families once they are evicted? Does the eviction solve the problems faced by blighted communities? Last month, the Guardian followed the Annables' eviction from their house in Eastwood, Nottinghamshire. This morning Ms Annable will have woken up on her father's sofa; she can't be sure where Shane will have woken up. He is staying with friends, but every time she goes round he's not there. The Annables were thrown out of their home because Shane lit fires, smashed windows, picked on other children, and was rowdy late at night. Shane has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) - but his mother is not making any excuses. "I tried to control him, but he won't listen. He'd just tell me to get lost and swear at me," says Ms Annable. "How am I meant to control him now when he's nine miles away? When I try to track him down and go down to see him, he's never there. I leave him his bus fare to get down, 'cause he's got no money to get down, so I see him maybe once or twice a week." In Princes Street, where the Annables used to live, there are not many people missing Shane. "I feel sorry for his mother," says one former neighbour. "But he was always kicking off, causing trouble. Him and his mates were the worst. There's plenty of kids round here who are no angels, but Shane used to cause havoc. I'm glad he's gone."  Depressing Although the neighbours are shedding few tears for Shane, he is now entirely out of his mother's control. Homelessness charities believe cases like the Annables' illustrate how difficult it is to enforce antisocial behaviour orders. "It's just kicking the problem around the country," said a spokesman for Shelter. "We've got a single mother and her teenage son who have been made homeless. Legally they have to be rehoused, but no one has attempted to address the causes of Shane's behaviour. What you are likely to end up with is the same problems just a few miles down the road. "This is not an isolated case, it's happening across the country. It's a policy that's just not working." On a cold winter morning, Ms Annable's old street is a depressing sight.DH Lawrence was born around the corner in one of the brick terraces. Eastwood is the stuff of his fiction. But the communities Lawrence wrote about have withered. Almost every third house on Ms Annable's old street is boarded up, including her former home. Much of her furniture remains inside. Locals say drug addicts have already started squatting there, gaining entry through the top windows, which were left without boards by the council. "It's all very well the council evicting people," says one of Ms Annable's former neighbours. "I'm glad that kid's gone 'cause he was a right bad one - but when they leave houses empty, the kids or the druggies just get into them." "We try to get by as best we can round here. Everyone knows each other and we try to help each other out," says another neighbour. "Loads of the kids do act up, they make people's lives, especially the older people, a misery - but just getting rid of one won't make no difference. They're still smashing windows and kicking down fences." Before the Annables were evicted, Shane said he did not care about what he had done. But, separated from his mother and living at a friend's home, the reality is starting to sink in. "He's realising that I am getting all the grief for his behaviour," says Ms Annable. "He has changed a bit. He says now he regrets what he's done ... he wants to be back together with me now, but he can't at the moment." Broxtowe council, which evicted the Annables, says it plans to increase its use of anti-social behaviour orders, or Asbos. "We will continue to evict anti-social tenants wherever necessary," says Milan Radulovic, the council's leader. "It is not the first option, but we believe it works, and when evictions are needed we will not shy away from them." This is the sort of approach the government wants more local authorities to adopt. In 2002, the orders directly resulted in 2,246 evictions. The government wants many more. But even those in the communities which are supposed to be helped are not sure they are the best solution. "Get rid of one of them and another one comes along," says Bill, one of Ms Annable's former neighbours. "Those kids are not frightened by Asbos."  Bravado  Ms Annable wants to spend Christmas with Shane, but that looks impossible while she is staying at her father's. It's not that Ms Annable's father doesn't want Shane to stay, but Shane's ADHD makes him unpredictable, and, beneath the bravado, he is a 15-year-old boy separated from his mum who is scared and liable to lash out. Her father does not want to put his tenancy in jeopardy. "He could come down for Christmas dinner, but he can't get back because there's no buses, and he can't stay overnight at my dad's," Ms Annable says. It is not just Shane's Christmas that is in jeopardy, it's his schooling too. A few days after she was evicted, Ms Annable and her sister, Denise, managed to track down rented accommodation. But they needed £495 bond money and social security could not provide it in time, so they lost the flat to someone else. This left Shane with no permanent address, and his school, one set up to help troubled young people, said he could not attend any more. Shane was out of school for two weeks until Ms Annable got the offer of another house. "If I wasn't sending him to school I'd be in trouble, and I don't need that," said his mother. "But now they were saying he can't come to school." On the morning we meet, she is in a panic. Social security have told her they're stopping her giro: she has no fixed address and they've lost the form she filled in saying she was staying with her dad. This was also the day that Ms Annable was supposed to be moving into a housing association house, but the housing association says the person in that house has changed their mind about moving, and it has nothing else to offer. She is still homeless and she is worried Shane will have to stop school again. And then she is concerned about what Shane is getting up to with his friends in her absence. Shane says he's behaving himself, but Ms Annable is not there to see. Before the Annables were evicted, Shane's school noticed burns on his body. Shane said his friends had been burning cigarettes on him as a game. He did it to them too, he said. Another time they set a dog on him, for a laugh. No one thinks Ms Annable and Shane are going to have a house in time for Christmas. The council has accepted that she is unintentionally homeless, but it says she is an unsuitable tenant and it will not rehouse her. Shelter is disputing this, saying: "We intend to make the council stick to the law - they have to rehouse her - so this has cost a lot of money and achieved nothing." In the meantime, Ms Annable and Shane are no closer to being reunited, no closer to getting a home. "This is supposed to be about addressing Shane's behaviour, making him better because he's done wrong. But I don't see how it is," she says. "Nothing else can go wrong. Roll on next year. Maybe then we'll get a house."