In an emergency phone call made shortly before she killed for the second time, Nicola Edgington described herself as a "dangerous schizophrenic" who was at risk of harming others. The media reports that have followed her trial all seem to have taken her word for it. Let's not, they seem to have decided, focus on the terrible failings of one particular case but cast the net wide, interviewing others about the horrible crimes committed by "psychiatric patients". Because mentally ill people are dangerous, aren't they? And if they're not dangerous, they're potentially embarrassing and difficult to be around. That's why it's easier to just make up stuff about them.I worry a lot about schizophrenia. I worry about the imprecision of diagnoses. I worry about the extreme side-effects of medication. I worry about the loneliness and fear people with schizophrenia suffer. One thing I don't, however, worry about is whether a schizophrenia sufferer is likely to kill me. Statistically speaking, my partner's more likely to do that. If we rely on statistics alone, I'm more likely to kill me than anyone else is. Perhaps it's a false sense of security, but I feel reasonably safe with me.More than 20 years ago someone close to me was diagnosed with schizophrenia. Back then care in the community seemed to be in the news constantly. It was a policy everyone could attack: rightwingers because they didn't want "dangerous schizophrenics" in the community, lefties because they didn't want "dangerous schizophrenics" in the community either, but could pretend they were merely objecting to cuts and a lack of adequate support networks.I'm almost certainly being unfair – after all, there is still a dire lack of support networks – but that was how it felt to me. I felt less afraid of the illness, devastating though the consequences were and continue to be, than I did of other people's prejudice. Two decades later, I'm more aware than ever of how isolating a schizophrenia diagnosis can be. Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not all out to get you, and the vulnerability of those suffering from severe mental illness makes them an easy target.People continue to write and speak of schizophrenia sufferers as though they are less than human. And now a tragic case has provided them with yet more ammunition to fire at people who have to live in so much fear to begin with. In truth, we have little to fear, but a lot to be angry about.• This article was commissioned after a suggestion from HelenWilsonMK. If there's a subject you'd like to see covered on Comment is free, please visit our You Tell Us page