Superintendent Ali Dizaei, who was cleared of all criminal charges after a multi-million pound corruption investigation by his own force, said yesterday that his ordeal had left him on anti-depressants.In his first interview since his acquittal on Monday after a four-year investigation including extensive phone taps and surveillance, Mr Dizaei demanded that racist senior officers be thrown out of the Metropolitan Police. Mr Dizaei, once tipped to be Britain's first ethnic minority chief superintendent, told the Guardian that Asian and black people should not join the police until the Met's commissioner, Sir John Stevens, demonstrated he was willing to excise the "cancer" of prejudice that had blighted his career and those of other Asian and black officers. He called on ministers to step in to ensure the force is cracking down on racism and says he sometimes regrets ever joining the Met. Mr Dizaei was suspended in January 2001 following allegations including endangering national security and drug abuse which proved baseless. A four year investigation which cost up to £7m led to relatively trivial criminal charges, and he was acquitted of all of them. In April he was cleared by a jury of abusing his office and perverting the course of justice. On Monday the crown dropped a second case that he had fiddled his motoring expenses by £270 because they thought it unlikely a jury would find him guilty. After his acquittal the Metropolitan Black Police Association said no person from the ethnic minorities should join the force because it was so racist against its officers. Last night Mr Dizaei backed the position that plunged Britain's biggest police force into crisis: "It would be dishonest for any police officer, white or black, to say to a young potential ethnic minority recruit, join the police service, you will have a fair career and be treated with dignity, because it's just not going to happen. "Don't join until there is a visible demonstration from the commissioner himself to take out the cancer of racism from officers at the top of the police service. This includes the anti-corruption unit." He claimed officers involved in his "racist witchunt" had been promoted. Mr Dizaei, once feted by senior ministers and invited to Downing Street, said: "The lowest point of my life was when they came to my house, knowing from bugged conversations that my wife and I live in separate rooms, and ripped her cupboards and doors wide open, completely humiliating her in front of her family and children, even making a comment about her underwear. "I'm completely paranoid about what has happened, I can't talk properly on the phone. If you've had this level of scrutiny put on you, that level of intrusion, you can't live a normal life anymore. I have difficulty sleeping at night." Mr Dizaei also said tabloid coverage yesterday focusing on an abusive call he made to an ex-girlfriend "brought sadness to myself and my family". He said that a "cabal" of police officers had stereotyped him "as an angry, out of control Asian. The irony is the jury saw through this sham. "There's been a long running, sustained smear campaign orchestrated by a handful of officers hell bent on destroying the career I worked hard to build."