Fundamental changes to the legal aid system announced today will mean "the end of £1m-a-year criminal defence barristers", Lord Carter of Coles said.The government's trouble shooter outlined 62 recommendations for radical changes in the way solicitors and barristers were paid in England and Wales.Criminal legal aid costs could be cut by 20% over four years, freeing up more than £100m a year to be redirected to the under-funded areas of civil and family law, Lord Carter said. Legal aid costs have risen from £1.5bn in 1997 to £2.1bn today.Launching the 200-page review, he said: "We would like to see the end of the £1m-a-year criminal defence barrister."The existing system does permit people to make unreasonably large amounts of money. We believe the new system can actually find ways to constrain that."The report predicted that potential gross earnings for a QC would be £196,000 a year. Lord Carter confirmed that his proposals would not lead to a fall in the overall legal aid budget."They will redistribute some of the money," he said. "The main thing for these reforms is to keep cost under control."  About 60% of legal aid is spent on criminal work and the remainder on civil and family cases. Lord Carter said his proposals would switch about 5% from criminal work to the other categories.He also estimated that it would lead to about 400 of the 2,700 firms that provide criminal defence services to stop doing so.Lord Carter had previously announced controversial plans to pay solicitors by fixed fees, and to require them to bid for work in police stations.Today's document said that barristers in the crown court should no longer be paid on a case-by-case basis. Instead, a graduated fee scheme would be introduced.The lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, told peers that the changes were necessary in light of growing financial pressures."In a time of finite public resources and ever-increasing pressure on the legal system, it is vital that we review our arrangements for the provision of legal aid. For some time, under successive governments, they have not fully been serving either the public or the clients of the system," he said.The report stated that a new fixed fee scheme for lawyers undertaking work in police stations should be introduced next April and price competition would be introduced from 2009.This would see lawyers bidding for batches of cases in police stations that they would see through to magistrates' and crown courts.Community legal advice centres should be set up to provide a better service in civil and family legal aid, the report said. Tendering for the centres would begin in 2009.However, figures in the report show barristers with between one and 15 years' experience would actually see an increase in earnings in a typical basket of cases after the reforms. Barristers with between five and 10 years at the Bar could enjoy a 20% rise in payments, it indicated.Those with between 10 and 15 years would see a 12% rise and lawyers at the Bar for up to five years could expect an 18% increase. Only QCs with 15 years or more under their belts would see a fall in payment of just 3%, the document suggested.Under Lord Carter's preliminary proposals in February, solicitors who bid to provide legal aid cover in police stations would receive a block grant for the duration of the contract.Lord Carter noted that £90m was spent on paying solicitors for travelling time and waiting time in police stations and magistrates' courts in 2004-05. The peer also proposed substantial reforms to the way lengthy crown court cases are paid for.Half of spending on crown court hearings goes on just 1% of cases. He suggested expanding the current regime that deals with "very high-cost cases".The government proposals, which go out to consultation later today, would be closely based on his recommendations.They would also take account of separate moves to allow outside investment in law firms and other changes to the way solicitors and barristers can operate.Last year, a government report named the first barrister to be paid more than £1m in one year from legal aid and also revealed that the top 12 lawyers in the field earned more than £600,000 from taxpayers.Top of the list was James Sturman QC, who acted for Jose Mourinho in the Ashley Cole "tapping up" case. Mr Sturman was paid £1.18m - almost twice what he earned the previous year.Speaking at the time, Mr Sturman, who became a QC four years ago, said most of his income had come from a two-year international software piracy case that should never have been prosecuted.It was the biggest legal aid case until the Jubilee line corruption trial, which collapsed late last year wasting £60m. The piracy case was so expensive because the defence had to read 2.9m pages of prosecution documents, he said.Other lawyers earning in excess of £600,000 in legal aid were: Simon Bourne-Arton QC, £902,000; Kalyani Kaul, £766,000; Gilbert Gray QC, £755,000; Balbir Singh, £750,000; Peter Griffiths QC, £690,000; Trevor Burke QC, £683,000; Thomas Derbyshire, £668,000; George Carter-Stephenson, £653,000; and David Spens QC,£639,000.