Boxing Day shoppers have told how they ran “for their lives” after a man with a 2ft-long machete sparked panic in a shopping centre. Bargain hunters fled and armed police were called after two men got into a fight, which is believed to have started in a shoe shop. Rumours that a gunman was on the loose quickly spread through Intu shopping centre, formerly the Glades, in Bromley, south-east London, sparking alarm. A video posted on Twitter shows shoppers, including families, screaming and running out of the centre. Those caught up in the panic shortly before 4pm on Saturday afternoon told how they feared there had been a terror attack. Keith Moon, 35, an app developer, was out shopping with his wife when he suddenly saw people running through the centre. He later saw a young man in handcuffs, bleeding from the head, being led away by police, who were carrying a 2ft-long rusty machete believed to have been recovered from the scene. He told the Press Association: “We could see people running towards the exit, it wasn’t quite clear what it was at first. But then they seemed to be running in panic. My wife heard someone say that there was a gunman running around so we ran towards the exit. We got outside and there were a lot of people, some quite emotional.” Moon added: “It was really chaotic, especially given recent events, it was pretty scary. My wife was concerned it could be a terrorist attack. It was definitely a concern. And when you find out it is a guy with a machete and you don’t know the reason why, that is scary.” An online video shows people running out of the centre while a man can be heard saying, “Everyone is running in Bromley, you know.” Another video appears to show a uniformed officer looking through a JD Sports shopping bag and one taking a machete into a police van. Officers arrested a man on suspicion of affray and possessing an offensive weapon, and are hunting another man who is believed to have run off, possibly dropping a weapon. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: “We were called at 3.45pm to reports of an injured man at the Glades shopping centre. Officers arrived at the scene and found a man believed to be in his 20s with a minor head injury. “At this stage officers believe he sustained the injury as a result of an altercation. The injured man has been arrested for affray and possession of an offensive weapon. He currently remains in custody at a south London police station. Officers have recovered two knives and are seeking to trace a man who was seen running off, possibly discarding a weapon. Enquiries continue.” She said armed officers were sent to the scene, but “once it was established this was not a firearms incident, their assistance was not required”. 