The criminal justice white paper, unveiled by David Blunkett today, aims to:· Abolish the double jeopardy rule - which currently prohibits the retrial of an acquitted defendant on the same charge - in cases of "a grave offence punishable by imprisonment", and cases with compelling new evidence where a retrial is "in the interests of justice". This will only apply to murder, rape and other "very serious offence" crimes. · Allow judges to sit alone in major fraud trials, complex cases or trials where jurors might be subjected to intimidation, or where the defendant requests it. · Double magistrates' maximum sentencing powers to 12 months . · Allow courts to get tougher on the numbers of middle-class people who avoid jury service because of work obligations. · Allow prosecutors to reveal a defendant's previous convictions to the jury when they are "relevant and put in context". · Force defence lawyers to reveal their case in advance, as the prosecution is already required to do. · Create "intermittent" jail terms which allow offenders to keep their jobs and family links by being locked up only at weekends or overnight. · Develop "custody plus" schemes where offenders serve a short prison sentence - between 14 days and three months - followed by community work of at least six months. · Balance this with "custody minus" where jail terms are suspended in exchange for participation in community schemes. · Train judges as specialists in drug and domestic violence trials, to increase the number of convictions in these fields. · Encourage early guilty pleas by drawing up a clear tariff of sentence discounts. · Establish a new sentencing guidelines council chaired by the lord chief justice to bring greater consistency on punishments. · Create new police powers to impose bail conditions, such as electronic tagging, on suspects who have yet to be charged. · Set up a single non-emergency number for the police to ease pressure on the 999 system - possibly using "888". · Replace short jail sentences for juveniles with an extension of the intensive surveillance and supervision programme, which sees youngsters tagged, put on a curfew and made to attend therapy sessions and work.