Uniformed men in stab-proof vests patrol the mean streets . . . sounds almost like a scene from an American TV cop show. But this isn't Dallas or Detroit - it's Darlington. And these aren't cops - they are the new breed of "warden" law enforcers who could soon become a familiar sight in other British cities and towns. Last week's announcement by home secretary Jack Straw that police-accredited private security patrols are to be introduced outside schools, commuter stations and other busy public places sparked controversy. But, in effect, many neighbourhood wardens already carry out the patrol duties set out in the government's 10-year crime plan. The aim of the wardens, employed in most cases by local authorities or social landlords, is to prevent crime - and, more importantly, reduce the fear of crime - by providing a uniformed presence in crime hotspots, town centres and council estates. In Darlington, County Durham, wardens patrol alongside a beat officer and can impose on-the-spot fines of up to £100 on people caught dropping litter or allowing their dogs to foul the pavement. But, like all wardens, they have no powers of arrest. "If they see a fight on a Saturday night, they will shepherd people out of danger's way while their police colleague will deal with the affray," says Andy Errington, head of the local council's youth offending and community safety service. Since Darlington's three wardens sprung into action a year ago, they have become far and away the authority's most popular service, receiving an 85% approval rating from the public as well as contributing to a 40% reduction in crime in one area. Now the council is looking to recruit a further seven wardens with a £120,750 grant from the government's neighbourhood warden scheme. The £13.5m scheme - introduced last year and jointly funded by the Home Office and the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions - allocated £7.5m to 50 schemes last September and a further £4.8m to 36 schemes last month, bringing the total number of wardens recruited under the initiative in England and Wales to 445. The Darlington patrols represent the "hard" enforcement end of the neighbourhood warden model. Other types include super-caretakers, pioneered by the Peabody Trust housing group, whereby wardens combine odd jobs with patrolling; property-led schemes, like the 24-hour patrols in Swansea which have reduced vandalism of empty council homes and prevented heating systems being stolen; and community-based initiatives along the lines of Safer Merthyr Tydfil (SMT), a charity. What they all share is wardens who are paid employees, not vigilante volunteers. "Our wardens are chosen for their life skills, not for a gung ho attitude," says Roger Mitchell, SMT project coordinator. Launching the government's neighbourhood warden scheme, Home Office minister Charles Clarke declared: "They can improve communication between the police, residents and the local authority and mediate in minor incidents of anti-social behaviour." This certainly seems true in Merthyr Tydfil. Local lads Marc Watkins, a former holiday camp red coat, and Rob Cunningham, who used to stack supermarket shelves, have been patrolling the streets of the Penydarren ward since January last year. Between 8am and 4.30pm from Monday to Friday, they check for broken paving stones, unsightly rubbish, street lights that need replacing and abandoned vehicles, stopping to listen to people's concerns, which they report to whichever organisation can best solve the problem. "Helping people gives you a great sense of achievement in this job," says Cunningham. Trained in first aid, customer care and calming potentially violent situ ations, they have become community heroes for their actions - such as rescuing an elderly woman who had fallen in her kitchen. The community advice centre, from which they operate, has also become a focal point. "The community are glad to see us," says Watkins. "They say: 'Keep up the good work.' Once the kids see we're not PC Plod, they come and talk to us." There will soon be 15 wardens across the borough, and Susan Cousins, executive director of SMT, describes them as "the eyes and ears of the community". She points out: "They are not just narks for the police. We have become arms-length community safety for the local authority." An evaluation of Penydarren's first year found that of the 700 referrals made by the wardens, 273 were requests to the borough council; a further 333 were inquiries from people wanting free locks fitted under SMT's zero tolerance campaign; and 78 were tip-offs to the police about criminal activity. Crime fell 40% between April and September last year, compared to the same period a year earlier, from 254 to 151 incidents. And, within these figures, there was a 64% decrease in vehicle crime from 161 to 58 cases.Of 50 residents interviewed for the evaluation, 72% thought cases of nuisance had decreased and 58% thought there was less crime in the area. Yet the scheme appears to have been less successful in quelling people's fear of crime. Less than half said they were not as fearful as before. The scheme also failed to prevent burglaries, which increased 54% from 13 to 20. Brian Evleigh, author of the evaluation report, attributes the limitations to the wardens' hours. "There is an argument for patrolling in the early evening and at weekends," he says. One local resident, who prefers not to be named, puts it more forcefully: "Crime doesn't happen during the day and it doesn't stop at Christmas." The government is adamant that wardens are not a poor man's police force - although their salaries are significantly less than a beat officer's - and stresses that wardens complement the police service, freeing up officers' time to focus on serious crime. The Police Federation, which rep resents the force's rank and file, disagrees. "Eight out of 10 people want to see more police on the streets," says Fred Broughton, the federation's chair. "We share the public's view. What we do not want are civilians masquerading as police officers on the beat. They are carrying out a police role with no police powers and put themselves and others at risk. Discussions would be better directed at the future of the police service, not a cheap alternative." There is also concern that once an area has a warden patrol, limited police resources will be sent elsewhere to neighbourhoods without such a "second-tier police force". And a further criticism is that the schemes are funding-led: the government initiative requires match funding, resulting in many single regeneration budget areas securing wardens at the expense of others. Likewise, the Penydarren scheme was introduced not because it is the crime hotspot of Merthyr Tydfil, but because it was eligible for European regional development funding. Chief Inspector Trevor Morris, of South Wales police, can see both sides of the argument. "If you asked me whether we wanted wardens or not, I'd say we'd have them and ensure that they were used effectively in conjunction with police officers and special constables," he says. "We are lucky to have a good partnership with Safer Merthyr Tydfil and the local authority on this scheme. We have worked together on a couple of truancy operations, where wardens acted as spotters. There are certain offences, such as anti-social behaviour and neighbourhood nuisance, that they can deal with before they come to the police's notice." Although Morris is unable to confirm that wardens have freed up police time, he is clear that they are not a ploy to counter falling numbers on his patch, where he says there have been no recruitment problems. With a current drive to employ non-police staff to take over back office administration tasks, he is shortly expecting more bobbies on the beat. The Home Office expects that, under the crime plan, the police will continue to develop relations with neighbourhood wardens and will forge new links with the private security industry. A spokeswoman says: "Security guards, wardens, park attendants, caretakers - the idea is that the police will co-ordinate all these types of activities that can contribute to overall public safety." What price peace of mind?The Joseph Rowntree Housing Trust has taken a different tack on crime prevention. Pressured by residents to increase police presence at its New Earswick garden village, near York, the trust is paying for 24 hours a week of the local community police constable's time. Under normal arrangements, the area had just four hours of policing - and within that the officer could be pulled out if there was an incident elsewhere. "Residents' perceptions were that they never saw him," says Jackie Dale, the trust's community services manager. The cost of the initiative is £25,000 a year, which would translate into a 40p weekly rent rise should the trust pass on the cost to tenants after the three-year pilot, which officially began in October. It depends on the scheme's success. The initiative will not be judged by how many criminals are caught, however. According to Richard Best, trust director, the average beat bobby will pass within 100 yards of a crime in progress only once every eight years. "Much more importantly, we hope that it acts as a deterrent and eliminates the fear of crime," he says. The New Earswick residents' forum sits on the area's community safety committee, which oversees the policing scheme. Geoff Bunce, who chairs the forum, reports that the bought-in police officer has made an instant impact. "He knows where the problems with under-age drinking are and he's jumped straight in, taking the drink off them and telling them to go home," he says. "They never know when he can appear, so they'll be more wary in future. We don't want people locked up. Prevention is better than prosecution."