Today Patricia Scotland faces her most testing challenge since she joined the government six years ago as a Labour peer - trying to avert an almost certain government defeat in the House of Lords battle over the future of jury trials. Only four weeks into her new job as criminal justice minister, she confronts the task of persuading sceptical Labour stalwarts, such as Helena Kennedy QC, to back the government.The issue's importance to the government has been clearly demonstrated by the pains both Tony Blair and the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, have taken to stress that the measure is crucial in bringing organised criminals to justice. At the centre of today's battle are the government's criminal justice bill plans for judge-only trials in up to 20 serious and complex fraud cases each year and in cases where there are attempts to "nobble" the jury. The proposal is not on the same scale as the previous battles to abolish jury trial for thousands of minor "either-way" cases, but it stirs equally strong emotions. In her first interview as a home office minister, Scotland, a practising barrister in her earlier life, quickly demonstrates not only a penetrating grasp of a complex brief but also that there is no lack of passionate commitment on the government side of the argument. Lord Falconer's swift elevation to a modernised woolsack four weeks ago meant that she was suddenly given the "undeniable pleasure" of piloting four major Home Office bills through the House of Lords. On her first day in the job, she had to reply for the government in the second reading debate on the massive criminal justice bill. Having "finished off" the sexual offences bill, she is currently dealing with the complexities of extradition law as well as trying to head off major defeats on criminal justice. The government's plans to deal with anti-social behaviour await her attention in the autumn. She is not going to have an easy ride. With a successful career at the bar it was not a job she had to take on. Seven or eight years ago, Lord Mackay, the last Conservative lord chancellor, had marked her out to become the first black high court judge once she was a little older and more experienced. "No, I don't have to do it," she says. "This is an area about which I have felt passionately for a very long time. Getting it right really matters." On criminal justice issues, she contends, many of the government's critics are simply not prepared to listen to the argument and to what the public want to see done. She claims they have failed to grasp that the criminal justice bill is a balanced package. They concentrate on the areas they don't like in isolation from other measures in the bill, such as custody plus, which will tackle an offender's behaviour without swelling prison numbers. But Scotland will have to employ all her impressive skills of advocacy in today's debate if she is to stave off the very real danger of a serious government defeat over the introduction of judge-only trials. "We have a real problem in relation to serious crime. That is a reality for criminal justice systems across the world and we are no exception. These sophisticated criminal gangs are using everything at their disposal to interrupt the proper judicial process so that we have real incidents of attempts at jury tampering, at interfering with and intimidating witnesses," she insists. "The police spend around £3m a year on jury protection, but it is not just the money, because if you allow people to undermine the system by using intimidatory tactics, you deny justice to many." There are about five cases a year in which juries are given full-blown 24-hour police protection, but there are more where the judge decides to discharge the jury and order a retrial. Scotland says a high-security court such as Kingston crown court, where some organised crime trials now take place, is not enough. "There are some very highly contentious and sensitive trials which might need an extra layer of protection, where it is almost impossible to guarantee that jurors and witnesses have the sort of security that they need." She stresses that there is not going to be a blanket ban on jury trials in organised crime cases. "I have confidence in our judiciary, because this is not a decision that will be made without appropriate care and attention. It is for a judge to decide in every case. It will give the court a tool which, in the right cases, they can use judiciously to do justice." She also argues that judge-only trials in these cases could actually be a safeguard against miscarriages of justice. "Juries who are subject to jury protection appear to have a higher rate of conviction than those who do not. That gives us cause to pause because we need to guarantee that there is parity of treatment no matter how sensitive these cases are." The possibility that a juror might end up living under police protection for months on end is not likely to help provisions in the bill designed to make it harder for people to get out of jury service. The commitment involved for jurors in long and complex fraud trials is also a major factor in the government's argument for judge-only trials in these cases as well. "These are some of the most complex and technical trials and they demand a huge amount of time for people. Many have taken well over a year. To allow and to expect many members of the public to take a year out of their lives or more to do these trials is a huge commitment. We really have to question whether that is the right way to go," says Scotland. She argues that prosecutors often find themselves trying to simplify or make the issues involved less complex so that the jury can understand. But isn't it the job of such talented barristers to unravel these complexities and expose the pattern of dishonesty for the jury? "In some of these sophisticated frauds it is that very complexity that needs to be grasped if the court is to fully appreciate the nature and extent of the fraud that has been committed," she replies. Tracking the course of international fraud can be very difficult for juries to follow. "It is in those sorts of cases that we think there has to be a sensible discussion as to whether we are delivering justice in a way that people can understand and that actually makes sense." Tonight's votes on jury trials are not the only battle Scotland faces over the criminal justice bill. She will lead for the government on Thursday, when a further Labour revolt is expected over the changes in the law on double jeopardy. The debates on the most contentious issue of all - the new framework for sentencing murderers - will come in September. When the government published its proposals to scrap protection for those already acquitted of an offence and allow for a retrial where new and compelling evidence emerges, many were surprised that the list of offences covered 31 separate crimes. But Scotland says they are all serious and the important thing is the quality of the evidence that might demonstrate the need for a retrial. Advances in DNA and fingerprint evidence have already led to the release of people who have been wrongly convicted. Scotland argues that if the same techniques can now provide evidence which identifies the perpetrators of offences that took place even 20 or 30 years ago then it should be used. "For example, a man was picked up, apparently after not having committed an offence for a long period of time, on a £10 shoplifting offence. His DNA was obtained and when we went through the records we were able to identify that he had been responsible for a series of serious sex attacks 30 years previously. I think the public simply do not understand, when you look at the seriousness of the offences in that list, why when we have definitive new evidence we cannot bring those people to justice. "The new DNA advances should be used to shield those and protect those who are innocent of crime and release them but we should also be able to use it as a sword to pierce the guilty who have evaded justice." Nobbling: why we need judge-only trials· The trial of six defendants for serious drug offences at Liverpool crown court collapsed in August 2002 because of jury tampering. Two jurors were threatened and a third was offered £10,000 to return a verdict of not guilty. The trial was in its fifth week and cost more than £1m. · Jurors hearing a case at Kingston crown court had their cars sprayed with paint stripper in autumn 2001. The jury was discharged and special protection was given to the retrial jury. · The jury refused even to return to court after lunch on the first day of a trial in Surrey last year through fear of intimidation. The judge was forced to hold the jurors in contempt of court and the case could not proceed. · A retrial was ordered after a threatening note was left on a juror's windscreen during a trial in Essex two years ago. At the retrial a juvenile witness was shot, which led to a second retrial being moved to the Old Bailey.