Barrington Foster takes a sip of water, collects his thoughts and begins to address the group of youths in front of him. They are here to learn about the dangers of knife crime.But Foster is no ordinary youth worker. An employee of Be Safe - an anti-knives project in the London borough of Newham - and a self-employed consultant on knife and gun crime issues, he also served 18 years in prison for murder. Released in 2000, he now works to prevent young people from carrying blades by illustrating the consequences.He was speaking at Think Twice, a youth conference organised by Barnet Action 4 Youth, a Crime Concern project, based on the organisation's findings that Barnet's young people were alarmingly ignorant of knife issues.Says the BA4Y project manager, Alison Kira: "There is a rapidly growing trend for young people carrying knives and we hope that an equally rapid response will prevent the trend continuing. Young people keep bringing up the issue of other young people carrying knives. There are different themes emerging. Once it was mobile phone thefts and happy slapping and now they have identified gangs and knives as a real concern."The conference comes during a five-week UK knife amnesty, launched in May, during which more than 17,000 weapons have been surrendered. The amnesty has also prompted the home secretary, John Reid, to consider raising jail sentences for the possession of knives from the current two years. Critics of the proposed sentence changes say the change in culture must start from the bottom up and have welcomed plans to educate youngsters in the dangers of knives. Which is where Crime Concern and Barnet Action 4 Youth come in. Groups like this are rapidly realising that the way to change attitudes is to concentrate on educating young people in the effects of carrying knives.The Think Twice conference featured performances from Arc Theatre - allowing the audience to assist characters in their decisions - stands and displays from the police and action groups as well as creative workshops where participants were asked to come up with advertising campaigns and crime prevention slogans.There was also an appearance from Neville Lawrence, father of Stephen Lawrence, fatally stabbed in 1993 in Eltham, south London. He spoke about the effects of losing a child in such a way as well as the dangers to young people carrying blades.Says Charlie, 14, who attended the day: "The knife meeting helped me in many ways. If showed me the different outcomes, we met various organisations as well as an offender. It showed that knife crime really affects people and that it isn't safe nor cool to carry a knife, just plain stupid."Thirteen-year-old Samantha adds: "I think it was really interesting and it would be even better if we could put this message out to all young people."Richard Diston, a master instructor at the Black Belt leadership academy, based at Mill Hill school in Barnet, has offered free seminars to children concerned about personal safety. He believes young people need to be taught that they have other options."The kids aren't bad but they are making bad choices," he says. "It's about giving them a different way of thinking. I think it is desperation more than anything when you talk to these kids, they say things like 'I have a right to defend myself', or 'everyone else has got one'."There is this Hollywood mentality that you can do this stuff and there are no repercussions they don't understand that a 3cm stab wound to the centre of the body will kill."Crime Concern isn't the only organisation working to change young people's attitudes. Youngsters in Tower Hamlets, London, have made a short film warning of the dangers of carrying weapons. A Knife in the Life of ... You? portrays a 13-year-old who decides to take a knife out to protect himself and the tragic and unforeseen consequences that follow.Neville Lawrence, awarded an OBE for his work educating young people in this area, says: "Some youngsters seem to be more at risk than others and we need to target them but we also need to talk to their parents. They should be guiding their children in the right direction."Conferences and projects like this are an excellent way of getting this message across. You can't just tell young people what to do and expect them to do it - you have to work with them, listen to them and help them realise how important it is not to carry knives."· Additional reporting by Alex Galbinski