Police investigating the background of serial killer Peter Tobin today began searching the back gardens of two properties in Brighton.Specialist search teams are using ground-penetrating radar at addresses where the triple-murderer lived in the 1980s to see if there is evidence of any further victims.The gardens of 152 Marine Parade, Brighton, and 67 Station Road, Portslade, which is behind a hair salon where Tobin is thought to have once lived and run a cafe, were being searched simultaneously.Sharron Barlow, who runs the Scizzor Sisters barber's shop next door, said she had only been there for about five years but was aware of the serial killer's links to the property."I turned up this morning and the police were waiting to talk to me," she said. "We've all read the story. I expected this a couple of years ago, but today was a bit of a surprise."Police refused to confirm or deny if the searches were linked to the deaths of schoolgirls Karen Hadaway, 10, and Nicola Fellows, nine, in October 1986. They were found strangled in Wild Park, Brighton in a case known as the Babes in the Woods killings."We are not prepared to divulge the nature of the information which has led to the gardens of these properties being searched and it would be inappropriate and insensitive to be drawn into speculation about missing individuals," Sussex police said in a statement.Detective chief inspector Nick Sloan, of Sussex police's major crime unit, said officers had to wait for the two trials to finish before they could start further searches and that police must "satisfy themselves" that no crimes were committed at either property."As long as there are lines of inquiry, we will continue," Sloan told a press conference. "We have to consider the families of those who may have been one of his victims and it is imperative that they find closure. We will strive to achieve this."Tobin lived in Brighton for 20 years from the late 1960s, including in an eight-bedroom house with a patio garden in Dyke Road. Police said although several other addresses in Brighton were linked to Tobin they would not be searched. Police have vowed to leave "no stone unturned" as they investigate his past. Tobin lived in several towns and cities, including Glasgow, Brighton, East Sussex, Margate, Kent, and Havant, Hampshire.Under Operation Anagram, which started in September 2007, all 43 police forces in England and Wales were asked to conduct background enquiries to identify any potential victims by examining outstanding missing persons, abductions and rapes, and cross-referencing them with Tobin's chronology.Tobin, 63, was told last December he would die in jail after he was convicted of strangling 18-year-old Dinah McNicol. The former church handyman was already serving life terms for the murders of 15-year-old Vicky Hamilton and Angelika Kluk, 23.Last week, a woman who believed she may have been attacked by Tobin almost 40 years ago spoke about her ordeal.Appearing on the BBC's Crimewatch programme, the unidentified woman claimed Tobin put something in her drink before assaulting her in a Glasgow tenement in 1968. Tobin, who is said to have once boasted of killing 48 women, has been linked to 15 unsolved murders. Detective Superintendent David Swindle of Strathclyde police, who led the investigation into Tobin, admitted last year that the serial killer could take his secrets to the grave.Tobin was already serving sentences for the murders of two women before being convicted of McNicol's murder. Her body was discovered bound and gagged, wrapped in 16 heavy-duty refuse bags and buried under concrete in the garden of Tobin's former home in Margate, Kent.A few metres away, cut in two and also wrapped in bin bags, was the corpse of Vicky Hamilton, 15, whom Tobin had abducted, raped and murdered in Bathgate, West Lothian, in February 1991.Tobin has also been convicted of the murder of Kluk, a Polish student he killed in September 2006, dumping her body under the floor of a Glasgow church.It was his arrest in connection with Kluk's murder in 2006 and the discovery that he had moved around the country using aliases that prompted all forces to re-examine cold cases.• This article was amended on 19 July 2010. The original said Tobin had moved around the country using alibis. This has been corrected.