The sudden death of the solicitor Sally Clark, who was wrongly convicted of murdering her two baby sons, has prompted calls for government support for miscarriage of justice victims. Mrs Clark, 42, was found dead at her Essex home on Friday. A postmortem will be carried out today.John McManus, one of the founders of the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation, said people who left prison after their convictions were overturned needed specialist counselling. "The death of Sally Clark is the day we have been waiting for and dreading," he said."Something like this was bound to happen. People like Sally Clark go through hell after being released. We don't know how she died yet. But it will have been stress-related - you can be sure of that.""The government needs to put a system in place before there is another Sally Clark tragedy. People need a retreat after leaving prison - A decompression chamber, the experts would call it. Then they need specialist long-term help.""We see people with every problem you can imagine. Drugs, drink, you name it. And it's not just them, it's their families. They are living in constant stress. Constantly on the edge. It's time the government helped. We've been saying it for years. Now hopefully someone will listen."In a message on her website, which campaigned for Mrs Clark's release, her family described her as "a loving and talented wife, mother, daughter and friend." It went on: "Sadly, she never fully recovered from the effects of this appalling miscarriage of justice."Sue Stapeley, the Clark family's solicitor, said it would be "very unwise to speculate" on the cause of death, and although Mrs Clark was not suffering from any kind of disease, she was not "in the best of health". She was known to have had a drink problem after dealing with the deaths of her sons and with the strain of being branded for three years in prison as a child killer.An Essex ambulance service spokeswoman said yesterday: "A woman was reported to have suffered cardiac arrest. The ambulance service was called to the property at about 10am on Friday ... Unfortunately nothing could be done to save the patient and she was declared deceased."Mrs Clark was found guilty of murdering eight-week-old Harry and 11-week-old Christopher following a trial at Chester crown court in 1999. She was cleared on appeal in 2003 after expert evidence from Professor Sir Roy Meadow was challenged. He had told jurors that the probability of two natural unexplained cot deaths in the family was 73m-1.The figure was disputed by the Royal Statistical Society and other medical experts, who said the odds of a second cot death in a family were around 200-1.Mrs Clark lived in Wilmslow, Cheshire, when she was arrested. Her husband Stephen, also a solicitor, moved to Essex following her conviction and the couple settled there after her release. Mrs Clark, who also had a seven-year-old son, said then that her nightmare was "finally at an end".