This week, we met Thomas Salme and Adam Wheeler, the former fined for lying about holding a commercial passenger pilot's licence and the latter for reinventing his academic career. When I read about men like this, I remember the time I was, in the words of the News of the World, "The Lord of The Lies". I was the "Credit Card Earl" who had apparently funded his "jet-set lifestyle" by spending money on his credit card that he had no intention of paying.I went to prison for 10 months when I was 23. I was made an example of just in case there was some other lad who thought he could con his way into the aristocracy. Wheeler, also 23, is likely to be made an example of too, because he lives in the US and was "showered with scholarships"; Salme has escaped with a smallish European fine. But even as they punish them, the public's attitude toward accomplished liars will be tempered by some envy. Yes, it is scary that a man with no formal training can fly commercial passenger jets but, really, who gives a damn that Wheeler reinvented his CV so that he might enjoy the delights of a great university? Wouldn't we all, at some level, like to reinvent ourselves? Our public condemnation conceals our private longing for becoming who we always wanted to be.Come on! Let's face it, we all tell lies. Some of us just do it rather grandly. I was 18 when I changed my name. The press loved to describe me as coming "from humble beginnings". I would describe my childhood differently: born into a complicated family shamed by illegitimacy, I soon realised that there was a better life, a simpler life to be had by telling a lie. I remember lying from the earliest age because I simply had no idea what the truth was. My family was riven with lies. My father was in fact my stepfather and the entire family colluded to keep that secret from me, a small boy, by telling lies.I ran away to Paris, away from the tears and the drama, the secrets and lies. I took the truth by the scruff of the neck and chucked it on to the Rue St Anne. I not only changed my name to Anthony Rendlesham but also appended a delicious title. Lord Anthony Rendlesham. Oh, just remembering that now, that moment in Paris after nearly 30 years of not lying about my name causes the hairs on the back of my neck to stand on end. It was so bloody exciting!When I first lied about my name, I expected the lie to vanish after a few hours. In fact, I would tell the same lie for nearly three years. Every time I said my name I buried my sad and ghastly past under the psychic woodpile.Both the fake pilot and the fraudulent Ivy Leaguer must have known that they would one day get caught. Yet, from my experience that risk fades into the back of one's mind as the lie grows exponentially. The lie becomes one's life; the past becomes hard to recognise as one's own. I often wondered when the ghost of Duncan Roy would come claim me.For some, pretending is cathartic – a rubbing out of the past you seemed to have no control over. I can spot a liar at 50 paces and can tell the truth about others like no one else I know, but the truth about myself was too excruciating.Telling the truth is made harder because we live, in the words of Michael Moore, in "lying times". Honesty has very little currency in modern life – especially in the US where everyone feels that to tinker with the truth is essential if one is going to get on – from the monumental lies politicians tell about weapons of mass destruction and secret torture to the grotesque micro lies we tell ourselves when we allow the plastic surgeon to reinvent our faces.Both of this week's imposters worked very hard on their lies: Salme trained all night on a flight simulator; Wheeler became a convincing academic. I was an amateur compared with these two. I did not profit from my lie (the credit card was in my own name – I used it right at the end of my adventure, to pay for dinners and shirts). I simply changed my name and learned how to hold a knife and fork properly and tie a Windsor knot. The various aristocratic tribes I infiltrated seemed to accept what I told them as the truth because I sounded right and I was a great deal of fun. They liked having Anthony around.At the time I didn't know how my (Anthony's) friends reacted to finding out that they had had a dog in their aristocratic manger. Years later, however, a few of them found me, invited me to dinner and told me how sad they were that I had vanished, that they wanted me to know they had liked me, whoever I was pretending to be. It was a very moving moment for me. Yet, deep down, they didn't really know me because I didn't really know me. It would take years of therapy, trauma work and sobriety to get to know myself, and to stop being afraid and shamed and resentful.Like Wheeler and Salme, I know how it feels to be thrust back into one's own skin. Part of me will always be Lord Anthony Rendledsham. Anthony is the dynamic, charming, forceful part of me that gets things done. He is stronger than Duncan me. He protects me when I feel vulnerable or afraid. He is the angry part of me, the catty, sharp-tongued bitchy part who can make enemies. I know that he wants me for himself. Recently in therapy I realised that I can take what I need from Anthony, the good parts, and leave the rest.Occasionally I can feel him surging through me when ever I feel that crippling toxic shame I used to feel every day – I can feel him want to stand in front of the child me and fight those who give me pain. But now I can say to him, hey, I can deal with this. Thanks, but no thanks. And he skulks away.As I grow older I strive for authenticity. I embrace the truth. Even though I occasionally fail, I live without telling any lies. I have decided not to delude others or myself.Duncan Roy's blog is at duncanroy.com