The Earl of Shaftesbury lived in fear of his money-grabbing wife and her family, who were "like a cult" from which he wanted to escape, the aristocrat's last mistress told a murder trial yesterday. Nadia Orche, a nightclub hostess, said Anthony Ashley-Cooper wanted to divorce his wife, who was driving him to drink. He then planned to marry her, she said.Jamila M'Barek, 45, the earl's estranged third wife, and her brother Muhammad, 43, are accused of plotting his murder and dumping his body at a remote hillside spot used by fly tippers. Moroccan-born Ms Orche, 33, told the packed courtroom at Nice's Palais de Justice, on the Côte d'Azur, that the peer was big hearted, but naive. "Anthony was very, very naive. He had a heart as big as a boat. He wanted to give everything to other people," she said.She added that his marriage to Ms M'Barek had broken down when it became clear that she was only interested in his fortune. The wife's persistent demands for money had left him "afraid of Jamila and her family". Ms Orche said: "She made his life hell. It was like a cult. He wanted to get out of this nightmare and live a quiet life with me." The mother of three said she had met the peer at the Golden Gate bar in Cannes in April 2004. Soon afterwards he told her he wanted to marry her and have a child. "With the count [sic] we made a family. We had a little television, we ate pasta, we were happy," she added.The earl's sister, Lady Frances Ashley-Cooper, broke down as Ms Orche said: "He wanted a daughter, and started calling my daughter Framboise (raspberry), because his mother loved raspberries. He always carried a picture of his mother and Frances, the two women in his life. The third would have been the baby we would have together."He had insisted that she meet his wife, who asked her why she was going to have a child with "someone so pathetic".Ms Orche said the earl had made "the greatest mistake of his life" by marrying Ms M'Barek. "He stooped far too low to pick his rose. Jamila and I do not have the same values. They killed him during Ramadan, at prayer time. They have no values." Ms Orche claimed Ms M'Barek had made threatening calls to her and Lord Shaftesbury.A fortune teller, Martine Dupré-Cordier, told the jury she saw the earl less than 24 hours before he was strangled.He had visited her on November 4 2004, to talk about his troubled love life and plans to divorce Ms M'Barek. She said he spoke about Ms Orche during the €50 (£35) consultation and wanted to know if she was, as he hoped, pregnant. "The lord told me he wanted to divorce his wife. He said he was very much in love with Nadia."Mr M'Barek has admitting strangling the 66-year-old peer in a drunken fight, but insists it was an accident. The prosecution claims Ms M'Barek lured Lord Shaftesbury to her Cannes flat and paid her brother £100,000 to kill him. The trial continues.