A teenager who killed a schoolmate in revenge for him pinching his girlfriend's bottom was jailed yesterday for two-and-a-half years.Friends of the attacker, Gary Roper, used their mobile phones to video the dying victim with blood trickling from his mouth, and sent the pictures to fellow pupils.The images were also seen by the parents of Triston Christmas, 18, who died after being punched and hitting his head on a concrete floor.Roper, 18, from Ilford, east London, had borne a grudge against Mr Christmas for over two years. They had been friends but fell out after Roper's former girlfriend, Hayley Bovell, claimed Mr Christmas had pinched her bottom during a night out.The attack happened after Roper went out with friends to celebrate his 18th birthday, and ended up at a friend's home on a council estate. Mr Christmas arrived and, the prosecution said, Roper told a friend: "Watch me bang this kid."The fatal blow was struck after the two youths had embraced in an apparent act of reconciliation.The Old Bailey was told Christmas died a week after the attack, on January 29. Roper was last month found guilty of manslaughter.Sentencing Roper to 30 months' youth detention, the judge, Anthony Morris QC, said: "There is no evidence that Triston had any aggressive intent towards you. I am satisfied he merely wanted to make up with you and become friends again."But when his guard was down you threw two punches with your clenched fist. This attack was gratuitous, unprovoked and premeditated."Roper, who claims to have found God while on remand in prison, made the sign of the cross as he was led down to the cells.He had a record of bad behaviour prior to the killing and was expelled from school at 15 after placing a snooker ball in a sock and repeatedly striking a pupil over the head with it. He threatened to kill a girl he accused of spreading rumours about him in 2001 and later set fire to her hair.Robin Grey, prosecuting, said Roper had borne a grudge over the alleged bottom pinching: "The defendant walked over to his old friend Triston and was heard saying 'Are you all right? Haven't seen you in a while'."They seemed to put their arms around each other and it seemed to be fine."According to those of the defendant's friends, he suddenly, for no apparent reason, struck the deceased on the jaw once and certainly there was at least an attempt to hit him again."Siobhan Christmas had said she was appalled to discover that a video showing her injured son was being passed round. The pictures were taken by a youth as Triston lay on the ground and later sent to her husband Peter's mobile.Mrs Christmas said: "The film was downloaded to other people's computers and mobiles. It was just too devastating to look at."Triston was lying there with blood coming out of his mouth and his ear, and he was trying to speak. It sounded like he was trying to say 'Mum, Mum', but he couldn't get the word out properly."It's absolutely heartbreaking and it will haunt me for the rest of my days."A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Police said officers were aware of reports of a film of the injured youth but had not seen it.