The Ministry of Justice will be open for business on Wednesday. It will be both a vast department of state and an emblem of this country's values. A pillar of the constitution is about to be launched with less research and planning than you would expect for a new brand of cat food or a range of hair conditioners.Senior judges have urged Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor and head of the new ministry, to delay the change until they have a ring-fenced budget and a legal framework for the changes. The last lord chief justice has warned that judicial independence is at risk, and the current one was, it seems, barely consulted. Splitting the Home Office and creating the new ministry has not even been discussed in full cabinet.The new stationery might be printed, but the amount of planning involved could have been jotted down on the back of an old Home Office envelope. Here's what's going to happen: John Reid, who, has said that he is leaving government, will leave a successor, in a Home Office that keeps responsibility for security, counter-terrorism and crime. Prisons, the courts and criminal justice legislation will be hived off to the justice ministry.This is not a bad idea, but it is intricate. The surgery required to separate out the strands of responsibility, plus the civil servants and committees, is like parting conjoined twins. It requires careful thought, of which not a scrap has been in evidence.To make things worse, prisons are already in utter crisis and full beyond bursting. The government's plan to build itself out of trouble is hopeless and wrong. Legal aid may be cut back and the courts starved of cash while jails are crammed with people who should never be there.Why this rushed and inauspicious launch? In a way, the whole scheme has moved rather slowly. Back in 2003, Tony Blair first broached the plan, but David Blunkett, the then home secretary, was always opposed to the splitting of his empire. Over the next four years, the government has made a lot of half-baked and barely-planned constitutional changes, such as trying to abolish the post of lord chancellor. It has not, seemingly, devoted any time at all to developing a proper plan for the justice ministry.The judges are wrong, I think, to worry that their independence will be threatened. There's always the possibility of a bullying minister, but they have seen off plenty of those. Lord Woolf's argument that they may be obliged to jail people for less time is confusing, at best, when judges have been rightly arguing for imprisoning only dangerous and serious offenders.Judges are right, however, to be anxious about a drift towards decrepit courts, less legal aid and an assault on the fragile, unwritten constitution. But this is about more than the underpinnings of the law. Justice is fundamental to every citizen of this country. The rule of law is the cornerstone of democracy, and no government department should be more devoted to fairness, efficiency and the protection of rights and liberties.Instead, we are going to get a botched job that has escaped notice or criticism because it is buried by bigger news. Blair will announce his departure this week, and - as the rumbling of removal trucks begins - the great Home Office clear out has barely registered.And if it all goes wrong, then Falconer may not be around for long to pick up the pieces. He could be succeeded at the first Brown reshuffle by Harriet Harman or maybe Geoff Hoon. Perhaps the Ministry of Justice will be a success. But gross lack of preparation has a way of ending in disaster. If that happens, then the Ministry of Justice may belie its title in the same way as the Ministry of Truth once did.