Four members of the gang behind Britain's largest ever robbery were given indefinite jail sentences yesterday for their parts in "organised banditry for uniquely high stakes". The men will each be jailed for a minimum of 15 years, and were told they were likely to serve 30 years.A fifth man was given a 20-year sentence and told he would serve at least 10.In a packed, standing-room-only court eight of the Old Bailey, the members of the gang who stole £53m from the Securitas depot in Tonbridge, Kent, stood in silence as they heard their fate. The judge, Mr Justice Penry-Davey, told them that they had put people "in fear of their lives" and changed lives forever by their actions.Lea Rusha, 35, a kickboxer and former roofer who took part in both the robbery itself and the kidnap of Colin Dixon, the depot manager, was given an indeterminate sentence for public protection, with a minimum of 15 years.Car salesman Stuart Royle, 49, unemployed Jetmir Bucpapa, 26, and garage owner Roger Coutts, 30, were given the same sentence.Dixon's wife Lynn and their child were also kidnapped at gunpoint by men disguised as police officers.The inside man, Emir Hysenaj, 28, who had not taken part in the actual kidnap and robbery, was given a determinate sentence of 20 years and told that he would be eligible for parole after 10. He had worked for Securitas and filmed inside the depot for the gang using a miniature video camera."Confronted by armed, hooded men, it is unsurprising that they were terrified and that some of them continue to suffer long-term effects, some of a life-changing nature, particularly in the case of the Dixon family, who have lost their home, their work, their friends - having effectively, because of your conduct, to start their lives again," the judge told the four men who were in court.It is understood that the Dixons have been relocated for their own protection. Both Mr and Mrs Dixon gave evidence in the seven-month trial.Royle, who sacked his legal team half way through the trial and later declined to attend the proceedings, chose to remain in his prison cell in Belmarsh.The judge said that he was imposing the indeterminate sentences on the four robbers for public protection, because they posed a "risk of serious harm" to the public. He told Hysenaj: "You were not physically part of the gang that went into the depot to perpetrate the appalling events of that night but you played a crucial role in the giving of information to facilitate these extremely serious offences." The judge recommended Hysenaj and Bucpapa, both Albanians, for deportation once they have served their sentences.Outside the court, Detective Superintendent Paul Gladstone of Kent police said: "I am extremely satisfied with the result... I am satisfied they will be inside for more than 15 years. We will recover more of the proceeds of this robbery, although it may be in assets."The court heard that the cost of the investigation was £5m. More than 100 officers were involved, three times the number normally used for a murder case.Kent's chief constable, Mike Fuller, said: "The sentences passed by the judge today are just and reflect the severity of the crime and the actions of these five men." The judge praised the police, saying: "It is clear this enormous investigation was carried out with considerable skill, speed and resolution."