Ian Huntley's account of how the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman became the victims of a freak accident in his bathroom was yesterday challenged point by point.Pathologist Nat Cary flagged up what he claimed were flaws and inconsistencies in almost every aspect of Mr Huntley's version of events. He suggested it would have been difficult for Holly to fall back into the bath as Mr Huntley claims, and for her head to be completely immersed. However it would have been easy for her to be rescued either by the school caretaker himself or by her friend, Jessica. Mr Huntley, who denies murdering the 10-year-old girls, claims the children were in the tiny bathroom because he was trying to stem a nosebleed which Holly was suffering. He says he accidentally knocked Holly into the bath as she sat on the edge. He placed his hand or hands somewhere on Jessica's head or neck or face to stop her screaming. Dr Cary told the jury: "If the whole thing was only the innocent help being given with a nosebleed I see no reason why that goodwill should not be continued to lift her [Holly] out of the bath. "It is a matter of common sense... the drownings that I have described in bathrooms are solitary, because by definition human beings rescue each other." Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, asked how difficult it would have been to pull Holly from the water. Dr Cary replied: "Easy". The pathologist posed the rhetorical question: "Were [Holly's] legs in fact lifted over to get her more into the bath?" Dr Cary went through Mr Huntley's account and gave his opinion on five main aspects. Mr Huntley's version is in bold: · Holly suffered a severe nosebleed so she, Jessica and Mr Huntley went into the bathroom of his house to treat it.  Dr Cary expressed surprise that traces of blood were not found on Holly's clothes. He said blood would not be completely washed out if a person whose shirt was contaminated with blood plunged into water. · Mr Huntley "may well" have banged into Holly as he passed her wet tissue paper to stem the bleeding from her nose and she fell backwards.  Dr Cary said drowning in the bath was almost always a "solitary" affair and often happened when the victim was very drunk, had taken drugs or suffered from epilepsy. He said: "I would associate drowning when a third party is present - and I have experience of this myself - with forced drowning, in other words the third party holding you under water." He knew of no previous cases where someone was drowning in such a confined space and there were two other people present. · Holly had been sitting on the edge of the bath, at the tap end, close to the washbasin. Jessica sat on the other end of the bath near the door.  Dr Cary said that as the bathroom was "very compact" there was "not much room for her to slip over backwards and then somehow become immersed into the bath water. He said he would expect somebody slipping backwards to fall with their buttocks in the water but then become wedged, with their back against the other side of the bath and their head on the tiles above it. Their legs would still hang on the other side of the bath with their knees hooked over the edge of it. · The bath had roughly 18in of water in it because Mr Huntley was going to wash his dog.  Dr Cary said the bath overflow was 11in high. Unless this was blocked there was not a "realistic possibility" of the bath being 18in deep. The pathologist questioned Mr Huntley's claim he was going to wash his dog in the bath. "Would you wash a dog in a full bath? I don't know." · Jessica stood up and started screaming. Mr Huntley put his hand or hands out towards Jessica to stop her from screaming. She fell to the ground.  Dr Cary said what was proposed, in his view, was "smothering" by holding the nose or mouth. He said he would normally associate smothering with the elderly or with infants, and occasionally the intoxicated. "In my view the only way in which she could have been smothered to death would have been through forced restraint against vigorous struggling. You cannot just smother in mid-air... You would have to either force them up against something in order to cover the nose or mouth, perhaps a wall." Dr Cary said he would not expect such smothering to cause "rapid death". Stephen Coward QC, for Mr Huntley, told the court he needed to correct one element of Mr Huntley's account which the barrister had revealed to the court on Tuesday. Then Mr Coward had said Mr Huntley remembered putting his hand over Jessica's mouth. Yesterday he said he had been too specific - Mr Huntley was not sure of where on Jessica's head, or neck, or face he had placed his hand or hands. After Dr Cary left the witness box the bath was brought into court and the jury was allowed to examine it. Mr Latham has told the jury it might have to consider how the bath came to be cracked.