I realised my decision to resign as a prison governor was the right one as soon as I arrived in the grounds of the prison service training college, Newbold Revel, a large country house near Rugby. I'd come, as an outsider, to attend a series of lectures on penal policy. Strangely, until that point earlier this summer, I had been unsure if I'd done the right thing. I had bailed out of the governor fast-track scheme a few months previously without any real forethought, contingency plan or clear idea of why I was leaving. If I had been asked, I suppose I would have said something like: "It's just not worth it."As it turned out, I had had no formal exit interview, and the prison service made only superficial inquiries into why I wanted out. Regrets were expressed at the prison where I worked, colleagues turned up for a goodbye drink, but no one attempted to persuade me to stay. They clearly thought my mind was made up.But it wasn't that straightforward. I had turned up at Newbold Revel five years earlier as an idealistic trainee prison governor. Back then, I was feeling rather wholesome, determined to contribute to society and muck in after years of carping from the sidelines as a freelance journalist. I was seduced by the notion of belonging to a huge, worthwhile institution in which I hoped I would flourish. In those days, I agonised about whether I was up to the task. I now knew I was - but realised I no longer wanted to be.Back on prison service soil, the memories came flooding back. I had begun my prison service career in September 2001. I remembered how shattering Pentonville's four-day week - laden with shifts running from 7.30am (or 6.30 for early start) to 8.30pm or later at night - had proved. Too exhausted to savour the exquisite contrast with my previous existence of being wined and dined by PRs, I had spent whole days on my feet, escorting prisoners, supervising the queues for medication, helping to unlock the wing's 300-odd prisoners for dinner.Gone were the lavish meals of yore, replaced by mugs of tea whose ingredients (including mug) I had to bring in every day. Sometimes it felt like my home life was nothing but a pit stop for refuelling, grabbing some sleep, then revving up again to go into work. Days off became recovery windows.Yet as long as the job remained a challenge, I was happy. I applied myself with gusto to tasks such as risk assessing the process of using a mop, answering questions on the accident form about how I would prevent an assault by a severely disturbed prisoner happening again, or delivering back-to-work interview forms to the personnel department. I wanted to believe in what I was doing. But it could not last.Inevitably, questions barged their way into my consciousness. Why did every department in every prison every year have to carry out the same risk assessments, instead of headquarters doing this for all 132 prisons? Why was I managing three full-time staff running Pentonville's phone-based visits booking system, when a centralised online/phone alternative for all prisons would surely save millions? Why could I not email interview forms to personnel, which would be just as auditable and would save hours walking down corridors?Gradually, my faith in the system began to erode. So often, it seemed, the service's heart was in the right place, yet so often it ended up tying itself in knots, clinging to outdated methods, needlessly duplicating tasks, or devising elaborate processes that hindered the running of prisons.From my vantage point in the hierarchy foothills, the best example of the latter was the Job Simulation Assessment Centre (JSAC). This is an assessment process at two key promotion points for operational staff - from officer to senior officer, and from principal officer to Manager F (junior governor) - and it wreaks havoc in prisons. Its aims are laudable. It was devised as a reaction against the jobs-for-the-boys syndrome, and strives for objectivity and transparency using a 30- to 45-minute simulation of the rank being applied for. The trouble is, as almost any governor will tell you, the JSAC does not work. Prisons across the country boast lynchpin staff who, time and again, fail their JSAC. Yet these individuals will often have worked at the rank they are applying for for one, two, even three years.More than once I had to tell officers that their two years spent managing my departments as senior officers, and doing a great job, counted for nothing because the training and development group had decided he or she was not good enough for the very same role - despite their consistently scoring an "achieved" or "exceeded" in the staff performance and development record (SPDR), filled in every six months by their immediate line manager and the manager's manager.Finding a more effective way of demotivating staff would take some doing, not just for the staff affected directly, but for the prison as a whole. The message it sends does not exactly boost the confidence of managers either: not only do we not trust you, it says, but here are the people we've chosen for you to manage. Now get on with it.Prison policies, I realised, do not always complement each other, as demonstrated by my clash with a conscientious health and safety governor - or, rather, with the policy he was tasked with policing. Health and safety regulations ban any bleach-based products, stipulating instead the use of professional cleaning for any kind of dirty protest. That sounds reasonable enough, until faced in the morning by excrement thrown out of the door of a room on to the floor of the corridor outside. Choice: keep prisoners locked in for hours until professionals have cleaned up the mess; or do it ourselves (using smuggled-in bleach) and get the daily regime going. Option number two was clearly the answer, but it did involve breaking a rule.Litigation fearsOf course, fear of litigation lies behind this and other rules, such as the instruction that staff must walk, not run, to alarm bells. Such nonsenses can be worked around. A greater hindrance to operational life was the turgid, often ambiguous, prose of prison service documents. Most forms are highly complex and difficult to understand. Even the crucial Assessment, Care in Custody and Teamwork (ACCT) form, used for prisoners who harm themselves or are suicidal, used to bamboozle me - with its elaborate flow-charts and intricate procedural instructions - at the end of a 14-hour shift. Everything had been thought about, except the poor sod filling it in.Alas, this apparent lack of empathy by head office for frontline staff proved a recurrent theme, and it may explain what I found the most aggravating aspect of working in the prison service: the 10-year, £200m IT contract the service signed with the giant communications supplier EDS. Either that, or it was a case of institutional self-harm. Five years failed to blunt my astonishment at the level of service provided vis-a-vis the phenomenal costs, which still work out at well over £1m per prison. And to think that we used to run out of toilet roll for prisoners in Pentonville in the last week of every month!Understandably, prisons try to minimise their reliance on IT equipment, but this only means heavier use for those items that do exist. When the printer in my office in Feltham broke, EDS's stranglehold on the prison service prohibited me from nipping out to buy another one (even with my own money). Instead, I whiled away my time on the phone to the EDS helpline, trying to work out how much it cost at senior manager rates compared to £100 for a new printer. I always lost track of the multiples. The prison service has since agreed another deal with EDS worth up to £79m for the National Offender Management information system.It is true that a more ardent belief in the righteousness of my metier would have reduced all the above to minor annoyances. It is also true that the prison service boasts many exceptional people striving for a noble cause. But with every prisoner giving a high five as he returned for the umpteenth time to his old wing in Pentonville, with every return of a mentally damaged woman to Holloway's inpatient unit after her arrest for stripping naked in a restaurant, my moralistic fervour waned.Difficult workIt was not that my desire to contribute to society had withered away, nor that I lost the satisfaction of working alongside colleagues I admired. Those feelings remained as strong as ever, and I miss the sense of pride that such difficult work legitimised. What had taken a knock was my hope that the criminal justice system would ever be radically overhauled, and our appalling recidivism rate properly tackled.Sitting in the lecture room that summer afternoon and listening to informed people debate how to improve the system, I wondered why the practitioners there still thought the rewards of the job outweighed the downsides. But it was only an idle thought: I was happy to be out.· Jon Scott is now a writer.