In principle, if an offender is at liberty in the community there is a possibility of them committing an offence and, ultimately, no external force will prevent them from doing that, which is why we say you cannot eliminate risk completely.But you do expect people to do all they reasonably can to make a serious further offence less likely to happen, and, if you are supervising an offender, it is about the restrictive action you think that that case needs to achieve that. So when we look at an individual case review, we will say: "What would it have been reasonable to expect the officer to have done?" It might or might not have prevented further serious crime but the test is whether "they did all they reasonably could". That's a qualitative judgment but that's what you pay an inspectorate to do. I don't think it is the best use of our time to review an individual case that has already been reviewed unless there is a compelling reason to do so. On the whole, it is better to get the inspectorate to look at a representative sample of cases and ask the question: "How often are the authorities doing all they reasonably can to make serious further offences less likely to happen?"Our test of what counts as "doing all they reasonably can" is quite a high bar but not an impossible one to achieve.We have found that, over the country as a whole, probation does its public protection work with offenders to the high standard we're looking for nearly 70% of the time, on average. In our last main inspection in London, just over a year ago, their public protection score was an improvement on their own past, but at 63% had not yet reached the national average. But our special case inspection this year in Greenwich and Lewisham found that only 49% of this work reached that high standard – our continuing special case inspections in London this summer will show whether this is a problem localised in one or more specific parts of the capital.Last year's inspections showed that London was particularly improving its work with cases that had been classified as "high risk of harm to others", but we expressed concerns about its work with medium risk of harm cases.Since the banking collapse and Baby P, the public's expectations of regulators and inspectorates have changed.Probation services are now under a similar level of scrutiny, public expectation, and risk of blame when bad things happen, as social services (now children's services) have been for many years.What we need is better practice not more reform of structures. I am not convinced that continued restructuring of the service is the way to achieve that. We need more focus on better practice as an end in its own right.The government is perfectly right when it says they are paying out more money in real terms for probation services than ever before, but you have to measure that against what the service is being asked to do with that funding compared with previous years.