Hundreds of ethnic minority police officers and civilian workers are to take the unprecedented step of marching on Scotland Yard to highlight claims of discrimination.The March of Solidarity is being planned for November by the National Black Police Association, the Guardian has learned. Officers would assemble at a landmark location such as St James's park and march in full uniform. Despite today's appointment of Metropolitan police officer Mike Fuller as Britain's first black chief constable, the NBPA says minority staff are being unfairly targeted for disciplinary action and held back in their careers. Its analysis suggests that black staff are five times more likely to be disciplined than their white counterparts. The situation has been brought to a head by the catastrophic failure of Operation Helios, the Metropolitan police's four-year investigation into Supt Ali Dizaei. The officer was originally accused of drug dealing and involvement with prostitutes, but even relatively minor charges that were eventually brought failed to stick and the officer walked free from the Old Bailey. He still faces internal disciplinary proceedings but has denied any wrong-doing. Glen Williams, deputy chairman of the BPA branch in Nottingham and a march organiser, said: "Thirteen years ago in Nottingham we had the case of Surinder Singh, an officer who went to a tribunal and proved that he had been unfairly treated because of his race. Now, 13 years later, Operation Helios shows that it is still happening. "This is not just a one-off thing in the Met. It is happening all over the country." He said only drastic action by the government and the police authorities can head the march off. "We hope to galvanise people like the commission for racial equality into investigating the conduct of the Met and other forces who behave in this manner." Though such a public protest may deter potential recruits from joining the police, Mr Williams said the biggest deterrent was the knowledge that staff receive unfair treatment. "The reason more minorities have joined is because black staff have been telling people that we can make a difference. But if they hear about case after case of discrimination, of course they will not come." A number of logistical problems need to be overcome before plans for the march can be finalised. The NBPA will advise members to take a day's leave. They may also need permission from the Met to hold the event on a busy Monday. Toby Harris, chairman of the Metropolitan police authority and an executive member of the Association of Police Authorities, said the proposal illustrated the depth of feeling. "This is why we have set up an inquiry in London to examine all the issues relating to the way Met procedures operate." The appointment of Mr Fuller, 44, as chief constable of Kent will be officially announced today. He will receive a £120,000 salary. Mr Fuller began his career as a Met police cadet in 1975 before joining the special branch as a uniformed officer. He was promoted to deputy assistant commissioner two years ago and was made head of Operation Trident, the squad set up to tackle gun crime in the black community. Four years ago he became the first black member of the Association of Chief Police Officers.