A newborn girl found in a plastic bag at a remote beauty spot was probably battered to death, police revealed yesterday. The baby, named Lilly by detectives, had suffered several serious injuries, including a fractured skull and collarbone, which police said were were not caused by childbirth but inflicted soon after.The body, wrapped in a Mothercare bag, was discovered on Thursday May 11 by a young family walking on a footpath. Detectives believe the baby was probably dumped the day before. The family initially thought the bag was rubbish. Their small boy stumbled over it, accidentally kicking it into the river Alne at Aston Cantlow, Warwickshire, and it opened slightly to reveal the baby's head. Divers brought the body out of the water.Police said the child was full-term and died within hours of birth with her umbilical cord still attached. There were no nappies, and the baby had not been fed. There was, detectives said, no sign of the baby being cared for.Adrian Pearson, the detective chief inspector leading the inquiry, told a press conference: "We need to know how she came to lose her life in such tragic circumstances. We chose the name Lilly because Lilly is a flower related to water. I think if anyone's been to the scene they'll know just how beautiful, how scenic, how tranquil it is, and that's so ironic because of the tragedy of Lilly's body being discovered there."Police also found inside the bag a pair of women's blue pyjama bottoms, bearing a teddy bear logo, a pair of black women's knickers with burgundy leaf patterns, four blood-stained tea towels, a pair of black socks and a Tesco bag.Police speculated that the clothing might have been discarded as a "cry for help" from a woman who was trapped in an abusive relationship, afraid to come forward but leaving enough clues about herself to be traced.Mr Pearson said: "Someone was bound to find her - there was little attempt made to hide the body. Someone chose to hide the items in the bag when they abandoned the body. [The towels] were not wrapped around her, they were not comforting her or dressing her, they were just abandoned in the bag with her."A navel ring with a turquoise stone was also found by police in a layby near the river path.The site where the body was found is about six miles from Stratford-upon-Avon. Mr Pearson said: "It's not the sort of place you would go through, it's a place you would know about and go to."Police have so far received 30 calls about the discovery and say they have no leads on the mother. Their hope is that by displaying the clothes and other items found with the baby the memory of a witness may be triggered. Officers released an artist's impression of the baby's face but have yet to establish the child's ethnicity. She is thought to be either white or south Asian.Mr Pearson, who is leading a team of 12 detectives, said: "Lilly deserves to be returned to her family ... I'm sure her family would want to know about her circumstances and how she lost her life. Because of all the clues the mother left I'm open minded as to whether this was a cry for help because [the mother] may have been in an abusive situation. The second possibility is that she might have wanted to get rid of the baby and anything connected with the baby."