An “obsessively jealous” former police officer who stabbed his pregnant girlfriend to death has been jailed for a minimum of 28 years.Jonathan Sutton, 40, wrongly believed Emma Siswick was cheating on him when he stabbed her 81 times in “anger and possessive rage”. Sutton also stabbed two boys, aged nine and 11, in an attack that was described in court as “little short of torture”.At Leeds crown court the defendant pleaded guilty to Siswick’s murder and the grievous bodily harm of the two boys.The court heard that Sutton initially attacked his partner with a glass after finding a text message on her phone and deciding she was being unfaithful to him. He then stabbed her with a knife before attacking the boys. Three rooms of the house in Huddersfield were left covered in blood.Mr Justice Edis told Sutton: “You have committed three offences which are as serious as it’s possible to imagine. Looking at the photographs of the house where all this happened … is a truly horrific experience. There are three different sites in that property where very serious assaults with knives were carried out. There’s blood everywhere.“You inflicted 81 separate cut injuries to Emma. She fought you to try to save herself.”Edis said Siswick, 37, was pregnant at the time of her murder but the couple, who had been together just over three years, had discussed terminating the pregnancy. He said there had been no previous assaults in the relationship, despite frequent arguments.“Your motive was anger and possessive rage,” Edis told Sutton. In all of your relationships, you have been obsessively jealous of the women you lived with, checking them and their conduct in ways which were demeaning and humiliating and no doubt, to them, deeply unsettling. Because of your weakness in that regard, it appears that you simply lost your temper and in anger, without pre-mediation, killed her.”Edis described the attacks on the children as truly horrific and told Sutton he had caused them irreparable harm.He said: “Exactly what you intended to do to them may never really be known. What you certainly did was inflict painful, if not life-threatening, injuries. If that’s what you intended to do it was little short of torture.”Sutton received concurrent life sentences for each of the three counts he admitted. He was told he would serve a minimum of eight years for the two charges of wounding with intent and a minimum of 28 years for Siswick’s murder.