One of three prisoners who escaped from a prison van in London today has given himself up.Scotland Yard said Tony Peters, who was due to appear in court on a robbery charge, has surrendered himself to police and is currently in custody at a south-east London police stationEarlier, he and two other prisoners - Clifford Hobbs and Noel Cunningham - escaped after men disguised as postal workers opened fire on a Securicor van pulling up to the barrier at Inner London crown court in Southwark, south London.The driver of the prison van, carrying 10 men to court from Brixton prison, also in south London, was shot in the knee and his colleague was pistol-whipped.Detective Superintendent Mick Allen of the serious crime directorate at New Scotland Yard appealed to anyone who saw this "audacious" crime to come forward. But he warned that the two remaining escapees are "extremely dangerous" and possibly armed. "We do not wish anybody to attempt to approach them," he said.Mr Allen said he believed Mr Hobbs and Mr Cunningham - who were appearing on charges of theft and conspiracy - were the gunmen's intended targets, while Mr Peters, may just have been "pulled into this".After the escape the men fled through a park called Newington Gardens, just behind nearby Avonmouth Street, and then went into Bath Terrace. A witness, Trudy Hagan, told Sky news she was upstairs at a nearby social security office when she saw the incident."I looked out of the window and I saw a prison van shaking and I heard someone shouting, 'Open the door! Open the fucking door!'"I saw somebody come round the front. He was dressed as a post office man. I heard two shots fired and heard lots more shouting."A spokesman for the prison service said: "The driver was threatened by a man with a shotgun who proceeded to shoot the driver in the knee through the door of the van. The other security staff on board, the passenger, was pistol-whipped."The driver got out of the vehicle and there followed an escape from the back of the van by three prisoners."Mr Hobbs, from Rotherhithe, south-east London, is described as white, 180cm (5ft 11in), stocky, with short brown hair and wearing glasses. Mr Cunningham, who lives nearby in Greenland Quay, is also white, the same height but heavily built and said to have dark cropped hair. They and two other men were arrested in south London in March by Flying Squad officers as they allegedly prepared to target a Securicor van loaded with £1.25m.