In 1000 B.C. in China, if someone was lying, the accused would be asked to chew a mouthful of rice and spit it out. If the rice was wet the accused was innocent. If it was dry, guilty.The polygraph, a lie detecting machine, was first developed in 1885, and blood pressure determined if someone was lying when questioned. The modern polygraph simultaneously monitors changes in heartbeat, blood pressure, pulse wave, respiration and skin resistance, or perspiration. The theory behind the polygraph is that when a person lies, they get more nervous. Heartbeat and blood pressure increase, breathing rhythm changes and perspiration steps up. Measurements of these physiological responses are made to a series of questions put to the subject. After a series of control questions to establish a baseline of responses, the subject is questioned about the crime. By comparing responses to the baseline the investigator can then interpret any deviation as a lie. Somewhere in the multiple choice questions will be what investigators call "guilty knowledge" - information that only the police and criminal can know. But the subject might not choose the answer with the crime detail. This might mean that the subject is innocent, but could mean that the subject is a good liar. No machine, or expert can detect a lie with 100% accuracy. Changes in physiological responses can be caused by many things, including nervousness, anger, sadness and physical afflictions such as having a cold, headache, or needing to go to the toilet. Someone can beat a polygraph test by giving strong reactions to the control questions, altering breathing rhythms, biting the tongue, pressing a pin into a shoe, contract the anal sphincter or taking sedatives. On one occasion a murderer used biofeedback to control his pulse and respiration by swallowing aspirin with cola. New methods for lie detecting are being developed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is being used to see if brain waves give you away. Brain activity associated with deception and denial is being used to improve lie detection techniques. The theory is that the activity will increase when the subject lies. The MRI scan shows that more blood flows to a lying brain as it inhibits the truth and manages conflicting impulses.