A Finnish student killed in daylight in London was beaten to death, probably with a brick, after being sexually assaulted, police said yesterday.Suvi Aronen, 23, was murdered in Wanstead, east London, on Thursday after getting off a bus and walking a longer way home than normal. She was heard on her mobile phone yelling: "Get off! Don't hurt me!" when telephoned by her mother during the attack. Three other women, aged between 44 and 80, narrowly missed being the victims of Ms Aronen's killer after being attacked on the same day in the same area. Police have linked those attacks - all near a roundabout where the A406 crosses the A12 in Wanstead - to Ms Aronen's murder and are warning women in the area to exercise extreme caution. They say they are looking for a ginger-haired white man, about 1.7m (5ft 8in) to 1.77m (5ft 10in) with cropped, shaven or thinning hair, of medium build, wearing a bomber-style leather jacket. "This man is a clear danger," Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford said yesterday. "He is indiscriminate in whom he attacks. This was an extremely ferocious attack. Suvi has suffered extensive injuries in such a way that I think she was the victim of a very violent sexual assault. "Initial examinations indicate she did receive blows to her body and head, possibly with a brick." The first attack on Thursday was at 4.40pm. A 44-year-old was grabbed by the hair and her attacker said he was going to kill her as he dragged her by her handbag. But the bag split and the man ran off. At 5pm, on a nearby footbridge, the man grabbed an 80-year-old woman but she bit his fingers and he ran off. At 5.15pm, a 56-year-old was grabbed and punched in the face. After her bag was grabbed, the strap broke and the man ran away. Just after these attacks, Ms Aronen made what turned out to be the fatal decision to get off the 366 bus early. She had told a friend she would get off near Redbridge tube station and walk, because it was a nice day. Police believe she walked through the roundabout underpass and up on to a footway near the A12, towards where she lived in Wanstead, before she was grabbed. At 5:46pm, Ms Aronen's mother telephoned her from Finland. She heard her daughter say in a mixture of Finnish and English: "Get off! Don't hurt me!" before the line went dead. Ms Aronen's mother contacted her landlady, who tried the number. When that call was answered, she heard what she believed was a male voice, muffled conversation and cries, although no specific words, before the line went dead. Police said yesterday the phone had not been found. A search on Friday found Ms Aronen's body in undergrowth near where she had said she was getting off the bus. Police said yesterday that Ms Aronen's English boyfriend, who teaches in Spain, would identify her body. She had been in her third year reading media studies at the University of East London. "Suvi was extremely likable and full of the joys of life. She loved being in England and had everything to live for," Det Ch Supt Shatford said. Her father travelled to London at the weekend but was on his way back to Finland to be with his wife and Suvi's 20-year-old brother last night. Police have not ruled out a link to the murder of American artist Margaret Muller in Tower Hamlets, east London, on February 3 and to the murder of Marsha McDonnell in west London on February 4.