Milly Dowler's mother last night admitted for the first time that she believes the missing Surrey schoolgirl has been murdered.Speaking six months after 13-year-old Milly vanished on her way home from school, Sally Dowler said: "I think in the beginning my brain went into overload and I honestly felt in complete fear of losing my mind. I couldn't cope because there was no answer. Right now if you asked me 'What do you think happened?' I'd say she has been murdered. "I haven't had that absolute feeling that it's happened at a precise minute. I haven't really gone beyond thinking: she's been abducted and she's dead. "What's happened in between is a gap. I can't bring myself to think about that bit." Mrs Dowler and her husband, Bob, 51, tearfully recalled their last few days with Milly. One of their most treasured memories is a family video of her ironing her favourite baggy jeans just three days before she vanished - footage of which has been played dozens of times on TV. She was pressing her clothes in readiness for a Pop Idol concert in London the following night. She had a crush on singer Gareth Gates. "I just had to get the video camera and film her because it was the first time Milly had ever done any ironing," said Mrs Dowler, 43. "There was a CD on and she was dancing away. Her sister Gemma was cooking tea in the kitchen, which was unusual as well. As I videoed them they were taking the mickey out of me, saying I was sad." Milly went to the Pop Idol concert on Tuesday, March 19. She told her sister Gemma, during a bedtime chat the following night, that she'd "danced her little heart out". The next day Milly disappeared. She was last seen at 4.08pm on March 21, walking from Walton station, Surrey, to her home, just a mile away. "I used to think those jeans were ghastly. They're big baggy things and frayed at the bottom. I'd think: 'Oh if only she'd put something pretty on she'd look lovely. Now I pick them up and smell them - I smell her. I hug them and think: 'Oh, where is she?' "It helps that it was taken so recently, just three days before she went missing. Milly was quite pleased with herself when we played the video back. She'd washed and done her hair and I think she thought she looked quite nice. "Milly was not terribly confident. She'd need little pep talks and reassurance. You'd have to tell her she looked nice. "After Milly disappeared, we went to see Diana Lamplugh. Her daughter Suzy has been missing for 16 years. We needed to see someone who could understand how we were feeling. She was the first person we thought of who might be able to give us an insight as to how to deal with everything. She said: 'You're very lucky to have that video.' I remember thinking: 'You're the only person who possibly could say that'." She added: "It's the little unexpected things that can be so hard. The other day I was chatting to someone I hadn't met before. She didn't know who I was and asked me how many children I had. I couldn't answer, I just cried." Milly, whose real name is Amanda, had been sharing a bowl of chips in a station cafe after school with friends moments before she disappeared. She phoned her father to tell him where she was and promised to be home in half-an-hour. The friends said goodbye at about 4pm and Milly started her walk home. A friend waiting at a bus stop saw her at 4.08pm. No one has seen her since. Mrs Dowler has not returned to her teaching job. And Mr Dowler, an IT consultant, remains on compassionate leave. Mr Dowler said: "Nothing in your life can prepare you for this. Is it wrong to laugh and enjoy yourself? What I've said to people is: 'You tell me what I should do now'. When your daughter goes missing at first there is such horror, but then, after six months, your body somehow adjusts. It still doesn't get any easier though. "I don't know if we're ever going to find out what's happened to Milly, and it's the waiting for answers that almost drives you crazy. If someone does know anything or if they know anyone who's been acting suspiciously, please, please, contact the police." · Sally and Bob Dowler were talking to Rebecca Hardy of the Daily Mail in a pooled interview