A failed businessman who tried to kill his wife by running her over on a country lane has been jailed for a minimum of 14 years.Michael Hollins, 40, hoped to collect a £500,000 life insurance payout by running over his wife, Chloe, in a Land Rover Discovery.Worcester crown court was told she survived the murder attempt in July last year but was in hospital for a month with a broken leg and fractured pelvis. Hollins "play-acted" the concerned husband at her bedside.Hollins, of Hereford, showed no emotion as the judge, Alistair McCreath, said his actions were "truly wicked and chilling". The former property developer appeared unsteady on his feet as he was led to the cells. He was convicted of attempted murder last month after a two-week trial that heard he had a secret second family in Scotland and was having sex with at least two other women before trying to kill his wife.The judge said: "By July 2008 your life was in total disarray, all of it of your own making. You were financially ruined and in hopeless and irredeemable debt, and your personal relationships were, at the least, tangled."You planned to kill your wife and you did so for two reasons – her life was insured in substantial sums and your prime motive was to gain in that way from her death."Secondly, I have no doubt that you wanted to be free from her so that you could live your life with one of the other women."The jury that convicted Hollins was told his wife did not know he had a Land Rover. The judge said she experienced the horror of seeing it being driven straight at her. Examination of the scene showed it had travelled 23 metres along a grass verge.When questioned by police Hollins denied any involvement and claimed he was home at the time.The court heard Hollins had several extramarital affairs and secretly fathered two children with one of his lovers. The court heard he decided to rid himself of a wife he didn't love "in favour of more exciting women".The revelations had caused his wife psychological damage, the court heard. She did not attend the sentencing.The judge told Hollins he was "a dangerous offender" and would remain in prison for the public protection. "If this offence had succeeded your own young children would have been left without a mother," McCreath said. "That in itself – the result of a planned crime – is chilling."An investigation of Hollins's laptop by police showed he had been discussing murder methods in an online chatroom. Had he succeeded he would have faced 28 years in prison, McCreath said.