A secretary made pregnant by a married hospital consultant suspected he was also still involved with another doctor, a court heardtoday.Bella Prowse told the Old Bailey in London she received a text message from Edward Erin that she believed was meant for another woman.Erin, 44, who worked at St Mary's hospital, Paddington, denies spiking Prowse's drinks to induce a miscarriage.The jury heard Erin had previously been in a relationship with Malin Roesner, a specialist registrar at another hospital. Prowse, 33, said she was annoyed. "He had sent me a text message but I believed he sent it by mistake and it was supposed to be sent to her or another female."Prowse, 33, had earlier told how she began an affair with Erin after an office Christmas party in December 2007 and found out she was pregnant the following month.She did not learn the doctor was married with two young children until police told her after his arrest, the court was told. He is alleged to have attempted to poison Prowse by putting drugs in tea, coffee and orange juice.But Erin's barrister, Clare Montgomery QC, suggested this was untrue and that Prowse had put a pill in one of the drinks to implicate him."You put the pill into the orange so you could tell the police that Ed had been trying to give you an abortion against your will."Prowse denied this. But Montgomery continued: "I suggest that night you became very angry with him because you said he had done nothing. He had effectively impregnated you by having sex with you and he could at least support you by providing drugs so you didn't need to go to a clinic." Prowse again replied: "No."The next morning Erin brought her a cup of tea in bed. Prowse drank it but saw there was yellow powder at the bottom of the cup, the court heard. Montgomery alleged what Prowse saw was limescale from an old kettle, not drugs.When the couple met at a cafe a week later Prowse said she had become suspicious and not drunk her coffee because the lid had been removed and replaced. But Montgomery suggested Erin had openly put an abortion pill in the drink in front of her. "It was a demonstration to show you that you could not take the drug in that form because it tasted terrible."Prowse received a text message from Erin on 11 February last year that made her suspect he was still seeing Roesner, the court heard.It read: "Would you fly away somewhere nice for that weekend if you don't do a locum [a stand-in shift for doctors]?"Prowse said: "I was angry when I got the text that I believed wasn't meant for me."Erin tried to explain his mistake in another text, which said: "Sorry, not a girl. Old climbing friend from Wales."Further messages from the doctor read: "Was wrong number, sorry love. You can come too if you want," and "He's an old SHO [senior house officer] of mine in Wales".Sean Larkin, for the prosecution, pointed out that Prowse received these texts after she had gone to the police with her concerns that she had been poisoned by Erin. She gave birth to a healthy son in September 2008.Erin, of Kensington, west London, a consultant in a chest and allergy clinic, denies procuring poison to be used with the intention of causing a miscarriage, administering poison to procure a miscarriage and two charges of attempting to administer poison. The trial continues.