Anthony "Tone" Handley will never forget his wedding day. Two hours before he was to make his vows at Gretna Green, police burst into the hotel room, where he and his best man were practising their speeches, and arrested him.Handley, 33, a linchpin in an international drug trafficking network, had been on the run for six months. But his romantic Scottish wedding plans, for which he had to declare his real name, were his downfall. Handley, who had previously been jailed for four years for armed robbery, used several aliases while on the run. But he was caught out when, on a hunch, police decided to call Gretna's registrar. His arrest, in December 2003, was another nail in the coffin of the gang, whose multimillion pound activities spanned the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Spain and the UK. Handley was jailed for five-and-a-half years yesterday, while the gang's boss, Keith "Red" Harrison, 50, laughed as the judge at Birmingham crown court gave him an eight-year stretch. Six other gang members also received prison sentences. Adrian Haywood and Michael Saward each got six years, Steven Bower got four years, Mark Ford three-and-a-half years, Dale Wright three years and Alan Walker 18 months. Another key conspirator, Donald James, will be sentenced next Friday. Harrison, who met Handley while in prison, lived in luxury in Amsterdam driving top-of-the-range cars, paid for with bags full of tens of thousands of pounds. He owned a lavish penthouse apartment in Amsterdam, a boat and spent a fortune on prostitutes, once blowing €11,000 (£7,500) in a brothel in one night. But loneliness, boredom and distrust led to hours on the phone to his UK cohorts, giving police the information they needed. Over the past two years, a National Crime Squad investigation - Operation Shearson - netted more than £25m-worth of cannabis, cocaine and ecstasy, and brought Harrison, and his lieutenants to justice.British and Dutch police led the inquiry, analysing 20,000 tapped phone calls, and decimating the entire gang with 33 arrests throughout Europe. In 2001, Harrison skipped the country while on home leave from HMP North Sea Camp, where he was serving seven-and-a-half years for manslaughter and drug dealing. He fled to Amsterdam, where he met Franciscus Peiter Beikmans, a leading drug supplier. Harrison began organising shipments home through Handley, a Nottingham-based market trader. Harrison and Handley established a web of contacts to import and distribute the drugs in London and throughout the Midlands. But in November 2002, Dutch police stumbled across the UK network when investigating an unrelated drug murder. In 2003 the authorities intercepted drugs in Felixstowe, Brussels , Antwerp and elsewhere. Two police swoops on the gang led to the arrests of Walker, Haywood, Wright and Ford and the recovery of large drug hauls. Handley went on the run, and Harrison turned to Donald James to take over the UK operation. The pair hired skipper Michael Saward to bring drugs in by sea, and Steven Bower as security. On August 23 2003, Saward and Bower set sail from Ramsgate bound for Nieuwpoort, Belgium. As the pair dined with Harrison, the police swooped. Simultaneous search and arrest operations took place in the Netherlands and the UK. Harrison, Bower and Saward were extradited back to the UK last year. Harrison, Handley, James, Walker, Haywood, Ford and Wright pleaded guilty. Bower and Saward denied the drug charges but were convicted after standing trial. Detective Inspector John Cudlipp, who led Operation Shearson, said: "He [Harrison] was lonely and bored and he spent lots of time on the phone, which was great for us. "It's not often you witness an entire criminal network being dismantled from top to bottom with significant loss to the supply of drugs to the UK."