The government's forthcoming social mobility strategy needs to do much more to help vulnerable young people. Too often policies aimed at increasing social mobility neglect the fact that contact with the criminal justice system can blight people's prospects, particularly those of teenagers. A criminal record, and especially a period in prison, can consign young adults to periods of unemployment and homelessness, which are linked to further offending.While there has been a welcome recognition by government that diverting juveniles under 18 away from formal processing by the criminal justice system can prevent an escalation of youth offending, once people reach 18, everything changes.Young people in conflict with the law find their status as children – and the treatment that goes with it – disappears overnight. This is despite strong evidence that young people do not reach full psychological maturity until their mid-20s – a fact reflected in distinctive policies by government departments to assist this age group to find work and maintain good health.By contrast, police, prosecutors and courts make decisions on the basis of chronological age rather than maturity. Young offender institutions – the one part of the system that purports to have a specialised approach to young adults – are often prisons in all but name.It needn't be like this. In Germany, courts assign 18- to 21-year-olds to either juvenile or adult sentences, depending on how mature the individual is, not on their chronological age. As many young offenders have learning disabilities, drug or alcohol problems and few, if any, qualifications, this means that the vast majority are in fact treated as juveniles.We need a much more tailored approach to the sentencing, supervision and resettlement of young adult offenders. It would bring us into line with international standards and practice.Germany and other countries have shown us the way. There are easier and more immediate ways to respond to the needs of 18- to 24-year-olds. Public attitudes – often perceived as an obstacle to progressive change – need not stand in the way. A recent ComRes poll of 150 MPs and over 2,000 adults for the Transition to Adulthood (T2A) Alliance finds almost seven out of 10 people agreeing that emotional and psychological maturity should be taken into account by the courts when dealing with a young person who breaks the law. MPs are even more supportive, with 81% agreeing.But with record levels of youth unemployment and local services cutting back on support to existing service users, it may seem an unlikely time for a shift in approach.Yet economic analysis undertaken by the Alliance published today shows this approach, whereby sentences would reflect the maturity of the offender, would in fact save money – without any heroic assumptions about effectiveness. Young adulthood is a crucial age for crime and future life prospects. Only when the government focuses its "rehabilitation revolution" on this age group will criminal justice policy be less of a brake on social mobility.• Rob Allen is the outgoing chair of the T2A Alliance. He will be replaced by Dame Anne Owers, the former chief inspector of prisons