A father of three has admitted causing grievous bodily harm with intent after blinding a businessman in a bungled doorstep acid attack.Property developer Andreas Christopheros,30, lost his sight in one eye and suffered serious burns to his face, arms and body after David Phillips threw a beaker of sulphuric acid at him in a case of mistaken identity.Exeter crown court heard that Phillips, a 49-year-old painter and decorator, travelled more than 300 miles to get to Christopheros’s home in Truro, Cornwall, falsely believing him to be a man who had wronged a member of his family.Phillips was told he would be facing a jail term when he returns to court for sentencing next month and was remanded in custody. Outside court, Supt Dave Thorne, of Devon and Cornwall police, said: “It does appear that this was a case of mistaken identity.”Thorne said Phillips’s family used to live in Cornwall but had moved to Hastings in Sussex. Phillips planned the revenge attack for “a personal reason to do with his family”.However, the attack was “ill prepared and ill planned”, said Thorne, and Phillips went to the wrong house in the cul-de-sac. As Christopheros opened the door, Phillips threw the acid into his face.Thorne said: “He is significantly disfigured. His face, arms and body were burned. He is blind in one eye and partially sighted in the other. These are significant life-changing injuries.”Following the attack in December 2015, the victim was in a critical condition and was treated in a specialist hospital in Swansea. His wife, Pia, was also injured from the residue of the acid as she went to help her husband. Their son, Theo, was aged 18 months at the time.For the court appearance, Christopheros wore sunglasses and a face shield, with extensive burns across his face still clearly visible. Thorne said Phillips, who has three children, was a family man with no relevant previous convictions. He said the sort of acid Phillips used was readily available.The officer said the inquiry had been difficult because at first they could find no motive for the crime and Phillips refused to discuss the reasons for the attack. Detectives eventually tracked down the person they believe Phillips was targeting. When the GBH charge was put to him by the clerk in court, Phillips said: “I am ashamed to say guilty ma’am.”Philip Lee, prosecuting, said: “Andreas Christopheros was an innocent man who was targeted wrongly.” He told the judge that there may be “unfinished business” as far as Phillips is concerned, which could affect the length of his jail sentence as he may continue to pose a risk to the public.Defence lawyer Mohammed Bashir said it was a “very serious offence” and asked for a pre-sentence report to be prepared. The court heard the victim wanted to be present in court when Phillips is sentenced on 9 October to hear why he was assaulted. Privately educated Christopheros has a number of business interests and has helped organise the Run to the Sun event, an annual custom car and dance festival that attracts about 100,000 car fans to Newquay every summer. 