A bankrupt businessman murdered a solicitor with a sawn-off shotgun after blaming him for the repossession of his home and the break-up of his relationship, a jury has been told.Michael Chudley calmly walked into the offices of James Ward in the Wiltshire market town of Devizes and opened fire, Salisbury crown court heard. Ward, a father-of-three, suffered catastrophic head injuries and died almost three weeks later in hospital.Chudley, 63, formerly of Rowde, near Devizes, denies murder, possession of a sawn-off shotgun with intent, possession of a firearm with intent to provoke fear of violence and making a threat to kill.He has admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility but this plea was not accepted by the prosecution.William Mousley QC, prosecuting, told the jury: "Shortly before 3pm on 2 July last year James Ward, known as Jim, was at work when Michael Chudley walked into his first floor office and shot him at close range with a sawn-off shotgun."It is clear Michael Chudley intended at the very least to cause serious injury to James Ward and most likely intended to kill him."The jury heard that when Chudley was arrested 30 minutes later by armed police he said: "I shot him because he made our lives a misery." The court was told that Ward had been instructed to act for a Surrey man who was in dispute with Chudley over building work. The Surrey man had successfully sued Chudley."There is evidence of a number of sources to show that Michael Chudley blamed James Ward for the outcome of the proceedings," the prosecutor said.He said Chudley also held Ward responsible for his house being repossessed and for his separation from his partner. Before the shooting, Chudley had been sleeping in his car and in rented rooms in pubs.On the day of the killing, Chudley parked his car on double yellow lines outside Ward's firm, MGW Law. He told the receptionist, Daphne Courtney, to take him to Ward."He was carrying a sawn-off shotgun in his right hand, pointed downwards," said Mousley. "He appeared agitated and his voice was aggressive. He told Daphne Courtney to take him immediately to James Ward, not to speak to anybody or pick up the phone, or he would shoot."Daphne Courtney was terrified and didn't know what to do and she went in front of Michael Chudley upstairs. James Ward was talking on the phone to a client. Michael Chudley walked in, raised the gun in his right hand, pointed it and fired once."Mousley said Ward's wife, Nicola Morris, a partner in MGW Law, ran outside to raise the alarm. "Michael Chudley was seen to come out of the building, walk to his car, apparently calmly, carrying the shotgun, and to drive away, apparently normally," Mousley said.Chudley told police: "This solicitor strung this court case out for four years and we can't pay the mortgage. I shall never see the light again – attempted murder, unlicensed shotgun – and to be honest I don't want to." In a written statement after he was charged he admitted shooting James Ward claiming that he didn't intend to kill and was "on autopilot".Mousley said: "At the time of the shooting his actions were planned, premeditated and he continued to act in such a way after the shooting – even explaining to officers why he shot James Ward."The trial continues.