Police investigating the fatal stabbing of 16-year-old Mary-Ann Leneghan today charged a fourth man with murder.Llewellyn Olemide Adams, 23, was charged with murder, attempted murder and kidnap by officers this afternoon, Thames Valley police said. This morning two men, Adrian Thomas, 19, of Battersea, south London, and Indrit Krasniqi, 18, of Chiswick, west London, were remanded in custody after appearing at Reading magistrates court. They have also been charged with murder, kidnap and attempting to murder Mary-Ann and her 18-year-old friend. A fourth man, Jamaile Morally, 21, of Balham, south London, was also remanded in custody by Reading Magistrates on Saturday charged with murder, attempted murder, kidnap and rape. Mr Adams is due to appear before Reading magistrates court tomorrow. The three other men will all appear at Reading crown court on ThursdayMary-Ann was found dead after being stabbed in Prospect Park in Reading in the early hours of Saturday May 7. She had been taken to the park with her 18-year-old friend, who cannot be named for legal reasons, after being abducted by a gang of up to six men from a car park at the disused Wallingford Arms pub in the town. The girls were then driven to a guest house in the town where they were sexually and physically assaulted before being taken to the park. Mary-Ann died from a stab wound to the neck but her friend survived despite being shot in the head. Both of the friends had been left for dead by their attackers. Thirteen people have since been questioned including the four men who have been charged. One man remains in police custody but two women and a man arrested in London on Friday morning have been released on police bail, as have a woman arrested in the West Midlands on Wednesday, a man arrested in London on Monday and three men arrested in Reading last Saturday morning. Police revealed earlier today that they seized a car in London at the weekend which is being examined to determine whether it was the vehicle used in the abduction. 