A 68-year-old woman who advocates cooking with cannabis for health reasons was today found guilty of growing and possessing the drug and sentenced to 250 hours of community work.Patricia Tabram - a cause celebre for pro-cannabis campaigners - had been warned earlier today that she might face jail for her second drugs conviction and had defiantly spoken of how she was not scared of prison. This morning at Carlisle crown court Judge Barbara Forrester had warned Tabram that she could face a custodial sentence. The warning came after a jury decided she had breached a six-month suspended jail sentence she was given in April 2005 at Newcastle crown court.The judge in Newcastle, David Hodson, had declined to make Tabram "a martyr" by jailing her.In the event, after an adjournment for pre-sentence reports, Judge Forrester also decided this afternoon not to imprison Tabram, who lives in a bungalow in Humshaugh, Northumberland. The community work will be unpaid. The sentence was made up of 175 hours' unpaid work for cultivating four cannabis plants and a further 75 hours for possessing powdered cannabis which she used for cooking.Judge Forrester told her she must also pay £1,000 costs.Tabram had said this morning before the jury delivered its verdict that she would be "everyone's granny" in prison and would be treated well, though she was anxious about not having her outlawed "medicine".Her previous sentence was also for possessing cannabis plants and drugs worth £850, which she added to curries, casseroles, biscuits and soups for local people.Today the jury decided that Tabram had breached her sentence after police, acting on a tip-off, found four plants growing in a wardrobe at her home in September 2005. They also found powdered cannabis in a jar next to her cooker.The jury in this latest case had heard Tabram's claims that she used cannabis to ease her depression, as well as aches and pains she still suffered from two car crashes. The jury of six men and six women came back after 15 minutes of deliberations with unanimous guilty verdicts for the two counts, one of possessing the drug and one of cultivating it.Tabram, who has been defending herself, told the court: "I am old and I am tired, and I am disappointed, not in the result by the jury."I am disappointed in the attitude of the court regarding someone my age with my health problems and the way I deal with it. I just want to go home and get some rest." However, she could be evicted over her second drug conviction.She is a tenant of Milecastle Housing Association, which will meet to decide what to do next.The organisation has met Tabram several times to discuss her drug use and a spokesman said she was aware she had breached her tenancy agreement.Before today's proceedings, Tabram, a grandmother of two, said she was not afraid of going to prison. "I will be with all women in there and they will treat me like a queen. "I will be everyone's granny in there. I won't have any medicine, I suppose. I will have to ask my son to bring in my walking stick and neck brace." The twice-married former chef and teacher said she spent last night having a meal in Newcastle with her son, Colin, and two expert cannabis growers. "We giggled all night," she said. She described the police who arrested her as "gentlemen" and warmly greeted Tom Moran, prosecuting counsel, as he entered the court. After her conviction, the pro-cannabis campaigners Lezley Gibson and her husband, Mark, from Alston, Cumbria, said they were devastated for Tabram. The Gibsons were last year given suspended jail sentences for running a cottage industry which made and posted chocolate bars containing cannabis to multiple sclerosis (MS) patients.Today, Ms Gibson, who has MS, said of Tabram's conviction: "I cannot believe that juries are so spineless. I hoped that the jury would find her not guilty and that the law might change. The jury has not taken into account the fact that she is ill because the judge did not let them."It can now be reported that on the second day of Tabram's trial, proceedings were disrupted when she claimed a stash of cannabis she had smuggled into court in her bra had gone missing. Tabram said three small plastic bags containing the drug which she had left in the locked courtroom overnight had gone missing. Judge Forrester twice cleared the court for searches to be done, and said she was considering calling in the police to investigate. However, almost two hours after proceedings were due to begin, Tabram said she had found the drugs - which she intended to produce as evidence - in her handbag. The jury was unaware of the missing cannabis, as the matter unfolded during legal argument before the trial resumed.