One of Britain's most notorious drug dealers, Curtis Warren, has lost a legal battle that would have led to his conviction being overturned.Warren, who is known as Cocky, and five others were convicted of plotting to smuggle cannabis with a street value of £1m into Jersey. When he was arrested, he claimed to have been on the Channel Island visiting friends. The arrest came less than a month after Warren's release from a high-security jail in the Netherlands. The dealer, from Liverpool, had been jailed in 1997 for 12 years for masterminding a £100m drug smuggling ring. His sentence had been increased by four years for the manslaughter of a prisoner who died during a fight.The 47-year-old had argued he should be freed because police on the island obtained key evidence by illegally bugging a car.However, his appeal was rejected by five law lords at the supreme court in London. Warren was not in court to hear their judgment as the Parliament Square building was deemed not secure enough for Interpol's former number one target to appear.In February, Warren's QC told the court there was an abuse of process and argued a suspension of proceedings should have been granted. The latest appeal concerns the court of appeal of Jersey's refusal to grant a stay. He was jailed for 13 years in December 2009.Jersey's judicial committee of the privy council said in its judgment that a successful bid would "inevitably lead to the quashing of the convictions".During Warren's trial, it emerged that detectives wanted to bug a car belonging to a Warren associate as it was driven through France, Belgium and the Netherlands.The other countries refused permission but Jersey officers bugged the car anyway. The illegally recorded audio, although condemned by the trial judge, was admitted as evidence.Despite rejecting the appeal, five law lords said there had been a "strong case" for granting the stay because the police were "unquestionably guilty of serious prosecutorial misconduct".Warren's trial heard that detectives were "reprehensible" and "unlawful" in the way they obtained evidence against him, and a subsequent inquiry was announced. However, the trial judge allowed the bugging evidence to go before the jury and Warren was convicted with his five co-accused.His legal team will take a new appeal to Strasbourg, arguing that his human rights were infringed because of this. The supreme court ruling said: "In the present case, there was a strong case for a stay. The police were unquestionably guilty of serious prosecutorial misconduct. They misled the authorities of Jersey and three foreign states. Further, without the product of the unlawfulness, there would have been no trial."But they refused the appeal, saying the Jersey court was not misled, the crime was very serious, Warren was a professional drug dealer of "the first order" and officers were faced with an urgent, fast-moving investigation.In a statement, the court stressed "its condemnation of the police misconduct in this case. It was a sustained and deliberate act of law-breaking. The outcome of this appeal should not be seen to condone or overlook such behaviour. It should not be taken by Jersey police as any kind of signal that they can repeat this kind of conduct with impunity."Speaking after the ruling, Warren's barrister, Tony Barraclough, said: "I have discussed it with him and he wants to go to Europe. Now that he has been knocked back on this there is the confiscation hearing - they want around £200m from him."Warren made it on to several Sunday Times rich lists after he was thought to be worth around £80m until some of his assets were seized by law enforcement agencies following a high-court order. The son of a merchant seaman, he first ran into trouble with the police at the age of 12, for the unauthorised taking of a car. He graduated into serious crime, forging links with the Cali cartel of Colombia and ecstasy and amphetamine laboratories in the Netherlands.During the trial, the prosecution described him as a "prolific drugs trafficker who has operated at the highest levels of the international drugs trade".Warren was kept under close surveillance during the five weeks he was a free man, when he was alleged to have made 1,500 phone calls, 112 from public phone boxes, and was secretly recorded allegedly talking about what he stood to gain from the Jersey plot. With the time he has already served, Warren could be released from Belmarsh prison in five years.