About two miles north of Birmingham city centre, in the shadows of Aston Villa’s football stadium, a former gang elder struggles to count the number of times he’s been shot at.“Loads. Loads,” says Simeon “Zimbo” Moore, 32, a former member of the Johnson Crew, one of Birmingham’s most notorious gangs. “When I was 18, 19, there was shootings every day.” The most terrifying incident happened five years ago, he says, when he saw his younger cousin killed by a bullet fired through the back of his neck, lodging in his jaw.“From 2005 to 2010 it was active, shootings were regular but they almost came to a stop for the main part of 2013. It’s slowly beginning to build back up again.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simeon Moore: ‘When I was 18, 19, there was shootings every day.’ Photograph: David Sillitoe for the GuardianThis week the West Midlands was labelled “the nation’s gun crime capital” as figures from the Office for National Statistics showed that the region now has a higher rate of firearms offences for its population than London.The figures, which are hotly disputed by senior officers, have brought unwelcome attention to a region that still bears the scars of high-profile shootings stretching back over a decade.The murders of teenagers Letisha Shakespeare and Charlene Ellis in 2003 as they left a New Year’s Day party propelled Birmingham’s gun crime problem into the national headlines and revolted a local community fatigued by daily acts of violence.Letisha and Charlene were innocent victims caught in the crossfire of warring gangs, the Burger Bar Boys and the Johnson Crew, whose feud blighted the Aston area of Birmingham for over a decade.In a red-brick building called the Centre for Aston Family, once in the heart of the city’s “no man’s land”, Moore says the Burger Bar Boys and Johnson Crew are no longer at war, thanks largely to the acclaimed Channel 4 film One Mile Away which saw the two groups form a fragile truce.But the city’s gun problem has not gone away. “There’s a lot, a lot, of gun crime going on,” says Gleen Reid, who set up the anti-gun campaign Families for Peace after her 28-year-old son Corey was shot dead outside a nightclub in 2001. “We’re hearing about a shooting here, a shooting there, stabbing here, but because there’s no fatality it’s not in the news. It’s like it’s becoming the norm.”Just before Christmas, she says, a group of young people were shot at outside a row of shops in Newtown, another troubled area of inner-city Birmingham, and luckily no one was injured. West Midlands police could find no record of the incident, but news of the shooting spread widely in the local area.The ONS figures show there were 540 firearms offences in the West Midlands in 2013-14, three times fewer than the 1,594 incidents in London. However, when the figures are compared per 100,000 of the population, the West Midlands has a rate of 19.4 incidents compared to 18.95 in the capital.There were 41 more firearms offences in the West Midlands last year compared to the previous year, meaning that the region accounted for one in nine incidents of gun crime recorded in England and Wales.However, Deputy Chief Constable Dave Thompson of West Midlands police, who has national oversight of the criminal use of firearms, said the figures painted a misleading picture.A quarter of the total 540 offences related to air weapons, he said, pointing out that the figures also include incidents in which a firearm may not actually have been used. For example, if a robber held up a shop shouting “I’ve got a gun” then this would count as a gun crime, even if no firearm was present.Robberies likes this accounted for 44% of the force’s total gun-related offences, but it is not known in how many cases a firearm was actually used.The force also points to its relatively low discharge rates – with 37 incidents in which a weapon was actually fired – compared to other similarly-sized cities. So far in the year to March, there have been no gun-related murders in the West Midlands – the first time this has happened for about 20 years. “We do have a gun crime problem but actually if we’re saying people are getting shot with guns that’s not really what’s going on,” Thompson said. “With the level of work that’s gone on in the last few years gun crime is really a pale shadow of what it used to be, but you can never take your eye off it because it can very quickly catch up with you again as a problem.”Police officers hold regular briefings in schools around the city, along with Marcia Shakespeare, the mother of murdered Letisha, in an attempt to stop children falling into the traps of gangs and guns culture.However, decades of mistrust between the young black community and the police still festers. A police summit held early last year sought to address concerns around stop and search and saw its use drop by two-thirds, according to David Jamieson, the West Midlands police and crime commissioner. But Moore, who uses his role as a former gang elder to mentor young people away from that “street life”, says the animosity runs deeper than stop and search. “There’s no respect for the police,” he says. “It gets worse whenever you hear about the police killing someone, whether it’s here or America.”Relations between community groups and the authorities have also been fractured by a cut in funding, which has left organisations like Families For Peace unable to continue working with young people. Reid said she still had young people on her books who want to do leadership courses but without the funding she was unable to put them on. She added: “So what are the young people going to do? They’re going to go back to what they know because they can’t see a future. The government has taken away all the funding from the black charities in Birmingham. Now they complain that West Midlands is the worst for gun crime now - I’m not surprised.”