The “Snapchat killers”, who tortured and murdered Angela Wrightson in her own home, had been friends since they were small girls and were said to be inseparable. Both girls had dysfunctional upbringings, growing up in a rundown area of Hartlepool where there was high unemployment. Both had difficult relationships with their families and would go missing from home regularly. Both were taken into care when their parents could not cope. They turned to each other for support, developing a strong but unhealthy bond and describing themselves as “partners in crime”. Relatives and outside observers noted that it was when the girls were together that problems started to arise. Their families tried to keep them away from each other, fearing the consequences. A former neighbour said: “Separately they were alright, they could be quite sweet girls, but together they were devils.” Girl AShe grew up in a household where both of her parents were unemployed. The levels of violence that she witnessed in her formative years would later be described as extreme. She regularly saw her mother being attacked. By the time she was 11 she was hooked on drugs including Valium, tramadol and codeine, and was regularly getting drunk on cheap cider. She exhibited increasingly disturbed behaviour and would be diagnosed with a psychological condition, Mixed Disorder of Conduct and Emotions, which meant she had no concept of the consequences of violent actions. Giving an insight into her psyche during the trial, the girl told the court: “When I was 14 I thought you could only die if you got cancer or shot in the head or stabbed in the heart. That is what I thought.”She was taken in by the local authority after her family said they could no longer cope. Her social services tutor described her as the most volatile young person she had ever worked with. The girl’s violent tendencies did not abate and she regularly smashed up her room and constantly absconded, often being brought back late at night by police officers. Mental health services were drafted in to draw up a strategy to help her deal with her violent rages. They told her to draw pictures as a way of releasing her anger. In one of these drawings, found after Wrightson’s death, she sketched a smiling, long-haired girl stabbing a figure in the chest, and blood pouring out of the wound. The girl later told police: “It was just what they told me to do to help my anger.”She loved violent rap music and obsessively listened to Dance With the Devil by Immortal Technique, about a young man forced to rape and kill a woman as a gang initiation ceremony, only to discover the victim is his mother. On the day that she and her friend murdered Wrightson, the girl went to visit her mother, who was on her way out and didn’t want to spend any time with her daughter. The girl pleaded with her until her mother replied: “F*ck off. Why don’t you go and kill yourself.” The girl flew into a rage and had to be taken away by her older sister. She then went on a drink and drugs binge, downing cider and taking painkillers given to her by her mother.Girl BConsidered less aggressive of the two, she came from a slightly more stable background. Her parents were still together and her father had a full-time job in manual labour.She was referred to social services after running away from home on several occasions. Her parents worked with the local authority, and a social worker observed that the mother was proactive in implementing behaviour plans for the daughter. But the girl was not comfortable in new environments and would try and push boundaries, often losing her temper with her mother.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Angela Wrightson in a CCTV still issued by Cleveland police as part of a witness appeal after her death. Photograph: Cleveland Police/PAThe social worker said: “[Girl B] was not confident in new environments, such as going into Hartlepool town centre, she would link my arm. She was never insulting to me and was very jovial. She did push boundaries, however. I’ve had to calm her down when she attended [an education facility]. I’ve also seen her lose her temper with her mam when discussing times for her to return home.”The girl was also obsessed with her phone, spending hours on it messaging friends and using social media, Snapchat being her favourite. A friend of the girl said: “She lived on her phone, she would get mad if she couldn’t have it with her, it was like her whole life was on her phone and she sometimes didn’t know how to act if she met you face to face. She was awkward when there were a few people in a room but if she talking by phone she was funnier and more chatty.”On the night of the murder, the girl used her phone to take a selfie at 9pm, after the attack had started. It showed the girls smiling in the foreground and Wrightson staring grimly ahead in the background, her face already showing the signs of bruising. The girl continued to use her phone as Wrightson was being beaten to death. Girl A told the court: “Angela was sitting on the couch and [Girl B] was saying to knock her out so I kicked her. [Girl B] said: ‘Fucking hell, isn’t she knocked out yet?’ She had sat back down and was on her phone while she was telling me to do it.” After beating Wrightson to death, the girls called the police for a lift home and laughed as Girl B photographed Girl A and posted the image to Snapchat with the caption: “Me and [Girl A] in the back on the bizzie van again.”Angela WrightsonShe was 39 but looked twice her age. A chronic alcoholic, she weighed no more than 7 stone (45kg) and wore several layers of clothes to keep warm, even during the summer. Leading a lonely life, she craved company. Like her killers she had been through the care system, and she had been jailed and sectioned under the Mental Health Act for her own safety.Generally accepted as a nuisance in Stephen Street, Hartlepool, “Alco Angie” was regarded with affection by most of her neighbours. When sober she was kind and caring, loved dogs and liked to go to church. Her home was described as being meticulously neat and tidy. But when she had been drinking, her personality changed. She had a habit of going out to lie in the middle of the road, and made nuisance 999 calls that resulted in court appearances and Asbos.Donna Jenkins, a hairdresser who was one of her closest friends, said Wrightson wasn’t close to her family and had been left heartbroken by the death of a partner. “Angie was a lost soul and found life much easier in prison, she felt safe in there and had become largely institutionalised,” Jenkins recalled. “She was an alcoholic and suffered poor mental health, which led to her having numerous Asbos in place. She would often breach them, which would end up with her serving short prison sentences. She wasn’t a criminal, she needed help not prison.”Angela Wrightson murder: two teenage girls found guilty Wrightson, one of eight siblings, grew up on a council estate in Darlington, County Durham, before moving to nearby Bishop Auckland and eventually Hartlepool. She was single for most of her life and never had children.“She met a man called Billy and would talk about him a lot,” Jenkins said. “I got the impression that this was the happiest period of Angie’s life. She told me Billy had died and it was alcohol related, which had left her heartbroken. I think his death hit her hard and her own condition worsened over the last two to three years.”Jenkins said she last saw Wrightson on 5 December 2014, three nights before the murder. “She had called round to my house as she usually did and stayed for about an hour. She seemed her normal self and had a drink and a bite to eat. I got the impression she wanted to stay but I was up for work early the next day so she left.“I showed her out and watched her walk off up the street and never thought for one moment that it would be the last time I ever saw her.”