A teenager who posted death threats on Facebook has become the first person in Britain to be jailed for bullying on a social networking site.Keeley Houghton, 18, of Malvern, Worcestershire, has been sentenced to three months in a young offenders' institution after she posted a message saying that she would kill Emily Moore. She pleaded guilty to harassment.On 12 July, Houghton updated her status on Facebook to read: "Keeley is going to murder the bitch. She is an actress. What a fucking liberty. Emily Fuckhead Moore."Moore, also 18, had been victimised by Houghton for four years, the court heard, and had previously suffered a physical assault as well as damage to her home.Worcester magistrates court heard how two days before the threat was made, Moore was in The Vaults pub in Malvern when she saw Houghton staring at her. Sara Stock, prosecuting, said: "Later when Emily was sitting on her own the defendant came over and sat next to her and asked her: 'Are you Emily Moore? Can I have a huggle?' Emily told the defendant to leave her alone otherwise she would call the police. Keeley then told her: 'I'll give you something to ring the police about.' "Houghton wept throughout the 15-minute hearing. The court was told she had two previous convictions in connection with Moore. In 2005 she was convicted of assaulting her as she walked home from school and was subsequently expelled from school. Two years later she was convicted of causing criminal damage after kicking Moore's front door.District judge Bruce Morgan told her: "Bullies are by their nature cowards, in school and society. The evil, odious effects of being bullied stay with you for life. On this day you did an act of gratuitous nastiness to satisfy your own twisted nature."Houghton, who is unemployed, was also issued with a restraining order banning her from contacting Moore.The court heard how she told police that she wrote the death threats while she was drunk late at night and had no memory of it. But when police examined internet records they discovered Houghton wrote the comments at 4pm on 12 July and kept them on her Facebook page for 24 hours.At an earlier hearing Houghton defended herself and told magistrates: "I'm here for trying to apologise. She threatened to call the police and all I was doing was saying sorry."Edward Gaynor-Smith, defending, told the court Houghton now "fully admitted her involvement" in the case.The Metropolitan police has hired a consultancy to help monitor social networking sites for evidence of crime.