A man who is wanted in the UK for his alleged involvement in a notorious "honour" killing has been arrested in northern Iraq and offered for extradition, the Guardian has learned.However, Kurdish officials say that prosecutors are refusing to ask for his removal, raising fears there and among campaigners in Britain that some of those responsible for the death of Banaz Mahmod will not face justice.Mahmod, 20, from Mitcham, south London, was tortured, raped and strangled last year by a gang recruited by her uncle, Ari Mahmod, because her family disapproved of her boyfriend.Her body was found in a suitcase and buried in a pit three months after she disappeared. In the weeks before her murder, she repeatedly told police of threats from her family and, on one occasion, an attempt by her father to kill her, but officers did not take her claims seriously.Following a trial at the Old Bailey, her uncle, her father, Mahmod Mahmod, and a third man, Mohamad Hama, were sentenced to life for her murder.But two other suspects fled to Iraq after the killing. Detectives have been trying to trace them for more than a year and warrants have been issued in the UK for their arrests on suspicion of murder.The Guardian has learned that one of the wanted men, Mohammed Ali, has been arrested in Iraqi Kurdistan over a separate matter. The Kurdish authorities say they are willing to extradite him. They are now seeking to arrest the other suspect, Omar Hussein.But, according to Kurdish and British sources, the CPS has failed to launch extradition proceedings.One senior official at the Kurdish regional government (KRG) in Iraq expressed concern that no official request has been made for extradition. "The British CPS wired the KRG and asked for only the name and fingerprints of the person who has been arrested, but there has been no extradition request," said the official."It is a concern for the ministry. We have asked for the arrest of the second suspect wanted in connection with the crime. The Kurdish regional government want suspected criminals to face justice and if the British government ask for them to be extradited properly and officially, we will extradite them."A representative in Britain of the PUK, one of the two coalition parties in the Kurdish government, said it was frustrated by the lack of action. Shanaz Ibrahim Ahmed said: "It is up to the British authorities. We have repeated ourselves hundreds of times. Tell us who you want. If the British government do not act, it will encourage criminals to take refuge in an already troubled area."The CPS says extradition is impossible. A spokesman reiterated advice given in June this year, which stated that "under current Iraqi law extradition is not possible", and added that the Iraqi constitution did not allow its nationals to be extradited.However, its interpretation of the law appears to be at odds with that of the solicitor general, Vera Baird. In an answer to a parliamentary question last week, Baird said: "In general, extradition arrangements do exist between the UK and Iraq and the UK is a party to an extradition treaty with Iraq."Alison Kemp, British counsel general in Iraqi Kurdistan, said: "When I spoke to the KRG, they underlined the seriousness with which they regarded cooperation with suspects of "honour" killing. The regional president, Massoud Barzani and the prime minister Nechirvan Barzani have spoken publicly about how concerned they are about the issue of "honour" killings."Support groups for victims of "honour" violence say the case is a test of how serious the British authorities are about catching and prosecuting suspects who flee the country. They contrast the CPS approach in this case with the attempts made to bring the suspected killers of Alexander Litvinenko to justice. Extradition proceedings were launched even though no extradition treaty existed, and the Russian authorities had repeatedly stated that they would not hand over the suspect.Jasvinger Sanghera, the director of Karma Nirvana, a support group for victims of "honour" violence, said: "We are appalled by this. This was going to set a precedent about how seriously the CPS takes the issue. This man could be put on a plane right now and flown back to face justice, so why is it taking so long?Diana Nammi, of the Iran and Kurdish Women's Rights Organisation, said: "The way to prevent 'honour' crimes is to let suspects know that they will face justice."The extradition row comes in the middle of a CPS public consultation on the way it deals with "honour" and other violent crimes against women.Imported crime· There are an estimated 12 "honour" killings in Britain a year, but police believe they are only the most extreme end of a much larger problem including abduction, imprisonment, physical and emotional abuse, forced abortions and rape.· Most "honour" crimes involve families from south Asia, but they have also included Nigerian, Turkish, Algerian and Kurdish families.· The CPS estimates that one in nine honour killings in the UK are carried out by hitmen.· It is common for the youngest member of the family to carry out the murder, with other relatives playing a lesser part.· Specially trained prosecutors are being deployed in four British honour-killing "hotspots" - London, the West Midlands, West Yorkshire and Lancashire - in a pilot prompted by Mahmod's murder.