After last week's column, I wouldn't want readers to glean the impression that only black or Irish people die at the hands of agents of the state. Harry Stanley was a white Scotsman, who popped into a Hackney pub for a quick soft drink, and minutes later was gunned down by armed police.It has to be said, however, that whoever phoned 999 to report a suspicious looking man in the pub, described him as having an Irish accent. In future, East End villains will be able to save a fortune on their hit-man bills. They'll simply report a person as being Irish and the police will do it for them. And what better way to deal with nuisance neighbours?The Crown Prosecution Service announced on Monday that no officers in this case are to be charged. One might take the words "insufficient evidence" seriously were it not for the fact that the crown has for years ushered legions of innocent people into jail on the flimsiest of evidence and then fought tooth and nail to keep them there. I'm sure if that, if the Metropolitan Police had decided to fit Harry Stanley up with something instead of shooting him in the head, the CPS would have done everything possible to assist them. However, crown prosecutors must weigh evidence carefully and one should not make light of the difficulties they face. On the one hand, Harry Stanley was walking down the road, carrying a table leg in a plastic bag, when he was shot dead. On the other hand, the people who shot him were policemen. Hence, the internal investigation was initially headed by a Surrey officer who is himself facing disciplinary charges in relation to a shooting incident. You may say that everybody makes mistakes. We have come to accept that police officers fail to investigate crimes, frame people and suppress the enjoyment of cannabis. But when they kill us, I think we are entitled to ask what we are paying them for. Everybody does make mistakes. Whoever phoned the police that day made two: one relating to Harry's accent, and another in imagining a table leg was a sawn-off shotgun. The first need not necessarily have mattered. An accent is no use in identifying a man walking down the street. Some of the press have suggested that the mistaken belief that Harry was Irish justified the shooting, ignoring the fact that being Irish is not actually proof of anything. It certainly wouldn't shed any light on whether a plastic bag might have a shotgun in it. Paramilitary organisations are apt to be secretive. Otherwise, Cyril Ramaphosa and Marti Artisarii would not need to be driven blindfold around the Irish countryside examining arms dumps. They could just pop in and out of bars looking in people's bags to see whether their guns had been fired lately. And sawn-off shotguns are not used in paramilitary operations anyway. The suspicion that a man is carrying a gun, however, is something to take seriously. In fact, before challenging a potentially armed suspect, officers are supposed to take cover. It is no part of their guidelines to simply walk behind a gunman and shout: "Police!" As it was, Harry Stanley had no reason to know anyone was shouting at him and perhaps didn't hear, so kept walking. The officers shouted again and he turned, probably quite curious. His turning was sufficient provocation for the officers to open fire. Perhaps the public should be trained in how we must react to shouting police if we don't want to die. We are used to people in possession of toy guns being shot, despite the fact that the police are supposed to try not to shoot even those people whom they know for certain are genuinely armed. Harry Stanley was carrying a bag with a table leg in it. I would have thought that it should have crossed someone's mind that it might not be a sawn-off shotgun. The witness who got so carried away had an excuse: a car chase involving armed police had by chance ended outside the pub that day, and doubtless imaginations were racing in what was after all a licensed premises. All the more reason why officers should have been sceptical. But perhaps the police themselves were a bit fired-up too. On Monday, Glen Smyth of the Police Federation described facing an armed suspect as "exciting"; and that was an attempt to defend this shooting. Maybe the killers of Harry Stanley will describe the excitement when they give evidence at the inquest, although they won't have to say anything that might incriminate them, and they will be hidden by screens, to protect them from table legs. comment@theguardian.com