The murder rate in England and Wales is at its lowest point since 1983, with 550 homicides reported in 2011-12, down 88 on the previous year. This is not a peculiarly British phenomenon. Right across Europe and North America, the murder rate has seen significant decreases. So what are the common features that have contributed to this international phenomenon, and are there any British-specific factors?First, we need to dispel some myths about what murder actually is, as opposed to the crimes we see depicted on television and read about in newspapers. Many people will instantly think of an Agatha Christie-type scenario in which all the possible perpetrators are brought together for a convoluted discussion before the guilt of the groundsman or butler is revealed by the savvy sleuth. In reality, however, most murders involve husbands killing wives and partners; or parents, especially step-parents, killing children.This isn't nearly so good a story for the media of course, but the sad reality is that in England and Wales, the most likely victim of a murder is a child – usually under the age of two – and the perpetrator is usually that little boy's or girl's mother or father. And so contrary to perceptions that almost all crime goes unsolved, the police have a 90% success rate in identifying murderers. It becomes far less of a case of whodunnit than why-did-they-do-it. All profilers need is a brief conversation with the victim's husband, mother, father, or boyfriend; that will probably make it obvious who the culprit is.So if the vast majority of murders come from within the home, it's in changes to domestic life and policy that we find the most important factors behind the fall in the murder rate. Compared to 30 years ago, domestic violence is now treated as a far more serious crime. To show how far we have come, marital rape – one of the most sordid forms of domestic abuse – was only criminalised in 1991. The authorities are not only more aware of violence against women and children in the home but are now more willing to intervene with families earlier to prevent violence escalating. This is borne out by the fact that the attempted murder rate is also in long-term decline, down 8% over the last year, a fall from 523 to 483 offences.There is also an increasing number of effective community schemes aimed at tackling domestic violence – schemes such as Northumbria Probation Trust's Solo project, winner of this year's Howard League for Penal Reform Community Programme Awards, which works with perpetrators of domestic violence so as to ensure greater safety for women and children.However, we need to also acknowledge some different phenomena, related to police and policing. The UK has the world's oldest and most extensive DNA database, and forensic science has progressed out of all recognition since the 1980s. So even in the minority of murders committed by stranger-perpetrators – usually in the night-time economy areas of towns and cities – the chances are that the police are going to track down the culprit. Forensic science has become the star witness at most trials, and violent offenders are all too aware that this is the case. And, while this is anecdotal, it does seem to have contributed towards a change in behaviour.Of course to fully explain the fall in the murder rate we also need to cast an eye towards why murder increased so dramatically in the 60s and 70s. That may be putting too much emphasis of this batch of figures, but what it should remind us is that the rise or fall of murder is essentially an indicator of social and economic structures and the pressures that are placed on men and women to make their way in the world and to make sense of their lives.