At the time it seemed to me like the most natural and uncontroversial of dinner table conversations. A woman I'd known for a couple of yearer Annie - mentioned in passing that she had grown up partly in Italy. I was curious. How come? What had taken her there? The answer was even more intriguing: she was born in an Asian, war-ravaged country wracked by war; orphaned; adopted by an Italian couple; raised first in Rome and then Britain. I felt that excitement that comes from discovering something new about someone or something you thought you knew; like finding out your mother had a secret passion for skydiving. I wanted to know more. Annie seemed happy to oblige. But a mutual (black) friend overhearing our conversation was looking irritated. After a while he intervened. This was a typical conversation between a white and black person in Britain, he said, anger audible in his voice. Why was it white people always wound up interrogating black people about their identity?I was gobsmacked. How could a series of questions I considered so manifestly benign in their intention have caused offence? I protested about natural curiosity, insisted that anyone would have been intrigued by Annie's extraordinary past, vowed that I would have asked the same questions of a white person in similar circumstances. We argued, Annie caught unpleasantly in the crossfire. The evening soured.Since then our mutual friend has talked to me about his sense of identity exhaustion, about what it's like to face a constant stream of questions from white friends. It may have been the product a peculiar set of circumstances but my sense is that our mild altercation was in many ways typical of a conversation many white Britons have had with black friends and colleagues since the publication of the Macpherson report. From a white perspective, these conversations have three elements in common: first the shock of discovering that some well-meant word or comment or action causes offence; then the instinctive desire to defend the right to do or say whatever it is; then (often, but not always) an attempt to reconcile the two. The brief, and widely misrepresented debate about whether Ali G was racist had all the ingredients. At first I, like most, I suspect, thought this was a preposterous suggestion; the comic's targets were plainly the white, establishment interviewees who slavishly indulged his cartoonish idiocy. But then a colleague pointed out that not everyone got this joke; some people will have laughed simply at his grotesque portrayal of a young black man. That - call it collateral comic damage - seemed unfortunate to me, but not nearly as unfortunate as the prospect of a society which muzzled an Ali G. I'm sure an academic study will some day show conclusively that white Britain is thinking more about issues like this because the Macpherson report opened our eyes to the idea of inadvertent racism, but I suspect the truth is rather simpler: we are just talking about race more. And the more we talk, the more we are reminded of a disconcerting fact - that black and white Britain frequently look at the same set of facts and see two very different things. In many ways, Macpherson and its aftershocks - the Ali G debate, Tyson's reception in Brixton - remind me less of the Rodney King affair than the aftermath of the OJ Simpson trial, that vertiginous moment when white America realised it had no idea what black America was thinking. It started with the debate over whether Paul Condon should be sacked for the failures of his force in the Lawrence investigation. White Britain (and I apologise in advance for the generalisation) thought broadly that those failures, damning as they were, should be placed in the debit column and totted up against the commissioner's many strengths and achievements. Black Britain, meanwhile, saw the decision about Condon's future quite simply as a litmus test of how serious the government was about restoring its confidence in the police.They are hardly in need in need of sympathy, in the scheme of things, but its been a particularly disorienting year for white liberals. Well at least this white liberal, and the handful (flock?) of others I have spoken to. There we were thinking we were on the side of the angels and it turns out we are part of the problem. As a Jew born in South Africa I had always believed my antennae on race were finely attuned; my Jewishness gave me some sense of the minority experience (I know what it's like to be asked where you're from just because your features look different) and my birthplace gave me a bootfull of guilty baggage that made me try harder (rather too hard, sometimes) to reach across the race divide. He protesteth too much, you're thinking, and you're probably right, but I'm just trying to explain why it comes as such a shock to discover you're completely out of touch. Part of the problem is that, apart from the spasms of national introspection that follow events like the publication of the Macpherson report, there is relatively little public discussion of race. Everyone agrees it's a red hot issue, but perhaps one that's a little too hot to handle. Commissioning material for this issue, I was amazed how few white writers were willing to tackle the subject. Some had good reasons why they could not but others, I suspect, shared the instinct of one commentator who declined, explaining: "Nothing good can come of this".I don't entirely blame those writers who baulked; a climate where people fear that saying anything remotely controversial about race will earn them them label "racist" can't be a healthy one. The absence of a public debate makes it all the more important we talk about race at a personal level. For if us white folk can't ask our black acquaintances what's OK and what isn't, what hurts and what doesn't, then how can we chart a sensitive course through this difficult terrain? Kamal Ahmed has written about feeling offended by the use of the word "blacks" in this newspaper, yet another black writer filing for this issue uses it freely in his story. I confess to being more than a little confused about which terms currently cause offence, and which do not. And to being embarrassed to ask. Whatever the merits of the Macpherson report itself, it has to be a good thing that it forced Britain to talk and think about race. It is important that we continue the conversation, that it doesn't simply peter out the way America's equivalent did in the months following the OJ Simpson verdict. That is why we are publishing this special edition of G2. And why perhaps I will tread a little more carefully the next time I ask a black friend about race.