Police yesterday began a fingertip search of the back garden of a south London house said to have been the centre of a paedophile ring for 40 years.Detectives are investigating claims that the bodies of two children may be buried in the garden of the modern terrace home on the New Addington estate near Croydon. "Forensic searches are continuing," said a spokesman. "A fingertip search of the rear garden is taking place. [Teams are] doing a phased forensic examination of the site. They will dig if they need to."Officers yesterday cleared bushes from a corner of the garden where concrete was laid and a shed built in 1970. A wishing well was also constructed in the same area. The search will continue today and is expected to last for two weeks.Investigations began after residents of 107 Walton Green, who are not connected with the investigation, received a letter saying that bodies were buried in the back garden more than 30 years ago.Leslie Ford-Thrussell, 72, a convicted paedophile, used to live in the house, but not at the time of what are described in the letter as the "historic incidents". The former gardener is serving a 12-year prison sentence after being convicted in 2004 of nine offences against girls.The Sun has claimed that he ran a paedophile ring from the house with two other men, said to be Stephen Dedman, now dead, and a man who cannot be named. The paper also claims that the letter to residents had been written by Mr Dedman's son Paul, who lived at 107 Walton Green with his mother, Shirley, and his father. Ford-Thrussell married Shirley Dedman and moved into the house after Stephen Dedman died of cancer in 1985.Police say the house and garden are being treated as a potential crime scene, although no one has been arrested. "We are not certain that an offence has been committed," said Detective Chief Inspector Mark Stockford of Croydon CID."We are taking a proportionate response to information that indicates that an offence may have been committed ... A significant search like this is not undertaken lightly."