Introduction: Self on SmithNoel Smith is serving life for armed robbery under Michael Howard's "two strikes and you're out" law. I've known him since 1997, when I was introduced to him by John McVicar. I found Noel articulate and witty but painfully shy. It was hardly surprising. After a lifetime spent either on the run or inside, he had been released from prison early only months before and was trying to go straight and forge a career as a writer. For many of the reasons that this piece points to, he was doomed to failure, and after being arrested for a string of offences, ended up back in prison. He wrote to me and we began a relationship that still endures. I thought Noel a good journalist and an accomplished short story writer, but suggested that to break into publishing he should write a memoir of his extraordinary life. This he did, and A Few Kind Words and a Loaded Gun was published last year to much acclaim. Noel's book is no glorification of crime, but a self-pitiless examination of his violent offending. He is now undergoing therapeutic rehabilitation for violent offenders, and continues - in often trying circumstances - to write. Will SelfAlong with punishment and containment, our prison system also claims that a major purpose of imprisonment is to rehabilitate the offender. But for many years the concept of rehabilitation received nothing but lip service from those who run the British prison system. They failed to grasp the vital point, which is that in order to rehabilitate, you must first educate.According to the standards of prison education, I am a success story. In almost 30 years of imprisonment, off and on but mostly on, I have gone from being "educationally subnormal", and "of below average intelligence", as reported in my first education assessment by the prison system, to having a string of educational qualifications under my belt, all achieved whilst incarcerated. It has been a long road for me and I have laboured under many educational regimes.In the 1970s, prison education was split into two camps: vocational training, such as bricklaying, plumbing, and motor mechanics; and arts and crafts - pottery, making soft toys and painting. There were the odd long-term and life-sentence prisoners doing Open University degrees, but they were rare enough to elicit comment. If you entered prison unable to read and write in the 1970s, the chances were good that you would leave in the same condition. Unless you taught yourself, or found someone willing to donate their time to you.In the 1980s, prison education evolved into a more numeracy- and literacy-based activity. Creative writing classes, history, geography, mathematics and other traditional forms of education began to invade most prison educational curriculums. Prison education departments began to grow and the likes of teddy-bear making were re-classed as hobbies rather than education. In order to fund the expansion of education the vocational training courses gradually closed down, but if you had the desire to learn to read and write, and even to go on and take a degree whilst in prison, it was now possible and even encouraged. Education departments began to fund inmates who wished to take degrees with the Open University or other courses that were not available in-house.By the early 1990s, most prisons were awash with educational opportunities. This led to an increase in entries for writing competitions such as the annual Arthur Koestler Awards, the Prison Reform Trust essay and short story competitions, and the introduction of the Home Office sanctioned writers-in-residence scheme by which professional writers come into prisons and teach inmates to write about their lives and experiences. Almost every prison education department introduced a prison magazine, written and edited by inmates, and Inside-time, the first national newspaper for prisoners, was established in 1990.In that all-too-brief honeymoon period between the Woolf report, which investigated the causes of the Strangeways riot and recommended more education places for prisoners, and the appointment of Michael Howard as home secretary, education in prison was at the forefront of the rehabilitative process for the first time. Then Howard decided to slash prison education budgets by 89%. It would be an oversimplification to say that a cut in education, and therefore rehabilitation, led to a doubling of the prison population over the next decade, but we cannot discount the possibility that it contributed.At the turn of the 21st century, the government began to recognise the correlation between crime and lack of education, and introduced basic skills in education for prisoners. Home Office figures state that in any one year 130,000 people are or have been in prison and around 50% of these individuals have poor reading skills, 66% have poor numeracy skills and 81% of all prisoners have writing skills below level 1. There is a strong argument that this lack of basic education is a major contributing factor in offending, and there is no doubt that it is a severe disadvantage in the job market.In April 2001, funding for prison education was transferred from the Home Office to the Department for Education and Skills, and employment targets were set for all prisons to help inmates to achieve entry levels and levels 1 and 2 in basic skills. Unfortunately, basic skills in prisons have become an integral part of the performance indicators culture and are geared up not to actually rehabilitate anyone, but to prove that prison education departments are hitting budget-based targets. As a result, those prisoners who achieve basic literacy and numeracy skills are then abandoned in favour of the next intake.It is still possible for inmates to further their basic education, but this involves relying on grants from outside charities. Though education departments will not fund inmates in their quest for further learning, they are happy to include them in their rush to meet targets by calling them "open learners". Open learners are basically inmates doing correspondence courses which, before the introduction of basic skills targeting, they would complete in their own time and in their own cell. But education departments have discovered that they can include them in their performance charts if they compel them to attend the education department and do their course work in a classroom. If open learners do not attend, then they will have their weekly wage cut. The problem with this is that because classrooms are packed with basic skills students, open learners are often forced to study in corridors.In three decades I have witnessed prison education go from one extreme to another. These days we have a prison education system that is actively targeting illiterate prisoners and teaching them the basics, but no more. Which, though a vast improvement on what's gone before, is still like all other attempts at rehabilitating prisoners, a very half-hearted affair. Sometimes it feels as though the system is not really that interested in rehabilitation. After all, if they did succeed then a lot of people would be out of a job. And you can only have so many traffic wardens.· Noel 'Razor' Smith is an inmate at HMP Grendon. A Few Kind Words and a Loaded Gun is published by Penguin in paperback in July