The "macho" attitude of old-school prison officers stops inmates from learning basic skills and locks them into a life of crime, MPs were told today.The Commons education and skills committee, which is investigating prison education, heard that nearly half of all prisoners cannot read. And the "bang 'em up and bash 'em" approach of many prison officers was holding inmates back, said Bobby Cummines, the chief executive of Unlock, the national association of ex-offenders. "There's some prison officers who see education as a threat because there are more prisoners who can write complaints," he said. "You have got this macho culture. It's the old bang 'em up and bash 'em brigade that are against education." Dan Taubman, of the lecturer's union Natfhe, whose members teach in prisons, also gave evidence today. He told EducationGuardian.co.uk: "Prisoners have often been failed by the education system. Many are illiterate. Providing quality education requires the best possible tutors and learning experience. We can't afford more mistakes in prison education.""It is good to see that the select committee is showing an interest in prison education, which is central to the skills strategy and policies to combat social exclusion. "Although there has been some progress, there is a continuing need for an integrated approach to the education and training of offenders. This cannot be left just to education contractors and requires a national political lead. Constant retendering has also been damaging."Another charity giving evidence to the committee, The Shannon Trust, told today's committee meeting that more than 30,000 prisoners could not read at any one time. The charity runs a system where prisoners who can read teach those who cannot, and also called for a culture change. It said in written evidence: "Many prisoners will not admit their ignorance and are allergic to teachers and classes." The charity's director, Christopher Morgan, said the number of prisoners who could not read was "frighteningly large". "48% of all prisoners are effectively non-readers," he said.The prison population currently stands at 74,000.