Police investigating the stabbing of Abigail Witchalls were today given a further 24 hours to question a man arrested on Wednesday.Officers were given until tomorrow morning to continue questioning the 25-year-old man, and Ms Witchalls is expected to view a video identity parade from her bed in a south London hospital.Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper confirmed the extension had been granted at Staines magistrates court this morning. The man, who has not been named by police, was arrested in Croydon, south London, on Wednesday night. He was detained by the Metropolitan police at the request of detectives in Surrey who have been piecing together the events leading up to the attack on Mrs Witchalls, which happened in Little Bookham, Surrey, last week.She was walking along a narrow country lane as she returned from a mother and toddler group with her 21-month-old son, Joseph, when she was attacked on April 20. Yesterday, police searched an address in the Croydon area where the arrested man is believed to have lived.Ms Witchalls has been left paralysed by the attack, in which she was stabbed once in the back of the neck. Earlier today, a spokeswoman for Surrey police said the timing of the ID parade, to take place at St George's Hospital, Tooting, would depend on her condition. Communicating with police only through blinks, mouthed words and facial expressions, Ms Witchalls has given detectives a detailed description of her assailant. She also revealed how she was forced to walk back towards her attacker after turning to see him holding a knife to her son's throat as she struggled to open a gate leading to another lane. She has described the man as aged between 20 and 35, with short, dark hair. He was between 5ft 10in and 6ft 4in tall, with a long, thin face and prominent cheekbones. On the basis of her description, police believe he was wearing looped silver earrings and spoke with a deep voice in a Cockney or southern accent. It is also believed he may have been under the influence of drink or drugs at the time of the attack. By the time of the man's arrest on Wednesday night, Surrey police had received more than 400 calls from members of the public responding to an appeal based on Ms Witchalls' evidence.