An "immigration expert" who smuggled more than 30 eastern European women into Britain for a life of violence and prostitution was jailed for 10 years yesterday.At the end of what is being hailed as a "groundbreaking" police investigation, Luan Plakici, 26, was revealed to have made more than £1m from bringing "poor, naive and gullible" girls and young women to the UK. They were forced to entertain up to 20 men a day as payment for the £8,000 "travel bill" they owed after travelling from Moldova and Romania. One of the women, whom he married, earned him £144,000 in less than two years, allowing him to build luxury homes for himself around Europe. One, in his native Albania, was described as a small palace. He drove a Ferrari Spider and a convertible BMW. When he was arrested he was found to have £204,000 in the bank. Wood Green crown court, north London, heard that Plakici had run his business in a "merciless" fashion, beating and kidnapping women and threatening to harm their families if they did not comply. He is thought to have smuggled between 50 and 60 people into Britain over the past three years and operated brothels in London, Bedford, Luton and Reading. Plakici was able to travel freely throughout Europe because he had acquired a British passport in 1999 after arriving in the UK as an asylum seeker. He had been used as an interpreter by a number of law firms specialising in immigration and even took part in a BBC documentary about that field of work. His activities were uncovered because one of the women he had kidnapped and forced into prostitution told police that she had been raped. As officers built a rapport with her, the full story of how she came to be in the UK emerged. Plakici admitted seven counts of people trafficking. A jury found him guilty of three kidnapping counts, one of procuring a teenager to have unlawful sex and incitement to rape, and three of living off prostitution, between July 2000 and October last year. Detective Chief Inspector Mark Holmes, who led the police investigation into Plakici, described him as ruthless: "He was merciless in his exploitation of women for financial gain, terrifying his victims by beating and threatening to kill them if they did not comply with his demands. These girls were put through a harrowing ordeal." He hailed a landmark case: "It is rare to see traffickers brought to justice due to the fear and vulnerability victims feel because they are illegal immigrants. And but for the bravery of these women, he would still be a free man." The case centred on five young women. Two Romanian sisters, aged 17 and 24, told the jury how their journey across Europe had taken them through the Czech Republic, Italy and France. They had been approached in Romania by a man named Ionchi who offered them the chance of work in England as waiters or bar attendants. He obtained Romanian passports for them and they then travelled to Prague, where they met Plakici. He arranged forged Italian ID cards for the sisters and paid Ionchi. They then travelled with Plakici to Italy where they were introduced to two Italian men who drove them to Britain via France. Plakici met them at Dover and gave "a lot of English money" to his accomplices. An hour later they found themselves confined to a small room at his home with two other women. When they objected to working as prostitutes, they said, they were beaten into submission. Another of Plakici's victims, a 16-year-old from Moldova, told the court that during a sea crossing to Italy, she and 30 others had been loaded into an overcrowded boat that constantly threatened to capsize. "I was scared. I thought we were going to drown," she said. Plakici had put her to work in a brothel where she said she would be given condoms and lubricating cream each morning. Each evening Plakici would count the condoms to ensure she had "worked" hard enough. She told the jury she had to make at least £500 a day. A third victim said Plakici had sold her to another pimp in Brighton for £7,000. But her new "owner" decided she was lazy and sold her back. She eventually managed to escape. One of Plakici's alleged henchmen, Ismet Islami, a 20-year-old from Palmers Green, north London, was found not guilty of one charge of rape. Though traffickers are rarely caught, both the police and prosecutors say this case should encourage trafficked women to come forward, and act as a warning to those responsible. Action to seize Plakici's assets is under way.