A teenager who carried out an armed raid in which jeweller Marian Bates was shot dead as she tried to protect her daughter was found guilty of murder today.Peter Williams attacked the 64-year-old grandmother's husband, Victor, with a crowbar and helped the gunman to escape moments after the shooting, in Arnold, Nottingham. A jury at Stafford crown court took 11 hours to find Williams, 19, of no fixed address, guilty of murder as well as causing grievous bodily harm with intent to Mr Bates, possessing a firearm with intent and conspiracy to rob the store. His co-defendants, Dean Betton and Craig Moran, both 23, were also found guilty of plotting to rob the shop after they were seen in the Time Centre on the day before the shooting. Lisa Unwin, 23, was convicted of conspiring to pervert the course of justice along with Moran by providing him with a false alibi. The court heard that Mrs Bates stepped in front of her daughter, Xanthe, in an "instinctive act of bravery" when Williams and the gunman burst into the family shop on Front Street on September 30, 2003. Mr Bates then picked up a fencing sword in a desperate bid to stop the two masked men from escaping but was beaten to the ground with a crowbar by Williams. Gregory Dickinson QC, prosecuting, said that as the gunman pointed the weapon towards Mr Bates, Williams had set to work with the crowbar jemmying a padlock on one of the display cabinets. At the same time, Xanthe was on the telephone speaking to her husband when the gunman turned his weapon on her and told her: "This is an armed robbery." Mr Dickinson said: "For a moment she did nothing, she was so paralysed with fear, she did nothing at all. She kept the handset in her hand and perhaps because she did not react quickly enough the gunman started moving towards her. "Xanthe's mother Marian Bates had been towards the back of the shop. It was at this stage that she moved forward very quickly, her arms outstretched, she was shouting out 'No'. She was clearly determined to put herself between the gunman and her daughter - an instinctive act of bravery by a mother trying to protect her daughter - and it cost her her life." James Brodie, 21, was named in court as the prime suspect in the murder and the man who police believe pulled the trigger and branded his dying victim a "silly cow" as she slumped to the floor. Brodie, who vanished within days of the shooting and is now believed dead, is thought to have carried out a string of violent attacks and armed robberies before he allegedly gunned down the innocent grandmother. Williams was identified by a witness as the man on the back of a scooter seen pulling up outside the shop moments before the murder but he denied taking part in the robbery or the subsequent killing, the jury was told. Williams and Moran showed no emotion as the verdicts were read out by the jury, but Betton clapped his hands slowly and deliberately as the jury left the court. Mr Bates sat in the public gallery with his head bowed and nodded as the verdicts were delivered. His daughter, Xanthe, burst into tears as soon as the first verdict was read out. Sentence on Williams and Unwin was adjourned pending psychiatric and pre-sentence reports respectively. Betton and Moran will be sentenced tomorrow. Williams, Betton and Moran were all remanded in custody, but Unwin was freed on conditional bail. Afterwards, Mr Bates said: "It is not an end but it is the beginning of the end. It is some justice for Marian at last."Detective superintendent George Frame, asked outside the court about the whereabouts of James Brodie, said: "We have information and intelligence that would suggest that he has been murdered. But that is not evidence and until we have conclusive evidence, he is still a missing person and enquiries are ongoing to trace him."