It was what the prime minister didn't say that was encouraging. For once, a weakened government inclined to bend with the breeze has stood reasonably firm. Gordon Brown didn't promise yet another useless criminal justice bill. (It would have been Labour's 60th.) He didn't thump the podium and swear to bang up every hoodie and throw away the key.One teenage death has followed another in the past weeks with boys' lives wasted, girls weeping over wilting flowers, distraught mothers calling for action: images that stir one of those media frenzies on youth crime. Yet despite appearances, it may not be rising. Mercifully the new youth justice plan is about intensive early intervention with families in chaos - not locking away yet more children, with thousands already imprisoned for non-violent offences. In full foghorn mode, howling for the blood of hoodies, the Sun called for an end to Labour's "non-judgmental experiment". The Mail fulminated about "groan-inducing" initiatives, the Times accused Brown of political floundering, the Express was incandescent. Loud was the call for prison for any knife-carrier. This "non-judgmental experiment" is, of course, imaginary. Without blinking at the contradiction, the prime minister could boast that crime is down by a third, violent crime by 40%. And yet he boasted of the steep rise in prison numbers, up from 60,000 in softie Tory times to more than 80,000 now, and 96,000 soon - presumably regardless of future crime rates. But remedies in the new youth justice plan are a great deal more likely to work than prison. For a long time now it's been clear a relatively small number of families - Brown said 110,000 - cause most crime and violence, sometimes for generations. Strathclyde's violence-reduction unit reports: "We often get knives being used by grandfathers, fathers and sons." So much for the idea that marriage and living with fathers is always good for Cameron's "broken society". The spate of bloody stabbings has been shocking - but once the press is on a roll with a theme, it's often hard to tell if it's a reporting phenomenon or a genuine rise. Richard Garside, the director of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies at King's College London, has his doubts. In London, he says, murder has declined slightly - from 2.6% per 100,000 people in 2000 to 2.2% in 2007. However, the victims are getting younger, with twice as many under-17s. Are the methods changing? No, there were 70 deaths by stabbing in each of the past two years.Is there now a new generation habitually carrying knives out there? Not really. During May and June the police stopped and searched in Operation Blunt 27,000 likely looking types and found only 500 - under 2% - had a knife. Garside concludes that the prevalence of knife-carrying is considerably less than current panic suggests. It is not, of course, much of a danger to the general public: poor young men killing each other is tragic, but it's a collective self-harming, turning knives on one another in the poorest places: in London, Lambeth and Newham are hotspots, with zero deaths in plush Harrow and Richmond. This is a collective cry for attention among those who are otherwise disregarded. Only violence makes anyone notice the most deprived estates. Why do they do it? Those who have no chance of social esteem will devise their own dysfunctional hierarchies, codes of respect for the disrespected. As for danger, the young are considerably more likely to commit suicide than kill someone else. Murder in western societies follows a highly predictable pattern - a mirror of the degree of social inequality. America, the most unequal society, has most murders, at some six per 100,000; the UK's 1.7 per 100,000 is a little higher than the EU average. To explain is not to excuse individuals. No one would suggest anything but jail for stabbings. But the Tories calling for automatic prison for anyone carrying a knife is madness: Alf Hitchcock, the government's knife tsar, says only 15% of knife-carriers intend to take part in crime or gang activity. The other 85% carry knives out of fear, in a world where police seem utterly unable to protect the boys at risk. Knife-carriers will instead get community service, 300 hours of highly visible work, often on Friday and Saturday nights and at weekends - a good deterrence. Today's youth justice has none of Tony Blair's old eye-catching gimmicks with his call for marching yobs to cashpoints. (What planet was he on that he thought they carried credit cards?) There was some gnashing of teeth yesterday that Jacqui Smith's talk of letting offenders see the harm they do was presented so badly. There was no intention of marching violent kids into A&E to gawp at knife wounds. Restorative justice - where criminals talk to those who have suffered crime (not necessarily their victims) can work very well. The youth justice plan spells out a ladder of interventions, beginning with families at most risk being brought into Sure Start. Young people on first offence will have the chance to avoid court if they and their parents opt together for an eight-week course - pilot schemes show this leads to far less reoffending; and for the 20,000 families whose children have committed repeated crimes there will be intervention in the form of special units for intensive parenting support - an expensive scheme with excellent results.Here are policies that often work. Nothing works on everyone, and crime is never eradicated in a free society. But all through history there have been waves of youth violence. Medieval apprentice boy riots, razor gangs of the 1920s, teddy-boy flick knives of the 1950s, mods and rockers, Pinky in Brighton Rock, Clockwork Orange copycats and a chain-stick craze in the 1970s all attest to gang violence as part of youth culture, among boys with not much else.This is not a "broken society" at all, but a time of falling crime. History suggests a deep recession will send it rising upwards again. We shall see. But how dare David Cameron use the poorest and most dysfunctional 2% of families to hold up as exemplars of a society that has lost its sense of right and wrong? Cameron moralises but offers only yet more prison. Labour's record on prison has been pitiful - but now at least it is resisting this hue and cry for more of the same.polly.toynbee@theguardian.com