It wasn't until last week that we discovered how close the centre of Dundee had come to anarchic chaos in the summer of 2011. So great was the threat that Tayside police had set up a "major incident room", presumably to deal with the wave of civil strife that was about to engulf the city. It is now good to know that, as London burned and Manchester simmered, the Dundee police were well prepared to quench the contagion if it had spread to the banks of the silvery Tay.Now, 10 months later, we have learned just how serious the threat to civil society was. The detail must have chilled the forces of law and order to the bone. On 9 August at 17.30hrs Liam Allan, a 19-year-old lad with no previous convictions, had posted a message on his Facebook page. Under the sinister heading "City Centre Riot", Allan had written the following: "Get suited and booted, crowbars, baseball hats, the lot… show the English twats that we are better rioters than them tea sippers."As the boys in blue battened down the hatches, they knew that the next hour would be crucial. Not since some delinquent had spiked Desperate Dan's cow pies with soya beans had there been such an alert. Thankfully, the douce citizenry of Tayside chose to ignore Allan's call to anarchy. Last week, the miscreant was sent down for 19 months by Sheriff George Way. "I can't accept that this was a prank or intended as a joke," said the implacable lawman. "The problem with the crime of inciting and the problem with social networking is once you have lit the signal beacon, you can't stop it – you don't know what others are going to do."And, cheerfully dispensing with the concept of a case being judged on its merits, the sheriff justified handing down a stiff custodial sentence to this first-time offender. "I can't see any way of adequately punishing you and comparatively reflecting the sentences handed down to others in Dundee other than prison."Perhaps Allan should consider himself fortunate that his vile imprecations were not prosecuted under the new anti-hate legislation. His scurrilous description of the English rioters as twats and tea sippers might easily have attracted a far more punitive sanction if Roseanna Cunningham, the government's new witchfinder-general, had been on the job. Allan's weak explanation that it was merely a summer jape and that he had not intended his vile exhortations to be taken literally should be dismissed by all law-abiding citizens. After all, we know what people of his kind are like, don't we? They are never happy and, instead, are sullen and ungrateful.Do not for one minute let them and their apologists in the social services try to mitigate their actions by pointing at the behaviour of others. I am sick of people using the greed and corruption of the financial services industry to justify loutish behaviour.Yes, we all know that tens of thousands of honest, hard-working British families have been financially ruined by the squalid behaviour of some of the richest people in the country. And that their money bailed out the money-changers. And that the big British banks are still awarding obscene bonuses and operating a cartel while refusing to lend money to struggling businesses. And that they are daily sending honest and industrious companies to the wall by refusing to extend their modest overdraft facilities. But that's no reason to lose the plot and misbehave.Why, Her Majesty's government feels the pain of her people and has sought to alleviate the suffering by spending hundreds of millions on the Olympic Games and the longest royal jubilee celebrations ever held. Instead of rioting and pillaging, these wretches should be grateful. After all, weren't the two Empire exhibitions and the coronation good enough for their forefathers? People should simply stop feeling sorry for themselves. If there's no sign of improvement in the behaviour of the masses this summer, after all that's been done for them, the government should simply organise another war. That usually takes out the more aggressive types.Thank the Lord for Sheriff Way and the Tayside plods. Now that their blood is up, I hope that they do not simply sit back and rest on their laurels for there is much still to do in the crusade against nasty words and bad thoughts. This is a struggle in which we all must participate and in which no quarter must be given. There is no room for complacency.So, in a spirit of civic responsibility and fired by my desire to assist the police at all times, may I bring their attention to another instance of inflammatory behaviour that could incite the lieges? Just the other day, while footering around in that splendid record store Fopp, I happened upon a CD by Judas Priest called British Steel. On it is a scrofulous and insidious track called Breaking the Law, which contains the following highly inflammatory lyrics:So much for the golden future, I can't even startI've had every promise broken; there's anger in my heartYou don't know what it's like; you don't have a clueIf you did you'd find yourself doing the same thing tooBreaking the law, breaking the law,Breaking the law, breaking the law.Now some misguided types might say that this is merely a plaintive and heartfelt cry of anguish from dispossessed and feckless youth. But I think it is the sort of whingeing, self-pitying and dangerous nonsense that, if left unchecked, could lead to disorder. And so I strongly urge police forces all over the realm to copy the example of Tayside police and confiscate all copies of this seditious material. And that a warrant for the arrest of Messrs Rob Halford, Glenn Tipton and Kenneth Downing be issued immediately. My fervent hope is that, in the interests of consistency, these irresponsible troubadors be dragged before Sheriff Way in Dundee and made an example of.