David Ramsbotham is the latest to join the chorus of those dismissing the Home Office as dysfunctional (The Ministry of chaos, May 26). In particular, he claims that the current debacle over the failure to deport foreign national prisoners would have been avoided had I (as director general of prisons) accepted his suggestion in 2001 and put someone in charge of foreign national prisoners. David was, indisputably, an effective chief inspector. But his solution to every issue was to put someone "in charge" of a particular group of prisoners, whether foreign nationals, children, lifers, young offenders or the mentally ill. And very plausible such recommendations seemed until one considered the hapless governor of Durham or Belmarsh, who looked after all these groups and would have had to work to five or six different bosses.But David's assault on the Home Office will have left few scars. John Reid's attack has been much more injurious (Reid vents fury at Home Office over prisoners fiasco, May 24). Imagine a new chief executive taking over a large business at just the time it has met significant difficulties and shareholder confidence has been shaken. He or she would seek immediately to recover confidence and offer leadership to staff. Were the Home Office a business, Reid's astonishing attack would have led it to collapse.It is certainly a difficult place to work and has become steadily more frustrating since 1997. Consequently, some very good people have left. My departure was a modest loss but it is significant that I now feel liberated in the voluntary sector, working for a board of trustees who understand the difference between governance and management.As I left the Home Office I was spending as much time dealing with ministers as managing prisons and probation. I was tired of explaining to new minister after new minister why their predecessors had pursued a particular course of action. I had able prisons ministers, but too many moved on just as they got on top of the job. Gareth Williams, Paul Boateng, Beverley Hughes and Hilary Benn all arrived, and moved on, within four years. Paul Goggins stayed long enough for us to work together effectively but he was moved on after two years among mutterings that he and I were too close. Worse still, home secretary changes brought a sense of total dislocation, with officials soon learning never to pray in aid the view of the previous secretary of state.Despite this, much was achieved. There was at least one riot a year in the 1980s and 1990s, several prisons being destroyed permanently. There has been just one in the last seven years. Nineteen category A prisoners escaped in the first six years of the 90s. None have escaped since 1997. Elsewhere the Home Office has engineered sustained falls in crime since the mid-90s. Organisational coherence has been brought to the criminal justice system, radically increasing the numbers brought to justice. And even in the much-reviled immigration department, the tide of asylum applications has been steadily brought under control.Many of these achievements were driven from No 10 and the government should celebrate them. The mystery is why the prime minister should allow John Reid to dismiss them.· Martin Narey was director general of prisons from 1999-2003 martin.narey@barnardos.org.uk· If you wish to respond to an article in which you have featured, email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content