The grieving teenage mother of a one-year-old boy mauled to death by a rottweiler has praised her sister for trying to save the baby from the dog.In a statement issued on her 18th birthday, Rebecca Hirst described Kara, 16, as a hero two days after 13-month-old Archie-Lee died following the attack at his grandparents' home in Wakefield, West Yorkshire.Kara was babysitting her two younger sisters, aged six and seven, as well as Archie-Lee, on Friday. As the seven-year-old carried Archie-Lee to the back door, the dog snatched the child from her arms. Kara punched and kicked it but failed to make it let go. Detectives estimated that the pet, which was shot dead by a police marksman after the attack, weighed up to 63kg (10st)."I'd like to say to Kara, we are all so proud of her - she tried," said Hirst. "She's a hero in my eyes and will be respected for what she did for the rest of her life."Hirst described Archie-Lee as her world, adding: "It's so hard for me at this time. We shared so many precious memories in the short while that we had together. He is loved by many."He will always be in our hearts, never to be forgotten. He's my sleeping angel. All I want is to give my baby the best send-off that he deserves so my little Archie can rest in peace."Her tribute concluded: "RIP my little angel. You're in our hearts forever, mummy's little man."Before the accident, Hirst had described on the social network site Bebo the joy her son had brought her.Under the heading "Mummy to Archie-Lee", she wrote that she loved it when he "does his little giggle. I don't no [sic] what I'd do if I didn't have him," she said. "Can't wait till he's walking and talking, it will be great. I hope his first word is mummy, it would make me so happy."Archie-Lee's father, Damian Williamson, 20, had also talked of his love for his son on his Bebo page. He said he was happiest when "Archie keeps saying dad dad dad all [the] time!".Hirst's friends have left their own tributes, many describing him as a "beautiful little boy". One message reads: "I am so sorry to hear about your loss, I cannot imagine the pain, hurt and grief you must be going through, he was a gorgeous little boy. You are in my thoughts."Meanwhile, as bouquets of flowers were delivered to the terrace house where Archie-Lee was attacked, police conducted house-to-house inquiries nearby.One woman, who did not wish to be named, said she did not know the family but felt she had to pay her respects. "I have a child the same age as this boy and we have a dog as well. I feel great sympathy for them."Detective Superintendent Steve Payne, of West Yorkshire police, said: "The family are inconsolable and devastated and do not wish to return to the house before new year."It is Rebecca's 18th birthday, so she is just spending it with the other members of her family."We are still investigating the incident by speaking to neighbours. Kara has been spoken to and interviewed, as has her seven-year-old sister. They are all back together as a family unit. They will work through it as a family."Archie-Lee died almost exactly a year after five-year-old Ellie Lawrenson from St Helens, Merseyside, was killed by her uncle's pit bull-type dog at the home of her grandmother Jackie Simpson. Simpson was charged with manslaughter but cleared following a two-week trial.Yesterday a woman who was savaged by a dog 16 years ago in an attack that led to the introduction of the 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act called on ministers to ban people from keeping rottweilers.Rukhsana Khan was six when she was seized by a dog as she walked with her family in Bradford."The law that came in when I was a little girl was supposed to stop other tragedies happening, but they're just building up," she said. "There are still too many attacks despite the change in the laws. Some dogs are dangerous and people who live near them know that."