The lead singer of the rock band Lostprophets, Ian Watkins, "furiously denies" child sex offences, his solicitor has said.Watkins, 35, from Pontypridd in south Wales, is due to stand trial in the summer accused of conspiracy to rape a baby and other offences.His case was briefly mentioned at Cardiff crown court on Monday. Afterwards his solicitor, Sarah Williams-Martin, said he would fight all the allegations.In a statement she said: "Mr Watkins furiously denies all of the charges and allegations made. He intends to fight to the bitter end to clear his name. He wishes to thank the fans, family and friends for the constant love and support they have given and continue to give throughout this testing time." A handful of fans gathered at the crown court for the case though Watkins was due to appear only via videolink.All charges were expected to be formally put to him but a series of technical difficulties prevented the hearing proceeding and matters were adjourned until the end of May. The trial is expected to take place in June.Watkins, whose band has sold more than 3.5m albums worldwide, allegedly conspired with a woman to rape a one-year-old girl. He is charged with other offences including possessing, making and distributing indecent images of children.Two women, one aged 24, the other 20, who cannot be named for legal reasons, are charged alongside Watkins.The 24-year-old is accused of the same six offences as Watkins, while the second woman is charged with the same offences except conspiracy to rape.The alleged offences date from May to December 2012.One of the two women appeared in person at court, while the other, who is in custody, appeared via videolink.Judge Eleri Rees, the recorder of Cardiff, set the eventual trial date for the week beginning 15 June. She was told that up to three weeks would be needed.The case was adjourned until a new hearing at the same venue at the end of May. Watkins remains remanded in custody.Co-founded by Watkins in Pontypridd in 1997, Lostprophets released five albums, the latest, Weapons, in April 2012. It has had two singles, Last Train Home and Rooftops, in the UK top 10.