Detectives investigating the murder of two Chinese graduates in Newcastle upon Tyne have appealed for their lodger to come forward. Xi Zhou and her boyfriend Zhen Xing Yang, both 25, had sub-let the back room of their flat to another Chinese man, officers said. The couple, who may have been involved in an internet betting scam, were murdered in the flat in Newcastle's West End on August 9. Police said the pair had been attacked with a knife and another sharp implement, and suspect Zhen Xing was tortured. Internet users on UK-based Mandarin websites identified Yang as a recruitment agent for a gambling racket which exploited the time delay when Premier League football matches are broadcast in China, giving fraudsters time to beat the bookies. Yang had advertised for people to report direct from games in the UK and around the world. Police are checking the couple's bank accounts for withdrawals by their alleged killers, and are also investigating whether Yang used false documents to get into Newcastle University, where he and Xi Zhou gained masters degrees in 2005.  Detective Superintendent Steve Wade, who is leading the inquiry, said today: "We now believe that an unidentified male rented a room from the couple on or about August 1 this year. "Mr Yang informed his mother that the new lodger was a student and that he came from the Jinzhou area of the northern seaport city, Dalian. We know little of who this lodger was. We do not know whether he had yet moved in and whether he lived there at the time of the killings."We have no further information to identify the lodger and inquiries to trace him have so far failed. If they have moved in then they may know things about the victims' lifestyles, arguments they may have had, or visitors to the flat."The victims had advertised the room on a local website, police said. Officers also released new photographs of the couple, on a visit to Alnwick Castle in Northumberland, and a plan of the flat. Wade said: "Inquiries are continuing into allegations of internet betting scams and the obtaining of fraudulent university qualifications. "As to potential motives for the killings; some people may wrongly have assumed that they brought it on themselves and that may be stopping people from coming forward."But they were not involved in high level stuff; there was no printing press for forged documents, no racketeering. "They did not have a jet set lifestyle; they were living in a small flat in the West End of Newcastle, involved in low-level stuff which does not point towards justifying why these murders have happened. "The level of violence used in the killings is completely disproportionate to the level of minor fraudulent activity discovered on the couple's computer thus far. "We must not lose sight of the fact that Xi Zhou and Zhen Xing Yang are victims of a senseless killing, and their parents and friends are left devastated and unable to comprehend what has happened."