The chairman of the police authority that was criticised over the case of Soham murderer Ian Huntley today denied press allegations of child sexual abuse.Colin Inglis, who is leader of Hull city council as well as chairman of Humberside police authority, released a statement in the wake of claims in the national and local media that police were investigating allegations of sexual abuse made by a man now in his 30s. The allegations, made in today's Times and on Sky TV, concern incidents alleged to have taken place in the 1980s when councillor Inglis was a social worker in a children's home.Cllr Inglis has recently been in the firing line in his capacity as chairman of the police authority, which was criticised by the home secretary, David Blunkett, for refusing to suspend chief constable David Westwood after damning criticism of Humberside police in the Bichard report on the Soham murders.The report identified "shocking failings" by Humberside police, including their failure to identify Ian Huntley as a serial sex attacker. Mr Westwood was eventually suspended after Mr Blunkett won a high court injunction. But Cllr Inglis welcomed the chief constable back to work earlier this month after a deal agreed by the home secretary that will see Mr Westwood take early retirement from the force.In a statement, Cllr Inglis rejected the abuse allegations made in the media as "politically motivated" as were events leading to an earlier police investigation into his conduct in 1996. The earlier investigation was not brought to court. Cllr Inglis said: "I totally reject the implications of the stories which have been published and broadcast today making the most unpleasant allegations about my time as a social worker. My work during the 1980's has probably been more comprehensively and thoroughly investigated than that of just about any social worker in the country."No allegations made against me have been founded, I have always rejected the veracity of any made and I will continue to do so. The issues raised today have been in the public domain for some time and were comprehensively covered many years ago. Any complainant who may have come forward now will also have been interviewed then."He suggested that he was under attack because of homophobia, saying: "I have conducted myself in a professional, and caring fashion and again, tried my best to make a positive contribution to the community I am a part of. Sadly not everyone in society is, even now prepared to accept that an openly gay man has any right to occupy the positions I have undertaken or indeed to have any influence or positions of responsibility."He added: "I have rejected that view throughout my life and continue to do so. I hope that my behaviour, achievements and actions have set a positive example for others. Undoubtedly the latest speculation is politically motivated as were the events which led to the investigation in 1996."In a statement, Hull city council said: "Our understanding is that all the previous allegations were investigated thoroughly and exhaustively by Humberside police between December 1996 and May 1998. "The outcome of the investigation was referred to the Crown Prosecution Service who decided not to proceed with the case. This was reported in the national and local media at the time."Humberside police said it would not confirm the existence of a complaint of a crime. The police authority also refused to comment.