Detectives questioning the entertainer Michael Barrymore about the alleged sexual assault and murder of a man in his swimming pool six years ago were today given a further 12 hours to detain him.Mr Barrymore, 55, is one of three men arrested by Essex police yesterday following a re-examination of the death of Stuart Lubbock, a 31-year-old butcher who followed the TV presenter and a group of friends home after meeting them in a nightclub.It is understood that the other two are Jonathan Kenny, 37, Mr Barrymore's former lover, and 32-year-old Justin Merritt, a dustman who lived close to the entertainer's mansion in Roydon, Essex, at the time. They were detained in Lancashire and Staffordshire respectively.Police - who have not formally identified any of the men - said they now had until 10pm to question a 55-year-old man and until midnight to question a 32-year-old man. They said a third man, aged 37, could be held until later this afternoon, but later added that his questioning had been temporarily interrupted so he could receive medical treatment. At 5pm tonight, the 37-year-old was still under arrest, officers confirmed.At lunchtime, Mr Barrymore's solicitor, Henri Brandman, released a brief statement at South Woodham Ferrers police station, in Essex, where the entertainer is being questioned.It said: "Michael is fully cooperating with the police in their inquiries. There will be no further comment at this time."This morning, a small group of fans of Mr Barrymore, carrying a "We Love Michael" poster, gathered outside the police station.Mr Barrymore, who was arrested in London, had recently returned to the UK from New Zealand. All three arrested men were taken to the same Essex police station and held overnight after being questioned throughout the day.Yesterday's arrests were welcomed by Mr Lubbock's relatives, who believe he was the victim of foul play. They have alleged that Mr Barrymore knows more than he has so far told police. They doubt Mr Lubbock met his death in the pool, claiming he was thrown in after an assault."It feels like the end of a long struggle," his father, Terry, 62, said. His 86-year-old grandmother, Rosina Lubbock, said: "I'm so happy I can hardly speak."No representative of Mr Barrymore was available for comment yesterday, but the entertainer has always denied wrongdoing, claiming he left the mansion soon after the body was discovered by others at the party.Mr Barrymore, Mr Kenny and Mr Merritt were arrested and bailed in connection with the death in 2001, but were not charged. Mr Barrymore received a caution for cannabis possession and for allowing the drug to be smoked at his home.An inquest a year later heard that Mr Lubbock died with "a significant level of alcohol and drugs in his system" but had also sustained serious and unexplained anal injuries. The coroner recorded an open verdict.Tony Bennett, Mr Lubbock's solicitor, said the family had been angered by the police investigation, prompting 38 complaints to the Independent Police Complaints Commission."Terry Lubbock has never said that Michael Barrymore was the perpetrator but he has always maintained that Michael Barrymore knows what happened," Mr Bennett said. "He wants justice."Mr Barrymore has always denied that Mr Lubbock's death was suspicious. Promoting his biography last year, he said: "I think it was a straightforward drowning. He dived into the pool and passed out from all the drink and drugs."Essex police are saying little about the progress of the inquiry, but it is understood officers have been retracing their steps.There has been a re-analysis of the emergency call made on the night Mr Lubbock's body was discovered, with the hope that the background noise could offer some clues about what was happening.Advances in DNA analysis have also enabled officers to take a fresh look at items seized from Mr Barrymore's home.