A wealthy builder described yesterday how he and his family had been "put through hell" by a ruthless kidnap gang whose plan to snatch a large ransom was foiled at the last minute by a police sting.Tony Pattison, who was stuffed into a van and held bound in a remote farm shed for almost two days, was released to relatives at a secret handover in a Teesside village which was clandestinely monitored by detectives. Less than two hours later, police ambushed a car in the North Yorkshire market town of Stokesley and arrested a 42-year-old man from the Hartlepool area. More than 100 detectives are hunting two other members of the kidnap gang who are believed to be from the Sunderland and Wearside area, and a white Transit van, registration number Y599 GFT. Mr Pattison, 42, was grabbed on Monday as he ate a lunchtime sandwich on the seafront at Seaton Carew near Hartlepool, where he is well-known in the construction industry. He was pulled from his Vauxhall Vectra and bundled into a van by three men with Wearside accents. A news blackout was observed while Mr Pattison's brother, who is also a prominent Hartlepool businessman, took an anguished call from him, and four more calls from one of the kidnappers. Speaking hurriedly and clearly under stress, Mr Pattison told his brother that his arms and legs had been bound and his captors "meant business". They demanded a ransom running into tens of thousands of pounds and made arrangements to swap their victim for the cash in the exclusive Wynyard village, inland from Hartlepool, created by the north-east tycoon Sir John Hall, and the former home of footballing stars including Alan Shearer and Kevin Keegan. Police played along and Mr Pattison was handed over at 9.30pm on Tuesday next to the nearby Samsung electronics factory, but the money was recovered at the same time as the arrest in Stokesley. Mr Pattison, who is married and has a stepson in his 20s, said in a statement yesterday: "The last 24 hours have been the worst I have known. My family and I have been through hell at the hands of a ruthless gang. "I have been bound, threatened and put in fear of my life. I did not know what would happen to me next. This trauma has had an appalling effect on me and my family. "All I hope now is that the people behind this can be brought to justice." He said the kidnappers had told him they knew who he was and had been tailing him, before he was taken to a shed beside a dirt track signed to Woodside Farm. After snatching some sleep overnight he was shoved back into the van and driven around for much of Tuesday. Assistant Chief Constable Derek Bonnard of Cleveland police said: "Mr Pattison was in a traumatised state after his ordeal, shocked, understandably confused, upset and mentally exhausted. He has suffered injuries, although they are not life-threatening." Police were alerted at 1am on Tuesday, 11 hours after Mr Pattison was last seen at a car repair garage near his home. His brother said the phone call had left no doubt that Mr Pattison was being threatened with violence, but the family had decided to try to carry out their own search, in vain. They had no idea why he had been targeted for the snatch, although the ransom demand involved "a very large amount of money". After police were called Mr Pattison's immediate family were taken to a police safe house while plans for the sting were finalised. Detective Superintendent John Kelly said the arrested man was from the Hartlepool area and Mr Pattison's description of the others suggested they were from Wearside, possibly the Washington area where the victim has relatives. He appealed for witnesses who were in Wynyard on Monday or Tuesday and asked for information from anyone who had seen the missing van in the past week.