The home secretary, David Blunkett, today made a surprise climbdown on a key aspect of his police reform bill - the ability to rein in or overrule chief constables.The crucial amendments come ahead of what is predicted to be a stormy Lords debate this afternoon, as both Conservative and Liberal Democrat peers voiced their fears over the new "political" powers over the police.A Home Office spokesman said the document will now include a number of measures which effectively limit the circumstances in which the home secretary can impose his orders on chief constables or police authorities. The Association of Chief Police Officers and the Association of Police Authorities will be closely involved in agreeing when a home secretary can intervene in the running of "failing" police forces, under the amendments.The politician will be required to put evidence in front of police leaders when he believes performance needs improving, and give them chance to put things right themselves before he steps in. Another change will require him to consult on which areas of police procedure need national regulations. "To address the concerns that have been expressed we have tightened the drafting of the clause to more reflect our policy intentions," said the spokesman. Chief police officers welcomed the amendments announced today. The Acpo president and chief constable of Kent, Sir David Phillips, said his organisation was concerned the original legislation could have affected the police's operational independence. "We welcome the amendments to the bill, which go a good way towards limiting the potential for any arbitrary powers of intervention," he said. "We particularly welcome the recognition that the leaders of the service have a key role in giving professional endorsement to any operational codes and regulations. "There are still some issues around powers to suspend or remove chief constables which will need the careful scrutiny of parliament. "Ministers, however, have given assurances that specific regulations will recognise the procedural protections that are needed." It came on the day the Tories repeated their warnings that the bill risked undermining efficiency and opened the possibility of the police being used for political purposes. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, told BBC Radio Four's Today programme that the bill would give the Home Office too much influence. He said: "I don't know why anybody thinks we are going to increase efficiency by centralising. "Secondly, if we move towards nationalised control - and I accept that ministers in this government don't want to follow through this implication - nevertheless if we move towards national control we are moving ever closer towards a position where some future home secretary could take further powers and then start using the police for political purposes." Home office minister John Denham said: "We do need to be sure that if a particular city or part of a city is being failed ... then we have the ability to do something about it, which we don't at the moment. "This is not a bill that is going to give home secretaries arbitrary powers. "What we are talking about is the ability to tackle persistent poor performance if it exists, and also the ability to ensure coherent approaches right across the country as a whole, something which is necessary in fighting modern crime." Although neither opposition party has yet decided to block the bill, the bill was originally introduced in the Lords, meaning the government cannot use the Parliament Act to force it through if it does, eventually, face Lords opposition.The Conservative peers' leader, Lord Strathclyde, later told a Westminster news conference that the opposition expected to defeat the government on the issue of the home secretary's powers later today in the House of Lords.He said: "We expect the government to be defeated this evening. It is by no means certain, but that is our expectation."We hope after that they will allow a period of reflection and perhaps come back and wish to discuss with Oliver Letwin, exactly the way forward."But there are important aspects of this legislation that we want to see on the statute book and certainly this is not an attempt to block it in its tracks. It is an attempt to try and improve it."Mr Letwin told the news conference that during the miners' strike in the 1980s there was a national crisis and the police forces - without the need for the type of legislation the government is now proposing - maintained the rule of law."The reason why, with all the very great difficulties that attended that, they were accepted by the great bulk of the population, is because they were seen to be maintaining the rule of law and not to obeying the whim of a politician."It's because we don't want to see the slightest movement away from that proposition, that we are resisting this clause."We see it as absolutely critical that the duty of the police at all times is to maintain the rule of law and not to do the bidding of a particular politician." Lord Dixon-Smith, the opposition front bench home affairs spokesman in the Lords, told the news conference there is "a clear distinction between the word 'co-operate' and the word 'control', and the police co-operated very well already."Mr Letwin said clause seven of the bill to which the Tories objected gave another form of very detailed control. However, he was "delighted" that the government had seen this point and now put down amendments to the bill, which took the sting out of the clause.