The government is ignoring the needs of 96% of people who become victims of crime - and "insensitive treatment" by some official bodies can actually make things worse, a report said today.Research by Victim Support said most people receive little or no help from the state after becoming crime victims, other than services provided by volunteer groups. Many agencies, such as the NHS or housing departments, are "still largely unaware of the special needs of victims of crime", it adds. Chief executive of Victim Support, Dame Helen Reeves, said: "It is staggering to think that even though 14 million crimes are committed every year in England and Wales, most public services turn a blind eye to the specific needs of those affected. "We believe an entirely new way of thinking about crime is needed - one that recognises the needs of victims of crime as the responsibility of the whole community, rather than leaving people to suffer in silence while we focus our attention on offenders." Only 3% of victims see the person who has targeted them charged and put through the courts. Another 1% are awarded compensation for violent crimes. So 96% of victims have no help. Just 1% of total public spending on law and order goes to Victim Support, which the charity describes as "gross abdication of social responsibility". The report, entitled Criminal Neglect, found there was "widespread failure" in hospital accident and emergency departments to train staff in the extra needs of crime victims for advice and support. It adds: "The Department of Health has produced guidelines on domestic violence but other types of crime have so far been ignored. "Crime can ruin lives. People suffer direct physical and financial losses, but also severe and often long-lasting emotional and psychological trauma. "This is frequently made worse by insensitive treatment and a lack of understanding from the agencies with whom they come into contact." The charity called for all government departments to bear the needs of victims in mind. New legislation must also be drawn up to protect victims' rights, it added, and ministers should create a "commissioner for victims of crime" to oversee policy.The Princess Royal, who is president of the charity, said: "Victim Support has overcome major hurdles in persuading the criminal justice system to recognise and respond to the needs of victims of crime. "But now it is time for all those involved in policy and other forms of social support to heed the same message and work together to prevent further injustice for victims." The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said: "Victim Support has pointed out, once again, that society at large does not do enough to support those who are the victims of crime. "Before coming to power, the prime minister promised to take victims seriously. So far, we have seen no signs of a serious approach to victim support."