Amazon has removed several police-style telescopic truncheons from sale on its site as soaring sales of truncheons, baseball bats and other items that could be used as weapons sparked fears of vigilantism in the wake of widespread rioting.Sales of one type of aluminium truncheon rose 50,000% within 24 hours, entering the top-10 bestselling items in the sports category. Before they were de-listed, two different "police-style" truncheons had seen sales increase more than 400-fold overnight, though from a low base.Amazon.co.uk also stocks, either directly or through third parties, self-defence sprays and Kubotans, short lengths of plastic or steel used as a concealed weapon. Carrying such items on the street can be against the law – entertainer Darren Day was convicted in Edinburgh in 2010 for possession of a Kubotan – but their sale is not an offence.Michael Gomulka, a barrister at 25 Bedford Road chambers, said English and Welsh law split offensive weaponry into different categories. Items that were unambiguously weapons, or those adapted as weapons, are illegal to sell as well as to carry. However, dual-use items – which can include antique samurai swords, which have a decorative function – can be sold legally.Telescopic truncheons are only illegal for sale, Gomulka said, if they are spring-loaded. The two seen for sale on Amazon were manually extendable. Kubotans are only illegal to sell if they are spiked, but can be illegal to carry even if they are not spiked.Amazon users were divided about the site's continued sale of metal baseball bats and similar items in the wake of the riots."[Let's] call upon amazon.co.uk to ban this item temporarily as it is obviously currently abused as a cheap, quick weapon to be used in the London riots. Ban it now!" said Patrick Hoelscher, who started a discussion thread to this effect.Other users agreed, but some supported the sales to encourage self-defence:"Have you considered they may be being bought by respectable business & home owners for self-defence only. In that case I fully commend the purchasers," Dave Woodhead commented, while others warned against the risks of vigilantism."Even if they are being bought by respectable home and business owners, they should be banned from sale temporarily," said V Woolf. "Vigilantism is not the answer. Get these items off the shelves, we are all scared and angry in London and need to know that measures are being taken to help us to feel safe in our cities again."This view was echoed by Stella Creasy, the Labour MP whose Walthamstow constituency was hit by looters on Monday night."There is nothing wrong with being vigilant, with being present on the streets and helping the police," she said. "But this crosses the line when it involves weapons. That just encourages the sense of fear – we want to reduce tension and fear in the area. People with baseball bats roaming the streets is not helpful: don't go on Amazon buying them."Hundreds of people in Walthamstow are helping run a respite centre for police. That's helpful."Amazon did not respond to several requests for comment.