In most unequal contests, the weak can outstrip the strong. Just as Elizabeth I's fleet vanquished the Armada, so Hamilton Academicals might someday crush Real Madrid. Domestic violence offers no surprise scorelines. The annual tally of those who inflict death reads: men 120, women 20. The two or three men who kill in an average week often claim they were unbearably provoked. She ran off with her personal trainer, they say. Or, she didn't love me any more.Women, fewer than two dozen every year who take a male partner's life, tell another story. Typically, it begins with a chronicle of terror and oppression, culminating in a snapping point. Below the level where family hatreds are resolved by vegetable knife or hammer, there is an epidemic of lesser cruelty, inflicted, in eight out of 10 cases, by male aggressors.Obviously, men get hit, too. They always have. Domestic violence stretches back to Aeschylus, and the plotlines, like his, deal with killers of both genders. In today's version of The Oresteia, played out in Hampstead and on sink estates, violence produces paltry rates of detection and conviction. Finally, a Bill is published to protect the main sufferers - innocent women and children. It takes quite a leap of the imagination to portray this document as a Harpies' charter, but some commentators have managed it.The man-haters of government have, in their view, produced a skewed document that mocks the law. Historically, the pro-men lobby is made up of right-wingers, though liberals have also protested that female killers get sanctified as freedom-fighters upholding the honour of their sex. The Bill's most vocal critics are fundamentalists whose real worry is that the sacred family unit will crumble if women are allowed to escape their subordinate role. How disingenuous of them to pretend that justice is at stake here. Except that they are right, or partly so. The Domestic Violence Bill is mostly excellent. In particular, the new offence of familial homicide will stop parents jointly accused of murdering a child blaming one another to escape a murder conviction. In one recent case, the foster parents of a four-year-old boy found with adult bite marks on his battered corpse were sentenced to eight years for child cruelty after police said they could not prove who administered the fatal blow. Such vital reforms are marred by one confusion and two affronts. The muddle is over the defence of provocation. David Blunkett and Harriet Harman, who has succeeded in getting a neglected crime back on the political radar, cannot agree. He insists that it is vital, because it benefits battered women. She says a defence exploited by male killers must go. Neither is arguing the right case Provocation, rooted in sixteenth-century notions of human frailty and the precept that men should defend their honour in 'hot blood', is uncomfortably useful to women who kill. Many of those convicted of murder have had the charge cut to manslaughter on appeal, claiming they were driven beyond endurance. But men, and occasionally women, are now fending off murder convictions by citing behaviour so unprovoking as to imply that courts will soon be asked to excuse homicide on the grounds that the victim bought the wrong brand of yoghurt or failed to pair her partner's socks. Jurors listen to feeble excuses because they do not like having to treat people driven to despair in the same way as psychopaths who slaughter strangers. Mr Blunkett should attack the problem at its root and abolish the mandatory life sentence for murder. If he will not, he should at least adopt the solution preferred by Vera Baird MP, the QC who defends half of all women who kill their partners. Bring in a dual system, introducing a souped-up argument of self-defence and retaining provocation, fixed at a more reasonable level. The Bill has worse problems. The first is the suggestion that men acquitted in a criminal trial may have a 'yellow card' stay-away order imposed on them, with the condition that those in breach could go to prison for five years. Such an assault on innocence is not only awesome, it is also stupid. Anyone who reaches trial is likely already to be the subject of a county court restraining order. Imposing further controls on those cleared of criminal violence is a civil matter for family courts, as the Law Society argues. Then there is the last big error. In cases involving multiple offences, such as downloading internet porn, the Bill wants a jury to decide a sample charge and a judge sitting alone to rule on the rest. This is absurd. If the facts are the same, jurors have already reached a conclusion. If they are different, then excluding a jury sets a dangerous precedent. In the words of a Bar Council spokesman, a Home Office eager to keep the public out of the law is behaving 'like Gollum nursing its ring'. The faults in the Domestic Violence Bill mesh with a wider justice deficit. The Home Secretary, ignoring contempt laws, effectively declares a terror suspect guilty. Judicial review on asylum-seekers is threatened. Details of a new Supreme Court are unclear. Barmily, the judges have chosen to fight the abolition of the Lord Chancellor, an issue where the Government is blameless. There is no place for a juggler who sits in Cabinet, heads the judiciary and remains a serving judge, while also being Speaker of the Lords. The separation of powers between the executive, the legislature and the judiciary is the spinal cord of democracy. If the wigged branch of government has ceased to believe that, then we really are in trouble. The flaws of the Domestic Violence Bill feed a general suspicion that justice is being tampered with. In a sphere where women lose so much, the temptation to twist proof and punishment is endless. Victims of violence, as the Fawcett Society warned recently, are also far more likely to end up in prison, where the numbers of female inmates rose by 15 per cent last year. Once there, they are more likely to be mentally ill, more likely to swell the toll of suicides (13 women so far this year) and more likely to see their children lost to them and their families torn apart. Men face a different agony. Bob Geldof, writing in Men's Health magazine, describes the torture of a banished father, sitting outside his old house, fearing to knock on the door to say goodnight and watching his children's bedroom lights extinguished, one by one. The law offers bad deals to good men. That does not excuse it giving good deals to bad ones. And yet some people, though not Geldof, squash the arguments together, as if male grief somehow justifies female victims being beaten. Others think it is justified to bend the rules a little in favour of women, as redress for the disproportion of the harm inflicted on them. They do not see that unfairness makes it crucial that the law is never tampered with. Any injustice would validate the very system that has condemned so many women to misery or death. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk