A youth who attacked a man outside his home, leaving him in a coma for almost three weeks, was yesterday sentenced to 12 months' detention.Michael Kuba-Kuba, 16, of Higher Broughton, Salford, assaulted Phil Carroll in May 2005 when the 49-year-old tried to defend his car from a gang of youths. Mr Carroll fell back and hit his head on the ground, causing a serious blood clot to form on his brain.He underwent surgery in which part of his brain was removed before he fell into a deep coma. He awoke on May 31, the day before his 49th birthday, but still suffers terrible mood swings because of the damage to his brain.Mr Carroll has been recovering with his wife, Jean, and four children: Wes, 22, Lisa, 23, Alan, 18, and Samantha, 13. He has suffered short term memory loss and has not been able to work.The attack caused national outrage and prompted a senior police officer to call for a crackdown on "feral youths hanging around on street corners intimidating people and causing trouble".Sentencing the teenager - who has a previous conviction for dishonesty - district judge John Finestein told him that he was being sent to custody to protect the public and to deter others from committing similar offences.Reporting restrictions had prevented the 16-year-old being named but yesterday Mr Finestein lifted the ban because of the "exceptional" nature of the case. "In my 15 years of sitting in youth courts this is without question the most serious case, in terms of the consequential injuries that have been sustained."He described the attack as a tragedy "of very serious proportions".He said: "This was a group of youths, many of whom had been behaving in an antisocial and irresponsible fashion". When Mr Carroll confronted one of the group, "you went in with one punch. Even if you had caused relatively minor injuries, it was still a very serious act on your part because a perfectly innocent man had been abused and had a stone thrown in his direction. He had gone out to remonstrate and you had gone to attack him."The district judge added: "It is this kind of atmosphere, a drink-related atmosphere, that leads to these terrible incidents. I have to try to ensure that the courts will treat incidents like this with great severity, to send out a message to other young people that violence is not acceptable."Detective Chief Inspector Geoff Wessell from Salford CID said: "This has been a terrible ordeal for the Carroll family and I'm sure they are relieved that it has now come to an end."However, Phil's ongoing health problems mean that the disruption to their lives is likely to continue."I'm sure Phil and his family have found comfort in the support they received from the local community and the number of local people who came forward to offer information that allowed this investigation to progress."Cases like this can often be complicated as witnesses can have concerns about coming forward to the police and the repercussions it may have for them. Thankfully, in this case, the community really rallied round to support Phil and helped bring his attacker to justice."