There was no disgruntled boyfriend, no jealous relative, no family squabble and no stalker. There was no evidence of a sexual assault or of a mugging that got out of hand. After seven weeks of intense investigation, the police are convinced that the only reason Margaret Muller was murdered was in order to provide her killer with the 'thrill' of taking a human life.The petite, American-born 27-year-old artist who studied and taught at the Slade School of Fine Art, was stabbed while jogging through Victoria Park in east London at 8.30am on 3 February.Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford, who is leading the inquiry, believes Margaret Muller was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time. 'Stranger murders are notoriously difficult to crack, but thankfully they are also very rare. When the motive for the murder is the self-gratification of the killer, the fear is that he will strike again.' Although the circumstances of Margaret Muller's death are unusual, they are by no means unique: it is feared her murder may be part of a trend for 'thrill killing' where there is no motive. In the vast majority of murders, the victims know their killers. According to the latest Home Office statistics, the proportion of murders in which the victim is not known to the killer has nearly doubled in the past decade and now stands at nearly one in three. Some of the increase can be explained by a rise in violent muggings in which the victim dies and also the growing number of gangland executions. But a worrying part of the trend is 'thrill killing'. Of 197 murder inquiries in London last year, 48 involved female victims. Around 60 per cent were killed by partners or ex-partners, while the remaining cases involved acquaintances or other relatives. Two were killed during robberies and one woman was killed by a burglar. Two of the murdered women were prostitutes. Only one killing involved the motiveless murder of a woman by a stranger. Already this year, there have been two such cases, with at least two more victims having lucky escapes. In the early hours of 4 February, Marsha McDonnell, a 19-year-old gap year student, died after being battered over the head with a heavy, blunt object close to her home in Hampton. Police have now linked her death to two similar attacks. The first occurred in south-west London on 8 January, when a man was seen crouching over a girl as she lay in the snow clutching her head. The 17-year-old had been listening to her Walkman while walking home when she was attacked. At first her parents thought she had fallen over, but the publicity surrounding the murder of Marsha McDonnell made them contact the police. Tests later showed she had been attacked with the same weapon used to kill Marsha. On 25 February came a third attack. An 18-year-old man was attacked in Hampton, but managed to escape unharmed after his attacker swung a blunt, metallic object - thought to be a hammer - at him. Detectives are convinced the attacker was the killer of Marsha McDonnell and that he may have mistaken the slightly built man for a woman. As with the Margaret Muller case, police can find no motive for the attacks other than the self-gratification of the killer. Although public perception is that women are more often the targets of random killings, the victims are just as likely to be men. Father-of-six Qamar Mirza, 48, was stabbed to death as he cleaned his car windscreen at a Cricklewood petrol station at 1.45am on 5 March. Police are investigating racial motives for the attack, but are also examining links to four other stabbing incidents in the vicinity at around the same time. At present, all the cases remain unsolved and according to leading criminologist James Morton, 'stranger murders' are by far the hardest to solve. 'A victim's relationship to his or her killer is perhaps the most important factor in whether an arrest can be made,' he said. 'A victim's family and friends provide logical initial suspects, but when the killer isn't among them the case gets difficult fast.' Most murder cases are 'domestic' and their clear-up rate is in excess of 90 per cent. For 'stranger killings', the rate drops to about 30 per cent. This phenomenon is by no means unique to London. In Madrid police are hunting a man dubbed the 'playing card killer', who has twice walked up to strangers and shot them in the head. In the past five weeks, he has struck twice, on each occasion leaving a playing card beside his victim. In America, still reeling from the sniper shootings in Washington last year, the number of random killings is rocketing. Recent statistics show that the number of murders committed by those who did not know their victim now surpasses the number committed by friends and acquaintances. For the past four weeks New Yorkers have been living in the shadow of a 'thrill killer' who has been linked to four random shootings. The most recent took place last week in a launderette. CCTV footage showed the killer sitting on a bench and watching television while other customers used the laundry. Then, without warning, he stood up and shot the owner in the face. He then walked out, leaving behind £600 worth of takings in the till. The same gun has been linked to three other murders. Last month, Scotland Yard's head of murder investigations insisted that attacks by strangers remained uncommon. 'London is a very safe city and we need to reassure people that these attacks are very rare,' said Detective Chief Inspector Andy Baker. 'But we must recommend to everyone that they take precautions.'