So there it was, what I always think of as the first sign of spring. Not blossom blossoming or birds tweeting, although they are blossoming and tweeting and quite delightfully so, but that far truer and more reliable indicator that spring has finally arrived: the first faint sweet waft on the air of a teenager smoking a joint in the park.That's the thing about city folk, removed far from our peasant roots, and cruelly deprived of gambolling lambs, we've had to evolve other ways of distinguishing the passing of the seasons. The first major gathering of threatening youths with possibly illegal dogs in the park, for example, and an upswing in the number of men loitering in the cemetery opposite my flat, one of the less documented bonuses of the longer evenings being the opportunities it throws up for the post-work cottaging crowd.Spring is traditionally the season when crimes against property diminish, and crimes against the person increase. You'd think the muggers might miss the extra hour of darkness.Not that you can expect the police to pay dope-blowing teenagers or pit bull-owning youths any attention, not when they've got far more serious crimes to crack. Or so I thought, right up to the point that a strange Irish man, whom I've never actually met, rang me, swore at me for not listening to the messages he'd left on my answering machine, and explained that if I had, I'd know that he'd be hanging around outside my flat with the express intention of killing me.In fairness, the police did roar around in a panda car the moment I called. On the other hand, he wasn't exactly the brightest murderer on the block (he had indeed left several messages on my answering machine repeating the claim), and when I said in my best Princess Margaret voice: 'I don't appreciate being phoned up and threatened, can I take your name and number?', he promptly gave them to me. Not the crime of the century then, and yet it still took CID five days to go around to his flat and ask him to desist.Still, on the plus side, he hasn't killed me (he had the wrong number, apparently) but at times like these it's hard not to think that Harriet Harman had the right idea. A stab vest is, when you think about it, a natty fashion solution to a persistent urban problem. They're quite expensive, of course, but surely this is where Primark comes in? Eighty per cent of us live in towns: it's a case of evolve and survive. Stab vests are merely the logical conclusion to a fashion industry which sends young mothers out on the school run attired in military fatigues. Coming soon in hot pink to a discount fashion retailer near you, I hope.BA bags the lotThere are some news stories you can't help but welcome back like old friends. Because there she was, again, after the court cases, and the community service, and being charged with assaulting an assistant with a telephone, and accused of assaulting another one with a BlackBerry - good old Naomi. Most people might think twice about (allegedly) spitting in a policeman's face, but she's fearless. In fairness, it is quite annoying when British Airways divorces you from your luggage. My tip to her (or any budding celebrity souvenir hunters/knicker collectors out there) is to get down to Tooting. Because when BA can't figure out whose bags belong to whom, and last year that amounted to one million suitcases, it sends them to Greasby's auctioneers in south London, flogs them, and - how's this for entrepreneurship? - keeps the profits. In the circumstances, spitting in a policeman's face (allegedly), doesn't seem quite so unreasonable now.