I'm 21 years old and grew up with the generation of young black boys that is currently plaguing our inner-city streets with gun crime. Over the past few weeks, I've listened to everyone from the Home Secretary to Kilroy talk about the reasons behind the rise in gun culture. Ninety-nine per cent of the time they are talking rubbish.Most people over the age of 30, whether they be a politician, policeman or 'community leader', have no idea what's happening out there. I'm hearing replica guns are to blame, rival gangs are to blame and, most ridiculously of all, black music is to blame.I know many boys who have been both victims and perpetrators of gun crime, and the biggest cause of the problem is lack of education. The black boys I know were never shown the importance of getting qualifications at school. If the boys were excluded, they were sent to a youth centre-type 'special school', where they could hang out with friends, smoke, and walk out on lessons without the fear of punishment. If Tony Blair's son misbehaves, that doesn't happen to him. If the Government had never neglected the needs of youngsters, in and out of school, I believe this problem wouldn't be as bad as it is now. But what really makes me angry is when people like David Blunkett, who have never shown an iota of interest in black people, suddenly get on their soap box and act as though they are experts on every aspect of black culture. Two young girls are murdered by ruthless gun-toting gangsters and Blunkett is adamant it's hip-hop and garage music that caused it. When the 1996 Dunblane Primary School massacre took place, there was no mention of Snoop Dogg or Tupac from MPs, despite the rap stars being at the top of their game at the time. Instead, the Government quickly introduced a ban on hand guns and there was much intelligent discussion of the issue. The Government needs to stop shifting the blame for this rise in gun crime and look at British society's own shortcomings, such as unemployment, social deprivation and educational underachievement - particularly in the black community. It can be no coincidence that the areas described as the 'most deprived' also top the gun crime statistics. It's ludicrous to think watching a So Solid video could prompt a young fan (who probably spends more time on the streets than watching MTV) to pick up a gun and shoot somebody - black boys are not so stupid. I know numerous black youths who were constantly told by teachers that they would never amount to anything. These low expectations far outweigh any negative effects of listening to rap music, but what has Blunkett got to say about that? There are many responsible black people who recognise black boys need self-empowerment and want to help put an end to the self-destruction that's taking place within the black community. Black people are setting up projects and initiatives in their boroughs. They are the ones who are making a real difference, helping many youngsters off the streets, yet they are not getting any of the funding that they need from the Government. Why? MPs need to forget about the 'ghetto fabulous' attitude prevalent in Black America, forget about Jamaican Yardies and take a look at what is really going on in Britain's inner cities. 'A five-year sentence ain't gonna stop nothing,' a gun-toting east Londoner told me. 'You give all these mans carrying guns five-year sentences, what do you think is gonna happen when these people are all in the same prison? Are they not still gonna fight? Everyone's gonna have to stay in their cells otherwise people are gonna be getting stabbed. 'There's gonna be gang members in prison and outside and they're gonna be feeding each other information from inside and outside telling who's done what - so it's never gonna stop.' Most males, usually between 14 and 25, use guns because they feel they have to, not because they get a thrill out of. If your mate's got trouble with a gunman, you've got trouble with him- that's how it works, unless you want to end up an outcast. Another boy went on to tell me how every garage MC he knew owned a gun. 'They are always getting robbed, that's why,' he explained. 'People on the road see ordinary boys making money, going around with nice cars and jewellery, and they think: "What's he doing with that? He shouldn't have that - let's rob him".' So Solid Crew member Harvey backed this theory when he spoke out about how the group were targeted because of their success: 'We have to put up with [people wanting] to rob you because you're meant to be earning. Atomic Kitten and S Club 7 don't go home to that,' he said. When Asher D went to prison for carrying a firearm, Harvey said he was used as a scapegoat by the media and authorities. 'Asher is a good-hearted person, he's come from a good background. But people focus on the fact that he got caught with a gun. 'Yeah, he got caught with a gun, and I'm not condoning what he's done. But imagine you're coming home at two in the morning and someone comes and throws a paving slab through your window and you've got your two-year-old son in the car. What would you do? You either leave the area 'cos you're scared, or do whatever you can to protect yourself.' Many say people carry guns more now for protection. The 'kill or be killed' attitude is rife. Most of the time, people don't even want beef [on-going disputes], but they have to protect themselves now,' said the east Londoner I spoke to. 'Some drug dealers need the gun to protect themselves, just like people who've got beef. If they know there are people looking to shoot them, they need a gun to fight back.' Another black guy told me how comical it was when authorities and the press got it wrong trying to explain the killings. 'Last year, Jamaican Yardies were getting the blame for the guns and that was so funny,' the 20-year-old laughed. He said British black and white boys would pull a trigger just as quickly as any hardcore gang member. 'I've been threatened by a white boy with a knife before and recently, the same white boy shot and killed another youth. Everyone's on it.' Last year, a friend of mine witnessed a group of men flashing their guns outside a popular club. Apparently, they thought if the bouncers knew they were tooled up, they would fear for their lives and let them in. Bouncers are often targeted by gun-toting show-offs. One bouncer I knew was shot dead after an argument about admission. Those who sigh 'Life wasn't like this in my day' need to accept things are different on the streets now. Just as 'free love' dominated the Sixties, and the 'me, me, me generation' dominated the Eighties, the 'kill or be killed' era is taking its toll on the Noughties. Fortunately, by the time a lot of these gun-carriers reach their mid-twenties they begin to grow tired of street wars and start to see sense. It's the youngsters, who need to be the focus of attention if they are to grow up in a gun-free environment. Improving schools, preaching the importance of education and providing opportunities via after-school projects will help to change their attitudes. Are you listening, Mr Blunkett? · This article will appear in the New Nation tomorrow