The name is almost the same and, like the old western "wanted" posters, there is a big reward on offer. But there the similarity ends. The face looking out from the posters in Manchester is that of 15-year-old Jessie James, who was shot dead almost a year ago in Moss Side, and whose inquest opens on Monday. The police have still not arrested anyone for his murder, hence that £20,000 reward and the promise to those who come forward that "no one will ever know who you are".The inquest will break new ground in that witnesses will be allowed to give anonymous evidence by video link to Manchester crown court with their faces and voices disguised. The extraordinary measure is a sign of the police's determination - or desperation - to nail the people who killed Jessie."I will find the killers," said Detective Superintendent Sean Donnellan who heads the inquiry, talking at the spot in Broadfield Park where the killing took place. "I will give a 100% guarantee that we will protect anyone who comes forward with evidence."Interest in the inquest has been heightened by two recent local shootings. Ucal Chin was shot dead from a car in Longsight on June 15. Then, as his friends gathered in a close for his wake last weekend, gunmen wearing balaclavas and driving at speed opened fire on the mourners and killed his friend Tyrone "Tyson" Gilbert."Tyrone was a safe guy," says Kamran Farooq, 22, who helped to carry his bleeding body to the car after the shooting and who is unusual in the neighbourhood in that he is happy for his name to be used. "A top guy - and Ucal was a top guy, too." Guns, he says, are not difficult to get hold of: "You can get one in two minutes." As for the appeal for information: "Everyone knows who killed Jessie James." The estate where Tyrone Gilbert was killed is no grim collection of tower blocks. The two-storey houses are neat and refurbished, and the council offers baskets so that people can hang flowers outside their doors.Many residents say the shooting was out of character. "If they want to shoot each other, it's up to them," says one baseball-capped neighbour. Another, a youth worker, is sceptical about the police's commitment: "The police is the biggest gang round here."The flowers left in the now mandatory murder site memorial (complete with empty bottles of Dragon stout and a mirror inscribed "Jesus is coming - look busy") carry their own messages. More than a few say "RIP Soldier".Flip through the files on Manchester gun crime over the past 20 years and a pattern emerges: a shooting, usually of a young black man; "Gunchester" headlines; community dismay; complaints that there is little on offer for the young; announcements of regeneration; drops in gun crime, then a spate of shootings and the cycle starts again. While parts of Moss Side, Longsight and Hulme where the shootings have taken place have been refurbished, others are stagnant."I've heard allegations that we're losing control," says Chief Superintendent David Keller. "But we've gone through spikes like this before." He gives figures for use of firearms over the past four years in the area, dropping annually from 54 in 2003-04 to 39 last year, although there have been 20 since April. "We are not complacent. We know the impact [of a shooting] is absolutely massive." No one knows this better than Angela Lawrence, of Mothers Against Violence, who was a friend of "the first person shot in Manchester" in 1985. "It shook us all in Moss Side and I've lost a series of friends since."As to the whys of the shooting, she and fellow MAV members toss suggestions between them at their Hulme office. "I don't think they could tell you if you asked them why they were shooting people," says Ms Lawrence. "Young men will always feel the need to fight, won't they? And nowadays people are solving their differences by guns. Some of the young people see themselves as in a war but when I hear them refer to themselves as a soldier I challenge them."Of what could be done, she says: "I get more and more cynical. Local and national government say they want to help but they don't put in the resources. I'm tired of their condescending, patronising attitude." But she adds that the communities also have to speak up for themselves. Erica Blackburn's brother, Zennen, was shot dead in 2002 for reasons which remain unclear. "The shootings now can be over anything - girls, so-called lack of respect, not just about drugs. Boys have always wanted to play with guns, it's like living out their fantasies. That, combined with lack of love and lack of respect. But if you look back to the 1900s, there were working-class gangs then, dressed in clogs and thick buckled belts."Others working with young people have seen the inevitable outcome of fascination with guns all too often. The heavily tattooed Tony Winter, one of the Manchester Street Pastors, says: "I think the idea of the fallen soldier is not necessarily the romantic image of being a gang member. It is more about young people who feel they are fighting against a huge machine that won't let them in."Mary Murphy, a councillor in Hulme, whose 24-year-old son was killed 15 years ago after being pursued by a gang, says: "Some of them think they're on a mission from their community and what they don't realise is that the community doesn't want them to go on a mission. Some of them have an uncle or a brother who is inappropriately celebrated in the community when they get sent down. No human being is without some ambition and if being good at being in a gang is what they can do, then they do it."Roy Walters, who has lived in Moss Side for nearly 50 years, says the relationship between the community and the police broke down in the 70s and 80s and is only now being rebuilt. On Monday, the area and the issue will once again come under scrutiny. Former friends and neighbours of Jessie James wonder whether the inquest will reveal anything new. "I miss his broad smile," says "Kev". "I have the feeling that the police know who killed him. I wave to the uniformed police but if I spoke to them I would have to move. The information is there but it is locked in."