A bulky police CCTV van trundled into its monitoring position on the pavement while pairs of officers wearing fluorescent jackets patrolled the high street, spread out at 200-yard intervals. "We're here to chill the area," a police sergeant said.The target of the Metropolitan police's deterrence operation was not late night revellers or football hooligans, but schoolchildren returning home by tube or bus through the north London suburb of Wood Green.The high-profile surveillance operation, watched by the Guardian in the middle of the afternoon at the end of last week, is quite a regular event, or "normal policing", according to the Met, and a response to growing public anxiety about teenage gangs, fatal knifings and drugs-related shootings.As well as this kind of approach, the Met has launched Blunt 2, an operation designed to stamp down on youth violence – a tactic which has been highly praised by London's new mayor, Boris Johnson, who campaigned hard on trying to tackle teenage violence.Blunt 2 uses knife arches, which scan for concealed weapons and are to be deployed more frequently in the capital's underground stations and transport hubs. Officers will also exploit controversial powers contained in section 60 of the Public Order Act that allow searches to be conducted without the usual requirement that there are reasonable grounds of suspicion that an individual is carrying a weapon. It was originally designed to cope with football hooliganism.The streets that radiate out from Wood Green tube station have been the scene of several murders in recent years. A plaque commemorates Jonathan McMurray, a 20-year-old student stabbed to death in a street fight. Around the corner, a young man was killed in a gangland shooting as he waited in a car.Last year, up to 50 youths from two rival gangs – wearing Bob the Builder or Thomas the Tank Engine caps and badges to denote their loyalties - clashed in the high street. Many were in school uniform. Four were taken to hospital with stab wounds.Five weeks ago, fighting erupted in a Boots store in the shopping centre after youths, reportedly wielding baseball bats, cornered two youngsters. A chase along the high street ended with an axe embedded in a police car's windscreen. "It was a turf war between Tottenham and Wood Green," said Fiyaz Mughal, a Liberal Democrat councillor. "We have kids who won't cross into another postcode area for fear of violence against them. There's a large Somali community in Tottenham – but race is not a major element. There are 101 reasons why kids congregate in packs." The phenomenon of "postcode gangs" frequently cuts across ethnic groups. "Gang names are made up on the hoof and sometimes change every few days," Mughal said. "It's not a static."The police admit their intelligence quickly becomes out of date. "We need undercover intelligence," said Mughal. "We need to know who the leaders are. We need to arrest them and get them off the streets."Fellow Lib Dem councillor Ron Aitken, the party's crime spokesman on Haringey council, said police kept a database recording the clothes and colours worn by different gangs. "The police are very anxious to avoid the impression that they have lost control of the streets," he said. The latest victim of knife crime in London, Steven Bigby, who was stabbed to death in Oxford Street on May 12, was a member of a Tottenham gang known as Tugs From Around. Feuds in the borough of Haringey have been well documented. Gang names, often drawing on Jamaican street slang or local estates, include Tottenham Man Dem, Money Over Bitches, North London Somalians and Commerce Road Boys.But north London, according to the Metropolitan police, is by no means the worst area for violence between youth gangs carrying knives; the Blunt 2 operation initially targeted boroughs south of the river Thames.A violent postcode culture appears to be growing fast, echoing gangland culture in the US. "Green is supposed to be for Wood Green," said Halit Demirci, who runs a clothes store in Wood Green that stocks a range of coloured bandanas. "Purple or black is for Tottenham. Youngsters between 13 and 17 buy them."Demirci, who is a fan of breakdancing and bodypopping, hopes youngsters can be persuaded to shun violence. "Anyone can carry a knife or a gun but, when they see breakdancing, they are amazed," he said. "You need to give kids something so they can express their talent."In a mobile phone shop in Tottenham, a group of Somali youths were chatting. "It's dangerous going shopping," one said. "You need to take care of everyone you see. People do carry knives and guns. The big gangsters have the guns. It's getting worse. "There are hundreds of names for gangs. The main one around here is North London Soldiers. They're from Tottenham. It's all mixed: you see white, black and brown kids. They usually wear a dark blue or black bandana. They wear them around their necks but cover their faces when they need to. Red bandanas are from Camden."Three African-Caribbean men in their fifties, drinking on a street corner in Tottenham, echoed their concerns about teenage violence. "I don't want people to think that black people don't want stop and search," one said. "It's black children who are losing their lives. The only thing we are asking is for the police officers to be polite with us."The smell of cannabis drifted from a cigarette in his hands. "I smoke my weed but I tell my kids to stay away from the skunk," he said. "It makes them hypo. Parents need more powers over their children."