Cash machine customers are being urged to run their finger across the slot of "hole in the wall" machines before inserting their cards in an attempt to beat fraudsters. According to a widely circulated email, this will help customers detect a "thin, clear, rigid, plastic sleeve" that may have been inserted into the slot to make it seem as if the card has been swallowed by the machine. The aim of the fraudsters is to watch the users punch their personal number into the machine. Then when the customer walks away, thinking the card has been retained, the fraudsters can retrieve it from the plastic sleeve and use it to withdraw cash. This attempt at stealing money - an old and crude version of what is known in the industry as a "Lebanese loop" - is one of a number facing a clampdown by a new police squad to be publicly launched this morning. The squad, to be known as the dedicated cheque and plastic crime unit, is being funded largely by the financial industry, which incurred losses of £411m from fraud on cards last year alone. Police believe that much of the proceeds of these cash card crimes are used to perpetrate other crimes. The Association of Payment Clearing Services, or Apacs, which is responsible for keeping notes and coins in circulation, is paying £5.6m of the total cost of £7m towards the London-based unit. Among other crimes the unit will combat "skimming", whereby the magnetic strip on the card is copied. An Apacs spokesman calculated yesterday that banks lose £440,000 a day from this type of crime. The Apacs spokesman said the origin of the warning email was not known. "This is a scam but a very, very old technique. We don't want to alarm people. At the end of the day, distracting people at the ATM is more likely," he said. The industry is trying to take steps to tackle fraud by updating technology, particularly in new terminals at supermarkets and other stores where customers need to enter a personal number when using their card. This system is intended to be put in place by the end of 2004. The government acknowledged yesterday that card fraud was a rapidly growing problem. "The new specialist unit will enable this kind of fraud to be tackled more effectively, as the nature of the crime often means that police forces have neither the resources nor the expertise to tackle them," said home office minister John Denham.