Police forces and even the authorities meant to ensure they obey the law should face legal action for breaking race equality legislation, an official report released today will say.A Commission for Racial Equality inquiry will say that at least 14 police forces and several police authorities have been so poor at cracking down on racism within the ranks that the threat of legal action is needed to make them change, the Guardian understands. The CRE inquiry was chaired by the former director of public prosecutions David Calvert-Smith. It found little had been achieved by race equality training introduced after police were branded "institutionally racist" for their failings during the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry. Of 15 forces picked at random, 14 had failed to meet a legal requirement to have written plans for taking basic steps to combat racism within the ranks.The report suggests that some forces do not understand the steps they need to take, five years after the Lawrence report and repeated promises from police chiefs that they had learned the lessons. But the extent of the problem goes even further. The Guardian understands the report will also condemn police authorities, which are supposed to act as watchdogs for the 43 forces in England and Wales. Some authorities have no plans for racial equality, despite having been required to produce them nearly two years ago. The police have never before been faced with the threat of legal action by the CRE. The race watchdog is expected to issue an enforcement notice telling police forces and authorities to stop breaking the law or face prosecution. Sources say the threat of action should ensure compliance with the law, but it will be hugely embarrassing for the police service that some parts are failing so badly. The report also found that tests designed to detect racist officers were more likely to catch black and Asian recruits than whites. Ethnic minority officers were also more likely to be targeted for disciplinary action by their forces. The CRE investigation was launched after the BBC Secret Policeman programme revealed overt racism among recruits at a training school. The report also criticises training for probationers and describes episodes of racial hatred by white officers against ethnic minority colleagues. The government and police chiefs have highlighted race equality training for officers as a key reform after the Lawrence report. But black officers told the inquiry team that the trainers, supposed to play a vital part in eradicating prejudice among officers, were often hostile to race equality themselves. The report follows weeks of closed-door hearings. Stage two will involve public hearings, where Britain's top officers will be challenged over whether they have the commitment and leadership to tackle racism in their own forces. The CRE has also asked the former BBC director general Greg Dyke to advise on whether any organisational change in the service is needed. Mr Dyke resigned from the BBC after it was criticised by the Hutton inquiry into the death of the weapons expert David Kelly. Ali Dizaei, a legal adviser to the National Black Police Association, said: "The report shows that five years on, the police service is still not taking race equality seriously. If sanctions are the only way to bring equality across the board then that ought to happen." The Home Office declined to comment on a report that the CRE chairman, Trevor Phillips, had notified David Blunkett that he would use his legal powers against offending police forces.