Levi Bellfield, the bus stop killer, will stay in prison for the rest of his life after reducing three families to "unimagined grief", a judge said yesterday.Bellfield, 39, convicted of killing two women and viciously attacking a third, was yesterday branded a coward by the families of those he murdered, Amelie Delagrange, 22, and Marsha McDonnell, 19, and by the surviving victim, Kate Sheedy, 21, for his decision not to attend court to hear his sentence. His action was a final act of defiance in a four-month murder trial during which he displayed no remorse and, in extraordinary scenes in court, verbally taunted relatives of his victims as they sat close to him. His barrister, William Boyce QC, said Bellfield was not in court because of the "explosion of bad publicity" and a "welter of accusations of other crimes by him".It was revealed yesterday that the former nightclub bouncer, who is the prime suspect for the murder of 13-year-old Milly Dowler, who disappeared in 2002, also faced eight charges of rape and four of assault on three women, which will lie on file.Yesterday, an emotional statement from Delagrange's mother, Dominique, was read in court, leaving many in tears. It charted the short life of an "absolutely adorable" daughter and the devastating impact of her death. "It will always hurt us not to know what would have become of Amelie had her life not been severed ... She wanted to marry, have children, and her sister to be godmother of her first child. So many unfulfilled hopes which are now intangible." Addressing Bellfield as if he were present and not in the Old Bailey cells, Mrs Justice Rafferty gave the defendant three life terms: "You will not be considered for parole and must serve your whole life in prison."There were cries of "yes!" from the public gallery as the sentence was passed.Bellfield will be one of a handful of prisoners, including Steve Wright, convicted last week of the murders of five women in Ipswich, who will spend their life in jail.The judge commended Detective Chief Inspector Colin Sutton, who led the investigation, for the "thousands of hours of unglamorous and painstaking" work that led to Bellfield's conviction. After sentencing, families of the victims condemned Bellfield for not facing justice. Sheedy said: "It means so much to me that he got a full life term."Delagrange's father, Jean-Francois, said: "It's just another show of his cowardice. He was a coward in his attacks and a coward today, the day he should pay for what he has done."McDonnell's uncle, Shane, said: "For a man who took pleasure in his victims ... this latest act of cowardice comes as no surprise. We are extremely happy the law has decreed this man will die in prison."