A friend of Raoul Moat accused of helping his murderous rampage told a court of the moment he was taken hostage at gunpoint.Karl Ness, 26, denies the prosecution claim that he was a "willing accomplice" of the killer gunman, who shot his ex-partner, executed her new boyfriend, then 24 hours later, blinded unarmed police officer David Rathband, in July.Ness believed Moat had killed himself rather than seriously injuring Samantha Stobbart and killing Chris Brown that night, he told a jury at Newcastle crown court.Hours after the double-shooting, Moat turned up at the home of a relative of Ness's girlfriend in Newcastle's West End. Ness and co-accused Qhuram Awan, 23, were summoned.Ness, giving evidence in his defence, said Moat was waving a gun around in the kitchen. With him was Tara Collins, Ness's girlfriend.Moat explained in detail how he had blasted Brown three times, then shot Stobbart. Ness said the killer claimed he had meant only to cause her a "surface wound" so she would receive compensation.Paul Sloan QC, defending, asked: "What was the atmosphere like?""Horrible, you could cut it with a knife," Ness replied.Moat then ordered Ness and Awan to buy two phones and fill Awan's car with petrol, the defendant claimed, while Collins stayed in the house with the ex-doorman.Sloan asked: "Why didn't you take the opportunity of alerting the authorities to what was going on?"Ness replied: "I would be putting my girlfriend at risk."After the two returned from buying the phones, Ness believed Moat would drive off alone in Awan's black Lexus. Instead, Moat ordered Ness and Awan to go with him, he told the court. Ness said: "He told me and Awan we were going with him."Sloan asked: "Did you feel you had any choice in the matter?""He had a gun in his hand, " Ness replied. "He told Tara not to go to the police or he would kill her." The three men then left the house, the court heard.Earlier, Ness told of his shock when Moat produced a gun for the first time. He was with his friend in a van heading to Birtley, Gateshead, where Stobbart lived.Ness told the court Moat had been arguing with his ex on the phone, and things were heated. Moat had punched the steering wheel, he said. "He put his hands between his legs on the floor and pulled out a gun. "I was speechless. I was stuck, I couldn't get out."Later, Ness stayed in the van while Moat hid outside the property where Stobbart was socialising. Eventually he heard a shot. "I thought he had killed himself," Ness said. "I heard a lot of screaming. I broke down, I was shaking, I was crying." Ness drove off from the scene, he told the court.Ness denies murdering Chris Brown. Both men deny conspiracy to murder, attempted murder, a firearms offence and robbing a takeaway. The case was adjourned and continues on Wednesday.