Britain has a Supreme Court Act but no supreme court: a constitutional oddity linked to the fact that this is the only country in the world to insist that the most senior judges are also members of one house of parliament. As things stand, a task carried out elsewhere by an independent court is the responsibility of 12 law lords, sitting as the appellate committee of the House of Lords.This contrivance, always flawed, now worries even those involved in operating it. A call for change came last Wednesday in a speech delivered by Lord Bingham, the most senior law lord. He pointed out, as he has done before, that the law lords' residual legislative function "which requires them to express opinions" sits uneasily with the need for members of the highest court in the land to appear impartial. Lord Bingham would like an independent supreme court, to prevent confusion. So, too, would another law lord, Lord Steyn, who made his position clear in a speech last month. The lord chancellor, Derry Irvine, is unconvinced. Questioned recently, he defended a "singular arrangement" on the grounds that "it works". But does it? The fact that Lord Bingham, a former lord chief justice, has felt the need to speak out twice in little more than six months suggests not. So does the increasingly political role of the law lords' work in the wake of the Human Rights Act. Indeed, some senior lawyers believe the existing system is unconstitutional under the European convention on human rights, on which the act is based. It promises an impartial tribunal, not a body made up of potential legislators. Last week Lord Bingham argued that "inertia is not an option" and, whether Lord Irvine likes it or not, he is right. Several law lords are already cautious about using their legislative powers and Lord Irvine - whose constitutional position as an active member of the government as well as the judiciary and parliament is the oddest of all - has found conflicts of interest a frequent bar to exercising his right to sit as a judge. Until now Lord Irvine has fobbed off calls for change by promising to consider moving the law lords out of the Palace of Westminster and into a new building and calling that a supreme court. But what really matters is a constitutional not a housing change. The government's white paper on Lords reform dismissed this but, as with so much else in that flawed document, it was mistaken.