There were embarrassing scenes in the headquarters of the Kent constabulary this week. A 44-year-old black man was apprehended inside the office of the chief constable. Two keen young officers were quick to pin the suspect to the ground as they handcuffed him and shouted questions into his ear."Right, I'm going to ask you again, sunshine - what are you doing in the chief constable's office?""I'm the new chief constable. Ow, get off! You're breaking my arm!" "Right, we've got him for impersonating a police officer as well. Chuck him in the cells with that Boateng bloke who claimed he was chief secretary to the Treasury ..." The appointment of the country's first black chief constable came in a month of good news for Britain's police. There are more bobbies on the beat than ever before, crime is continuing to fall, and Sky One is asking police officers to send in their videotapes for another series of The World's Scariest Police Chases. "This country now has more policemen than ever before," the home secretary announced to the Labour party conference this week. Except anyone listening carefully might have noticed there was another word in there that David Blunkett half-whispered, hoping that people wouldn't hear it.What he actually said was: "Britain now has more sleeping policemen than ever before." Some cynics say that road humps should not be counted, that including "sleeping policemen" is another attempt to massage the figures - but that is just typical of the people who criticise this government, whatever it does. There are now 136,386 police officers in the UK, although judging by the Met's ability to estimate crowd numbers at demonstrations, this is probably about half a million out. Thousands of new officers are already on duty, including several who aren't in the masons. When quizzed about the influence of the masons in Britain's police forces, one chief constable made clear his determination to stamp it out: "It's a tough job, but we're just going to have to roll up our trouser legs and get on with it." It has taken a while to get the figure up to the government's target because, of course, it takes time to train a new recruit to the force. A police horse, for example, cannot just sign up for the Met and start its duties the very next day. It takes a long time to teach a police horse to crap right outside the main entrance to the football ground. And urinating at the exact moment that the Queen is walking past takes months of training. Meanwhile, for the human recruits who drive into the Hendon police training college, the lessons start almost immediately. "No, no, no, drive in again - only this time go much too fast, mount the pavement, and park the thing in the middle of the street even though there are plenty of spaces on either side." With more officers and fewer crimes, David Blunkett is right when he says that we have to work to reduce the fear of crime. The new recruits to the force can help with this. Home beat officers should be visiting pensioners, looking at the flimsy locks on their front doors and saying: "Nah, that's fine, you're not very likely to get burgled anyway." Or: "If I were you, I'd keep all your cash in a jar in the front window - that's as safe as anywhere." The important thing is to make the police officers that we do have as effective as possible. Like "the weathermen always get it wrong" or "there are too many repeats on the BBC", the need for "more bobbies on the beat" is one of those lazy cliches that everyone agrees with, even though the opposite is actually true.  It has become so embedded in the national psyche that it would be almost sacrilegious to suggest that having constables walking up and down Acacia Avenue all day might actually be a bit of a waste of their time. In most residential streets in Britain nothing happens all day except the regular delivery of several tonnes of pizza leaflets. Even if there were a crime, what use would a policeman on the beat be? "Help! I've just been burgled! Look they're driving off in that van - quick, get after them!" "I'm not really going to catch a bloody two-litre Sherpa, am I, madam? I'm on foot, I thought that's what you wanted." "What we meant was that we wanted you walking up and down every street. But with an armed response unit parked just around the corner." Give it 10 years and audience members on Question Time will be applauded when they say: "What we need is more officers back at the station filling out paperwork." · I Blame the Scapegoats, a collection of John O'Farrell's Guardian columns, is published this weekcomment@theguardian.com