 Sun  Editorial, August 11 "We are all weeping with rage as the jailed rapist Iorworth Hoare gloats over his £7m Lotto jackpot ... It is very rare for vermin like Hoare to sully the Lotto's name. But let this be the last time. Seven million pounds of our Lotto cash has gone into the pocket of a sneering monster who has spent his life raping and abusing women. "The culture secretary, Tessa Jowell, in charge of lottery policy, should sit down today with the operators, Camelot, and draw up plans to stop prisoners playing. The Sun demands a change in the law to stop this madness ever happening again."  Daily Star  Editorial, August 12  "Hoare isn't just a low-life scumbag. He's a distinctly evil man with a string of convictions dating back to the early 1970s ... How appalling that his reward for a life of crime is a £7m Lotto win ... "Inmates are barred from buying Premium Bonds or playing the pools, but there's no law to stop them trying their luck on the lottery. The home secretary, David Blunkett, had been warned about how Lotto cash can fall into the wrong hands ... Mr Blunkett should hang his head with shame that this has happened - and close this loophole now."  Daily Mail  Editorial, August 12  "The public reaction to the £7m won ... by the loathsome rapist Hoare once again exposes the darker aspect of a game once billed by John Major as a 'harmless bit of fun'. But ... hasn't there always been an ambivalent side to the lottery? Though Camelot has done an excellent job running the game, the same can't be said of the politically correct quangos that decide where the money goes ... "Shouldn't Hoare's victims be encouraged to sue him in the civil courts for every penny of his windfall? Such actions would not only serve the ends of justice. Wouldn't they help restore the lottery's reputation, too?"  Daily Mirror  Editorial, August 12  "There is a slim chance Hoare's victims may be able to sue him, but at great personal cost - as any trial will bring back painful memories for those he attacked. The law must be changed to prevent serious criminals serving jail sentences from being able to win the lottery. Otherwise, as the number of Lotto millionaires grows every week, how many more vicious criminals' numbers will come up? "In the meantime, if Hoare has even a shred of contrition for what he has done, he will refuse his winnings - or hand them to a charity that seeks to help those he so callously sought to destroy."  Boris Johnson  Daily Telegraph, August 12  "The Lotto is a wonderful thing, and it would be quite wrong to deprive people of the fleeting hope it gives; and among those people I am afraid we must number Hoare ... "Many convicted criminals have won the lottery after they have done their time, including armed robbers, drunk drivers, benefit fraudsters and others. Should Hoare be stripped of his cash because his crime is more serious? Or because the amount is so huge? ... The lottery, like life, is not meant to be visibly fair ... All sorts of undeserved blessings come our way, and criminals are no exception."  Independent  Editorial, August 12  "The outrage over the fact that undeserving figures occasionally win demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding about the nature of the game. A lottery is a lottery. The fact that Hoare won ought to be no more surprising than the similar recent good fortune of the cancer sufferer Iris Jeffrey, or any other winner for that matter ... "The national lottery is essentially about gambling. Only when this basic premise is accepted will we be spared the futile posturing when it performs its job properly and throws up winners at random."