Derek BentleyDerek Bentley, a 19-year-old robber, was under arrest when his younger accomplice, Chris Craig, shot and killed police officer Sidney Miles in 1952. In a trial just six weeks later, police said Bentley had shouted: "Let him have it, Chris!" in a plea to open fire, rather than to hand over the weapon. Bentley was hanged on January 28 1953 - the day after the home secretary, Sir David Maxwell Fyfe, rejected a clemency plea from MPs. Craig escaped the gallows because he was a minor. It took just 88 days from the shots being fired before Bentley was hung in Wandsworth jail. The trial lasted barely two-and-a-half days, and the jury heard no evidence of Bentley's medical condition. He had a mental age of 11. Three court of appeal judges cleared his name in 1998, declaring he had been denied "the fair trial which is the birthright of every British citizen".The Guildford FourPaul Hill, Gerard Conlon, Patrick Armstrong and Carole Richardson spent 14 years in prison before their convictions for two IRA bomb explosions in Guildford on October 5 1974 were quashed by the court of appeal in 1989. Five died in the bombings and 50 others were injured. Mr Armstrong and Mr Hill were also convicted of murdering two people in a pub bombing in Woolwich in November 1974. In 1993, three retired Surrey detectives were acquitted by a jury of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice by fabricating evidence. Mr Hill, who was aged 21 when he was arrested, spent more than 1,600 days in solitary confinement. Gerry Conlon's father, Guiseppe, was falsely imprisoned for an IRA bomb conspiracy (see the Maguire Seven) and died in prison in 1980. He was cleared posthumously.Sir John May's four-and-a-half-year inquiry into the Guildford and Woolwich bombings, which was published in 1994, made damning criticism of every stage of the process that led to the arrest, conviction and finally acquittal of the Guildford Four.The Maguire SevenConvictions against the Maguire Seven were ruled unsafe in 1990 after an inquiry exposed disturbing holes in the police's forensic evidence. The seven - who included Gerard Conlon's father, "Guiseppe", and his ailing aunt - were convicted of running an IRA bomb factory in north London in 1974. Mr Conlon died in prison in 1980 while serving his 12-year sentence. He was cleared posthumously.However, three appeal court judges found that traces of nitroglycerine found on their hands and gloves could have been the result of innocent contamination.The Birmingham Six Six Irish Catholic men, who had settled in England, were wrongly convicted in 1975 of the murder of 21 people after bombs exploded in the Mulberry Bush bar in Birmingham in 1974.The six men - Paddy Joe Hill, Hugh Callaghan, Richard McIlkenny, Gerry Hunter, Billy Power, Johnny Walker - served more than 16 years in jail. When they emerged onto the steps of the Old Bailey in 1991 after the court of appeal had quashed their conviction, psychologists said they were in a condition congruous with those who had been at war. The men had been vilified for years as Britain's biggest mass murderers. They were partly convicted on forensic evidence of bomb traces which was later discredited. Prosecutions against officers accused of tampering with evidence were halted in 1993 because of "adverse publicity".Last year, Mr Hill, angrily rejected a compensation offer of more than £900,000 for the time he spent in prison. All six were given £200,000 interim compensation. Judith WardJudith Ward was wrongly convicted in 1974 of the 1972 M62 coach bombing in which 12 soldiers and members of their families as they were returning to Catterick camp in North Yorkshire, were killed in the explosion. At the time it was the worst IRA outrage on the British mainland. She served 17 years for crimes she did not commit and lawyers at her appeal said there had been "significant and substantial" non-disclosure of information to the defence. The Bridgewater ThreeThree men jailed for the murder in 1978 of the Staffordshire newspaper boy Carl Bridgewater were freed after three appeal court judges were told that two policemen had probably fabricated a vital statement. As a result of the discovery by forensic scientists, the crown prosecution service accepted that the trial of the four men accused of killing Carl had been "fundamentally flawed". They had spent 18 years in jail. The three, Michael Hickey, 35, Vincent Hickey, 42, and James Robinson, 63, had their murder convictions quashed in 1997. The manslaughter conviction against Patrick Molloy, who died in prison in 1981, aged 53, was reversed posthumously. He had claimed a "vein of corruption and dishonesty" ran right through the case.Carl was aged 13 when he was killed by a single shot to the head at point-blank range as he stumbled across an apparent burglary.