The new army of uniformed civilian patrols and "community support officers" who will start to patrol later this year will have the power to detain somebody for up to 30 minutes until a police officer arrives under the police reform bill published yesterday.The police auxiliaries will be able to issue on the spot fixed penalty tickets for a range of anti-social behaviour offences such as disorder, littering and cycling on a footpath. They will have the power to detain anyone they believe is "causing alarm or distress to anybody else" or has damaged property, and to confiscate alcohol from people drinking in the street and cigarettes from underage smokers. Ministers expect the police to employ thousands of new-style officers from later this year. They will be able to stop and demand the name and address of anyone who has been or is "acting in an anti-social manner". Offenders who refuse can be detained until a police officer arrives. The community support officers will have their own cap badge and be paid about two-thirds the rate for a police constable. Home Office ministers denied they amounted to "policing on the cheap" as their introduction came when police numbers were heading towards a record 130,000 officers by next spring. The support officers will be supplemented by a second tier of local authority-employed neighbourhood wardens and private security staff, such as shopping mall guards, who will provide a presence in public spaces but without the power to use reasonable force. It will mean that the existing networks of wardens and private security staff will come under police control. The police reform bill, published by the home secretary, David Blunkett, also confirms the government's plans to set up an independent police complaints commission which will use outside investigators; to give the home secretary the power to dismiss an ineffective chief constable; and powers to tackle the wide variation in performance between forces. The police and civil liberties groups voiced concern about the patrols, with the Police Federation objecting to their power to detain backed up by reasonable force if necessary."The federation believes that employing lesser-trained and lesser-paid civilians to perform police duties will undermine policing by consent and could create more problems than it solves," said Fred Broughton, the chairman. Next month police officers will ballot on whether to accept a pay and working conditions deal which will give extra rewards for frontline policing as part of the reform package. Mark Littlewood, the campaigns director of Liberty, said that police powers had to come with adequate training and accountability: "These powers should remain with the police - if more people are needed to implement them that should mean more police officers." The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said that the proposals might cause confusion about who is and who is not a police constable. The police minister, John Denham, said the support officers would receive training and would not carry batons or CS spray. "They have a limited power to detain for a limited period of time. The chief constables will be responsible for their safety and their deployment. It's quite important not to give the idea that we're trying to create a group of people who will be routinely out there trying to exercise powers of arrest." Reform points · New breed of civilian patrols with power to detain backed by reasonable force · Private security patrols and street wardens to come under police control without power to use force · New independent police complaints commission · Power for home secretary to dismiss chief constables · New police powers to take blood samples from unconscious drivers · Assaulting a police officer, driving while disqualified and making off without payment to become arrestable offences without the need for a warrant