A terrorist instructor who called himself Osama bin London and set up al-Qaida-style training camps in the New Forest was today jailed indefinitely, with a minimum term of seven and a half years.Mohammed Hamid, 50, from east London, was sentenced at Woolwich crown court after being convicted last week of soliciting to murder, as well as organising terrorist training.The group's self-appointed amir – meaning spiritual leader – Atilla Ahmet, 43, was jailed for six years and 11 months after admitting three counts of soliciting murder. Five of the men's followers were jailed last week for between three years five months and four years 11 months.A jury heard how Hamid hoped to send his recruits on to further training in Afghanistan or east Africa.Hamid, who had several of the July 21 failed bombers, including ringleader Muktar Said Ibrahim, among his followers, boasted that the July 7 attacks on London were "not even breakfast for me", the court heard.Sentencing Hamid to the indefinite term, the trial judge, Mr Justice Pitchers, told Hamid he would continue to be a danger to the public because of his ability to persuade others to commit terrorism.The judge told Hamid he had "used [his] charm and knowledge of the Qu'ran to influence others to terrorism."You can be quite genuinely amusing and charming. We heard it on tapes and saw it to some extent in this court. You also have real knowledge of the Qu'ran and Islamic teaching. "However, that is only one side of you. The other side we heard on the recording that has become so well-known [is] when you spoke of the 52 dead on 7/7 being 'breakfast for you'."While Hamid was prone to exaggeration, the judge said, he did appear to have sent trainees to Afghanistan as claimed.By contrast to Hamid, Ahmet had very little knowledge of the Qu'ran, the judge said. He had a love of publicity that would be "laughable" if the views he expressed were not so unpleasant.Hamid organised camping and paintballing expeditions at sites in the Lake District, the New Forest, Berkshire, Kent and East Sussex, as well as discussing terrorism with his followers at his home.He was convicted in part from evidence taken after MI5 planted a bug at his residence in late 2005. Later a police agent infiltrated the group. Kibley da Costa, 25, Mohammed al-Figari, 45, and Kader Ahmed, 20, were found guilty of attending terror camps in the New Forest and at a Berkshire paintballing centre. Two other members of the gang, Mohammed Kyriacou, 19, and Yassin Mutegombwa, 23, admitted attending terrorist training camps. The jury heard that several of the July 21 failed bombers, including the ringleader, Muktar Said Ibrahim, were among Hamid's followers.