Sex offender rehabilitation programmes are under scrutiny. The tabloid press, lauding the introduction of a version of Sarah's Law, named after the murdered seven-year-old Sarah Payne, is baying for parents to have the right to be told if there are convicted child abusers living nearby. The Home Office continues to investigate ways of dealing with the estimated 30,000 registered sex offenders living in communities and promotes offender treatment programmes as an effective solution.Evaluation of these programmes tends to focus on the low rate of re-offending. But only a tiny proportion of child abusers are caught, let alone convicted. Men released into the community who have had treatment in prison are registered offenders and monitored by police and other agencies, so if they offend again they should be caught. But not necessarily. Police and probation services have admitted there are nowhere near the resources to monitor all offenders. Last month, Scottish justice minister Cathy Jamieson admitted no records are kept of re-offending rates among convicted sex offenders who undergo such counselling.The most recent Home Office research, in 2002, found over a quarter of those imprisoned for a sexual crime against a child outside their family were later convicted of another sexual offence. We can take comfort from the fact that almost three-quarters will not pose a threat to children once they have been in prison and through a treatment programme. But on closer examination things do not look so good. In order to end up with a conviction in child sexual abuse cases, several things have to happen. One, the child discloses she or he has been sexually abused. Two, the police become involved. Three, the Crown Prosecution Service agrees to take the case. Four, the child gives evidence in court. Five, the evidence is deemed reliable by the judge. And six, the jury believes the child. During the process there is, according to experts, a fallout of up to 90%."Golden rule, I can never go near children," are the first words of Charlie, who has been released from prison having served a sentence for raping and sodomising three young girls. The main character in a new TV drama, Secret Life, he is a convicted paedophile who, by his own admission, is still a serious threat to children. When the rehabilitation centre he attends is shut down, he is left to cope alone and try to prevent himself assaulting more little girls. When his counselling sessions end, he starts to fantasise again about offending.But how effective are treatment programmes? Viewers are given the impression that abusers are suffering from a genetic condition and will "have to" continue to abuse if not provided with round-the-clock therapy. But those who abuse children choose to do so and need to be stopped, punished and deterred, not treated as if they are ill.Throughout, Charlie acts like an addict. Fathers and uncles who rape children are usually not portrayed as suffering from a compulsion. The rare times they are convicted, it is largely agreed they are responsible for their actions and the abuse was about power and cruelty. No clues are offered as to why Charlie began to rape children, except that he was also a victim of childhood abuse. But the reality is that most victims do not go on to abuse others.I have nothing against the behaviour of sex offenders being challenged through rehabilitation programmes. But they need to be delivered in prison, not as an alternative. Why should we see men like Charlie as being different to habitual street fighters? They are expected to stop their behaviour without thinking they are the victims of overpowering urges. Sex offenders should be treated the same way.· Secret Life will be shown on Channel 4 at 9pm on Thursday 19juliebindel@yahoo.co.uk