 Ian Curley, a serving police officer, 30 years' experience with Hertfordshire police I spent four and a half years road policing. Traffic officers don't spend all their time catching people speeding. Part of the job is dealing with accidents and the tragic consequences of these incidents. You turn up when the scene is raw and at its worst, often before the paramedics have arrived. It does have an effect on you, without a doubt. You try to deal with it as professionally as possible, but I knew after four and a half years it was time to move off that beat. I was lucky because I was given a great deal of support by my wife. She helped me through the difficult times. If you don't have that support it can all build up, and you can have a lot of problems later on. There hasn't always been enough consideration for what police officers have to deal with personally. We were all very macho back then and you couldn't admit that you were affected by these things - it wasn't the done thing. We used to just go to the pub and that was a bit like a group therapy session - a kind of release. That culture is not in the service so much now, and it is probably a good thing because dealing with it in that way probably wasn't the best idea. One of the most vivid memories I have was when I was working in a control room and we could see a tyre fitter changing a wheel on the hard shoulder of a motorway. It was on six screens in the room, and as we watched in glorious technicolour he was run over by a lorry. That was 26 years into my service but it was still a traumatic incident for me as much as it was for the staff I was supervising. I also remember having to attend a rail accident where a young girl had the top of her head sliced off. I have kids of my own and it was a difficult thing to cope with. My wife has been my main support - the person I have offloaded on to over the years. I am lucky. An awful lot of officers get divorced and I am sure the stress of the job is a contributory factor. Everyone deals with things differently, but it is true to say that however strong an individual is, all of us need help occasionally, especially with the stuff police officers see on a daily basis. We often deal with the things no one else wants to. We are getting there, but there is more to be done in this area. Practical help is what is needed, and this government initiative is most welcome.