A new breed of young criminals, many as young as 10, are committing street robberies because they believe it will give them credibility and status in neighbourhoods they regard as "lawless", Scotland Yard said yesterday.Sir John Stevens, commissioner of the Metropolitan police, said a recent rise in robberies around London reflected "a new phenomenon" - playground bullies taking their intimidation and menace outside school. Many of the offenders targeted pupils they knew and put pressure on the victims not to come forward for fear of reprisals. Although the Met recognises little research has been done in this field, it believes there is enough anecdotal evidence from officers on the beat, as well as worrying statistics from selected boroughs, to conclude a trend is emerging. Sir John's remarks yesterday had particular resonance because the killers of Damilola Taylor, the 10-year-old who bled to death in a south London council estate stairwell on Monday, are thought to be from his age group. Describing Damilola's death as "shocking and tragic", the commissioner said 40 officers were now working on the case full time and every back-up support was being offered. Referring to recent figures from the west London borough of Hounslow, Sir John said 70% of street robberies were committed by youths un der the age of 17. He said 72% of the victims were also under 17, and 40% of the offenders had never been in trouble with the police before, and were surprised they had been arrested. Commander Tim Godwin said some of the teenagers spoke of earning £300 a week from street crime. They stole pocket money, mobile phones, credit cards and Pokemon cards, he said. In one case a boy told officers how he stole money to give to his parents. But cash was not the sole or most important motive of those involved. Street crimes were often committed as a rite of passage by youths who were under pressure from their peers, Mr Godwin said. Sir John said: "What we are witnessing is a new breed of criminal. What started off in the playground is now moving on into the streets." It was, he said, a new phenomenon.