The gang behind the biggest robbery in Britain had to leave more than £150m because they could not fit it into their getaway lorry, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.The robbers used a forklift truck and a shopping trolley to try to speed up the raid, the court heard.The men who plotted the £53m raid on the Securitas depot in Tonbridge, Kent, in February last year, had earlier kidnapped the depot's manager and family, prosecuting counsel Sir John Nutting QC said. The manager, Colin Dixon, was forced at gun-point to aid the robbery, carried out by a team of seven masked, armed men.Inside the bunker-style depot, 14 Securitas staff on duty that night were handcuffed and told by a frightened Mr Dixon: "Just do whatever the bloke says." One of the staff was so convinced that the depot was impregnable that he thought what was happening was an exercise.The whole robbery took only one hour and six minutes. The court heard that as the robbers left, they told staff: "Don't do anything silly - we know where you live." One robber thanked them sarcastically for their "cooperation" as they locked them in cages where the money had been stored."They feared, defenceless as they were, that the gunmen would shoot them, one by one in the cages, before they left, or set fire to the building, denying the employees any chance of escape," Sir John said.The robbers' 7.5-tonne lorry was now full of cages containing the cash, and they had to abandon £153,833,020, the jury heard.The court also heard that an accidental recording of a mobile phone conversation provided evidence of the plot. Two of the alleged conspirators were heard arguing over who should confront the guard."It only wants someone to knock the door and go 'flick-flick'...once the door's open, you're fucking done," Lea Rusha allegedly says. His associate asks: "Who do you think is the best person to go to the door?" "You," replies Mr Rusha.In the same conversation, apparently captured when the record button on the mobile phone was accidentally pressed, Mr Rusha allegedly discusses how to get a camera into the depot.The tiny camera was allegedly given to the "inside man", Ermir Hysenaj, an Albanian, who worked at the depot."Hysenaj was fitted with a miniature video camera hidden in his belt," Sir John said. CCTV footage from inside the depot showed Mr Hysenaj moving around, apparently filming his surroundings.Mr Rusha, from Tunbridge Wells; Mr Hysenaj, from Crowborough; John Fowler, from Staplehurst; Jetmir Bucpapa, from Tonbridge; Stuart Royle, from Maidstone; Roger Coutts, from Welling; and Michelle Hogg, from Woolwich, all deny conspiracy to rob, kidnap and possess firearms. Keith Borer, from Maidstone, denies handling stolen goods.The case continues.