Like a good crime novel, criminal statistics have been keeping policy-makers in suspense. Are we already experiencing a historic change in crime patterns? Criminal statistics recorded by the police have been falling for eight successive years, but these statistics are suspect: only half of all crime is reported to the police and then only half the crime reported, is recorded. But the victim-based British crime survey, which is respected and much more reliable, was finally published yesterday and pointed to the same conclusion. A historic new period of falling crime could have begun, though ministers rightly issued numerous caveats and cautions.The three pieces of good news in the newest BCS could not be more dramatic: first, the biggest ever annual decline in crime - down 12% last year; second, a phenomenal 33% drop in crime over the last five years; and, third, the lowest level of crime since the BCS began in 1981. To judge by long-term trends, none of this should be happening. Crime has been rising on average by 5% a year since 1918. Two of the traditional factors associated with rising crime are also in place today: a rising number of males aged 14-24, the most crime-prone age group; and the stock of saleable goods is at an all-time high. True, unemployment is low, which reduces property crime, but it usually increases alcohol-related violent crime. Yet violent crime is down too.No wonder Paul Wiles, research director at the Home Office, conceded yesterday that the traditional economic models used for forecasting crime might need to be "revisited". Yet in some respects, we should not be surprised by the changing pattern. Two years ago in our Society section, Chris Nuttall, Mr Wiles's predecessor, set out the argument why the last century's pattern of rising crime could not continue. It would lead to absurd and unbelievable levels, he argued; almost 200m crimes a day by 2150. Mr Nuttall showed that there were three distinct phases over the last 200 years: first a rise in crime until 1860; then a fall between 1860 and 1918; finally a continuing rise to the mid-1990s. We could now be living in a fourth phase. Some obvious circumstantial changes may have helped the recent falls: increasingly vigilant householders, more secure homes and cars, better local crime-prevention programmes. But there is something more fundamental at work too, for crime is falling right across the western world. British ministers need to focus on two issues. First, public perceptions. Almost one-quarter of us still believe crime is rising inexorably. Not surprising, given the hardline rhetoric - and five criminal law bills - produced in the run-up to the election, but not true either. Second, unnecessary imprisonment. Prison inmate numbers are continuing to rise in spite of the 33% fall in crime. This is a criminal waste of public funds and of thousands of individual lives.