Is prostitution legal in Britain?Strictly speaking, prostitution has always been legal in the UK, in the sense that it is not illegal to pay for sex, or to receive money for it. But many of the activities that it involves - including soliciting, kerb-crawling, pimping, and keeping a brothel - are all against the law. In practice, much depends on interpretation and enforcement. Campaigners argue that Asbos, for example, are frequently used against sex workers, outside of prostitution legislation.What is the government's position?It's under review. The Home Office has introduced a number of changes to the law, including a statutory redefinition of the term "common prostitute" and a new penalty compelling those convicted under prostitution laws to attend counselling sessions. A new network of police tactical advisers and an action plan on ending trafficking have also been launched.What are the arguments in favour of legalisation?Campaigners say that where women are able to work without fear of prosecution they are much safer. They argue that even the Swedish model - where sex workers are decriminalised but those buying sex are criminalised - drives the women underground. What are the arguments against legislation?Moral and/or feminist arguments aside, some argue that even where the sex industry is legal, there will always be women who are so desperate they fall outside it. They point out that several of the women who died in Ipswich had to leave more organised brothels because of their drug use and chaotic lifestyles.What is the situation now in Ipswich?In response to the murders, Suffolk police, action groups and local authorities put in place a strategy last spring effectively to end street prostitution in the town. Thanks to aggressive policing - at least 120 men have been arrested - and highly dedicated support, more than 20 women have been helped out of prostitution. But some argue that the situation for the very few who are still working - police say there are only two - is such that they are at risk of themselves being criminalised. What other issues need to be tackled?According to one study, 87% of street sex workers use heroin. Brian Tobin, director of the Iceni project which has helped most of Ipswich's sex workers off the streets, argues that "with street prostitution, as with burglaries, gun crime, shop-lifting, all that underpins them is drug use. Unless we effectively manage drug use in this country, everything else is fire-fighting." The Conservative party chairman, Caroline Spelman MP, who has visited the project, told the Guardian that the party's policy was "committed to massive investment in drug rehabilitation" as part of its strategy for tackling prostitution.