Gordon Brown's sudden interest in breathing new life into tackling antisocial behaviour follows two years of government "coasting" on the issue, at least according to his own home secretary, Alan Johnson.Most police, other criminal justice professionals and councils believed the asbo's day was already . But it seems that resurgent concern over alleged failure of the police to take antisocial behaviour seriously (highlighted by the deaths of Fiona Pilkington and her daughter) set the Downing Street private polling alarm bells ringing.Although the home secretary admitted yesterday that the police failure to act in the Leicestershire case was exceptional, he used it to justify a crusade to revive use of the asbo.Its slow death became apparent three years ago when a Whitehall evaluation demonstrated that nearly half of all orders issued had been breached and that, paradoxically, they were widely seen as a "badge of honour" both by offending teenagers and their parents.They were the flagship of Tony Blair's "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" approach, introduced in the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act to curb antisocial behaviour on inner city estates that police never previously bothered with. The idea was that banning orders – curfews, or on going to certain places – would be coupled with parenting programmes to tackle offending behaviour.As out of control "asbo kids" filled TV screens in Blair's Britain, they proved an initial hit with councillors keen to show they could make a difference. But by 2005 the police and others were less impressed.The National Audit Office looked at 1,000 asbos between 1999 and 2006, and found 35% were breached five or more times. The Whitehall evaluation said that warning letters from the police, costing £63 to administer, and acceptable behaviour contracts were far more effective than £3,000 a time asbos. The Home Office confirmed this in 2008. For 15,000 asbos issued up to December 2007, breach rates had soared to 61% and orders issued per year had dropped by more than a third.Asbos' fate appeared to have been sealed when Gordon Brown took over. His lieutenant, Ed Balls, the children's secretary, hoped to live in "the kind of society that puts asbos behind us".Jacqui Smith as home secretary urged early intervention, including parenting orders, behaviour contracts and support orders, to nip bad behaviour in the bud.Brown has only made one major speech on crime as PM, and yesterday's announcements are little more than minor changes. However enthusiastic the home secretary and his PM become about asbos in the run-up to the election, the attempted revival is likely to fail. Professionals still see them as an ineffective blunt instrument and prefer alternatives that at least appear to work.