A witness named only as A told yesterday how they "freaked out" after realising that they had seen the murder of a 15-year-old schoolboy gunned down in a park in Manchester's Moss Side last September.The inquest into the death of Jessie James has been switched to Manchester crown court to give extra security to witnesses, many of whom are giving evidence from a remote location by video link. Their image on a screen is obscured by curtains and witnesses' voices are electronically distorted.The gender of witnesses was not stated and reporters in court were given no indication of whether they were male or female.The Manchester coroner Nigel Meadows took witness A through a statement given to police last October which described what they later discovered were Jessie's final moments.A told how, as they waited in a car for some fast food in Moss Side, they saw a blue car with alloy wheels being driven fast and then braking hard. Two youths from a group climbed into the car and then walked back as the car sped off."From where I was sitting, it was like I was watching one of them gangster films in which two people run over to a car and collect whatever they are collecting," the witness said.Four youths, including the two who had briefly been in the blue car, then went into Broadfield Park. "As soon as the four went into the park," A said in the statement, "I heard about five gunshots."I looked at the time and it was 1am and by 1.01am the gunshots had finished. The shots were being fired in a rapid-fire style. I could see that the gunman was standing in the area at the end of the concrete path near the play area."The person was taking aim with one hand, stretching his arm in front towards a figure stood approximately 6ft away."As soon as the figure went down on the ground, the gunman stopped firing. As the gun was being shot, I could see the fire sparks from it and the figure was standing opposite it. The gunman seemed to be running backwards as he shot."A went home but could not sleep. "I was completely freaked out that a life could be taken as quickly as it had, that life was short," A said in the statement.Questioned by Mr Meadows, A said they had phoned a police officer they knew to tell him of the shooting and of seeing "a shadow like a body" go down in the park. The officer told A to lock all the doors and that someone would be in contact in the morning. A later heard of Jessie's murder on television.Witness D later named a potential suspect linked to Jessie's killing. They told the inquest that Jessie had been threatened by a boy three or four days before he was shot in the early hours of September 9.In front of members of the Gooch gang, the boy had wrongly accused Jessie of being a member of the rival Doddington outfit.Mr Meadows asked D if they thought the boy who made the charge was connected with Jessie's murder. "I think he was," replied D.The coroner then asked D to write the boy's name on a sheet of paper but not to speak it.Mr Meadows asked that the name D wrote should be passed on to legal teams, telling them: "I do not anticipate that it will come as any surprise to you."Witness D said that on the night of the murder, they had been with Jessie outside a social club when a group went off to check on a party.D added that a friend had suggested it "would not be a good idea for Jessie to go into the park" but D did not know why.After hearing gunshots, D went into the park, saw the light of Jessie's mobile phone flashing, found Jessie and then dialled 999.The inquest continues today.