The government wants the public to be involved in the appointment of judges and magistrates as part of a drive to slow "the growing hostility of the public to lawyers", Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, says today in an interview with the Guardian.He praised the people's court experiment in Liverpool and said he wanted to extend it throughout the country. The people's court judge in north Liverpool was appointed after a selection process involving local people.Lord Falconer's comments come as he announces details of an independent Judicial Appointments Commission, a new body that takes over from the lord chancellor the responsibility for appointing judges and magistrates in England and Wales. It has a statutory duty to diversify the bench and maintain the principle of appointments on merit.The commission, which comes into effect on April 3, will be chaired by a lay figure, Lady Prashar. She will be supported by a senior appeal court judge, expected to be Lord Justice Auld. Lord Falconer said he hoped its lay majority would "lead to more women judges, more black judges and more disabled judges"."There is a more profound difficulty about women staying beyond 40," he said.Lord Falconer said the commission was part of wider measures "to change the way law is done in Britain", including cutting the £2bn legal aid budget, curbing trials that last more than three months, and enforcing penalties for minor offences outside the courts."There is a growing hostility to lawyers in society, in part because there is a sense that they live in a protected world because the rules protect their market and the public does not get adequately served. We need to change that," he said.He praised Judge David Fletcher, who presides over the Liverpool community court. "Without compromising his independence, he has made links with the community from which his cases come by talking to residents' groups, agencies etc. He has a profound understanding of the difficulties those communities face, how it affects the defendants he sees and also the communities in which crime is committed."So he has a very good idea where the balance lies and I have absolutely no doubt it has an extraordinarily beneficial effect on the way he makes decisions. I think we need to look at involving the community in that sensible way for other judicial appointments."The reforms would include the introduction of the so-called Tesco law, lifting the restrictive practices surrounding lawyers and allowing outside ownership of law firms. He said he would publish a draft bill in the next few months to free up the market.He defended plans to bypass magistrates courts in hundreds of thousands of cases, handing power to prosecutors in consultation with police to impose penalties outside court.He said: "You do not need the same process for resolving whether you have paid your TV licence as one does for a major violent crime. Justice is reduced if three magistrates sit in court all afternoon effectively listening to names and addresses being read out, and a formal piece of evidence being read, and then fining someone. You are slowing down other cases that most certainly do need to be dealt with in court. A caution outside court, a conditional caution, a disorder notice or a fixed-penalty notice can be used with cases like TV licences, shoplifting, petty criminal damage, minor brawls after a night out."Lord Falconer said this procedure could not be used for offences liable to lead to imprisonment, or if there had been no admission of guilt after legal advice. "If the defendant wants to rerun the argument he should be entitled to go to court, in which case the burden of proof lies with the prosecution," he said.He also wants to contain the legal aid budget and is awaiting detailed proposals from a review chaired by Lord Carter in the next fortnight. "A smaller and smaller number of very big criminal cases are absorbing much too much money, taking money from normal criminal cases and civil legal aid. We need much more aggressive case management by judges. I don't think cases in practically any instance should last more than three months. There may be the occasional six-month cases, but the idea of 18-month cases is ridiculous," he said."It is extraordinarily difficult for anybody to assimilate evidence that they may not have heard for more than a year. It would be the exceptional case that would last three months. I find it very hard to envisage any case lasting more than six months."