The sign has been taken down and the doors closed for good at the 19th-century seafront building where Mohammed al-Majed studied English. Not long after the 16-year-old student was killed, EF Language School upped sticks and moved to Bristol, having apparently decided that Hastings's reputation was beyond redemption.Nearby, the owner of the Kebab Hut and USA Fried Chicken restaurant, once a bustling hangout for Arab students, sat chatting to friends in the otherwise deserted shop on an unseasonably warm autumn afternoon. "The students from Arabic countries, they're not very keen on coming to Hastings because Hastings has been described as a high-risk place," said Remzi Tanriverdi, formerly a UN project co-ordinator in Turkey. He said his takings were down 70% on last year because of the loss of wealthy Arab students who had deserted the seaside town.During his short time in the UK, Mohammed was a regular at the Kebab Hut, often DJing in the back-room bar where foreign students would congregate. On the night he was killed, he initially sought shelter in the restaurant from the mayhem outside. Tanriverdi, who described Mohammed as a "lovely person", called the police because he was concerned about a group causing trouble outside. Among the group were George Austin, today convicted of Mohammed's manslaughter, and Paul Rockett, found guilty of racially aggravated common assault.The violence and abuse aimed at Mohammed and his friends – one said there were taunts of "Saddam Hussein" and "Osama bin Laden" – prompted a rush by many people, mainly outsiders, to portray the town as a hotbed of racism. Tanriverdi believes that is over-simplifying things: rather, Hastings suffers from the binge-drinking culture endemic to many English towns, which can manifest itself in racist language. "The man fighting with me in the night when he's drunk, tomorrow can come in, cuddle me and give me a hug," he said, trying to explain the incendiary effects of alcohol.As further evidence he pointed to a bite mark on his arm that he said was inflicted by a girl after an argument, and the shattered restaurant window damaged during the same incident.Following Mohammed's death, much was made of the fact there had been 98 crimes against language school students over the three summers from 2005 to 2007, including 41 assaults. But the figures should be placed in the context of the 90,000 or so students who would have visited the town over that period.On the streets of Hastings, people of all colours defended the town against accusations of racism. At the Pig in Paradise pub, outside which Mohammed was killed, Dave, 24, Kylie, 21, and Lee, 29, playing pool while sharing a bowl filled with a pink cocktail, agreed that alcohol was a problem. They said the strip stretching down to the Kebab Hut regularly saw fights on weekend nights. They denied Hastings was a racist place – Lee pointed out that two of the defendants were not from Hastings – but tension was evident."It's only us whites are the ones that always seem to get done [for being racist], it's not the coloured ones," said John. "They [the Arabs] kiss their teeth at us and we tell the police and they don't do anything." He illustrated by pressing his teeth together and hissing. "It's their way of calling us scum," he explained.The Hastings and Rye MP, Michael Foster, believes there may be some jealousy of wealthy students among locals in Hastings, listed as the 29th most deprived local authority area in England in 2007, but that it does not translate into racism. He admitted there was drunken "rowdiness" but said violence was rare."The BNP rears their ugly head regularly but they do very badly," he said. "Because it's a deprived area, you would expect if it was a racist area for the BNP to do better."Foster insisted the town had not been put on a blacklist by Arab students, despite EF's closure. Hastings council said the number of students rose by about 3,500 this summer, to about 38,500, although it has no breakdown by nationality. Mohammed's family initially discouraged other Arab families from sending their children to Hastings, but changed their stance after saying they were "overwhelmed" by the support they had received in the town.On the seafront, Arab students were few and far between, perhaps because they had been put off the area, or perhaps because the summer peak season had been and gone. Galal Mahamad, 19, who arrived in Hastings from Libya to study English at the Embassy school just over two months ago, said he had heard about Mohammed's death but was not worried about racism. "It's not a problem, it's very nice this community," he said.