It is now more than five months since Lenny Harper, Jersey's deputy chief police officer, opened the press conference that would arguably change his life - and Jersey - forever. Standing outside Haut de la Garenne, the now notorious former children's home in the St Martin area of the island, Harper revealed that his team had found "what appears to be potential remains of a child" underneath the building.On that bleak February afternoon, Harper, a 56-year-old Ulster man, said he was dealing with a "potential major crime inquiry concerning a possible homicide" and that detectives believed they might find more human remains. The find had come to light as a result of a sweeping investigation into historical child abuse on the island; we were later told abuse victims had claimed children in the home had been "dragged from their beds screaming and disappeared".It was a huge story, which only got bigger the following day when bleary-eyed journalists from the mainland turned up. I was among them, and have followed the story since, as it has grown and shrunk and been shot down and sexed up, as the body count fluctuated almost as widely as the tally of the abused and the abusers. I have listened to the complaints of Jersey politicians, heard the frustrations of police officers who believed their investigation was being obstructed by the authorities, and have interviewed an abuse victim who has needed psychiatric care all his life because of what happened to him at Haut de la Garenne.I have knocked on the doors of many of those accused, been harangued by locals horrified at Jersey being lazily painted by outsiders as a sinister "island of secrets" and spoken to the tourism officials who spent a great deal of time and money finding out whether Harper's investigation would sour the island's reputation as a holiday resort (or investment destination) forever. And still I am not sure what the truth is. But then again, I don't think anyone is. Lenny Harper has his theory, but knows he probably can't prove it.Next Thursday will be Harper's last day in the job. He is retiring and moving to England to be near his daughter, whose husband was killed in Iraq four years ago. This week he gave one of his final press conferences, in which he told reporters he believed his team had unearthed the remains of up to five children, including 65 teeth and fragments of bone. He said the tally of abuse victims had dropped, from more than 200 several months ago, to between 70 and 80, who had made allegations against more than 100 suspects. Of these, 18 were being treated as prime suspects.He told Radio 4's Today programme on Thursday he was disappointed the inquiry had resulted in so few arrests. Six people have been arrested and three, including a former warden, have been charged with child abuse offences and appeared in court. Three others have been released on bail pending further inquiries - to the immense frustration of the police, who were confident there was enough evidence to charge them.Harper also admitted that because of difficulties in accurately dating the remains, it may never be possible to open a murder inquiry. On February 24, the day after Harper's press conference, I, along with the three other journalists who arrived in Jersey first, wrote stories which said there were fears six "or more" dead children were buried beneath Haut de la Garenne. The line, followed up throughout the world, came from an off-camera briefing with Harper. We had asked him about six "hotspots" found in and around the home which had been identified by Eddie, the sniffer dog who had been credited with leading detectives to those initial "remains". Does this mean there could be six bodies, I asked. Potentially yes, said Harper - "or more".Several months later I worried the whole thing had been a cock-up in which I had played a part, when forensic analysis cast doubt on those initial "remains", with experts claiming them to be nothing more than a piece of wood or coconut shell. The claims of institutionalised physical and sexual abuse were shocking enough, but by this point the investigation had gone quiet, and with it the press coverage, and Jersey was trying to get back to normal. Many locals blamed Harper for bringing shame on the island by blabbing prematurely about what he had found. Some went as far as threatening to burn down his house and firebomb his car. By May, he had received more than 140 poison-pen letters. In the States of Jersey, the island's parliament, on April 29, one senator (the Jersey equivalent of an MP), Sean Power, accused Harper of misrepresenting the facts. Harper telling the media on February 23 that he had found the partial remains of a child was an "inappropriate summary of the situation at the time", Power said.But to me, and others from the mainland, it was obvious why Harper had made the decision to go public, so early on. As an outspoken critic of what he sees as the island's tendency to brush awkward problems under the carpet (he first came to Jersey in 2002 to investigate police corruption), and as an outsider, Harper wanted as many foreign eyes as possible on his inquiry. The more press interest in the story, the more difficult it would be for the Jersey establishment to pretend there was nothing going on. That's why he gave candid press briefings daily for the first week or two of the excavations. Every journalist covering the story has his mobile number and he has always done his best to answer our questions honestly - so long as his response won't jeopardise the operation.It was an unpopular policy with many on Jersey. In May the island's bailiff Sir Philip Bailhache (who acts as the speaker in parliament) complained in his annual Liberation Day speech that many journalists continued to write about the island's "so-called child abuse scandal. All child abuse ... is scandalous, but it is the unjustified and remorseless denigration of Jersey and her people that is the real scandal," he said.Sometimes, islanders seemed to go out of their way to counteract the negative with the positive. A few days after the media descended on the island, the first victims started telling stories of their horrific abuse. In response, the Jersey Evening Post - the island's only daily newspaper - ran a double-page spread from former Haut de la Garenne residents recalling what a lovely place it was to live.Though the JEP covered the allegations, it periodically ran editorials raging against the UK press. On my fourth day in Jersey, no national newspapers arrived in the shops. Apparently, it was because fog had grounded the plane, but the UK press pack joked it was a conspiracy to keep the bad news out.It is all too easy to make fun of Jersey's parochialism. But I was surprised to see how many of the island's most powerful figures shared the same surname. For example, in the legal system, the two top jobs are taken by the Bailhache brothers. William is the attorney general and Sir Philip is bailiff. It is tempting to use the island's tax-haven status as a metaphor for the locals' ability to keep even the shadowiest secrets - when the Haut de la Garenne dig hit the headlines, the issue of Alistair Darling's "non-dom" tax reform was also big news. But it is more relevant that Jersey is a small, isolated island, which encourages a wariness of outsiders. The locals are particularly prickly about the Nazi occupation: during the second world war, many islanders collaborated with the Germans.On May 1 I spoke to Frank Walker, Jersey's chief minister. He told me how hurt he had been by the press coverage. "Our reputation has been shredded ... [We] have almost been presented as being an island of paedophiles," said Walker, adding some stories were "pure fiction". He seemed relieved that, at that point, Harper's team appeared not to have found any conclusive evidence of any children being killed at the home. He said while it was vital "no stone be left unturned", it was business as usual. He stressed that Jersey's situation was "far from unique".Shortly after the spotlight was turned on the island, Jersey's tourist office pulled all advertising. When the marketing campaign resumed on April 11, some rather unfortunate slogans had been withdrawn - such as one which invited holidaymakers to "discover hidden treasure". Tourism officials then commissioned two telephone surveys. More than 1,000 people were asked whether they had heard anything about Jersey in the news recently. If yes, would it make them more or less likely to want to visit? The results were inconclusive: the same number of people were put off as those who were inspired to holiday in Jersey. Over Easter, it seemed Jersey's worst fears had been realised, when inquiries to the tourist office were down 10% on 2007. But tourism officials stressed that was not necessarily down to the inquiry. In any case, business soon picked up. Yesterday a tourism spokeswoman told me bookings were up 3% year-on-year. A coincidence buoyed by the strong euro? Or has the media coverage merely served to remind Britons that Jersey exists as a holiday destination? Last weekend, the Jersey Care Leavers' Association called a public meeting to discuss the inquiry. It was attended by victims, many of whom are involved in the police investigation. Liz Davies, senior lecturer in children and families social work at London Metropolitan University, was invited, along with other specialists from the UK. Davies was given a tour around Haut de la Garenne by two former residents, who were both abused at the home."Images remain with me: the tree from which one care leaver saw his friend hanging [Michael Collins, a 14-year-old boy, hung himself at the home in the 1960s], the small windows behind which they were detained for lengthy periods in solitary confinement, the fields of corn which they ran across barely clothed in their escape attempts, the playing field they were never allowed to go on," said Davies. For many people, it is inconceivable the authorities do not have a proper record of children who went missing. But as Davies says, it is far from a unique situation. "In the year up to March 2007, 160 children went missing from care institutions in the UK," she said.What next for the inquiry? Many victims are fearful what will happen when Harper has left the island, though police insist they will continue striving for prosecutions. Last week Labour backbencher Austin Mitchell and Liberal Democrat MP John Hemming, urged Jack Straw, the justice secretary, to step in to ensure an independent inquiry into the abuse claims. But this seems unlikely. Jersey's attorney general, William Bailhache QC, does not seem keen. The crown could step in, he said this week, but "it's not happened in 800 years - so why should it happen now?"