Manchester, which emerges as the scariest city in England and Wales on today's crime figures, has eight times more robberies than Sheffield.The number of crimes involving violence is five times greater and the number of sexual offences four times greater than in the south Yorkshire city across the Pennines. Manchester can also claim double the number of burglaries and thefts of and from vehicles. The statistics will be seen as bad news by a city building up its conference trade and preparing to host the Commonwealth Games in 2002. There will be little comfort for a police force which has worked with communities such as that of Moss Side to stamp out the gun and gang culture that disfigured its reputation in the 1990s. While Sheffield yesterday fell over itself to talk of policing styles and anti-crime strategies, Manchester complained that like was not being compared with like. "The nature of Manchester is considerably different from Sheffield," said a spokesman for Greater Manchester police. "More people travel to Manchester on a daily basis. The city also has a more transient population, which makes offences against the person such as robbery more likely to happen. We have the largest student campus in Europe and vast numbers of people coming into the centre to shop and enjoy its social life." That social life erupts on to the streets on Friday and Saturday nights when revellers head for the city's bars and clubs, and it can turn nasty when such establishments close their doors in the early hours. Manchester city council responded to gangland intimidation by introducing a registration scheme for bouncers, and plans to follow Liverpool in seeking a bylaw allowing police to seize opened bottles of alcohol and glasses carried on the street. Many city centre streets are now watched by closed circuit TV cameras. "I'm shocked by these figures, which are unacceptable," said Kath Robinson, deputy leader of the council. "We shall be seeking an urgent meeting with the chief constable to get to the bottom of the figures." She said the city had sought 10 anti-social orders and set up 23 local action partnerships in an attempt to reduce crime. "You have to remember that 43% of people in the city are on housing benefit and 73% of council tax payers are in the A band," she added. Police in Sheffield - England's fifth largest city - were quick to claim credit for reduced levels of crime, including lower rates of violent crime, sex offences and robbery than in any comparable city. "We're targeting known criminals, building up evidence about them, sometimes using surveillance techniques," said Mike Hedges, chief constable of South Yorkshire. "Only last week, a group of drug dealers appeared before Sheffield crown court and were sentenced to almost 50 years between them following lengthy surveillance. "Intelligence-led policing is all over the news at the moment, but I can tell you: it works." But high-profile detective work is only part of the strategy: the flipside involves mopping up after the customers of the city's 900 licensed premises, 301 off-licences, and 150 registered clubs. "The things that bug people in Sheffield city centre are what people do when they are drunk: urinating in doorways, vomiting, even making love in doorways, and we are now prepared to arrest people in those cases," said a spokesman for the force. "You might ask whether it's worth catching somebody who's urinating in a doorway, but that person is contributing to the rundown of the city centre." The city's Prolific Offenders Project, one of only a handful in the UK, borrows from Dutch techniques of crime prevention in bringing together police, probation officers and the health service in a streamlined initiative to target the tiny minority of offenders who commit the vast majority of crimes. It provides medical support for the 80% who are users of heroin or crack cocaine and gives staff access to police intelligence.