The publication by the Home Office today of the quarterly crime figures has once again sparked "shock horror" headlines. But they are of an unusually arcane type. It was impossible for newspapers to publish the standard stories of catastrophic increases in crime overall, or most types of crime, because these fell or remained stable, according to both the police recorded statistics and the British Crime Survey. So they have homed in on the one apparent exception, the 22% increase in "most serious violence (MSV) against the person" recorded by the police.But they can't do so in a straightforward way, because the increase is hedged around with technical warnings by the Home Office. Paradoxically, the murky complications are described as resulting from a "clarification" to the rules for counting offences. It is hard not to feel sympathy for the government and Home Office over this, not something I've experienced much since Labour became "New" by trying to be more Tory than the Tories some 15 years ago. Trying to make the statistics more transparent and congruent with the putative perspective of victims and the public at large, they expanded what previously counted as MSV. A major category of such violence, grievous bodily harm (GBH) was expanded in its scope. Cases where there was clearly an intentional attempt to cause GBH, but by some chance this was not in fact inflicted, are now to be counted in the GBH with intent category.The Home Office gives the example of a pub brawl where someone smashed a bottle and slashed at another person with it, but only succeeded in causing minor injury. This change predictably increases the number of recorded GBH cases, even if there is no change in the actual incidence of violence, and the Home Office can have had no interest whatsoever in making this change apart from the commendable one of making the statistics more valid. No spin doctor could have recommended this medicine! It was bound to make their record look bad. Police estimates indicate that this "clarification" of the rules – counter-intuitive, in that it counts as GBH cases where there was no or little actual bodily harm – accounts for over two-thirds of the increase in GBH cases in the last year. In short, the rise in recorded GBH on the old way of counting was about 7%: not good news, but much less alarming than the headline 22%. This is a repeat of a pattern that has happened twice under New Labour. In the early heady days of commitment to being tough on the causes of crime through evidence-led policymaking, two general changes were introduced in the crime counting rules, taking effect in 1997 and in 2002, both affecting violent crime in particular. The predicted consequence was a sharp rise in recorded violence, which Michael Howard tried to capitalise on during the 2005 general election campaign. Sympathy for the government must, however, be muted by recognising that this is largely a trap of its own making. Since 1992 New Labour has bought into the narrative framed by the tabloids of defining crime problems in law and order terms, with tough policing and punishment as the only remedy, playing down the deeper roots of crime in the neo-liberal social and economic policies they took over from the Tories – a Faustian pact, for which they are now paying dearly.