We, the undersigned chief police officers of England, Wales and Northern Ireland, met yesterday morning and considered the BBC programme The Secret Policeman (Secret film catches PC apeing Ku Klux Klan, October 22). We regard the programme as providing an opportunity to reinforce the values and attitudes that we demand from our staff.We represent the leadership of the British police service and are seized of the potential damage caused by this programme to the proud reputation of the service and the positive relationships that we enjoy with the diverse communities that we police. We have each worked hard to build and sustain this reputation and these positive relationships throughout our careers. Let us, therefore, make it absolutely clear: There is no room in the British police service for anyone with racist attitudes . Chief officers do have a significant power, provided by regulation 13 of the Police Act, to dispense with the services of any recruit within the first two years of their career, so long as we are satisfied that they are unlikely to become a good and effective officer. We will now request Centrex - the body which oversees initial recruit training on our behalf - to take further steps to actively test the attitudes of recruits in the initial phase of training and to return to our police forces anyone whose attitude is questionable. We will then consider whether to dispense with the officer's services under regulation 13, or to undertake remedial development before allowing the would-be recruit to continue training. We also agreed a six-point action plan to further develop our approach to this issue. In particular, we wish to guard preciously the following values of the police service: integrity, respect for diversity, compassion for others and commitment to public service. These are our core professional values and they are reflected in the attitudes and behaviour of the overwhelming majority of those we lead. We will not allow those values to be tarnished by any individual seeking to join our service, who does not share them. Chris Fox  President, Association of Chief Police Officers  Michael Todd  Chief constable, Greater Manchester Police Ian Blair  Deputy commissioner, Metropolitan Police Hugh Orde Chief constable, Police Service of Northern Ireland And 40 other chief constables Was it a shocker? Not if you are from the black and Asian community, or represent victims of racist police behaviour, as I do. Perhaps the reality is that only a "small minority" express racist views as recklessly. If it is just a "small minority", why are the visible minorities still so much more likely to be stopped, searched and arrested? Why do we have a Black Police Association warning ethnic minorities against joining the police? With this misconception as a starting point for police chiefs, there is no hope of radical change in police culture and these problems will continue to exist in another 20 years. It is ironic that the reporter, Mark Daly, was the one arrested. The chief constable of Manchester should now do the decent thing by Mark Daly - and quickly. Andre Clovis  Christian Khan solicitors  It is hardly going to enhance recruiting and retaining ethnic minority police officers. In fact, such efforts are now likely to be seen as a joke. Some things, though, seem clear. First, it is important not to tarnish the reputation of those who do not adhere to the kinds of views echoed by racists in the programme. Second, the Manchester force must have some perverse standards if it recruits individuals who are incapable of expressing themselves with any intelligence or eloquence whatsoever, let alone through racist obscentities. Third, to counter both individual and institutionalised racism, forces need to back up their lip service by excluding anybody found guilty of inciting racist (and sexist and homophobic) attitudes or behaviour. Only by institutionalising zero tolerance will the police force become a career option for people from ethnic minority communities. Rampaul Chamba  Bilston, W Midlands  If the worst Mark Daly could find was one extremely stupid man and several stupid comments by others - most of which involved alcohol - then the police service has moved on. Daly observed he encountered no racist behaviour when he had finished his training, which indicates that more mature officers know how to conduct themselves properly, which is an endorsement of the steps the police have taken. It is easy to undermine the police by irresponsible broadcasts. The time and effort expended by Daly and the BBC don't appear to be worth the end result. I wish him well on his next venture - which may be an exposé on the nasty people he meets in prison as a consequence of the programme. Richard Dunkley  Skegness, Lincs The home secretary is told to hold an inquiry into the death of Zahid Mubarek; racist behaviour by police recruits is uncovered; and new research shows black defendants are treated differently in the prosecution process (Report,October 22). Between 1999 and 2002, the total prison population grew by 12%, but the number of black prisoners by 51%. So much for "penal populism". Geoff Dobson  Prison Reform Trust 