New measures to deal with violent and antisocial children under the age of 10 are under consideration by the home secretary, David Blunkett, he is to reveal today.Mr Blunkett will make the announcement at a conference which is considering plans to introduce American-style community justice centres into Britain. He has brought Alex Calabrese, a pioneer of community courts known as "the judge who cleaned up New York", to address the conference and to meet Tony Blair. The conference in London will also hear from Jennifer Etheridge, head of community prosecution in Baltimore. Mr Blunkett will tell the conference: "I am determined that children under the age of 10 do not get away with running riot in our communities, causing havoc, creating fear and getting away with it. "I have no intention of lowering the age of criminal responsibility, but children do understand rules and can and should understand the consequences of breaking them. "That is why I am looking at what more can be done to strengthen existing powers to restrain them and deal with violent and antisocial young children." He will reveal that a pilot community justice centre, to tackle minor offences, will be set up later this year. The idea is to be sold as a "one-stop crime-busting shop" with a courtroom and a base for criminal justice and social services, so that offenders have quick and easy access to drug treatment, training and mediation services. It is modelled on the Red Hook community justice centre in Brooklyn, New York, where Mr Calabrese is the presiding judge. Red Hook deals with criminal, family and housing cases, and sentences offenders to community service designed to pay back those harmed by crime. It tries to tackle the underlying problems of defendants, and provides mediation to resolve minor disputes. Mr Blunkett and the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, will give their backing at the conference to plans to develop such community courts. Delegates will also discuss other ideas for greater community involvement in the criminal justice system which Mr Blunkett outlined last month as part of his plans for a third-term Labour government. He will say that community involvement meant that the sentences passed by community justice courts were related to local crime priorities. Mr Blunkett will publish a pamphlet called Making the Right Choice today, detailing changes in the prison and probation services designed to rehabilitate offenders. He maintains that it challenges the myth that trying to turn criminals away from crime is a waste of effort. "People's lives are blighted by the crime in their neighbourhood and they can feel powerless to do anything about it," Mr Blunkett will tell the conference. "Graffiti, criminal damage and car crime are not the most serious crimes, but they can be very distressing and can leave a lasting mark on people's enjoyment of their community. "I want ordinary people to feel they are involved in beating crime and meting out punishment to offenders." The lesson of the Red Hook community court, he will say, is that people must feel connected to a criminal justice system which works for them if they are to have confidence in it. "The more people are involved in the solution, the greater the success."