The first nationwide order banning a troublesome patient from any hospital in England and Wales was secured by the NHS yesterday in an attempt to stop a campaign of abuse against staff by a 53-year-old Yorkshireman.The NHS security management service said Norman Hutchins of York caused harassment, alarm and distress in 47 separate incidents this year. It told York magistrates he had a fetish for surgical masks and was in the habit of asking NHS organisations to provide them for amateur dramatics or fancy dress parties. After gaining access to NHS premises, he became abusive and engaged in inappropriate sexual behaviour. Incidents included drawing a knife on hospital workers, touching nurses and unlawfully entering an operating theatre. The magistrates granted the first anti-social behaviour order (Asbo) to cover every part of the NHS, including hospitals, medical centres, dentists, walk-in centres and emergency facilities. It will stop Hutchins entering any of these premises except under strictly controlled conditions and with prior permission. An initial interim order will last until the end of the month, but may be renewed. The move signalled a tougher approach by the NHS on violence against staff. More than 116,000 incidents of physical aggression or verbal abuse against NHS employees were reported last year, but resulted in only 50 prosecutions. In December John Reid launched a strategy to bring more perpetrators to book, including an electronic reporting system and streamlined arrangements for cautioning and prosecuting offenders. The magistrates were told that Hutchins had been misbehaving on NHS premises for at least 15 years, but his conduct had recently deteriorated. Several hospitals took out injunctions against him, but he moved across NHS trust boundaries and caused trouble in at least 12 areas as far afield as Devon and Dundee. Justin Crossley, prosecuting, said Hutchins entered a dental surgery in Selby on January 27, requesting medical masks. "The allegation is that his behaviour thereafter became inappropriate and sexualised. He requested a member of staff to tie [the mask] and he was seen to have an erection," Mr Crossley said. Two days later he was alleged to have entered the A&E department at York District Hospital where he became verbally abusive to members of staff and produced a knife. Harry Bayman, Hutchins' solicitor, said his client was prepared to agree to the interim order, but denied some of the allegations. "The problem with this order is that he may suffer health problems in the future and may require medical treatment. In any layman's opinion, he is not a well man and is almost bound to need medical treatment in the near future." A spokesman for the NHS security management service said Hutchins would not be ejected from hospital in a genuine emergency. But under the order he could be jailed for up to five years if he attended and misbehaved. The Asbo stops him entering or phoning any NHS premises or private hospital in England or Wales without written permission. Bill Darling, chairman of the service, said: "It is sad that this sort of action is necessary, but with the right to free healthcare from the NHS, there also come responsibilities."