The launch of the Home Office's online crime mapping website today caused mass frustration when it crashed due to high demand, and the project prompted anger from people living and working in areas unfairly depicted as troublespots.The website attracted as many as 18m hits an hour, more than any government website has ever tried to deal with, as people attempted to check the number of crimes and instances of antisocial behaviour in their neighbourhoods.Many of those who did get access to the site were angry at anomalies in the statistics. Among the streets highlighted as crime hotspots were two roads in Sussex where a police station and the force's headquarters are based, and where figures are skewed by the number of hoax calls the police deal with there.Several quiet streets also seemed to be picked out as troublespots because crimes committed in nearby city centres were collected under their postcodes.The government said the launch of www.police.uk was the start of "greater transparency in crime, policing and justice" in England and Wales. But within hours it had to apologise to millions who could not get on to the site. "We are delighted with the response, which shows how popular this new information is with the public," added a spokeswoman.An early glitch surfaced when two streets in Sussex, Bolnore Road in Haywards Heath and Church Lane in Lewes, appeared to have higher crime rates than expected. Police explained that hoax calls from mobile phones which could not be properly located were recorded at the two sites – a police station and the force's headquarters building.In Portsmouth, the depiction of the small Surrey Street as crime-ridden was branded "crackers" by the city councillor in charge of community safety, Eleanor Scott. The street is only 100 metres long and is home to just a few homes, a pub used by postal workers and a few flats, but it was suggested on the website that 136 incidents took place there in December.Scott said: "If Portsmouth is anything to go by, this website is a complete farce." She wrote to the home secretary, Theresa May, saying the website was distorted and could be damaging.The police in Portsmouth explained that Surrey Street's postcode was used to record crimes such as theft from the nearby shopping centre and violent crime from people spilling out of bars and clubs.There was fury in Glover's Court, Preston, which topped the incident list in December with 152. John Corrigan, owner of a hairdressers on the street, said: "It's not exactly a war zone is it? This crime survey is just scaremongering."Chief Superintendent James Lee of Lancashire police said there were just three incidents in Glover's Court in December. The 152 figure took in the city centre and was "completely misleading". He said he would prefer that residents spoke to local police instead of relying on statistics.But people living in Wind Street in Swansea, which came just behind Glover's Court with 148 incidents, recognised the picture. The street is one of the city's liveliest, packed with bars, pubs and clubs. Dominic Guiver, 41, said he tended to slip in and out of his building in the street by the back door at night because he was worried about being attacked. But even here the police said the statistics included nearby locations, and the Safer Swansea Partnership branded the figures as misleading. Property experts warned the figures could drive down property prices in areas deemed to have high crime rates. David Dalby, a director at the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, said: "Taken out of context these crime statistics could have an effect on house prices."