A teenage actor due to appear in the new Harry Potter film was stabbed to death in London yesterday after attempting to protect his younger brother during a bar room brawl. Former grammar school pupil Robert Knox, 18, became involved in a scuffle inside the Metro Bar, Sidcup, Kent which later spilled on to the pavement. He is the 14th teenager to be murdered in London this year. Knox plays Ravenclaw student Marcus Belby in the forthcoming movie Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, which is due for release this November. His part has already been filmed. The teenager had also appeared in the hit TV police drama series The BillKnox is believed to have been attacked by a man carrying two knives after attempting to protect his 16-year-old brother Jamie who was threatened by a group of men inside the bar. He was stabbed outside the bar and pronounced dead soon after at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Woolwich, south-east London, at about 1am yesterday. Police were last night holding a 21-year-old man on suspicion of murder. Last night, Knox's parents, Sally and Colin Knox, said in a statement: 'Rob was kind and thoughtful and would always help out others - he would spend his last penny on other people instead of himself. The life and soul of the party, he was very outgoing, loved sports and would always strike up a conversation with people. He was respectful to others and adored by his family and friends.'Knox played for Sidcup Rugby Club, as did 'gentle giant' schoolboy Jimmy Mizen, 16, who was killed during an unprovoked attack in a baker's shop in nearby Lee a fortnight ago. Yesterday, less than 48 hours after the Home Office unveiled new measures to stem the wave of stabbings on Britain's streets, friends of Knox described how they struggled to hold down the attacker, who was carrying two knives, until the police arrived. Tom Hopkins, 18, who plays football for Southend United's youth team, said Knox was stabbed in the head as he struggled to pin down the attacker. 'Rob was just trying to help out,' he said. 'He was like that. I grabbed the knife; I didn't know that he had another knife.'At least six others were hurt in the fight, including Nick Jones, 19, who was also stabbed in the hand, and Charlie Grimley, 17, who was stabbed in the cheek and arm. Friends said it was typical of Knox to risk his own safety to defend his brother. In 2004, Knox gave an interview to a national newspaper about how bullying over his weight had blighted his life and how he had learnt the importance of standing up to such people. He said: 'They used to push me and beat me up in the corridor or outside in the school grounds. I started really hating myself'.However, he added that he had grown to become happy with his appearance. 'Nothing gets to me now,' he added. Yesterday, scores of friends laid flowers at the scene, near Sidcup rail station. One tribute to the former Beths Grammar School pupil read: 'The flowers will die, the sun will set, you are someone I will never forget'. Outside the Metro Bar, Knox's cousin, Vicky May, 16, said: 'Rob wasn't a thug, it wasn't gang-related. Everyone loved him. He was more like a brother, he would always look out for me. ' She said Knox and his younger brother, Jamie, 'were like one'. Vicky's father, Kevin May, 42, said: 'Where's it all going to end? When is this violence and the carrying of knives by young people going to stop?'Warner Bros, the company behind the Potter films, said: 'We are all shocked and saddened by this news and our sympathies are with his family.'Last week, the Home Office unveiled its strategy for dealing with knife crime amid mounting concern over levels of violence among young people. And one of the country's most senior judges said the 'most severe' sentences were needed to combat the 'epidemic' of knife crime. Sir Igor Judge's comments come after the killing of 40 teenagers in London since the start of last year, many the victims of knife crime.However, the Children's Commissioner said yesterday new laws to crack down on knife crime could cause increased hostility among young people. Sir Al Aynsley-Green called for more research into increased police powers. New measures are being used by police to search for knives using hand-held and walk-through metal detectors.