It was characteristic of Sir Alan Moses to apologise yesterday to the Soham jury for a "rather miserable day" waiting around court, say lawyers who know the judge well. "He's a consumer-friendly judge, very accessible," says one barrister.Before being appointed to the high court bench in 1996, he was known as a clever, versatile and hard-working lawyer, though highly-strung and nervous about the outcome of his cases, which he usually won. As a judge, he is relaxed, convivial and sociable, and "enjoys a good gossip", according to barristers. Aged 57, he has an artistic side and loves opera and choral singing. His favourite transport is a Harley Davidson motorcycle. In 1992, he married Dinah, an interior designer and daughter of Sir Hugh Casson. His previous marriage ended in divorce after producing three children. Ms Casson designed the interiors for Matrix chambers, whose founders included Cherie Booth, the prime minister's wife. Ms Booth and Sir Alan were colleagues in her previous chambers. He was junior counsel to the Inland Revenue until he took silk in 1990. After his success in the prosecution brought by Customs and Excise in 1991 over the supply of nuclear triggers to Saddam Hussein, he was chosen to prosecute in the Matrix Churchill case, in which directors of the Coventry-based company were charged with breaching controls on exports to Iraq. Lawyers say he was unfairly criticised when it emerged that the government had known about the exports but turned a blind eye and the case collapsed. Among the trials he has presided over as a judge was the prosecution of the MI5 officer David Shayler for passing classified information and documents to the press in breach of the Official Secrets Act. Earlier this year he showed his sense of humour and technological proficiency when he ended his judgment in a case about mobile phone charges by praising the barristers in the case. The last line of his judgment read: "To them I hope it is not inappropriate 2 xpress thnx 4 all thr gr8 wrk."