A new strategy to tackle cyber-crime and a scheme to create a new cadre of "super bobbies" will feature alongside radical reforms to "break the cycle of reoffending" in a 10-year national crime plan to be launched by Tony Blair today.Labour will outline a root-and-branch overhaul of the criminal justice system designed to drive up detection and conviction rates and begin to drive down reoffending rates among the 66,000 prison population. This morning Mr Blair will become the first serving prime minister to visit a prison and will outline new treatment and training schemes to turn the 100,000 most persistent offenders away from an adult life as career criminals. Ministers say the reforms could provide a "pathway back to a lawful life" for many offenders. Mr Blair will also stress the need to be ready to tackle future trends in e-crime and the threat it poses to the new media and communications industries. He will promise to build upon a new squad of 80 "cyber cops" currently being formed into a national hi-tech crime unit. In a key element of today's package, the prime minister will signal a fundamental change of the 1991 Criminal Justice Act to allow judges to take account of previous offences when sentencing. Downing Street sources said the change was intended to underline the government's determination to break the so-called "revolving door syndrome" in which offenders leave custody only to commit similar offences and return to court. Ministers are also keen to see greater transparency over sentencing, along the lines of the points system for motoring offences under which a series of minor offences can lead to the loss of a licence. Sources said: "There won't be a points system as such for crime, but if, for example, an offender comes before the courts for a sixth time for shoplifting they should know beforehand where they stand and that their sentence would be harder than the first time round." The leak of a confidential memo to the home secretary, Jack Straw, from his special adviser, Justin Russell, yesterday cast a cloud over the launch of the crime plan, which alongside a similar blueprint for the future of secondary schools forms a key part of Labour's pre-election campaign. Paul Boateng, the Home Office minister, rejected criticism that a new plan for "custody-plus" sentences could be portrayed as a "softening" of sentencing arrangements. Currently inmates sentenced to 12 months are released after four to six months without any further supervision. The custody-plus scheme will see some offenders getting out after three to four months but then facing a further eight or nine months under rigorous supervision and monitoring. "It will not be a softer sentence but a much harder one," said Mr Boateng. Probation sources say if current "what works" schemes were applied to those serving these shorter sentences it could cut reoffending rates by 15% to 20%. "It must make economic sense," said Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers. Labour intends to boost the presence of police patrols that provide reassurance to the public by creating a new class of "super bobbies" who are to be offered cash incentives to turn down promotion to other policing tasks. Ministers are concerned that too many constables give up their beat patrols just as they are getting known by their local communities. The leaked memo confirms the government's plans to set a new target to drive up initial detection and conviction rates by ensuring that a further 100,000 crimes will end in conviction within three years partly by employing an extra 300 crown prosecutors. They will also ensure that the crown courts sit for a further 7,000 days each year to cut delays. But the private memo counsels Mr Straw to be careful about the way he announces this part of the package as "it draws attention to the fact that clear-up rates have not improved since 1997" and points out that only 1.2m of the 5m crimes recorded by the police each year end in a conviction.