Peter Tobin, the man accused of kidnapping, drugging and murdering 18-year-old Dinah McNicol, joked with his neighbour as he dug the pit in which he later buried her, a jury heard.David Martin, 58, who lived next door to the house in Margate, Kent, where the teenager's remains were discovered, said he saw Tobin standing "nipple-deep" in a hole in his back garden, and asked if he was "going for Australia", which Tobin answered with "a quip" across the garden fence."The hole was quite deep," Martin told Chelmsford crown court. "Mr Tobin was standing up in the hole, approximately chest-deep. He explained it was for a sandpit for [his young son] when he came up at weekends."The hole was rectangular and "formed like a trench", Martin said, "which I thought was unusual for a sandpit".Two days later the hole had been filled in and smoothed over, with no sign of the sandpit. Martin told the court: "He said that the social worker who was in charge of his son said that a sandpit was dangerous so he had filled it in."He said Tobin lived alone at the house and appeared to be an "ideal neighbour"."I became friendly with Peter Tobin," he said. "He was quiet. He was well behaved. There was no noise. There was no parties. He was to all intents and purposes at the time, an ideal neighbour."Tobin denies murdering McNicol.Her remains were discovered tied up and wrapped in bin bags in the garden in November 2007, 16 years after she disappeared while hitchhiking home from a music festival.A few feet away police also uncovered the body of Vicky Hamilton, a 15-year-old girl from Falkirk who was last seen in Bathgate, West Lothian, in February 1991, the year McNicol disappeared. Her body had been cut in two and wrapped in plastic bags. Both bodies contained traces of the sedative Amitriptyline.Tobin, 62, was convicted in December by a court in Scotland of the younger girl's murder.This week the court heard that he was also jailed in 1994 for raping a 14-year-old girl and sexually assaulting another; they had been kidnapped and drugged.Earlier the court heard from the man with whom McNicol had been hitchhiking when, the prosecution says, they were picked up by Tobin.David Tremlett told the court that he had met McNicol at the Torpedo music festival in Liphook, Hampshire, and had spent the night with her before leaving the festival together on Monday 5 August 1991.He said they were picked up on the A3 by a man driving a car with a child seat in the back; Tremlett was travelling to his mother's home in Redhill, Surrey, and he said McNicol had told him she was going home to Tillingham near Chelmsford."The [driver] wanted to go along the motorway, which made a fair bit of extra distance. I couldn't understand why he wanted to take the longer route," he told the court.Tremlett said that before he was dropped off at Junction 8 of the M25, McNicol, who was sitting in the front seat, had passed him a piece of paper on which she had written her number. "I tried to phone the number a good few times, but I got no answer, I just got through to an answer machine."He had not known McNicol was missing until a friend saw a report on the BBC's Crimewatch programme the following year, at which point he made a statement to police.Tobin's former wife, Cathy Wilson, who gave birth to his son in 1987, told the court that while Tobin was living in Margate he would frequently collect his son from her home in Portsmouth on Friday evenings, and return him after spending the weekend in Margate.It is the prosecution case that Tobin may have been returning from dropping off his son in Portsmouth when he picked up McNicol and Tremlett. Wilson said her ex-husband had always used a child seat when driving with her son, and that he had driven "old and tatty" cars which he changed every month or six weeks.The case continues.