Fresh murder charges against Moors murderer Myra Hindley were being considered before her death, it emerged today as an inquest heard she died of bronchial pneumonia related to heart disease.A file was being compiled by police and the crown prosecution service (CPS), which could have seen her charged with the murders of Keith Bennett and Pauline Reade. In the 1980s, Hindley, who died in hospital last Friday, and Ian Brady both admitted killing Keith and Pauline. The confession came around 20 years after the pair were jailed for the murders of Lesley Ann Downey, 10, and Edward Evans, 17. Brady was also convicted of the murder of 12-year-old John Kilbride. Now it is thought that fresh charges were being prepared that could have thwarted any hopes Hindley had of winning freedom through the European courts, which some observers believe could have happened within months.The news comes as Greater Suffolk coroner Peter Dean opened and adjourned an inquest at Highpoint prison near Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, where Hindley served the last years of her life sentence.Home Office pathologist Dr Michael Heath told the hearing the 60-year-old suffered from high blood pressure and poor blood supply to the heart, resulting in blocked coronary arteries. Mr Dean said a jury inquest hearing would take place at a later date, which has not yet been set, and the purpose was to allow the body to be released. Mr Dean offered his condolences to the families of the victims of Hindley.Earlier, the executor of Hindley's will revealed she would be cremated later this week. According to a report in the Observer, she is likely to be cremated in a secret midnight service to avoid media and public attention.Hindley's solicitor for 15 years, Andrew McCooey, said the actual date of the funeral - expected to take place at Cambridge Crematorium - had not yet been fixed. Hindley died at the West Suffolk hospital in Bury St Edmunds, where her body remains in the mortuary under police guard.The moves by the CPS followed a ruling by the European court in June that home secretaries have no right to determine how long killers should be kept behind bars. Police began working on the file after being contacted by lawyers working for Winnie Johnson, the mother of Keith Bennett. Throughout her incarceration, Hindley had clung to the hope that she might one day win her freedom, despite the determination of successive home secretaries that she should die behind bars. She had spent 36 years in jail before she died, aged 60, last Friday. She was originally ordered to be imprisoned for no longer than 30 years. If new charges had been brought, Hindley would have stayed in prison while they were sent to crown court, where it was hoped she would have pleaded guilty to the killings. A police spokeswoman said: "Greater Manchester police and the CPS were contacted by Winnie Johnson, the mother of Keith Bennett, following the European court ruling in June." The spokeswoman added: "Since then, we have reviewed the situation with regard to the possibility of further criminal charges, including examining the evidence from the 1960s and 1980s alongside specialists from the CPS. That work is still ongoing and a report will be produced. "At the time of Hindley's death, the matter was being considered by us and the CPS and the report is likely to be completed in the next few weeks. No options have as yet been ruled out." Mr McCooey told the BBC's Breakfast programme that Hindley was genuinely repentant for the horrific crimes she committed with Ian Brady in the 1960s. Hindley died at the West Suffolk hospital in Bury St Edmunds, where her body remains in the mortuary under police guard. A post mortem examination was completed by a pathologist on Saturday, the results of which have not been made public but have been disclosed to the coroner. Mr McCooey said her repentance came as the horror of what she had done dawned on her in prison. He said: "She always said, 'Andrew, I deserve to have hanged for the crimes I committed', and I never for one moment saw her trying to diminish her culpability for her actions which she did with Brady." He added that she did try to write and communicate her sorrow to the victims' relatives, but understandably they would not accept it as genuine.