In 1958 Lord Goddard, the then-lord chief justice, was faced with a difficult criminal appeal. William Evans Wallwork had been convicted of incest after a holiday with his five-year-old daughter. When the child returned home to her grandparents, she was reportedly "whimpering" and told her grandmother "Daddy hurt my botty and my privates and made me bleed".A medical examination confirmed serious injury, and traces of semen were found on her underwear. When the case came to trial, the five-year-old victim was taken into court to give evidence. "Although the learned judge had the court cleared as far as it can be cleared," Goddard said of the trial, "when the poor little thing was put into the ­witness-box, she said nothing and could not remember anything.""The jury could not attach any value to the evidence of a child of five," Goddard continued. "It is ridiculous to suppose that they could. To call a little child seems to us to be most undesirable, and I hope it will not occur again."There is no way of knowing whether Goddard would have felt differently had he witnessed the measures which took place before a three-year-old child's evidence was admitted at the Old Bailey last month, resulting in the conviction last Friday of a 32-year-old man, Baby P's step­father, for rape.In this case, the child had told a foster carer she had been abused. Initially considered too young to give evidence, she was questioned by a specially trained police officer and gave a 17-minute video interview. In February the court heard arguments from the legal teams for the prosecution and the defence as to whether her interview should be admitted. Both relied on evidence from child psychiatrists. The judge decided that the evidence should be admitted and its reliability was for a jury to decide.The girl was taken on an advance tour of the court in an effort to make her more comfortable. She gave evidence via a live video-link with a trusted adult beside her, questioned by barristers who had removed their wigs.These measures are a long way from the "clearing the court-room" approach of Lord Goddard's day. The legal test for allowing a child to give evidence has changed too. Initially judges would inquire whether a child knew the difference between the truth and a lie – making for some surreal exchanges such as one judge asking in 1989, "Do you get taught about God at school?" The question now is simply whether a child can understand and be understood.But it is surprising how frequently Goddard's judgment from 1958 has continued to be cited by modern judges grappling with the issue of how young is too young. Although defendants continue to be concerned about the reliability of young witnesses – and the man convicted of raping the three-year-old is reported to be among those appealing his conviction on that basis – there is no question that society's attitudes towards children have changed. As lord chief justice Lord Lane remarked in 1990, there is an "increasing belief that the testimony of young children, when all precautions have been taken, may be just as reliable as that of their elders".The concern is not just for the integrity of a young child's evidence, but the effect the experience of the interrogation has on them.The picture is far from clear. A study in 2005 of 144 child witnesses – some of whom were supported by child-specific witness schemes and some who were not – found that 123 of them experienced symptoms of pre-trial stress including self-harming, panic attacks, flashbacks of the offence, bed-wetting, headaches, eating and sleep disorders, depression, mood changes, loss of concentration and loss of confidence.The guidance for lawyers questioning young witnesses recognises this, instructing them to avoid irrelevant, repetitive or intimidating questioning. But the fact remains that defence counsel "have a duty to promote the best interests of the defendant by all proper and lawful means ... This may include cross-examining vulnerable and ­intimidated witnesses about matters they may find extremely distressing."But this is not an easy balance to strike, and many are underprepared. My first ever cross-examination in court involved a 13-year-old victim of a playground stabbing. My client – also 13 – was accused of the stabbing and insisted the victim was making it up. There was no way of avoiding putting this version of events to the victim, who was clearly distressed. The fact he was facing these questions via a live video-link did not seem to make the experience significantly less traumatic.A stabbing is bad, but a rape is worse. And a three-year-old is likely to be much more vulnerable than a teenager. Anticipating concern at the effect on the child, the Crown Prosecution Service put out a statement last Friday stating that the child received "an extremely high level of support throughout the process".The statement continued: "Were it not possible for us to consider calling very young witnesses, purely because of their age, then that would inevitably provide a green light to those who abuse them." For such a young child to give evidence is not a good thing, but for them not to is worse.