Mark Duggan had his hands up and was "most definitely" clutching a mobile phone rather than a gun when he was shot by a police marksman standing just a few feet away, the inquest into his death heard.Duggan, whose fatal shooting on 4 August 2011 triggered riots across England, died after being pursued through north London by police officers acting on intelligence that he had acquired a gun and was a major player in a violent gang.The marksman who shot him has told the inquest that Duggan threatened him twice with a gun after police stopped the minicab in which he was travelling.On Tuesday, however, the inquest at the high court in London was repeatedly told that Duggan had been holding a phone and not a gun when he was shot.Giving evidence to the inquest, a man referred to as Witness B said he had been at his home in a block of flats overlooking Ferry Lane in Tottenham when he had heard a commotion on the street below at around 6.10pm on the day in question."I heard a couple of tyres screeching and I heard shouting as well," he said. "The shouting was either: 'Put it down!' or 'Get down!'"On the street below, he said, he saw four cars – including a people carrier minicab – as well as armed police officers and a man he later learnt was Mark Duggan.He said Duggan had tried to run away towards Tottenham Hale, but had got no further than a car's length away when he saw an armed police officer and turned around.Asked by Ashley Underwood QC, counsel to the inquest, what Duggan had been holding in his hands, Witness B replied: "He had … It looked like a phone clutched in his hands and he had his hands up." He went on: "That was definitely a phone clutched in his hand."By that stage, he said, there was a lot of shouting of the phrase "Get down! Get down!". Shortly afterwards, said Witness B, Duggan was shot twice.Asked how he knew Duggan had been shot, he replied: "I heard the shots … He just collapsed."Underwood then asked the witness how far away the officer had been from Duggan when he shot him."About a couple of steps," he said. "I would say about five to seven steps."Witness B told the inquest there had been nothing aggressive or confrontational in Duggan's demeanour as he stopped and faced the police with his hands up.He said he had been "baffled" to see Duggan shot by police, adding: "His body language was a bit 'what's going on?', really."Asked by Adam Straw, counsel for Duggan's family, whether he was certain Duggan had been holding a phone and not a gun, he replied: "I know it was a phone. Most definitely."Witness B also dismissed suggestions that Duggan could have been aiming at officers with whatever was in his hand. Having been hunting "back home", he said, he knew how people aimed a gun."[Duggan] wasn't taking an aim," he said.Asked again, this time by Leslie Thomas, counsel for Duggan's loved ones, whether he had any doubt whatsoever as to what Duggan had been holding in his hand when he was shot, he replied: "It was a phone – like I've always said from day one. It was a phone."Asked by Thomas whether Duggan had been shot when it appeared he was surrendering, he replied: "Yes."Are you saying that Mark Duggan was shot when it looked as if he was surrendering? Any doubt about that?" Thomas asked. "None whatsoever," said the witness.Police say they found a gun 10ft to 20ft from where Duggan fell, on the other side of a fence. Duggan is alleged to have collected the BBM Bruni model 92 handgun 15 minutes before he was shot dead.The inquest was also shown a nine-minute video of the immediate aftermath of the shooting that Witness B had filmed on his mobile phone.Witness B said he had chosen to give the video to the BBC "so that they could put it out there".When asked by Thomas why he had decided to sell the footage to the BBC rather than offer it to the police, Witness B said: "If I'm going to be honest, I don't really trust the police. Certain things have happened to me … I can't relate to [the police]."Under questioning from Ian Stern QC, counsel for the firearms officers, Witness B denied changing his account of what he had seen.Shown notes taken by a BBC reporter that suggested he had initially said he thought Duggan had been holding a gun but later decided he was holding a BlackBerry after reading the newspapers, Witness B said he could not remember what he had said.He did, however, stand by his description of the incident that he gave to the BBC reporter, telling the inquest that he still believed that Duggan's death had been "an execution".Asked by Stern how he could have been so sure about what he had seen when he was looking out of a window 150m from the scene, Witness B replied: "20/20 vision."Challenged on why he had initially claimed he had heard police shout, "Put it down!", Witness B said he ought to have said at the time that they may instead have said, "Get down!".He also told the inquest that he had been so shaken by witnessing Duggan's death that he had decided to leave the capital."It's not every day you see someone get shot in London but dying too," he said, adding that the incident had "played on my mind".The inquest continues.