Merseyside's chief constable launched an inquiry yesterday after "grossly offensive" emails about gay people, women and black people were found on a police computer system.Thirty-five members of staff, 22 police officers and 13 support workers are to be investigated and could face disciplinary action, including the sack. The messages were said to range from the mildly funny to the "disgusting". Chief constable Bernard Hogan-Howe's inquiry is supported by the Merseyside Police Federation and the Merseyside Black Police Association. The affair has also been voluntarily referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. "There is absolutely no room in this organisation for inappropriate communication," said Grahame Barker, an assistant chief constable who is leading the inquiry. "These emails are offensive either in terms of their racist, homophobic or sexual content, and we will not allow them to infiltrate into offices or stations. "Most people who have received [them] have deleted them straight away. But there is a core of individuals who have allegedly sent grossly offensive emails to colleagues or kept them on their system. "Just to be in possession of an email of this type is a serious breach of our standards and to forward them on is absolutely unacceptable." He said it was too early to predict the outcome of the investigation or to say what action would be taken against those involved. "Whilst this investigation continues, however, stringent measures will be put in place to regularly audit emails and all 6,200 staff will be reminded of their responsibility to communicate with integrity and responsibility." The messages, now purged from the computer system after a thorough clean-up, were picked up by the force's monitoring system. Bill Weightman, the chair of the Merseyside Police Authority, said a considerable amount of material was being investigated but could not say when the emails were sent. "They span from what I would consider disgusting to very minor jocular stuff in joke form," he said. "I am personally appalled and disappointed that the Merseyside force has discovered evidence of disturbing attitudes within the organisation."