When I was in university in Dublin there was a memorable moment of outrage concerning a student club night poster. It showed a photograph of a woman looking unsteady in stilettos, attempting to pull up underwear from around her ankles. The tagline was “If You’re Not Up For It, Don’t Cum”. The message seemed to be: if you enter this venue, you are implicitly agreeing to abandon your right to selectively consent to sex. You are fair game and should expect to be treated as such. Student journalists and members of the Feminist Society were rightfully outraged. But the response from many was as predictable and boring as the poster: it was just a laugh; loads of people liked it; what about free speech? After all, it was just a bit of banter. Banter – the last squalling gasp of a particularly brainless and inarticulate brand of masculinity.Sexual consent is simple. We should all be clear what constitutes rape | Alison Saunders I thought of the poster last week, when news emerged that Trinity College Dublin, where I went at 18, is to consider introducing mandatory sexual consent lessons for freshers in their halls of residence. Such programmes already exist in many UK universities, but this will be the first of its kind in Ireland. A quarter of female Trinity students responding to a 2014 survey saying that they had been sexually assaulted, so you could be forgiven for thinking that most rational people would be grateful for any action taken to address this. But I had forgotten the current panic in some quarters about the much mythologised “safe space”. Apocryphal rumours of Stasi-style censoring of Shakespeare and Homer abound. Apparently we now live in a society in which “free speech” is characterised by the right of a Cecil Rhodes statue to stay standing (at least so long as his defenders still have £100m to hold over Oriel College’s head).So it should not have surprised me that some people have come out in opposition to Trinity’s new consent classes. In the Irish Times, columnist Fionola Meredith argues that attempting to influence the private sexual behaviour of adults is invasive and insulting to students who would not commit rape. Besides the obvious point that there is unfortunately no current litmus test with which we can definitively earmark potential rapists, Meredith seems to fatally misunderstand the broader value of a conversation about consent.Thousands of teenagers will be arriving from single-sex faith schools into a culture built on habitual binge drinking. It will probably be the first time they have unfettered, unsupervised access to sexual partners. Consent lessons will be mandatory for everyone, for all genders and sexualities. The lessons are not only used to define consent and the ways in which it should be sought, but they attempt to create a base level of awareness, sensitivity to the nuances of victimhood, and a communal inclination to condemn predatory behaviour in no uncertain terms and without exception. The support I needed is not currently evident on campuses University, full of fragile egos and unformed identities, was a constant struggle to assert one’s self. Who would be successful? Who was attractive? Who was clever? It was the first time I had been around a lot of truly rich people at once, and I marvelled at the seemingly inbuilt confidence of the pink-trousered privately educated boys who dominated the societies. They were the performers of the smoking area, the loudest in seminars, the most popular at parties where they always had the best drugs and most absurd liquors. They were plaintive and sensitive when you wouldn’t sleep with them, aloof and cold once you had. It was always overwhelmingly macho.I discovered, years after my own assault, that I knew several other women who had endured the exact same particular circumstances I had. Would our attackers have been deterred by consent lessons? There is a chance, a not insubstantial one, that a pervasive and commonly expressed disgust for such acts would cause a potential rapist to fear social consequences.What I learned in a sexual consent class at Oxford There is a chance that if such a culture existed, I would have immediately reported my rape and felt no shame about the fact I had been drinking. As it was, I kept it secret for an unfeasibly long time, by which point my mental health had deteriorated to the extent I hadn’t seen a pre-3pm sky for six months and had long since dropped out. Who knows how differently things might have been if I had instinctively felt that I would be supported both by the university and my peers?The support I needed is not currently evident on campuses. The culture at many universities does not exist in a vacuum – it does real violence. It compels you to laugh along with it even as you are being brutalised. The Irish Times shouldn’t be asking why Trinity students need to take consent lessons. Consent lessons are the bare minimum attempt to address an enormous, institutionalised problem which shames us all. They should be demanding, along with everyone else, that this is only the beginning of a radical refusal of male violence.