Every year they gather at the spot. Today was no exception. Five years after an explosion tore apart the number 30 bus in Tavistock Square, family and friends of the 12 innocent victims who died there stood in silence as the clock ticked towards 9.47am."We tend not to speak. There will be a smile, maybe, or a glance of recognition," said John Falding, 66, whose partner Anat Rosenberg, 39, died in the blast – one of the 52 victims of the four suicide bombings on the capital's transport network that day."It's pretty distressing. Everyone looks at their watches, waiting for the exact moment, like a countdown to new year in reverse, though obviously not a joyous occasion."You look, and then you see at that moment they were alive. And then they weren't."So that is exactly what I will do. I'll take some flowers, usually a dozen open lilies. I want something that will stand out because there are so many flowers usually. And then I will just come home."I've done that every year. It's really impossible to separate the years. It's difficult to say 'Oh, it can't be two years. It can't be three.' And now it's five."Because the memories are so strong, and you keep going over the events days and days before. Every little detail is etched in your mind. It's so fresh that you don't really notice the passing of time."Many of the relatives of victims and survivors of the other three bombings, which exploded on three underground trains at 8.50am, have been similarly marking the anniversary.There was no ceremony organised this year by the government, a decision that attracted some criticism. A wreath was to be left at the 7/7 memorial in Hyde Park with a message from the prime minister.Falding still lives in the Marylebone flat in central London he shared with Rosenberg, an Israeli national; the same flat she left on the morning of 7/7 to make her way to Highbury where she worked as an administrator for a children's charity.At 9.47am precisely she was on her mobile to Falding, telling him of how her tube journey had been disrupted and how it might make an item in the newsletter of the St Marylebone Society of which he was chairman."Newsletter was the last word she spoke. As soon as she said it I just heard screaming in the background. Not a sound from her mouth. No bang. Then her phone went dead."He tried calling back. "I feared the worst. And, of course, when I carried on watching the news on television they eventually announced that a bus had been hit. And I knew immediately. I did. I did."He takes comfort from his firm belief she died instantly.Rosenberg met Falding, a former financial journalist, through her Saturday job organising wine tastings at his local Waitrose supermarket. She had been in London for almost 20 years. Their friendship had blossomed into an intense relationship nine months before her death."She was vivacious, volatile and vulnerable. The most loving, loyal person. She was obsessed with the arts. Went to everything. She crammed so much into each day that inevitably she was always late. But that was Anat. Passionate about shoes, and costume jewellery and handbags. And such fun."Since her death he has travelled to Jerusalem twice a year to visit her grave and her family have become a second family to him.She had been afraid to return there. "She had a fear she would be a victim of terrorism, particularly of a bus bomb in Jerusalem. How ironic then that she should be the victim of what will, hopefully, be the only one we will ever have."Since her death he has been involved in a government initiative to counter Muslim radicalisation and has talked to Muslim children in schools, something he has found "tremendously uplifting"."It's difficult to think of the bombers, because to have normal feelings about these people credits them with humanity. But my anger would be directed more at the people who gave them such a twisted view of Islam."Five years on he feels "pretty positive" in his outlook, surrounded by good friends and determined not to mope."I treasure the memories of the time we had together. I mourn the memories we weren't able to forge, some five years of those," he said.His birthday falls on 8 July and their last days together were spent planning his birthday weekend."Obviously birthdays have been off the radar for quite a long time. But this year I am meeting a very good friend and we are going out for lunch and I am really looking forward to it," he said."I've just got a feeling that this birthday is going to be a birthday."