The attorney general has thrown his weight decisively behind the use of intercept evidence in court, making it highly likely that the ban on phonetap evidence will be lifted.Speaking out for the first time in favour of the move, Lord Goldsmith told the Guardian he was determined to find a way round the obstacles which now stop wiretap evidence going before a jury."I'm personally convinced we have to find a way of avoiding the difficulties," he said. "I do believe there are ways we can do that. Otherwise, we're depriving ourselves of a key tool to prosecute serious and organised crime and terrorism."Lord Goldsmith is the first member of the government to publicly advocate the removal of the ban, which is not yet official policy. The police, customs and security services have been bitterly divided on the issue, with fears that the use of covert surveillance evidence in court may give away valuable secrets of their trade.But as the government's senior law officer, Lord Goldsmith's conclusion that sufficient safeguards can be put in place will be crucial to persuading ministers to bring in legislation lifting the ban.Lord Goldsmith said he had been moving towards supporting a change, but his views had crystallised after talks this week in America with the US attorney general, Alberto Gonzales, senior prosecutors and judges, and representatives of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the FBI.Speaking from New York, he said: "What I'm being told here is that the admissibility of intercept evidence is critical to some of their most difficult cases. They have put the top five mafia bosses in prison as a result of it."Britain had to find a way of overcoming the two stumbling blocks on the use of wiretap evidence in court, he added. These are the fear that secret intelligence-gathering techniques would be revealed to criminals, and worries that prosecution agencies would be swamped by defence lawyers' requests for vast quantities of wiretap material."We may need help from the legislature and the judges to avoid the agencies being swamped with irrelevant requests," said Lord Goldsmith. "But courts are already reining back on disclosure. No doubt there is more work to be done, but I believe we have to find a way."Lord Goldsmith said he was also "increasingly convinced" about the importance of plea bargaining in bringing serious criminals to justice. He also expects the US to ratify shortly its end of a controversial treaty used to extradite Britons to America, including the "NatWest Three". His position on phonetap evidence, however, marks a shift in attitude.The Tories and Liberal Democrats have called for the prohibition to be removed, as have the Association of Chief Police Officers, the National Criminal Intelligence Service and the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair.The main opposition comes from the intelligence gathering agencies GCHQ and M16. The former head of MI5, Dame Stella Rimington, has called the refusal to admit phonetap evidence "ridiculous".Some senior Home Office officials are also thought to have doubts about doing away with the ban. Lord Goldsmith said his meetings with US prosecutors had produced particularly "valuable insights" about dealing with fraud cases."One of the key issues for me will be whether we've got the right attitude to prosecuting, whether prosecutors need to be, I won't say more aggressive, but more forward and forceful."