Most of us hold in our heads the chilling image of the doctor, standing at the ramp of the concentration camps, performing the selection of arriving Jews. Some to the left, some to the right; some to precarious survival, the rest to immediate death. It is the world turned upside down; the healer as murderer, death as an efficient bureaucratic process. In Auschwitz and other death camps, the physician was a crucial figure in the destruction of the boundary between life and death. He gave genocide the language of health and therapy; he turned mass murder into 'medicalised killing'. And deaths by injection, usually of morphine-scopolamine, were regarded as the most 'medical' deaths of all.The camps were 'health services' with 'outpatient centres', 'waiting rooms' and 'hospital areas'; Hitler was the highest-ranking physician. Forms were meticulously filled out. Each individual death had its fraudulent certificate. Suicides were regarded as grave errors in the system - death was a medical process administered upon the Jews, who were seen as numbers, errors to be expunged. The Nazi doctors could still think of themselves as diligent functionaries, not murderers. In the murderous logic of the Nazi Holocaust, death and life were reversed and the doctors were the gatekeepers between these worlds of the living and the dead. Harold Fred Shipman has been found guilty of killing 15 women, many of them elderly. Police are, at the most recent count, inquiring into 131 more deaths. He is suspected of killing at least 150 of his patients, and one estimate by a coroner even put the number at 1,500. There has never been a case like it: the unprecedented scale; the apparently motiveless slaughter. If the house of Fred and Rosemary West was like an abattoir and a torture chamber, unimaginable horrors taking place in its damp and dark basement, the surgery of Harold Shipman in Hyde was the well-lit, brightly painted centre of operations, where deaths were processed, certificates falsified, computer records backdated. Murder was tracked through audit trails and medical cards and toxicology; the quantity of diamorphine in the blood of the corpses that were disinterred, the long names of unfamiliar drugs. The women were all killed in the same methodical, doctorly way. There would have been no struggle, no terrifying gap in which they would have realised what was being done to them, no violence except for the ultimate violence of murder.Harold Shipman is a smallish, thinnish man with a respectable paunch. He has a pale grey beard and dark grey, thinning hair and wears grey-brown suits, conservative ties, thick-lensed spectacles. With his dry and narrow face, his scratchy, pedantic voice, his tetchy manner, he is like an old-fashioned schoolteacher or a middle-ranking civil servant. During the 57-day trial, he thrummed his fingers on the table, wrote neatly, incessantly, in his notebook, frowned irritably or sarcastically when someone got the medical terminology wrong, became petulant when he was caught out. He seemed as respectable and English as a rainy Sunday afternoon. His patients knew him as a diligent and courteous man, a polite man, a perfect gentleman, the embodiment of a good doctor. He was the secretary of the local Medical Council, the chair of the school's Parent Teacher Association, a member of the Canal Society. He likes figures, he likes lists, he likes organisations, he likes order - he's brilliant at Trivial Pursuits. He has a passion for objects, things; people become items in his murderous catalogue ('this lady's gone', he said of one victim, flicking her eyelid). According to the forensic psychologists who examined him, he needs control. He is addicted to death. The murders he committed were quiet, methodical, secret murders - as the judge described in his anguished summing-up, the women that he killed probably held out their arms and thanked him as he slid the needle into their veins: the prick of death. Like the nurse Beverly Allitt's child-victims, they would never have known they were being murdered. They all trusted their doctor; the sick man who came to heal their sickness. He was a wolf in shepherd's clothing. We stare at the surface, trying to see the horror beneath; the terrifying heart. Harold Shipman was born in Nottingham in 1946 and grew up in a council house. His father was a lorry driver. With his mother Vera's encouragement, he won a place at the grammar school where he worked hard, played rugby, never had a girlfriend. He was his mother's favourite, but when he was 17 Vera Shipman died of cancer. During her last months of agony, he would watch as she sat in her chair while the doctor injected her with pain-relieving morphine. Later, of course, he became the doctor, injecting morphine into the veins of other elderly women as they sat fully dressed in their chairs. In this terrible tableau that he re-enacted so many times, growing more blatant as he went, was he murdering the patients because they weren't his mother? Was he killing her over and over again, or bringing his dear mother back to life again by mimicking that vividly particular moment of his past? It seems too neat and too artistic to be true - a spooky Hitchcockian version of the birth of a murderer, the mummy's boy becoming psycho. For the pains and disappointments and traumas that Harold Shipman experienced are just the stuff of life. Nobody escapes them. They are retrospective explanations that can never really tell us how it was that one unremarkable boy from Nottingham became Western Europe's most prolific murderer, working as hard at his lethal hobby as he had worked at his medical studies. Serial killings often do appear like garish fictions, and the killers like trashy artists bent on recreating the same scene, over and over again. They have their own grotesque 'signatures', they often arrange the bodies to dramatise their own dark fantasies (they remove limbs, cut off breasts, disfigure faces). The American psychologist and detective Robert Keppel says that serial killers usually 'have a compulsion to leave their own personal stamp. The killer's personal stamp takes the form of his unique signature, an imprint left by him at the scene'. They may, he says, carve on the body, bludgeon it, leave messages written in blood, rearrange the position of the victim, performing post-mortem activities which suit their own personal desires. The Wests buried their young female victims upright, in blasphemously vertical coffins; they took away knee and foot bones. Dr Shipman - seating the women, fully dressed, on a chair, and injecting them with morphine - turns the women into his dying mother. Or perhaps he turns them into his wife, the woman he met soon after Vera died, and who looked matronly and middle-aged even as a teenager. And he turns the dead women into lists, catalogues, items on medical cards that are filed away. The 'trophies' he is suspected of taking away from some of the murder scenes are not bits of the body, as with many serial killers, but objects like rings, bracelets, money. The day that his mother died, Harold Shipman ran all night, pounding the road in the driving rain. Then he seemed to get on with his life - working hard, getting into Leeds University, becoming a doctor. He met Primrose Mary Oxtoby at a bus stop, when he was a 20-year-old medical student and she was a 16-year-old window dresser. She had never had a boyfriend before. She soon fell pregnant, to the dismay of her Methodist family, and when she was 17 the pair married, three months before the birth of their daughter Sarah. At the moment of his apparently triumphant upward mobility, the young medic married the barely literate woman from the world he seemed to have escaped. Shipman's life reads like a mixture of Thomas Hardy and Thomas Harris. It seems that Primrose lost her family and her previous existence when she married: she moved into his narrow world, became the doctor's wife, bringing up his children, sometimes helping out in the surgery. They had three more children (Christopher, David and Samuel). Harold finished his training. In 1971 he qualified as a doctor. In 1974 he became a GP in Todmorden, West Yorkshire. It was here he suffered a glitch in his career, for it was discovered he had been forging prescriptions for the pain-killing drug pethidine, to which he had become addicted. He admitted everything, checked into hospital, and pleaded guilty to forging prescriptions and stealing drugs. In 1977, 'rehabilitated', the couple moved with their growing family to the outskirts of Manchester. Here he became the 'good doctor' of Hyde, adored by his patients who flooded his surgery with letters of support after he was arrested. Even today, in an age when we distrust experts and question authority, doctors are like magicians, with their mysterious kit of tools and potions, their secret vocabulary, their impenetrable handwriting, their hidden knowledge. They can cure and listen. They know our pains and indignities, intimate details about our bodies and our lives. We believe in the doctor, and often become helpless before them. This relationship of subservience and authority gives the doctor great power. Dr Richard Nicholson of The Bulletin of Medical Ethics , asks us to consider how 'nice, intelligent schoolchildren, who go into medicine for humanitarian reasons, are 10 years later working in a system where for the most part questions are not encouraged. Where it is too easy to become arrogant and to stop thinking of patients as human beings, but as symptoms and problems; not human beings like us, but biological processes, objects.' It became a horrible thought through the trial that maybe this small, neat, pedantic man had killed 15 women (and how many more?) because they got on his nerves; needed tidying away. As if they were not people in his mind but symptoms and problems: a cold, a cancer, a heartburn, an ache, an irritation and a worry. Can evil be as terrifyingly banal as all that? Primrose is much larger than her husband; if they stood together, which now they never will, she would dwarf him. During the trial, she mostly dressed in sludge-coloured clothes. She has a pudding-bowl of greying hair and a doughy, grey face. Every day, she took her seat at the front of the public gallery and stared. Even when he collapsed into the dock to cry, coming up minutes later with a reddened nose and a pallid face, she stared and didn't look down and didn't flinch. I didn't see love or hate or pity or horror on her unreadable face. No amazement or anger. She was a loyal wife, a large and lonely figure, a closed book. Who can imagine what her life will be now - or the life of the four children, who woke up one day to find their respectable father was a serial killer? How do you remake your life after that, when his blood runs in your veins? What is your inheritance? Photographs of Primrose when young show that she never looked like a spring flower. She always looked unglamorous and safely unsexual. While the Wests and Myra Hindley lived in a perversely sexualised world, the Shipmans seemed to those that knew them to live in the opposite: a calmly de-sexed one. He was the overworked doctor (she even sometimes called him 'doctor' rather than 'Fred', his usual name to friends), she the overweight wife, dousing any hints of sexuality or youth in too much flesh and shapeless clothes. He would leave the bleak-ish semi-detached house early for the work he loved, coming back in the evening to collapse in front of the TV while she made dinner. They rarely went out together. It appears to outsiders to have been a life where the flame had been turned down low. Even those few minutes surrounding the murders were ones of secret negative pleasures or relief from extreme tension. Not for Harold Shipman the prolonged sexual frenzy of most serial killers, the grotesque drawn-out euphoria. With the Wests, or Myra Hindley and Ian Brady, or Peter Sutcliffe, the extreme sadism was like a Hieronymous Bosch canvas on which the darkest horrors of a mind were daubed. In the Shipman case there was no convulsive surface. For a long time, the murders were never even perceived as such: unnatural was thought to be natural. In a way that unsettles and induces guilt, we can understand extreme sexual perversion better than we can understand this quiet, polite, secret slaughter. One of the most shocking things about the long trial was how Shipman did not become a figure of horror, the stuff of our nightmares. We think serial killers should look different from us. We want them to look inhuman because we want to think of them as inhuman - removed from us, bestial or evil. 'They were not beasts but men, and what they did was a product of specific human ingenuity,' writes Robert Jay Lifton in his book about Nazi doctors. 'They were not demonic figures,' says an Auschwitz survivor of the Nazi doctors. 'What was demonic was that they were not demonic.' Thomas Harris's hero-monster, Hannibal Lecter, has six fingers and purple eyes and the uncanny grace of a panther. Myra Hindley was abhorred not just for what she did, but because of that photograph of her, with the blond wig and heavy make-up, transforming her into an icon of sexualised and perverse female evil. Her partner in crime, Ian Brady, remained a vague, shadowy figure. Other children are killed by children, but it was James Bulger who tugged at all our heartstrings because he was caught on a grainy security video in the shopping centre, his small hand trustingly in the older child's hand - a lamb to the slaughter; we saw the image going round and round on a loop, so that it felt as if it was still going on. Peter Sutcliffe had a chalk-white face and a black beard and ghastly voices roaring in his head. Threadbare, grey Dr Shipman looks like an identikit picture of ordinariness and respectability - an image that is an anti-image. Beyond this, Shipman was less horrifying to us because of who he killed. All of the victims were women, many of them elderly. In newspapers, they were frequently all called old, thus shamefully bundled together and tidied away with that one epithet, even though one, Bianka Pomfrett, was just 49, which is hardly even middle-aged, and her face that now gazes from the rows of photographs in newspaper pages looks young and thoughtful. We expect old people to die. We think of them as if they are in death's waiting room. When the young die, it is their future as well as their present that we mourn. The old are supposed to be ready for death, relinquishing turbulent, fretful life for peaceful, easeful oblivion. Shipman's victims were unnoticed victims for a disquieting stretch of time; murders that we didn't call murders. Even once the trial began, there was sparse coverage in most newspapers. People's reactions often seemed to be not ones of pity or fear, but of distaste. In Hyde last week, just before the verdict was reached, many of Harold Shipman's patients were even saying that they would return to him if they could. 'I'd go back tomorrow,' says one woman, scowling at me ferociously in the market place. 'I don't know about those murders, to me he was always a good doctor.' 'A perfect gentleman,' says another. 'And anyway, only God can know why he did it.' 'The best doctor, always there. Couldn't put a foot wrong.' These people aren't saying he didn't do it. They are close to saying that it doesn't really matter. Shipman is on suicide watch in prison, but warders apparently say he will not be at great risk from other prisoners. He hasn't killed children. He has only killed elderly women. There has never been a time, in the Western world, when we have denied age and death as we do today. We want to live longer and longer, forever. Once we valued age and wisdom; now we value youth, newness, and we dread old age, the lines on the face, life marking us: not just closer to death but further away from what we think of as life. Instead of thinking of the elderly as full of years, it is as if the more years we have, the emptier of life we become - we are using it up, running out of life and out of time. Ronald Blythe, in his wonderful book about old age, The View in Winter , points out that it used to be the exception to go grey, to live through the menopause, to retire, to become senile. There was a sense of the precariousness and preciousness of life, which could end at any time. To live to old age was extraordinary. Now old age is expected, ordinary - and thus contemptible. One in 10 people are over 60; by 2050, one in five will be over 60. And there are many more old women than old men. Simone de Beauvoir, in her sombre The Coming of Age , writes that when old people speak of the elderly they never use the word 'we', always 'they'. She writes about how we avoid the old; it is society's 'secret shame'. Today, in the year 2000, it seems as if we think of the old in the same, brutal way that we used to think of the poor in the nineteenth century: as an intractable problem, a burden. What shall we do with the hordes of people who have left the blessed land of youth? Age Concern has produced surveys on the media's attitudes towards the old. In a report on older people on tele vision ('Fading Out of the Picture'), they revealed that older people appear on television three times less, proportionally, than you would expect them to given their real life numbers. Older women are particularly neglected (70 per cent men to 30 per cent women). What is more, the characters they represent in dramas are often stereotyped (they moan, forget, dwell on the past, are doting and sweet and dotty_). The picture is slightly better in newspapers, where news stories about older people are not neglected. However, the concept of what stories are worth telling has not been updated: older people are mostly depicted as victims, frail objects of pity. The headlines above the stories generally use predictable, tired words. Gerry Bennet, a consultant geriatrician at the London Hospital, has done a lot of work on the abuse of the elderly. He agrees that because we see elderly people as 'terminal', we think of Shipman's crimes as 'terrible, of course, but not as terrible as we should. Look at donations to charities,' he says wryly. 'The appeals that work are for children or animals. Old people aren't sexy.When we think about old age, we feel fear and we don't want to face our own future.' Yet, he says, if we think of the last millennium, you could say that one of the greatest achievements is ageing. At the same time, people transform this achievement into a negative: a 'rising tide of old people that floods the NHS' - the NHS, he points out, that they have paid into all their lives and which now deserts them, refusing them operations and help because of their years. Abuse of the elderly, he says, is always about power. To take a life is the ultimate act of power. We deny older people crucial human qualities. They are not supposed to be sexual, eager, ambitious, angry, jealous, any of the things that we all are. Regan said to Lear: 'O sir! you are old;/ Nature in you stand on the very verge/ Of her confine: you should be rul'd and led/ By some discretion that discerns your state/ Better than yourself...' Old age is seen as relinquishment and abstinence. A time of memory, not of anticipation, past not future, nostalgia not change. We think of old people - doting on their grandchildren, retelling their mythologised past - as living on in the after-image of their own past. No kissing in the park, holding hands in the dark. Yet what old people want is usually what they have always wanted: career, family, friends, sex, appetite, a future. They feel close to the selves they were as children, or young. They look in the mirror and find it hard to believe they have come this far. They still, always, want to be wanted, needed, loved. Tracey Kidder, in Old Friends , his remarkable book about living for a year in an old people's home in America, shows us that the old are only like children in one respect - we treat them like children, talking loudly and slowly, with that over-solicitous tone; not seeing them, never allowing 'us' to become one of 'them'. Our shameful separation from ourselves. And Betty Friedan, who made herself famous with The Feminine Mystique , says in her book about growing older, The Fountain of Age , that 'there's a mystique of age more pernicious, pervasive, than the feminine mystique_ a definition of age only in terms of a decline from youth and not as it is, a period of human life that people didn't even use to have.' We are scared of old age because we are scared of our own frailty and death. Old people are often not visited by family when they are in hospitals or homes, because the family don't want to have to confront in slow-motion their own mortality. Serial killers are a mixture of order and disorder. They operate with a methodical derangement. They are not geniuses, but they are obsessed. Murder is their most passionate hobby. They are hard to catch because they operate outside the realms of reason. In the aftermath of such horror, we look for explanations, like a lesion in the brain or a childhood sexual trauma. We want to know why and how, to learn lessons from the past to protect us in our future. And we seek ways of making sure this never happens again. But one of the unsatisfying lessons of such horrors is that there is no ultimate lesson after all - nothing in the end that provides the final impregnable why, no thick line drawn underneath the horror. Professor Christopher Cordess, co-editor of Forensic Psychiatry: Crime, Psychodynamics and the Offender Patient , says that 'there are some cases that even the further reaches of psychological understanding don't reach. We are left aghast.' It happens. Out of a blue sky, on an ordinary day, to a person who is just getting on with their life, violence falls.Their faces look at us now from the newspapers and the television screen, these women the doctor selected. Marie West, Irene Turner. Lizzie Adams. Jean Lilley. Ivy Lomas. Muriel Grimshaw. Marie Quinn. Bianka Pomfret. Norah Nuttall. Pamela Hillier. Maureen Ward. Winifred Mellor. Joan Melia. Kathleen Grundy. How many more? Such different faces, one thing in common. Most of the women are smiling, as one usually does for the camera. A few are laughing, and their eyes are bright. One is shown on a home movie, dancing round the room in the arms of her partner, neat ankles in dashing high-heeled shoes. One is pictured as a young girl and she looks so carefree, with her life in front of her. They all had their lives in front of them.