A man who buried his wife in a shallow grave in his back garden has been jailed for 11 years.Thomas Flanagan, 57, strangled his wife, Elaine, then put her body in a ditch where they had attempted to dig out a fish pond. He then carried on his life as normal for a month until a friend asked why he had not seen his wife, 57, lately, and he replied: “I’ve killed her.”Police called at the house on Wigan Road in Leigh, Greater Manchester, got no reply, went round to the back garden and found Elaine Flanagan’s body in the shallow ditch covered with twigs and leaves.Her husband pleaded guilty to manslaughter on 25 July this year and was jailed on Friday for 11 years at Manchester crown court.The court heard the couple, who lived an isolated life, had rowed about a credit card and Flanagan claimed his wife turned violent, slapping him. He claims he retaliated, grabbing her around the throat and pinning her against the kitchen wall before she fell to the ground.Flanagan did not call an ambulance. He began drinking vodka, leaving his dead wife on the kitchen floor.She stayed there for a few days until the body began to smell, so he dragged it outside to lay it in the fish pond ditch.On 17 August he told a family friend he had killed Elaine, before attempting to pass this off as a joke, then repeating the claim and adding that he had buried her in the back garden.Concerned, the family friend called police who sent a patrol round to conduct a welfare check. Flanagan was immediately arrested and told the officer: “I’ve killed her. I strangled the woman. She got on my nerves and I strangled her. I went completely off my head and I’ll make a full confession. Sorry, mate.”Outside court, senior investigating officer Duncan Thorpe of Greater Manchester police said: “We may never know exactly what happened in the kitchen on the fateful morning Elaine was killed, but what we do know for certain is that Flanagan had more than three weeks to inform the authorities that his wife had died. Instead he left Elaine’s body in a shallow grave in their back garden.“The couple did not have many friends and kept themselves to themselves, so it was not until Thomas confessed to a friend that the police became aware that Elaine had been killed. This is an extremely tragic case in which a woman lost her life following a heated argument and was denied a proper burial for nearly a month.”