The six-year mystery of how a judge died in a blaze within 90 minutes of asking his wife for a divorce could finally be solved by dramatic new evidence to be unveiled at a forthcoming inquest.A number of new witnesses, police documents and expert testimony will be revealed at next week's high profile inquest into the death of Judge Andrew Chubb, who perished in a fireball in his garden shed. The coroner will consider whether the father of three committed suicide or was unlawfully killed, or may return an open verdict.On the evening of 27 July 2001 Chubb had told his wife Jennifer that he was leaving her for his mistress. Soon after, as Mrs Chubb ate dinner, she saw the garden shed of their £1m marital home near Chard, Somerset, explode. Firemen found his charred body inside.Ten months later his widow was interviewed under caution on suspicion of murder and perjury, but was released without charge.The Observer has seen the Avon and Somerset Constabulary file sent to the Crown Prosecution Service, including transcripts of interviews between the 60-year-old wife and detectives. At least one of the detectives who interviewed her is expected to give evidence, although it is unclear whether Mrs Chubb will attend the inquest at Glastonbury town hall next week.Chubb's mistress, Kerry Sparrow, from Hampshire, has spent years amassing evidence that she claims counters the verdict of accidental death in the original inquest into the death of her lover. She told The Observer: 'Everybody deserves justice and I would hope that someone would fight as hard for me for the truth. We loved each other so much and I believe that the outcome of this inquest will bring closure.'The second inquest, which starts next week, was ordered after Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers quashed the original verdict of accidental death, citing the existence of new evidence. The Lord Chief Justice said there was not 'a shred of evidence' to support an unlawful killing verdict but suicide could not be ruled out.Among those summoned to give evidence are 10 neighbours and friends who witnessed the events of the night.The hearing will be told fresh details of the botched initial police investigation into the death of Chubb. No special post-mortem examination by a Home Office pathologist took place, despite evidence that Chubb's death could be considered suspicious. Instead, a local pathologist concluded he had died of burning, a conclusion that Sparrow believes should be contested. 'There was still enough tissue left of his lungs to test them for soot particles and that could have determined whether he was dead or alive before the fire,' said Sparrow.The body was released for cremation, another decision that Sparrow fears has destroyed potentially vital evidence.During the original inquest the coroner agreed with experts who said a spark from a lawnmower may have ignited petrol fumes in the shed. Yet a report expected to be heard at the inquest from Dr Chris Foster, one of the world's leading specialists in the investigation of fires, said the assumption that a spark could have triggered the blaze was purely 'speculative'. 'If I had observed the same evidence and recorded the same findings as the scene examiners then with that information I would not have speculated,' he told The ObserverAmong the first witnesses due before the East Somerset coroner are fire officers who considered the blaze 'very suspicious' and promptly requested a fire investigation officer. Forensic officers detected a strong smell of petrol close to Chubb's body. However, Mrs Chubb was allowed to bulldoze the shed 24 hours after the blaze.Testimonies from seven friends and colleagues will portray Chubb as unlikely to commit suicide, though troubled by the breakdown of his 34-year-old marriage. 'A less likely candidate for suicide [I could not] imagine,' said one in a statement to police.According to transcripts of interviews between detectives and his wife at Bridgwater police station, Somerset, detectives claim to have evidence that she gave 'contradictory accounts and information' about her husband's death. However, the CPS concluded she should not be charged with perjury.Tim Hayden, Mrs Chubb's solicitor, said he could not comment on the case until he had received instruction from his client.