In January last year, Queen Mary University of London came under attack. There was no physical violence or break-in: this was a cyber-assault by the online hacking collective Anonymous, which claimed to have stolen data, including students’ personal details, from the university’s servers in revenge for what it called “invasive” research sponsored by the Ministry of Defence.The case is now the subject of an information commissioner’s inquiry over alleged breaches of data protection rules, and Queen Mary says it has taken steps to “significantly mitigate” the risk of such a “one-off breach in security” happening again. But can universities really be sure they can protect themselves from cyber-attacks?According to Professor Awais Rashid, director of Lancaster University’s security research centre, the unique nature of universities makes it difficult. As well as teaching and research, most are now involved in commercial activity – from venue hire to privately funded research – but they can’t be “shut down” in the way other businesses might.Students come and go, bringing laptops and mobile devices; visitors pass through from across the globe; researchers link up with organisations worldwide. “In many companies, even their own staff can’t access the network through a device that hasn’t been vetted,” says Rashid.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carsten Maple of the University of WarwickThe combination of students’ personal and financial details, confidential data such as medical records, and commercially desirable research – plus an intrinsic virtual (and cultural) openness – makes universities obvious targets for cyber-attacks. Virtual assailants range from identity or information thieves to disgruntled students. Once hacked, universities can be left with high financial losses and reputational damage.But despite the value of the intellectual property they hold, vice-chancellors do not always take the issue of cybersecurity seriously enough, says Martyn Thomas, visiting professor of software engineering at the University of Oxford. “Anywhere where there is information of significant value, people will be trying to steal it,” he says, “usually with enormous success.” “Thankfully, many universities have changed from the ‘computer says no’ attitudeCarsten Maple However, even sophisticated monitoring systems are no guarantee of protection, he points out, as Sony Pictures found to its cost when sensitive emails about its top talent were exfiltrated and published online last year.This year, the government reissued guidance for organisations known as “10 Steps to Cyber Security”. It has also developed the Cyber Essentials scheme, which is aimed at helping businesses and other organisations protect themselves from attacks. Most universities have not yet taken those steps, says Thomas, who recalls one institution that took months to realise its system had been hijacked and was hosting a pornographic website.But creating secure IT systems for “large heterogeneous organisations” like universities is not easy, says Professor Carsten Maple, director for cyber security research at Warwick University and vice-chair of the UK’s council of professors and heads of computing. “Thankfully, many universities have changed from the ‘computer says no’ attitude to one of ‘let us help you do what you need in a secure and managed way’, he says.IT security isn’t a new problem for universities. In 1986, an attempt to resolve a minor accounting error in computer accounts at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, California, uncovered a West German hacker spying on defence information for the Soviet Union.Today, it is still the “huge processing power of universities that is potentially attractive to the criminal fraternity”, says Dr Alastair Irons, chair of the British Computer Society’s cybercrime special interest group. He has noticed an increase in “phishing” attacks, in which recipients are sent emails falsely purporting to be from university accounts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ross Anderson, University of Cambridge.“You can say, ‘I am going to close things down, run the university system the way I run a bank’,” says Irons. “But then, of course, you can’t do all the things you want to do as a student or academic.” However, cybersecurity should be taken seriously and dealt with at board level by universities, he adds – just as in any company with valuable data to protect. Universities, he says, can be reactive and fail to perceive the extent of threats.The key for universities, as they try to balance openness and protection, is working out what information genuinely needs protecting and ensuring they target their efforts on that. Guidance from Universities UK published in 2013 emphasised the need to make informed assessments of legal, reputational and financial risks posed by information held, and then introduce “proportionate and appropriate controls that focus protections on high-risk information”.For the most sensitive data, such as NHS patient information, this involves separation of computer systems to isolate valuable information completely from the university’s main network, or placing it behind firewalls. Public sector organisations feel they have to cover their arse all the timeRos Anderson Hugh Boyes, cyber-security expert at the Institution of Engineering and Technology, says: “If you’re working with sensitive or valuable research data, then it behoves the university to put in place a system to protect that data, and not just go for the cheapest system they can.”For the institution as a whole, the focus should be on better “cyberhygiene”, he says. Everyone has to learn to back up data and to beware of phishing emails. “It’s about targeting and training people to be a bit more savvy and not leave laptops on trains.”But according to Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at the University of Cambridge, there is a danger of universities going overboard: lurching into panic mode at the slightest hacking attack and imposing needless and expensive controls. The appropriate way to deal with “threats” such as a minor hack by a disgruntled student is to have the confidence to ignore them, he says.Yet, pressure from vested interests such as software companies, auditors and others can push universities into needless action. “Universities as public bodies are at risk of having to do completely unnecessary due diligence because of inappropriately risk-averse responses to entirely frivolous incidents,” he says. “Public sector organisations feel they have to cover their arse all the time. The great majority of costs from cybercrime are from flapping around.”Like so many challenges raised by the internet, cybersecurity is less a finite goal than a process – and one of risk management rather than risk removal. The best things universities can do is ensure departments have the appropriate level of security, says Anderson. And where data is of critical sensitivity, it should be treated not only with top-level security but also with an ethical approach.“It is not just a matter of compliance, but of ethics,” he says. “If you see university information security as being a subject like any information security, then you will screw up. You have got to understand the context, but this message is not getting across.”