Here are the full sentencing remarks from the judge to the father who repeatedly raped his two daughters over 25 years: You are 56. The first unusual feature of your case is that the series of offences for which I have to sentence you today began when you were still in your twenties, in 1981, over a quarter of a century ago. Whilst it is not unusual to have cases of sexual offending within families which go back even further than that, most involve offending that stopped many years ago or has been intermittent and do not involve continuous offending as yours does. There are many other unusual features.You have pleaded guilty to 25 specimen counts of rape and 4 of indecent assault. The immediate victims are your two daughters, now young women in their thirties. You began to indecently assault them when they were between 8 and 10 years old and not long after that you began to rape them. You have continued to rape them repeatedly ever since, the last offence in respect of one of them being 2007 and the other in early 2008.You have dominated your victims throughout their lives. Each speaks of violence during their childhood years and they still have scars inflicted by you when they were very young. You used violence in the course of the rapes if they showed any signs of resisting. But in the main you were able to achieve domination by their ongoing fear of further violence if they actively opposed what you wanted them to do. You are a large, physically strong man. Not once, throughout all those years, did either of your daughters ever consent to having sexual intercourse with you – but after initial attempts to prevent you doing it when younger they realised further resistance was futile and submitted to avoid further violence. The fact that they did not actively seek to resist does not in any sense lessen the seriousness of each individual act of rape. Each of your victims became pregnant for the first time when only 13 or 14. For one the first pregnancy resulted in a miscarriage when the child was already fully formed and she had the traumatic experience of seeing her mother flush it away down the toilet. No medical assistance was called. When babies were born they were at first passed off to the outside world as younger siblings. The only time one of your daughters was seen speaking to a boy you threatened her not to do so again and for many years neither did. When the other was seen laughing with a young man you assaulted her. As more children appeared some questions began to be asked by the authorities as to whom the father was. But yours was a classic abusive family – you moved frequently so that social services within any particular area had little opportunity to get to know the family in depth.Your victims were supplied with the contraceptive pill to try to prevent further pregnancies (particularly at such a young age) but when you discovered that you became angry, forcibly removed them from your daughters and threw them away. You made it clear they were not to use them and such was their fear of you that they complied for long periods. The result was inevitably more babies. It soon became clear that the result of you fathering children by your own daughters was that many were being born (or would have been born if terminations had not been carried out) with serious medical problems. Two children died on the day they were born and several others have lifelong medical conditions: for at least one it will be fatal at an early age.The medical evidence is that these conditions were not caused by the incestuous nature of your sexual relationships but by the combinations of your DNAs. You must have realised many years ago that your continued raping of your daughters was likely to lead to the birth of more children with serious medial complications. You still refused either to use contraception yourself or allow them to. Part of the purpose of your offending seemed to be to make them pregnant as often as you could. The children born as a result of your offences became, in a very real sense, victims of them. Your wife clearly became aware of what was going on but did nothing to assist her daughters. She left home whilst they were still in their teens, apparently never to be seen again. She could have alerted the authorities but did not.Some people will ask what it was that prevented your daughters from telling someone and bringing their ordeal to an end? The answer, ironically, is the children born as the result of these offences. Despite their origin, your daughters loved the children who were born. Not only have I seen no evidence to suggest they did not do their best to look after each of them in turn the evidence is to the contrary – they were devoted to their children and have not rejected any of them even when their horrendous difficulties became apparent. The sheer number of babies would in due course have overwhelmed most single mothers – and the various medical problems have made looking after these children a full-time task. But from the time the first child was born you told your daughters that if they ever said you had fathered the children they would either not be believed and/or the children would be taken off them. They believed you and it was sufficient to maintain their silence – they were desperate not to lose the children who had become their life so had to live the lie. Some ten years ago one of them rang Childline anonymously to ask whether they would lose their children if they informed on you and the advice confirmed what you had said.As a result of this case questions will inevitably be asked about what professionals (social and medical workers) have been doing for the last 20 years. That is not a matter for this court. But if any fault should ultimately be placed on their shoulders it does not detract from the fact that you and you alone are the one who has committed these offences: you cannot lessen your guilt by asserting that others should have realised earlier what was going on behind the closed doors of your family home. You did everything possible to ensure that they did not.Before coming to sentence I set out some of the aggravating features in this case:• The length of time over which the offending has continued – 25 years plus;• The grossest possible breach of trust involved – you should have been protecting your daughters, not serially abusing them;• The way you used violence and the fear of violence to ensure your victims continued to submit;• The extreme youth of your victims when the abuse started;• The still very young age of the victims when you first raped them, particularly the younger daughter;• Their ages when you first made them pregnant;• That you neither used contraceptives yourself nor allowed your victims to do so;• That you persisted in the absence of contraception despite knowing that many of the resulting pregnancies/births were of children with serious medical complications. Whilst it cannot be said that you intended subsequent children to be born with significant medical problems it was entirely foreseeable that they would be;• The sheer number of times you made your victims pregnant – 12 in one case and 7 in the other – a total of 19 times, resulting in 5 miscarriages, 5 terminations, and 9 live births of whom two died on the date of birth;• That you further ensured their silence and made them repeatedly lie to professionals through fear that if they told the truth their children would be removed from them – which subsequently happened when they finally did tell the truth;• And, perhaps most seriously of all, is the fact that children have died or never reached this world because of your offences. There were the five who had such serious medical conditions that abortions were advised. There were the two who died shortly after birth. At least one has a fatal condition. Others have serious and permanent disabilities. The older surviving children have now had to be told how they came to be in this world.The degree of psychological harm you have caused both your daughters and the children they bore you is almost unimaginable. From a letter I have seen which you wrote to your brother from prison it is apparent you do not begin to appreciate the serious psychological harm you have caused your two generations of victimsThere is only one matter which in any way mitigates these offences. It is that you did eventually plead guilty. The DNA evidence meant that you had to concede that you were the father of all these children. But right up until the date of your trial you were for saying that a time came when your daughters were complicit in these activities and the offences became incest rather than rape. Finally you conceded that was not the case by pleading guilty to the rape allegations. It is apparent from that letter to your brother and your behaviour today that no remorse accompanies your pleas: there was simply no way out. The credit due to you for your late guilty pleas is very small.The phrase "it is difficult to imagine a worse case" is much overused and rarely if ever true. I am not going to say no worse case of rape within a family situation will ever come to light. But I can say that in nearly forty years of dealing with criminal cases and fourteen as a family judge the combination of aggravating circumstances here is the worst I have come across.Cases of rape of daughters and step-daughters are, sadly, not uncommon in these courts. Often, because the press cannot name the perpetrator because to do so will identify the victim, they receive no or little publicity. That is unfortunate because it means the public is unaware of how seriously courts treat these cases. There have been two cases in the last two years at this Crown Court alone where sentences of 20 and 22 years imprisonment have been passed after trials and upheld by the Court of Appeal. Neither case began to fall into the same category of seriousness as yours. As a result of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 the accused in each of those cases will, in practice, be released from prison after serving less that half of the sentence passed. That would happen to you if I were to pass a determinate sentence.A case such as this brings home to me both how complicated sentencing has become and how difficult it can be for a judge to pass an appropriate sentence in a very serious case. In my judgment there are no sentencing guidelines which apply to your case. The recent guidelines for multiple rapes set out by the Sentencing Guidelines Council long after your offending began envisage a sentence which would require you to serve substantially less than ten years in custody. If I were to pass such a sentence the public would quite rightly think the criminal justice system had completely failed your victims. I do not believe a case of this gravity was within the contemplation of those who advised that guideline and I do not follow it. This case is unique.I have little doubt that many members of the public hearing the facts of this case will consider you should either never be released from prison or only when you are old and infirm. I agree with that view. A criminal justice system which does not reflect the views of the silent majority of the public does not deserve to have its confidence. For centuries the maximum sentence available for a single count of rape has been life imprisonment. Such a sentence is usually reserved for an offender who is mentally ill or generally regarded as dangerous. You are not mentally ill. Given what you have done and the impossibility of knowing whether, if released whilst still physically fit, you would commit further such offences it is certainly not possible to say that you do not constitute a future danger. But in my judgment for this many offences of rape and the combination of aggravating circumstances I have identified anything other than a sentence of life imprisonment would be insufficient both by way of punishment and to show that, in extreme cases, such a sentence will follow. That is the sentence I pass, concurrent on each count of rape, with no separate penalty for the indecent assaults.As the public now knows a sentence of life imprisonment no longer means that, save in the case of multiple or sadistic murders. I must therefore set a minimum period which must elapse before you can be released if and only if the Parole Board considers you do not pose an ongoing danger. I reach that figure by assessing what I would have considered the appropriate determinate sentence after a trial, subtracting credit for your late pleas, halving the remaining figure and giving you credit for the period spent on remand. Neither I nor counsel has been able to find any reported case where the facts are remotely similar to this case. Defence counsel has referred me to a recent case which was certainly very serious in which the minimum term passed with a life sentence was slightly reduced. This case has many aggravating features not present in that case: it involved step not natural children; only two pregnancies resulted and no medical problems arose, the accused was considerably older, the offences had ended many years earlier and there had been early guilty pleas In my judgment that is not a precedent to follow: this case is in a category of its own and a determinate sentence would have reflected that. The minimum term is 19.5 years.Finally I must consider whether to make a sexual offences prevention order. In most respects it is superfluous because if and when released licence conditions will be put in place to cover most of the eventualities which such an order could deal with. But given the indication you are still trying to have contact with some of the children I shall make an order but limited to paragraph 1, to remain in force until the last child born of these offences reaches 18.