James Hanratty (25) was found guilty at Bedford Assizes on Saturday of the murder of Michael Gregsten. It had been the longest murder trial in Britain and the jury had retired for nine hours 48 minutes. Asked by Mr Justice Gorman if he had anything to say before the death sentence was passed, Hanratty said: "I am innocent, my lord, and I will appeal. That is all I have to say at this stage." The trial lasted 21 days.Hanratty was found guilty of murdering 36-year-old Gregsten by shooting him in a lay-by off the A6 road at Dead Man's Hill, near Bedford, on August 23rd.The day began with the Judge completing his summing up. This had occupied 30 hours spread over three days. The jury retired at 11.22 am.Transcript request When the jury requested that a transcript of the proceedings should be made available to them, Mr Graham Swanwick QC, who had prosecuted, said: "There are certain passages in the transcript which took place in the absence of the jury and these matters clearly would have had to be removed from the transcript if the application was acceded to."The Judge refused the request, but agreed to the jury's having a copy of the list of witnesses. He also told both counsel that he wanted the jury to have every exhibit in the case in their room while they deliberated, and the 136 items, including the revolver which the Crown said was the murder weapon were carried there from the Court.After 6 hours 26 minutes the Court reassembled for the Judge to give the jury further guidance. He said he had received a letter from them. In this the jury asked: "May we have a further statement from you regarding the definition of reasonable doubt. If you have a reasonable doubt, not a mere fancy sort of doubt, if you have a reasonable doubt, you cannot be sure. And therefore you may think the best way of looking at it is this: you have to be sure of the guilt of the accused before you find him guilty."Recalled to the dock The Court broke up again, but reassembled once more, without the jury, at about 7.30 pm. The Judge sat waiting while Hanratty was told it was necessary for him to return to the dock.Mr Michael Sherrard, the defence counsel, asked the Judge if he would excuse him to go below to explain the situation to Hanratty. "I think it is causing him some distress, this constant ..." Mr Sherrard said.The Judge (interrupting) said: "Yes, I must have him here." After Hanratty had stepped into the dock the Judge stated that he had received another note from the jury. This said: "Is it possible for us to have some tea, please?"Mr Justice Gorman asked both counsel if they had any objection and both saying they had none, the Judge observed: "That being so, arrangements have already been made." He added that he would not allow it to be carried out until he had the consent of counsel.Hanratty was taken back to his cell and returned at 9.10 pm to hear the verdict.