Animal rights activists are continuing a campaign of threats and intimidation against scores of companies linked to the controversial animal research laboratory Huntingdon Life Sciences, despite a £3.5m police undercover sting which will put key extremists behind bars.Four leading activists were convicted yesterday for a six-year campaign of blackmail against firms linked to HLS. Three others pleaded guilty before the trial. Police sources said the seven extremists, all of whom claimed their actions were on behalf of the Animal Liberation Front, targeted thousands of individuals and hundreds of companies in attacks designed to shut down HLS. The firm is licensed to carry out testing for pharmaceutical and other companies. All seven were members of Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (Shac). They face up to 14 years in prison when they are sentenced next month.Yesterday, a jury at Winchester crown court took 33 hours to convict Heather Nicholson, 41, Kim Gerrah Selby, 20, Daniel Wadham, 21 and Gavin Medd-Hall, 45, of conspiracy to blackmail. One juror requested not to be in court when the verdicts were given for fear of reprisals.Gregg Avery, 45, his wife, Natasha Avery, and Daniel Amos, 22, had earlier pleaded guilty to the same charge. Trevor Holmes, 51, was acquitted.The Averys and Nicholson were founding members of Shac and veteran activists. All seven were considered key figures within the Animal Liberation Front. During the three-month trial, the jury heard how employees of firms linked in any way to HLS would be targeted at work and at home. Groups of extremists wearing masks would turn up at night with sirens, fireworks and klaxons. They would daub slogans with paint on the individual's home and car. In some cases families received hoax bombs, and many employees were smeared by false campaigns alleging they were paedophiles. The intimidation included sending used sanitary towels in the post, saying they were contaminated with HIV. The blackmail would only stop when the firm put out a "capitulation statement" to Shac saying they would not supply HLS.But despite the success of the police operation, launched in 2005, the Shac campaign goes on. On its website yesterday was a list of companies to target, including those who trade on the New York Stock Exchange Euronext, which now lists HLS shares."Customers are the main thing keeping HLS in business," the posting read. "It's simple No Customers = No HLS. "HLS struggle to keep shareholders because of our campaign ... when new ones come to light demonstrations and action alerts will happen across the globe."Police sources said the campaign's continuation did not detract from the success of the operation. "These things will never go away," a source said. "But we hope the debate will come back to reasoned discussion and a political settlement."An HLS spokesman said: "Freedom of expression and lawful protest are important rights, but so is the right to conduct vital biomedical research or to support organisations that perform such research without being harassed and threatened."Detective Chief Inspector Andy Robbins of Kent police led the two-year operation. He said: "The verdict reflects the continuing commitment of law enforcement and the Crown Prosecution Service to bring to justice those who seek to repress reasonable discussion and who commit serious offences in the name of animal rights." Alastair Nisbet from the CPS said the investigation was "made all the more difficult by the fact that the defendants concealed their criminal activities behind a cloak of lawful protest, by their use of encryption and file-wiping software on their computers, and by the routine destruction of any documents that they thought might incriminate them".