A police constable who arranged to have sex with a 15-year-old runaway while investigating her disappearance has been sentenced to four years in prison. The girl, who cannot be named, was reported missing by her mother during the summer of 2014. Leigh Brightman, 37, from Hitchin, Hertfordshire, was asked to investigate the girl’s case.When he found her, he discovered she may have been working as a prostitute. Without telling the girl he was a police officer, Brightman called and texted her to arrange for her to travel to his house by taxi so they could have sex, the Old Bailey heard.He did not go through with his plan because he was “uncomfortable” about her age, Kevin McCartney, defending, told the court.The judge Mark Lucraft said Brightman’s actions amounted to an abuse of trust. Sentencing him on Friday to four years in prison, Lucraft said: “It’s clear that when you contacted her, you knew perfectly well who she was, her age and her vulnerabilities.”The victim, who sat in court with her mother, shook her head at the defendant’s account. In a statement read to the court, the girl said she had been going through the “very worst time” of her life when she met Brightman, and the incident drove her to self-harm. “I’ve suffered psychologically, I’ve had trouble sleeping, and I’ve had horrendous flashbacks,” she said. “I felt dirty, ashamed, but partly stupid … I had no idea who he was because he had lied. I don’t think I’ll ever go back to my old self, and I will always have trouble trusting people.” Brightman pleaded guilty to three counts of misconduct in a public office on the day of his trial, and admitted two counts of downloading indecent images of a child between 2011 and 2014. The court heard that he had sex with two other women whom he met through his police work, neither of whom can be named,.He started a consensual relationship with a woman in her early 20s in 2009 after helping her in his role as a police officer. He paid her for sex during a relationship that continued for more than five years. The other relationship was with a woman in her 40s, who said Brightman was “flirtatious” from their first meeting in 2012, when he was investigating her allegations of harassment by a former partner. Their sexual encounters began a week later. When the woman grew concerned that her case was not being dealt with, Brightman begged her not to complain as he was preparing for his wedding at the time, the court heard. McCartney said Brightman’s guilty pleas represented an acknowledgement that he had failed in his responsibilities as a police officer and as a person. “There can be no doubt that if he could rewrite or undo what he has done, he would,” he said.