It may not prove quite as popular as the Weakest Link but how well the public do at a Home Office crime and punishment quiz launched yesterday by the home secretary, David Blunkett, could be influential in determining the way criminals are sentenced in future. The quiz challenges the popular view promulgated by the media, soap operas and crime dramas that few convicted burglars and robbers get sent to prison and that rapists are let off by the courts. The answers point out that England and Wales already has one of the highest prison populations in Europe at a cost of more than £25,000 a year for each inmate. The quiz is part of a public consultation exercise launched yesterday by Mr Blunkett on the biggest overhaul of the way criminals are punished for more than a decade. Home Office ministers are to be sent around the country next month to hear people's views on ideas such as "intermittent" or part-time prisons which would see offenders' liberty restricted but allow them to stay with their families and keep their job. The idea is likely to prove controversial as the prison service has already made clear that it would find it difficult to cope with a temporary element in the prison population. The sentencing reforms will lead to major changes in the length of time that the 67,000 inmates spend inside prisons in England and Wales, what they do when they are there and what happens when they are released. "I want to ask people to actively join in a debate, so that together we can work out a new, common sense, effective approach to sentencing," said Mr Blunkett. "A system that is seen to be fair, a system which can show it reduces offending, and where offenders make reparations to their victims and to their local community." Views are also needed on five other issues including the introduction of new sentences such as "custody minus", under which a convicted criminal is given a prison sentence but it is suspended on condition he completes a demanding programme of activity in the community. Another idea is that violent criminals should no longer be automatically released after completing two thirds of their sentence. Mr Blunkett also made clear yesterday that he will increase the number of offenders dealt with by other means than prison and that the probation service is to face a fundamental change in its role. He said that it was more important than ever that such community punishments commanded public confidence. The probation service would in future act far more as a law enforcement agency working alongside the police, crown prosecutors and the prisons in reducing offending. A Home Office website, fairer-sentencing, was launched yesterday to enable the public to take part in the debate, including a chance to do the full version of the crime and punishment quiz.