He could be polite and charming; an entertaining talker who was popular with the men down the pub, attractive to women and apparently loving towards his children.But behind the facade there was another Mark Bridger, a heavy drinker with a nasty temper and a violent streak, a man who felt he had failed to fulfil his potential and had woven a make-believe life around his mundane existence.At first, his fantasies seem relatively harmless, if ludicrous. Bridger told anyone who would listen that he used to be in the SAS and had served as a mercenary in Africa and east Asia, his skills with a knife making him a deadly assassin. He even claimed he was licensed to carry a gun because he was on an IRA hit-list.But as he approached middle age, his fantasies became darker and dangerous.Bridger became obsessed by images of children being sexually abused, often sadistically. He was fixated with stories of girls who had been murdered by sex killers such as the Soham school caretaker Ian Huntley. And he began tracking the young girls and women of Machynlleth, in Powys, first via social networking sites, then in reality.Mark Leonard Bridger was born in Carshalton, south-west London, in November 1965, the middle child of City of London police officer, Graham, and his wife, Pamela. He left John Ruskin grammar school in Croydon with seven CSEs and studied engineering at Croydon College.Bridger planned to follow his father into the emergency services and in 1984, aged 19, began training with the London fire brigade but dropped out after a few months. In his resignation letter he claimed he felt he could "not come up to the standards at the training centre".It was one of his many lies. In fact he was in trouble with the police. He was caught carrying a firearm in a botched scheme to rob a post office and was put on probation for two years. At about the same time he became a parent for the first time – he was to father at least six children – and the combination of his conviction and early parenthood appears to have caused a deep rift between him and his family.Bridger did not stick around to look after the child, a son, and instead packed his bags and headed for north Wales, a place he knew through family holidays. For a while he camped on a beach but began to drift from address to address, woman to woman and job to job.He had a child with a second partner and got married to a third, Julie Williams, in 1990, with whom he has two sons. When that marriage collapsed, Bridger quickly set up home with Elaine Griffiths and had a boy and girl with her. By this time the mid-Wales town of Machynlleth and the villages around it were Bridger's home.He worked as a mechanic, woodcutter, chef and barman. He got close to children when he worked as a lifeguard at the leisure centre in Machynlleth and at an outdoor adventure centre – though police have found no evidence of any offences against children before April's murder.One job he never had was that of a soldier. In court he claimed he lied about a military past because he did not want people to know about his troubled history. Those close to him say it went much further than that."He fancied himself as a tough guy, he wanted to make out he had an interesting hinterland," said one former friend whose children used to play with Bridger's. "He was a bit of a control freak. I think that fantasy gave him some control of his past."He dreamed up a nickname for himself – Buster – and had images of a scorpion and snake tattooed on his body. He also put together an extensive collection of axes, saws and knives.Bridger did have an interest in the outdoors and survival skills, spending hours in the mountains, woods and beside the riverbanks of mid Wales. He loved to explore the networks of caves and mineshafts around Machynlleth and used to earn drinking money unofficially disposing of sheep carcasses for farmers.Though no assassin, he did know how to handle knives through his work in an abattoir high in the hills above Machynlleth. Former workmate Gage Talbot said: "He was skilled in both skinning and boning knives."Chillingly his knowledge of butchering and of the hiding places around Machynlleth meant he was able to skillfully dispose of April's body.The relationship with Griffiths ended acrimoniously and in September 2004 the police were called to break up a row. Bridger brandished a large stick and threatened to attack an officer with a machete.Seeking a new start, Bridger travelled abroad briefly but returned because – by his account – he missed his children. In April 2007 he was back before the courts, this time for punching the son of a landlord following a row over a boiler. Bridger was handed a suspended jail sentence.At the end of 2010 Bridger met Vicky Fenner, the partner he was with until a few days before April's disappearance. He went on holiday with her and her two children to Cornwall and France and hoped they could all live together.By now Bridger was drinking heavily and on anti-depressants. Five weeks before April's death, he moved into Mount Pleasant, a rented cottage in the village of Ceinws, 3 miles from Machynlleth.  The living room in the home of Mark Bridger. Photograph: Dyfed Powys police/PAFenner never moved in. Bridger tended to sleep downstairs in front of the fire in the living room with his old sheepdog. Police found evidence of sexual activity in front of the fireplace where Bridger admitted he lay April's body, as well in the back of his Land Rover. Two pairs of handcuffs were also found at his home but Bridger said in court he had no interest in bondage.What is clear is that by the time he got to Mount Pleasant, Bridger had put together a library of images of child sexual abuse and pictures of girls who had been killed in notorious sex crimes. When police raided his home the tape in his video player was paused at a brutal rape and murder scene from the slasher movie The Last House on the Left, the 2009 re-make of the banned 1970s film.Bridger got to know Paul Jones – April's father – when they dated sisters, Elaine and Karen Griffiths. Jones used to go out in Bridger's rally car, an Astra GTI with bucket seats. "He used to drive it like a maniac, he was a risk-taker," Jones said. Bridger also knew April's mother, Coral, because they played in the same darts team.Bridger appears to have been fascinated by April's three teenage half-sisters. He collected their images from Facebook and sorted them into folders. April appeared in eight of these pictures, though there is no suggestion he specifically targeted her.But quite what triggered his attack on April on 1 October may always be a mystery.Asked by a detective during one of his interviews if it had been a buildup of "sexual frustrations", Bridger replied that if he intended to "go out and abduct a child" every time he accessed a sexual picture on his computer "there would not be any young children left in Machynlleth".The officer said that maybe it was because he did not have the opportunity before 1 October.Bridger's reply did not convince officers: "Maybe that's just shit."• This article was amended on 31 May 2013 by the substitution of the words 'outward bound centre' to 'outdoor adventure centre'.