So who is responsible for the murders of the five young women in Suffolk? In the Daily Mail, AN Wilson suggests that Kate Moss, Peter Doherty and Mick Jagger should end up in the dock beside the murderer. They "all have the blood of these young women on their hands," Wilson writes, because they are associated with the glamourisation of drugs. Leo McKinstry in the Daily Express believes "politically correct indifference" to drugs and prostitution has created a climate that has led to their deaths. Simon Heffer in the Daily Telegraph blames the "cadre of liberal opinion formers" who have made drugs acceptable and thus helped to enslave the unfortunate "tarts" on the street.In 1949, Britain was transfixed by the arrest and trial of John George Haigh for five murders which were also carried out with sinister brutality. He claimed to have taken his victims' blood from their jugular veins before dissolving them in acid. Three years earlier, the country was equally fascinated by the case of Neville Heath, who killed and mutilated women in unspeakable ways. Every night of the week in London, if you are so inclined, you can go on a Jack the Ripper tour of the part of the East End where he carried out his own murders in 1888. "For the ladies, it's a great night out," says one of the many competing "ripper" tour companies on their flyers.All of these killings took place long before drugs were an issue. And cadres of liberal opinion formers were a big feature neither of Victorian society nor of the immediate post-war era. Vulnerable and desperate young women have been on the streets of Britain since there were streets. Vicious and sadistic men have been killing and mutilating women since there were men and women.Simon Heffer says that most prostitutes are now enslaved by drugs: "Ask any policeman and they will tell you it is true." If you were also to ask said policeman - and any policewoman, as they do, amazingly, now exist - they will tell you also that what really fuels violence in the Britain of today is alcohol.Some boring statistics: alcohol is involved in 48% of all crimes of violence (drugs in 18%), in 60% of attacks on strangers (14% drugs) and 53% of all domestic violence (11% drugs.) So should journalists who patronise off-licences, who serve their dinner guests wine, or who drink too much beer at cricket matches be up in the dock alongside every violent mugger and wife-beater? Do we all have blood on our hands?When Fred and Rosemary West were finally arrested in 1994 for the murders of more than a dozen young women, there were similar charges made against a liberal and permissive society. Yet the Wests were just the sort of people to win the stamp of approval from the conservative commentariat: they were a married couple with a large family, Fred was in work, and neither drugs nor cadres of liberal opinion formers played much of a part in their world at 25 Cromwell Street.This week has seen the conclusion of an inquiry into another tragic death of a young vulnerable women in which accusations, many of them absurd, have been made, not least by one of the newspapers listed above. Pointing fingers is a dangerous game. We can argue about what the best way is to deal with drugs and with prostitution, although both debates have been largely sterile recently, but assigning blame should be a complex procedure.We do not know the man, or men, who is, or are, carrying out these murders in Suffolk. We do not know what motivates or drives them. We do not know if they are driven into a frenzy by reading regular outpourings of bile about permissiveness in some of our daily newspapers, or by constantly seeing pictures of famous drug-takers in those publications. And Moss and Doherty didn't ask their "friends" to rat on them to the press.When the perpetrator is finally caught, we can hope to learn some lessons, but one lesson that need not wait for it is that, very sadly, there are murderous people at large now, as there were in the last century and the century before. And we do a disservice to the victims by trying to drag them from the murder scene to display them casually as exhibits for our personal moral prejudices.· duncan.campbell@theguardian.com