The suggestion by the head of forensic sciences at Scotland Yard and the new DNA spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), Gary Pugh, that children of primary school age should be placed on a national DNA register if they show signs of "becoming a criminal" worries the hell out of me. Not, you understand, for myself.My own disturbed childhood is in the distant past, the architects of my earlier dysfunction mostly dead, or dying. But I remember well the punishments received for transgressing the rules of the all-powerful grown-ups. The beating with the broom handle for knocking over and smashing a pint of milk as I stepped out of the front door on my way to a primary school I'd been attending only a matter of weeks. I recall seeking solace in a local wood, catching grasshoppers and placing them gently in a jam jar I covered with a lid I'd perforated with my special shiny piece of flint. The beating and chasing of the leaping insects had made me late for school, for which I was paraded in front of the whole assembly, made to bend over and hit six times with a bamboo cane by a man, a 'teacher', who was about two and a half times my height. Clearly I was in danger of "becoming a criminal". All the signs were there, and low and behold by the age of ten I was charged and convicted of my first crime, the breaking and entering of a sweet shop. In Gary Pugh's world I would have been a perfect candidate for a swabbing long before my first court appearance. I doubt, however, that it would have done me or the rest of society much good. On the contrary – I think the earlier the stigmatisation the more potential there is in later life for individuals subjected to it to become further detached from their communities.The fact is, natural variations aside, all children are born equal. But the circumstances into which they emerge after nine months of safe, warm darkness are variable. If the newborn is lucky, he or she will arrive into a situation brimming with love and conscientious nurturing and, for the next couple of decades, all that is necessary to ensure the new life thrives and blossoms into a successful social existence will be provided.But luck is fickle. So are people. So much depends upon the circumstances into which we involuntarily arrive. As we progress through life, in order to function successfully, we need emotional security. We need to feel we belong, to feel we deserve and above all to feel we are valuable. Without these basic human necessities the chances of avoiding involvement with the criminal justice system are slim.Last week, the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, called for the closure of privately run children's prison Oakhill secure training centre due to the "staggeringly high level" of the use of force against the children by staff. I wonder at the lives of those young people. I doubt they enjoyed an abundance of love and security before their court appearances began. Not much in Oakhill either. In a nine-month period, the centre logged 757 incidences of "forceful restraint", on the 80 young prisoners aged 12 to 17. On 532 occasions the force used was of the highest level, requiring at least three members of staff. A Ministry of Justice spokesperson explained that "behaviour in secure training centres can be very violent and staff need appropriate and effective methods to contain and resolve dangerous situations". The inspector's report described the centre's strategy, if there was one, as "an embattled and reactive approach to order and control, with an over-reliance on emergency responses, a plethora of uncoordinated responses to poor behaviour and a disproportionate focus on physical and procedural security".In all probability the young residents of Oakhill were showing signs that all was not well in their lives long before they passed primary school age. Most of them too would no doubt have figured prominently on Pugh's DNA database. Would it have made a difference? Would it have allowed them to avoid Oakhill? I doubt it. The earlier children are criminalised the harder it is for them to find their rightful place in society and the idea of writing a whole load of troubled kids off before they even get a chance to blossom has no place in it.