I wake in my childhood bedroom. From the kitchen, I hear my mother's footfall as she makes breakfast, and the sound of a radio. And from that radio comes news of an overnight killing, the presenter's voice calm yet weary, summarising the logistical details of death and the round-up of political reaction.I was born in Belfast in 1974. The worst year of Ireland's modern troubles had come two years before that, but the conflict still had a generation left to run. News of bombings, of beatings, of a dead body found in a city back alley or on a wet country road, was the grim drumbeat beneath my teenage years. Like so many of my generation, I got out as fast as I could: to university in England, to a new life in Dublin and, eventually, to New York, where I live now.I come home about three times a year, and I find myself here, now, watching as this place lurches toward the darkness once more. The killing of two British soldiers outside their barracks at the weekend, and of a policeman last night in Craigavon, had an awful and heavy familiarity. It felt, and feels, like being sucked back into an old, recurring nightmare that you thought had finally been put to rest.In these past few days, Northern Ireland has also shown, once again, its capacity to throw up events that are utterly shocking and yet somehow unsurprising.Republican dissidents have been trying for many months to carry out the kind of actions that came to dreadful fruition over the weekend and last night.More broadly, there has for some time been a significant and dangerous disconnect between how Northern Ireland is perceived from the outside and the situation on the ground. Internationally, it is (or was, until the weekend) hailed as an exemplar of successful conflict resolution; locally, noxious sectarianism and a broader frustration still hang in the air.In part, those feelings are a straightforward result of the halting pace of change. From a distance, observers looked at the hitherto inconceivable spectacle of Ian Paisley and Martin McGuinness joining each other in government two years ago, and shook their heads in wonder at how fast the world could advance. Up close, the North's recent history has been marked by a series of interminable squabbles about everything from decommissioning to, latterly, the devolution of policing and the existence, or otherwise, of the IRA itself.There is another problem, too. Those closest to the conflict in the North lived for years in an absolutist world. Whether that world was defined by slogans of "No Surrender" or "Brits Out", it left those who inhabited it ill-prepared for the compromises and ambiguities of the peace process.Leaders such as Gerry Adams have done an extraordinary job in keeping the schism-prone Republican movement together to the extent that they have done. And those of Adams' generation who have an appetite for a return to war are few and far between. But the old absolutism still holds its seductions – especially for those young enough not to have experienced its consequences. Up until this weekend, those loyal to the Sinn Féin line were able to use two arguments to discredit the dissidents: first, that they had negligible popular support; second, that, veering between the catastrophe of Omagh and a series of botched attacks, they had little capacity to follow through on their bellicose rhetoric. The second plank has begun to crumble in the past few days. The attacks in Antrim and Craigavon have been described by many politicians as an attack on the peace process. Really, though, they are a challenge to the current Republican leadership – and to the sense of complacency that too many of us have clung to for too long.