Persistent young offenders are to be taken away from their families and placed with specially trained foster parents to give them a stable family environment as part of the government's drive to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour, the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced yesterday.He said that tackling youth crime was crucial because 75% of street offenders were children under 17. A hard-core 5% of juveniles were responsible for 60% of offences for their age group. The fostering schemes are to be aimed at this group, particularly at children aged 10 or 11 who persistently go on crime sprees but cannot be locked up unless they commit very serious offences. In one recent case an 11-year-old from Cardiff reached his 150th court appearance within a year, mainly for taking cars. "We need to look at taking young offenders out of the situation that led them to offend in the first place, giving them a stable environment," Mr Blunkett told the annual youth justice board convention in London. "We are looking at intensive fostering schemes, where young offenders are placed with specially trained and supported foster parents, but at the same time can keep in touch with family, friends and school." Stressing the importance of early intervention with child offenders, Mr Blunkett told the conference of 900 youth justice workers that most people had done something in their lives - himself included, he hinted - that would have got them into trouble if they had been picked up by police for it. Youth workers should not be afraid of introducing imaginative solutions such as boxing classes in the local gym if that meant teaching youngsters self-restraint and self-esteem, he added. The home secretary also announced the appointment of Louise Casey, the former "homelessness tsar", to head a new antisocial behaviour unit in the Home Office to coordinate action across the six government departments that are involved in the new campaign. Mr Blunkett said that antisocial behaviour could be the start of a criminal career for some young people and the new anti-crime package would deal "with the disrespect that stokes the fear of crime". The package would not just be about punitive sanctions but would also include preventive measures and early intervention with first time offenders. The intensive fostering schemes would provide young offenders with the opportunity to grow up in stable conditions, sometimes for the first time. The schemes are likely to be run in partnership with voluntary organisations such as Coram Family, which is Britain's oldest children's charity and started with a hospital for foundlings. People would be paid and trained to act as foster parents. Coram already runs an intensive fostering service and provides a 24-hour professional support service for young offenders on bail.