Fraudulent claims are not self-declaring in the way that bank card fraud or cheque fraud is. There is an awful lot of trust involved. In fact, the people who are supposed to be our most valuable customers are also the ones committing fraud against us.Recent research indicated exaggerated claims fraud was most prevalent among highly insured middle-class, home-owning professionals. Insurance fraud just can't be bracketed with your typical criminal types. We don't have figures for fraudulent claims - if we knew the figures it wouldn't be a problem. We estimate that 10 per cent of motor claims and 15 per cent of household claims by value are fraudulent. The biggest volume of fraud is from people who have suffered a loss - a burglary, say - and inflate the claim.We had one woman who claimed her purse, with her rings in it, had been stolen from her bag in the supermarket. The assessors questioned her and it became apparent she was lying. She became more and more uncomfortable answering the questions. She couldn't describe being in the supermarket and who served her.The interviewer then said: 'Don't worry we can check the CCTV tapes,' and the woman started backing off. They told her to look around her mother's house and to phone if she found the rings. Of course, the next day she phoned to say that, surprise surprise, she'd found the rings at her mother's house after all.The insurer is not interested in dragging a person like that through the courts. They just want to let her know that they know, and then get rid of her. Getting caught out is a big deterrent. There's an element of shame involved so we have to be careful how we deal with them. When people make up stories there are inevitably flaws. It's just a case of uncovering them, and there are a number of ways we do that. We use electronic analytical tools that, for instance, can detect one claimant with several aliases but one mobile phone number. Then conversations - usually over the phone - clear up doubts. The way a claimant answers questions demonstrates how robust a claim is. Most insurers have moved away from the standard claims form with tick boxes. In general we do our business by telephone, which gives us a far more sophisticated way of finding out what has happened. Of course, for all insurers the biggest problem is the sheer number of claims that need processing; last year there were around 4.2 million motor claims alone. You cannot look at every claim because it would take for ever. You have to be realistic, you're not going to catch every single one. It's really just a case of trying to weed out as many as possible. Fraud is seen as a private sector problem. We have an agreement with the police that allows insurers to request crime reports. Information about the crime scene can be matched with the insurance claim, and we can spot differences. But fraud isn't a police priority. We need to work very carefully with them to get them interested. If we can prove a criminal link with something bigger, they're far more interested. Big criminals know that there is a very slim chance of getting caught, and rewards far outweigh retribution. For the individual, however, I think there is a distinction between opportunistic cases (in which genuine claims are bumped up) and the more premeditated. We've found that 47 per cent of people who are ordinary, law-abiding citizens wouldn't rule out inflating a claim. The typical household claims are things such as stereos, CDs and designer clothes. Everyone has a wardrobe full of Armani clothes that get nicked. We've seen no link to financial hardship in the people who inflate their claims. It just seems people believe they deserve a bit extra. They think it won't mean anything to the insurance company, because big businesses are seen as rich. But when the estimated cost of insurance claims is £1 billion a year, it is a big issue. I don't see any particular link to the country's general economic wellbeing. An exception is arson. People often burn down their business because of an economic downturn. Another problem is staged motor accidents - that's a big racket. It works in various ways: owners will cause minor damage to a vehicle, or run their car into another, each car filled with people who then claim for whiplash injuries. There is quite an industry in people acting as a rent-a-victim. The trouble is that I think a number of solicitors and doctors are complicit in it. Most GPs don't have time for a full investigation.The commonly quoted fact is that when scrap metal prices drop, people tend to torch their cars because they get more from the insurance than if they sold their old banger for scrap. There are repeat offenders. Lots of similar names crop up, and this is where the electronic tools come in because they can spot similarities such as mobile numbers or subtle name changes. In some cases we've seen five name variations and different addresses but believe it to be just one person.· Debra Weekes is the head of financial crime prevention for the Association of British Insurers