Muggings, mobile phone thefts and other street crimes have fallen sharply in the 10 worst crime areas in England, David Blunkett announced yesterday. But the figures were immediately declared suspect by the opposition.The home secretary claimed that an overall fall of 14% between April and August, 70 fewer robberies a day, was a victory for extra money and a coordinated strategy. However, if the August figures are compared with August 2001 the fall is 6%. "People working on the front line know they are getting results," Mr Blunkett said. "We are publishing these interim figures now to correct the misleading speculation which is demoralising for the police and reinforcing a constant mood of failure, and undermines the reassurance which the true position offers the public." Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem home affairs spokesman, said: "The government has failed to set these statistics in context, or to publish the background data to allow us to check its conclusions. It is impossible to measure the government's progress if it does not make its targets clear and publish all the information." For the Tories, Oliver Letwin said: "What we have here is a welcome decrease, across a highly selective period in a highly selective group of places. This is not the same as getting street crime under control." The improvement varied across the 10 areas: the fall in robbery and snatch theft combined between April and August this year was 2% in Merseyside and 9% in London, while in South Yorkshire it was 25% - even though provisional figures for April to July for the force had showed a 17% rise. In April Tony Blair surprised MPs when he said that street crime in the 10 areas where 80% of the crime occurred would be brought "under control" by September. According to Home Office sources, the specific target was to halt the increase in the first six months and then consolidate the improvement over the next two years. Mr Blair has chaired seven meetings at Downing Street dedicated to an anti-street crime strategy. Initiatives that have resulted have included the introduction of a "premium" service from the crown prosecution service that has speeded up court hearings, and action on truancy together with more supervised out-of-school activities. Mr Blunkett also won an extra £31m of police fund ing in the budget. Altogether, £67m is being dedicated to tackling street crime. Yesterday's figures were released early because of what the Home Office said was "misleading speculation" on the success of the initiative. But because the information is being gathered in a different way, it is impossible to make an accurate year-on-year assessment. Street crime covers both robbery and "snatch theft", a new category. Mr Hughes, who is demanding the release of a full set of street crime figures for the past 12 months, accused the government of deception: "It is not enough to produce interim figures 4 months into a six-month initiative, and claim that street crime is now under control." The Home Office said last night that the seven Downing Street meetings had an important role that would be reflected in a criminal justice white paper.   Robbery and snatch theft combined: April compared with Aug (4 week periods) % change Metropolitan police -9 West Midlands -27 Greater Manchester -21 Merseyside -2 West Yorkshire -22 Avon and Somerset -20 Thames Valley -20 Nottinghamshire -2 South Yorkshire -25 Lancashire 9 Total 10 forces -14