Civil rights groups reacted furiously this weekend to plans to scrap trial by jury in thousands of cases, arguing that they would lead to serious miscarriages of justice.The reforms, first revealed by The Observer , propose that judges should sit alone in complex cases or trials where they believe jurors might be subjected to intimidation. A White Paper proposing the changes, entitled Justice for All , is expected to be published on Wednesday. It will outline the Government's latest plans for the reform of the court system and sentencing. 'Ministers seem to be obsessed with the idea of restricting the one thing in which the public has confidence, trial by jury, and the strongest argument in favour of jury trial is that Ministers from successive governments want to restrict it,' a Bar Council spokesman said. 'It seems the executive doesn't like the idea of the public playing a role in the justice system. The public trusts the jury system - the Government needs to show it trusts the public.' Labour peer and lawyer Baroness Kennedy called it 'a wholesale assault on civil liberties' and a 'knee jerk response' to crime fears, and warned it would lead to miscarriages of justice. The paper will also reportedly propose the abolition of the double jeopardy rule - which prohibits the retrial of a defendant on the same charges - in cases of 'a grave offence punishable by imprisonment', and cases with compelling new evidence where a retrial is 'in the interests of justice'. The change could be used to bring fresh murder charges against the three men suspected of the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence. In another move to cut down on costly Crown Court trials, magistrates' maximum sentencing powers would be doubled from six to 12 months. Other measures include proposals to reduce the numbers of middle class people who exempt themselves from jury service because of work obligations, and to increase the catchment area for juries to ensure they are more reflective of the population, particularly in terms of ethnicity. Ironically, the Home Secretary is thought to have dropped several restrictions on jury trial in response to earlier concerns from civil rights groups. Plans to restrict the right of defendants to opt for jury trial have been scrapped and the Crown Prosecution Service will not be able to appeal against so-called 'perverse' decisions by juries. Home Secretary David Blunkett last night order a top-level inquiry into leaks of the White Paper. 'The Home Secretary has asked the Prime Minister for a full-scale leak inquiry,' a Home Office spokeswoman said. 'The Home Office considers this serious, especially in light of the leak of the DA's letter on the reclassification of cannabis last week.' The DA - the Domestic Affairs committee - agrees all major policy changes, the spokeswoman said. The reclassificsation story also appeared in The Observer last week. A Downing Street spokesman said Tony Blair had given his approval for the inquiry to be carried out, but refused to say what form it would take.