Britain's worst case of institutionalised corruption involving a single police force is set to burst into the open this week as pressure mounts on the Home Secretary to launch a public inquiry.Jack Straw is to be formally asked by the Welsh Assembly to investigate the action of South Wales Police, which for almost two decades has been at the centre of allegations that at least 19 people have been wrongfully imprisoned.Nine murders remain unsolved after those originally charged walked free amid accusations of faked police interview notes, false or missing evidence, bribes and intimidation. The estimated cost to the taxpayer of 10 cases highlighted by campaigners, in court costs and probable compensation payouts, is £20 million. Campaigners will also be asking Straw to overhaul the compensation process under which none of the claims of those wrongfully convicted in the past two decades in South Wales has been settled. With no hard and fast rules on compensation, it is down to the Home Secretary to decide who should receive a payout. Up to 30 South Wales police officers have been subject to temporary suspensions since 1982, although no disciplinary action has resulted. Some, like former Detective Inspector Stuart Lewis, have taken early retirement on full pension despite a catalogue of complaints against them. Lewis was involved in at least five major cases, including two murder investigations, where police faced allegations of serious misconduct and where convictions were later quashed. A coroner took the unusual step of openly criticising him over the investigation of a suicide. A court heard evidence of Lewis handcuffing Darren Hall, then 18, to a hot radiator and denying him access to a solicitor. Hall, now 31, along with Michael O'Brien, 33, and Ellis Sherwood, 30, served 11 years for the 1987 murder of newsagent Philip Saunders. The case against them centred on a confession by Hall, suffering from a personality disorder, who said he was lookout for a robbery that went wrong. The prosecution's own expert said Hall's confession - later retracted - was 'at risk of being unreliable'. The Criminal Cases Review Body said South Wales police had shown a 'systematic disregard' of proper procedure. The convictions were quashed last year. Since then O'Brien has been spearheading the campaign for an inquiry with Adrian Stone, acquitted with four others in 1982 of involvement in a Welsh nationalist bombing campaign after a jury heard how a police officer had planted evidence in his home. Stone said: 'We have been fighting against what is effectively a whitewash. When reviews have been made after cases went wrong, they have never been made public, how do we know that police have learned the lessons. 'In O'Brien's case the prosecutor said "clearly monkey business" had occurred with police notes. In interrogation I was offered £10,000 to testify against an innocent man. 'I welcome that people are beginning to listen to us as our meeting last week with Welsh Assembly members proves.' The cases have devastated bereaved relatives who believed that the killers had been imprisoned only to learn later that the wrong people were convicted. Many feel let down by the police and the judiciary. This week Johnny and Myra Jones will lay flowers on the graves of their daughter Diane and granddaughters, Shauna, two, and one-year-old Sarah-Jane on the fifth anniversary of their deaths. In 1997 Annette Hewins and her niece Donna Clarke, a petty thief, were jailed for the arson attack on a Merthyr Tydfil flat which left the three dead. The murder trial was the second-longest in Welsh legal history and cost £2m. The convictions were quashed within two years. Hewins was pregnant when she was first jailed. Her son Joshua was taken from her when he was nine hours old. 'Even now he is not the same as my other three children. He is the only one who will not come into our bed in the mornings for a cuddle,' she told The Observer. Hewins was convicted of buying the petrol used in the arson attack. The garage's CCTV footage shows that the petrol she bought that day was leaded, but the fire was started with unleaded petrol. 'So many people have suffered wrongful convictions, the mental scars go deep. 'I have no respect for South Wales police. I hate every one of them. They are given a job to investigate crimes fully. But again and again they had tunnel vision. 'They targeted one person and built a case around them. They convinced themselves someone is guilty and ignored any evidence that points to other perpetrators. That is a strong pattern with all the cases. Yet innocent people, and the victims' families, have their lives ruined.' Wayne Darvell, 35, and his brother Paul were jailed for life for the 1985 murder of Swansea sex shop assistant Sandra Phillips, 38. Wayne had a history of confessing to offences he could not have possibly committed.The pair were cleared in 1992. Three South Wales officers involved in the case were later charged with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Tony Paris, Yusef Abdullahi and Stephen Miller were sentenced to life in 1990 for the murder of Cardiff prostitute Lynette White. Two others who were charged spent months in jail on remand before being acquitted at the trial. Investigative author Satish Sekar exposed serious concerns about the police inquiry and the three were released by Court of Appeal judges in 1992. In 1994 Jonathan Jones was convicted of murdering his girlfriend's parents, Harry and Megan Tooze, at their isolated farmhouse. His conviction was ruled 'unsafe' in 1996. 'What took place still has a big influence on my life,' he said. 'All those certainties about honesty and integrity and our police force being the best in the world are shattered.' He believes the campaign for an inquiry may soon succeed. 'It would be difficult for the Home Secretary to ignore a cross-party group of assembly members,' he said. One lawyer told The Observer : 'When you are seeing people walking out of the Court of Appeal on such a regular basis it's got to merit a public inquiry. The legal community here has been very concerned for years about a general attitude of contempt for justice by certain officers, and we all knew who they were.'