If ever a tragedy requires a shot of bathos, let its epilogue be spoken by Essex police. On the steps of Southwark crown court following Vicky Pryce's conviction, Assistant Chief Constable Gary Beautridge intoned: "We hope this conviction serves as a timely reminder to motorists." Motorists? Motorists? You might as well have Fortinbras survey the stage at the end of Hamlet and say: "Well, I hope this serves as a timely reminder to students."Just as Hamlet, by the end of act five, is someone a smidge more resonant than a University of Wittenberg undergraduate, so after two trials – in which marital betrayal, filial anguish, abortions both conducted and cancelled, and the toxic madness of revenge have been laid excruciatingly bare – Chris Huhne and his wife seem slightly more than mere drivers. Now that Pryce's scorched-earth revenge strategy has flambéed both the former cabinet minister and herself, the pair will soon stand side by side in the dock for sentencing. It's possibly too much to hope they will suddenly look at each other and realise they're still in love, a courtroom version of Elyot and Amanda on their adjoining balconies in Noël Coward's Private Lives.Without wishing to undermine Assistant Chief Constable Beautridge, the most sensible words in this whole appalling saga – not a crowded field, admittedly – were those Huhne that flung over his shoulder as he went to the gym, minutes after he announced he was leaving Pryce at half-time during Japan's 2010 World Cup tie against the Netherlands. (The Dutch would go on to win 1-0; the Huhne-Pryce scoreline is now widely accepted to be in negative numbers.) According to Pryce's account, her then husband's parting shot was: "Don't talk to the newspapers."Was e'er a wiser word spoken? As any regular reader of this column will be painfully aware, I have amassed so little wisdom in my life that its sum total could be written on the back of a postage stamp with room for the inevitable apology when it was proved to be cobblers. But the one piece of advice I always offer with absolute conviction, if ever my counsel is sought, is this: never talk to the newspapers. Never. Talk. To. The. Newspapers.If this seems like the vaguest of ironies, appearing as it does in a newspaper column, then I can only apologise. That is the least of what I have to apologise for in this context because, in my time, I have used those ghastly, mendacious, yet deliciously tempting words to someone whom I – and perhaps you – fervently wished would Talk To A Newspaper. I have said: "It would be great to hear your side of the story."What is meant by these words, and what anyone who says them means, is that it would be great for other people to hear your side of the story. But it will not be great for you. Oh no. The business of other people hearing your side of the story will not bring you any happiness, even though it truly seems like it might. It seemed like that to Pryce, and no media ingenue she. Yet reading the emails in which Isabel Oakeshott, the political editor of the Sunday Times, expertly reels in Pryce, feels like watching the slow-motion car crash of cliche. Perhaps in this week's Sunday Times we shall find out how Oakeshott feels about the disclosure of her correspondence with her source. Perhaps we won't.Still, as the saying goes, it would be great to hear your side of the story. And God, it really would. Countless great stories come out of people saying those words, and other words like them – great stories we've all devoured, and great stories we've yet to devour. But for you, O Person-Considering-Talking-to-the-Newspapers? Not so much. Not even for megastars locked in that transactional cycle of telling their side of the story in exchange for promotion, who routinely cite it as the bit of their life they loathe most. As for journalists, they usually know better than to comment if they become caught up in a story. They don't want journalism done to them.I realise some colleagues in newspapers will harrumph, and might even think it blasphemous for a so-called journalist to say. But, hand on heart – yes, yes, I know we don't have hearts – would they advise anyone they loved that the best course of action was airing any sort of linen in public?Of course, you will find genuinely worthy defences for almost all the most apparently grim aspects of the journalism game. Even some death knocks, where a reporter goes to the family home of someone who has just died, can fulfil a vital role of journalism by turning a statistic into a story (and at their most ideal, preventing further tragedies). And there isn't the slightest question that the sacrifices whistleblowers make are for the greater good. But the smaller good – little things such as family life, the bonds of friendship, the comparative bliss of privacy – these are the things that almost without exception are compromised to some degree when you talk to the newspapers. Sometimes the damage is small. Sometimes it is almost unquantifiably vast.A very brilliant lawyer friend once told me that his honest advice to people was to never, ever litigate, unless they had absolutely no choice. I've no idea whether a candid estate agent would complete our trifecta of similarly esteemed professions, and advise you never to move house. But as the former journalist Chris Huhne so instinctively advised: don't talk to the newspapers. The rest, if you're lucky, is silence.Twitter: @MarinaHyde