A prisoner broke down in tears at an inquest yesterday as she remembered the night her fellow inmate Julie Walsh died after drinking antidepressant medicine stolen from a prison trolley.Walsh, 39, died in August 2003 while on remand at Styal jail in Cheshire. She was the sixth woman to die at the prison in just over a year and five previous inquests have found that four of the women died by hanging and the sixth after an overdose. The tally led to an inquiry by the prisons ombudsman and a series of recommendations for improving conditions at Styal. The inquest at Macclesfield, Cheshire, was told that Walsh, a heroin user, had begun taking drugs at 22 when her baby died. She had been sent to Styal for pre-sentence reports after being convicted in Liverpool of theft, driving while disqualified and failing to surrender to bail. She died a week later. The jury heard that a nurse standing with a trolley handed out medicines to prisoners through the bars of a locked iron gate, with a prison officer maintaining order in the queue. "[Julie] was withdrawing that day," said Frances Kelly Jones, a fellow prisoner. "I was withdrawing myself. There was a 500ml bottle on the trolley. It was there for the taking. There were no officers or nurses." She said the trolley had been locked but the bottle had been left underneath it. She and four other women, including Ms Walsh, drank the medicine in the showers. "[I drank it] because it was medicine. Being an antidepressant, it would help me sleep because I was withdrawing. "If the nurse had got there in time, the girl would still be alive ... I heard Christine Gibson [another prisoner] screaming at the doctor about five minutes after we got banged in ... 'Get the nurse for Julie'." She sobbed when shown a photograph of the brown medicine bottle, which had contained dothiepin. Carli Turner said she was in the showers when Gibson walked in and started sharing it. Turner said she had had some too. "Christine said ... she took [the bottle] off the bottom. It should have been locked in the top." She saw Walsh drink from the bottle and pour some of the medicine into a cup and take it away. Walsh's sister, Bernadette Russell, said: "She was a mother, she had two children. She never had a chance. I don't think she should have been in custody. Just because you are on drugs doesn't mean you cut yourself off from your family and your responsibilities. Julie wasn't like that." The inquest continues.