A man in his 30s was stabbed to death in a pub in Bolton early today, becoming the third victim of knife crime in the region in the past 48 hours.Paul Gilligan was found at the Pepper Alley pub in Bolton shortly before 1am and died in hospital from his injuries. A 19-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder.Superintendent Dave Flitcroft, of Greater Manchester police, said: "Over the past three days we have seen three isolated incidents where a knife has been used, and today we have seen the devastating effects knives can have. I would like to reassure our local communities that knife crime in Bolton remains a rare event."Elsewhere today, a 22-year-old man was in a serious condition after he was found by police with multiple stab wounds at a campsite at the T in the Park music festival in Kinross-shire, central Scotland.Detectives have been interviewing campers and are searching for the weapon used in the stabbing. A police spokesman said officers were seeking two men, who he said were likely to have had bloodstained clothing.Detective Chief Inspector Bruce Kerr said: "This has been a horrific assault on a 22-year-old man who sustained multiple stab wounds. The campsite would have been very busy at the time of this assault and I would urge anyone who witnessed the incident to speak to any police officer at the festival. "Similarly, I would urge anyone who finds a knife or bloodstained clothing to notify a police officer or steward immediately."The latest violence comes as the government was beginning to outline a series of new measures to try and combat knife crime. At least nine people have been killed with knives in the past week. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, announced today that young offenders caught with a knife are to be forced to meet stabbing victims in an attempt to underline the seriousness of carrying a weapon. This would include visits to A&E wards where people are being treated for knife wounds, meetings with the families of stabbing victims and prison visits to offenders jailed for knife offences.The Metropolitan police said last week that a 75-strong unit would be dedicated to tackling knife crime. The number of teenagers to die violently in the capital since the beginning of the year rose to 20 this week. The latest teenage victim in the capital, Melvin Bryan, 18, was killed after being wounded in the neck and chest during a confrontation in a bedsit in Edmonton, north London, on Thursday.Another victim named yesterday was Yusufu Miiro, a 20-year-old student from Stratford. He was fatally stabbed in the head and chest as he walked up a stairwell towards a friend's flat in St David's Court, Walthamstow, north-east London.