 Amid the overwhelming number of images of looting, arson and violence, individual stories of the human cost of the riots have begun to emerge.One of the most callous incidents, captured on video and posted on YouTube, involved an injured man sitting next to a small pool of blood on the pavement. Some young men approached him and initially appeared to be helping the victim to his feet, but then rummaged through his rucksack and took some of its contents before he staggered away in a daze. It was unclear where the incident took place. Last night the man was named by a Malaysian newspaper as Mohammed Asyraf Raziq Rossli, 20.Though some of the looters have tried to justify their actions by portraying their victims as rich, many of those hardest hit are family businesses that will struggle to rebuild after being devastated by the rioters. The House of Reeves furniture store, which was founded in 1867 in Croydon, south London, withstood two world wars and even gave its name to the road it stood on. But on Monday night, it was razed to the ground. Last night a 21-year-old man was arrested in connection with the fire.The current owner, Trevor Reeves, the fifth generation in his family to run the store, said: "The devastation is what you can see. There is nothing I can do about it now. It's disappointing that we have been tied up in a series of incidents but no one knows really why it happened."The apparent lack of resistance faced by many looters has seen some claim that the police response should have been tougher. Giselle Asante, 57, who has owned her tailor-made clothing business in Peckham High Street, in south-east London, for 20 years, complained that as rioters entered her store the police "didn't even stop people who were looting in front of them"."It is truly devastating," she said. "We cannot replace any of these things because we have made them all."Rafiq Omar, 58, said damage to the front of Holmes estate agents, which he set up in Battersea, south London, 28 years ago, would cost at least £2,000 to repair. "I think there should be more laws brought in to stop this nonsense. There should be more water cannons," he said.He also reflected that the rioters were destroying their own communities. "Within the community, they are spoiling people's businesses," he said. "People will lose jobs and the shops will be closed. The local community will suffer."Nearby, on a side street off St John's Road, where much of the looting in the area took place, Stuart Forrester, a martial arts instructor, described how he stood guard outside his parents' house during the looting. "My parents were terrified," he said. "It was like watching a pack of 100 lions savaging a wounded zebra. It was all sorts of people: black, white, old and young." He described seeing looters fighting among themselves for the spoils. When one man tried to use the doorstep of Forrester's parents' house to sort through his plunder, Forrester asked him to move: "He said: 'If you complain, we'll burn your house down.'"Victims described muggings and burglaries with criminals, seemingly emboldened by the riots, attacking members of the public and stealing personal property. In Hackney, east London, where riots and looting broke out on Monday afternoon, residents described violent attacks and robberies. Greg Holland said he had his bike stolen after seven young men approached him. He chased them but felt threatened. "It was hard to tell if the surrounding crowd were going to turn on me. I gave up and narrowly avoided a beating, which was promised to me if I didn't let the bike go," he said.In Battersea, Zak Gray was taking photographs of the violence when rioters turned on him. He said: "As I was taking a shot a young, ski-masked black kid, aged no more than about 18, swung for my head with a club. Fortunately for me, he slipped and fell on, and into, broken glass, face first. "In Clapham Common, Oliver Philpott witnessed a young woman being mugged outside his house in a "safe residential area", before going to her aid. "I had just got back from a run and was in my bedroom about 8pm last night when I heard screams outside the house," he said. "I ran outside with a housemate and saw three guys running off having jumped and mugged a young woman outside." The three men, who had taken her purse and phone, watched from the end of the road as residents helped the girl. "They were taking advantage of the lack of police resources," Philpott said.