Victims of crime and the wider community deserve a grown-up debate on our criminal justice system and how we can make it work – for those within it and for those it protects. But, so far, this is not what the Tory-led government has offered. We've heard a lot about a new approach to criminal justice – a self-declared revolution – but the government's inflated rhetoric stands for nothing without the resources to put it into action.I come at this subject with one overriding priority – reducing crime. I want to focus on how we support victims, show justice has been done, appropriately punish offenders, and successfully rehabilitate. As Ed Miliband has said, we won't accuse the government of being soft on crime just for the sake of it, but we will focus on its ability to bring crime down.This government inherited a strong record from Labour – during our time in office crime fell by 43%. We achieved this because we understood that the best way to protect the public is to stop a crime from being committed. That means intervening in the lives of would-be criminals by offering alternatives.Our prisons are full of people who are illiterate and innumerate, have been failed by the care system and often have had a parent in prison. The effects of our Sure Start programme have yet to fully kick in, but we put a lot of effort into keeping teenagers off the streets with youth provision – and, in education, the education maintenance allowance. As a result the number of first-time young offenders fell by 20%. But council cuts in youth provision and the axing of the EMA show this government is not interested in bringing crime down.We recognised that when a crime is committed, sometimes prison is the only appropriate punishment – and the only way to give communities a respite from criminal behaviour. Some claim crime fell because of the rise in the numbers imprisoned. But the relationship between crime rates and prison population is more complex than that. And it fails to take into account that most of those in prison today will be released 10 years from now. People want to be assured that on release there won't be a drift back into a life of crime.A duty to the public must be to stop prisoners reoffending through successful rehabilitation. Although we reduced reoffending rates, they are still at almost 70%, so there's still a lot more to do.But Let's also be clear about the scale of the challenge. We have to find a way to deal with the multiple mental health problems faced by over 70% of prisoners, as well as dealing with the lack of skills and education of those in prison, so they can get a job, reconnect with family and find a home upon release. These three factors are essential in stopping reoffending.Focusing on these issues is not about being soft on crime – it is about being effective in reducing it. This will be the test we put to the government: are its policies cutting crime? We fear it will fail the test, because its focus is on cutting costs, not crime. The Ministry of Justice says it wants to usher in a new approach to rehabilitation, while simultaneously slashing a quarter of its budget. Frontline jobs in probation will be lost. Letting people out of prison without professional staff to oversee their rehabilitation is irresponsible. The justice secretary, Ken Clarke, is already warning of a rise in crime, but where are his solutions?Rehabilitating offenders is in all our interests, particularly the victims of crime and the communities that criminals blight. But this important principle risks being discredited by poor implementation and a lack of funding, setting the agenda back a long way.Labour will hold the government to account on the things that matter – crime rates, reoffending and support for victims. We will further develop our policy by convening a working group that understands what is effective in protecting the public. We aim to create a criminal justice policy that is principled, puts victims at its centre and prioritises stopping criminals from committing crime.