The 46 new clauses, schedules and amendments to the counter-terrorism bill tabled this afternoon by the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, add up to three main changes designed to strengthen the safeguards around the detention of terror suspects for up to 42 days without charge. Perhaps the most important of the "concessions" is a more stringent "trigger" for the introduction of the new executive detention power, so that it can only be used where there is a "grave exceptional terrorist threat". But the decisions to ensure there is a parliamentary vote on the use of this reserve power within seven days, rather than the original 30 days, and to reduce the time it can remain in force from 60 to 30 days, will also play a role in reducing the size of a rebellion by Labour MPs when the legislation is put to the vote on Wednesday June 11. Smith has also decided to close down one line of opposition attack by amending the Civil Contingencies Act to ensure it could never be used to extend pre-charge detention to 58 days. The concessions may not yet prove the government's final word on the issue. Even if Gordon Brown succeeds in winning next week's vote, it is highly likely that the House of Lords will repeatedly reject the measure and the government will need to put together a new Commons majority each time to overturn each defeat as the parliamentary "ping pong" plays itself out over the next few weeks. The key amendments mean that the government is now proposing "to legislate on a contingency basis to provide a reserve power" that could only be brought into force in future in certain exceptional circumstances where there is a "grave exceptional threat".The triggerThe new threshold of a "grave exceptional threat" is defined as a situation involving terrorism that causes or threatens the serious loss of human life or serious damage to human welfare in Britain, or to the security of the UK. This may involve the disruption of energy supplies or the transport network. The threat may be related to an attack outside Britain. The Home Office says that the definition covers a situation similar to the July 2005 bombings in London. The power would be limited to the most serious terrorist investigations, which carry a life sentence, and would exclude lesser offences such as weapons training or terrorist financing. The home secretary can only order 42 days' detention on a report from the director of public prosecutions and the police, and she would have to obtain independent legal advice from outside the government to assure herself that it was urgently needed and compatible with human rights legislation. But Liberty, the civil-rights pressure group, says that despite all the language about terrorist threats there is still no legal requirement for a terrorist state of emergency to exist and no requirement for the home secretary to demonstrate that the power is urgently needed to deal with that threat. Critics argue that because of this 42-day pre-charge detention could still become routine and used for operational convenience in individual cases.Parliamentary approvalThe home secretary has to report to both the Commons and the Lords and lay an order invoking the use of the reserve power within seven days. This has been introduced to avoid the criticism that with a 30-day limit on parliamentary debate the suspect could be locked up for a month before MPs got around to debating the issue. Parliament could be recalled to debate the use of the power. Senior backbench MPs such as the chairs of the home affairs, human rights and intelligence committees would be given access to the full legal advice and report from the DPP and police to the case on privy council terms, ie in secret.But it is difficult to see how MPs could do more than rubber-stamp the home secretary's decision. They will not have access to the individual details of the case and if they do debate individual cases that could jeopardise future prosecutions in the courts. Judicial oversightThe Home Office yesterday stressed the role of a judge in approving the use of 42 days in individual cases but, by definition, there will be no evidence for the court to test, otherwise there would be a prospect of prosecution. So far no crown prosecution service application to detain a suspect between 14 and 28 days has been refused.