 Mobile phones The latest research shows that after street crime and the state of the NHS, mobile phone crime causes most unease among the general public. Accordingly, the following offences are outlawed.   1 Using any ring-tone other than the factory-standard "ring ring". Themes from movies and television sport/children's/drama programmes will be banned, along with excerpts from popular classical works, recent top 40 hits and rock standards.  Penalty: Offenders will be detained for aversion therapy sessions during which "Nokia tune" is piped into one ear and the theme from Grange Hill into the other until both bleed.   2 Broaching the following subjects: your location (see trains, below); the location of the other person; the quality of the reception/remaining battery life; the need to get into the phone's address book to get the number the other caller wants; any aspect of either party's private life, or the private lives of any of their friends, their friends' friends, or celebrities. Also laughter.  Penalty: Sim card snapped in half, condemning user to half a day in a call-centre queue attempting to order a new one. (Repeated use of phrase "Hello? Hello? HELLO?" warrants custodial sentence.)   3 Giggling on receipt of text messages, and using text spellings eg C U L8R, in letters, postcards or email.   Punishment: pk in i wth shrp stck  Transport    Cars 1 The following are illegal: italicised number plates, beaded seat covers, gyroscopic dashboard compasses, green windscreen shades, extra aerials, horse-and-rider bonnet statues, neon windscreen wiper lights, St George's crosses, Comic Relief radiator noses, lucky heather, nodding dogs, gilt-covered tissue boxes.  Punishment: £80 fine and a lifetime ban from Halfords.   2 Motorists sporting Baby on board/Keep your distance/If you can read this you're too close stickers should be dealt with by the courts. Likewise, anyone with a Christian fish emblem on the boot, though they will cite a higher authority. (Given the way they drive, a little divine intervention may not be a bad thing.)   3 Drivers who moan about Lycra lout cyclists will be made to cycle round a city centre for a day to see how they enjoy near-death experiences.   4 Anyone caught wearing string-backed driving gloves, using road numbers accurately in casual conversation, or writing "I wish my wife was this dirty" on grimy white vans should be detained pending psychological reports.   Planes Clapping on landing, or looking nervous before taking off on a budget airline when the pilot's accent reveals him to be a citizen of a Balkan state.  Penalty: Offenders will be made to eat an airline pudding.   Trains Using mobile phones (see above), reading over people's shoulders, taking up the entire table armed with just a paperback and a cappuccino, making conversation, stretching legs out too far, not complaining about the cost of the ticket/buffet.  Penalty: Richard Branson meets you at the station.   Tube Anyone buying their annual Travelcard (involving several forms, a lengthy credit card transaction and the production of a photograph from an apparently bottomless bag) before 9am on a Monday.  Penalty: Thrown at mercy of those in queue who just want a single to Zone 1 but only have a tenner.   Out and about  Carrying out more than one operation at a cash machine (unless it's to pay the fine), particularly making deposits.  Penalty: Marched back to machine, forced to apologise to people behind you, then withdraw £40 and hand it to officers. Restaurants with signed photos of proprietor with arm round Frank Bruno/Lionel Blair/any one from Celebrity Squares on the wall.  Penalty:  Lionel Blair comes back every night for a week. In the cinema, whooping, cheering or clapping before, during or at the end of a film.  Penalty:  £40 fine and no popcorn. Taking children to public places, particularly restaurants/pubs on Sunday lunchtimes  Penalty: £80 and parents subject to national boycott by reputable babysitters. In the supermarket, hovering between checkout queues to keep your options open.  Penalty:  Removal of all loyalty scheme points plus six-hour shift on the cash-only checkout. Public displays of affection by loving couples.  Penalty:  Castration of offending male.   Fashion  Such is the potential for offence that transgressions have been split into three grades:  Grade 1: £40 fine Ties and socks with cartoon characters on them. Jesters hats with bells on, even at sporting events. Watches larger than wearer's ears. Wing collars. Wearing sunglasses indoors (includes pushed back on head/hanging from shirt or the outside of a pocket). Hoisting trousers up to belly button height accentuating paunch (men). Cutting off waistband to reveal thong/buttock cleavage (women).   Grade 2: £80 fine and one hour in stocks (as if the ridicule wasn't enough) Wearing a slogan T-shirt in place of a personality. Police will take a particularly dim view of bastardised corporate logos (eg Cocaine instead of Coca-Cola) and references to sexual dynamism, eg Porn star. Shorts in April. Men in short shorts. Short-sleeve shirts or T-shirts tucked into short shorts. Knee-length socks with shorts (any length). Fat men who take their shirts off outside pubs. Boob tubes (men or women).   Grade 3: Deportation Socks with sandals. Black socks with white trainers. White socks with anything but trainers. Shirts over polo necks. Collared shirts over collared polo shirts.  At work  Comedy signs on desks/computers/noticeboards eg "You don't have to be mad to work here - but it helps!"  Penalty: The sack.  People who...  Say "Cheer up love, it might never happen" will be taken away to a room where 'it' very much does happen. People who use your first name repeatedly in conversation, eg "Well, Paul, I'm glad you asked me that because as you know Paul..."; end every sentence with a rising inflection; who say, "In any way, shape or form"; who say "as the actress said to the Bishop" or "More tea vicar"; and men who say of their "significant others", "I owe that woman everything", will be taken out and shot.  Litter  How about issuing anyone who drops rubbish with a £40 fine, rising to £80 if they've just walked past a dustbin? Traffic wardens could hand them out while they wait for parking meters to run out, earning commission for keeping the cities clean. What's that? No, you're right. That's a crazy idea.