Families who sponsor overseas relatives to visit Britain will face fines of up to £5,000 and possible prison sentences if their relatives overstay, under Home Office proposals announced yesterday. But the immigration minister, Liam Byrne, has abandoned a controversial plan to require sponsor families to post a financial bond, possibly as much as £3,000, before relatives come to Britain, in the face of a strong campaign by the south Asian community in Britain. Unusually, the official consultation exercise included Byrne leading a delegation to India.Byrne said yesterday that family visitors would still be able to come to Britain on a general tourist visa. However, those whose applications were sponsored by British relatives would receive preferential treatment, as their applications would be processed and approved more quickly. A pilot scheme is to start this year before it is generally introduced later next year.British families will have to pass financial, criminal record and immigration checks before becoming licensed sponsors. The Home Office also said yesterday that UK-resident foreign nationals would have to produce their new identity card before a sponsorship licence was issued. Ministers say they will take action against family sponsors if their relative fails to go home. This may include banning them from sponsoring further relatives for a specified period, civil penalty fines of up to £5,000, and prison sentences of up to 14 years in the most serious cases involving the facilitation of illegal immigration.The definition of a relative under the scheme will include spouses, parents, children, grandparents and grandchildren, siblings, aunts, uncles and first cousins.The immigration minister also confirmed yesterday that professional and amateur sports people and entertainers who come to Britain to perform at one-off events such as Wimbledon, the Edinburgh festival or the Olympics will be exempted from the new points-based immigration system. They will be able to enter Britain on a special six-month sports visitor or entertainer visa.In the face of strong opposition from the tourist industry, the Home Office has also dropped plans to limit the six-month tourist visa to three months. The Home Office acknowledged that with the tourist industry worth £85bn a year, it was worth leaving the time limit at six months. Those who told the Home Office they objected to a three-month maximum said that it was too short given the effort and cost of getting a visa in the first place.The Home Office document published yesterday also discloses that group tourist travel visas are being introduced to promote Britain as an attractive destination. The first is being used for approved Chinese travel agents to promote tours, with India to follow later this year.