The reaction to the news that killer Learco Chindamo may not be deported after his release from prison has been predictable. Jack Straw, according to the Today programme, is angry, the Home Office is "disappointed", the Daily Mail is insulted, and Frances Lawrence, the widow of Chindamo's victim Philip Lawrence, is apparently "devastated", though listening to her on the radio this morning she sounded mainly confused and unhappy. Meanwhile, others are trying to figure out who's to blame: the Human Rights Act, or a justice system that ignores the victims of crime.What Chindamo did was without any doubt terrible. A man died and his wife, twelve years on, has still not recovered from the loss. But he was hardly more than a child at the time. His father was an Italian thug whose mother came to the UK to escape him. According to the Daily Mail he was known at school as a "cry baby". How does a boy with a reputation for being a cry baby manage to survive in a tough inner city school? He learns to be tough. In 1950, Eric Erikson observed:Adolescents not only help each other temporarily through much discomfort by forming cliques and by stereotyping themselves, their ideals and their enemies; they also perversely test each other's capacity to pledge fidelity.The more marginal an adolescent boy feels, the more likely it is that he will be vulnerable to the kind of peer pressure that pushes him to extreme behaviour. On the same edition of the Today programme we heard a young Muslim convert explain how it is the converts like him who are most likely to be targeted by extremists. It is these marginalised young people who are most likely to feel the need to demonstrate fidelity by action as well as word. In Chindamo's gang initiation was by combat. To survive you had to prove that you were prepared to take it as well as dish it out. Had he not been arrested he may well have gone on to commit more awful crimes. But instead he went to prison where he has spent twelve years.He is now 26, a year younger then my own son. In 12 years my son has changed beyond all recognition. That is what growing up does to most young men. They mature, become able to think about their actions and see beyond the immediate need to be one of the gang. According to Chindamo's solicitor he too has changed. He has grown up, realises that what he did was wrong and uses his influence in prison to persuade young inmates of the error of their ways.Of course it would be naive to assume that, just because he says he has changed, he really has changed. But it would be just as wrong to punish him a second time for a crime he has already paid for. Sending him to Italy where he knows no one and cannot even communicate would be a new punishment - perhaps even worse than the first one. He would be completely alone and, instead of being given the chance to build on what he has learned about himself and society, he would once again be out on the very margins. How will he defend himself?Perhaps Chindamo is really being punished for the fact that this decision was announced on the crest of yet another moral panic about youth crime. Yesterday David Cameron, playing to the gallery on the right of his party, talked of "anarchy in the UK". The Chief Constable of Yorkshire wants to raise the legal drinking age to stop young people from binge drinking. The government's latest plan to divert the most marginal (and therefore most dangerous) is to get them into the army - where killing is at least directed and disciplined. This is the kind of midsummer madness that Stanley Cohen wrote about in his 1972 book Folk Devils and Moral Panics. In those days it was the mods and rockers who aroused the interest of the press in the middle of a dull summer season and brought the wrath of right thinking middle England down around their ears.Banishing his murderer will not bring Philip Lawrence back. His widow knows that. Her anguish is about her own feelings and should have nothing to do with Chindamo's treatment. The rule of law is a means of removing justice from the realm of personal retribution and making it a matter for the community. What is the best thing for the community in this case? While in prison, Chindamo got an NVQ - not in plumbing or brick-laying - but in health and social care. He wants to be a nurse. Might that not be better that he give something back to society this way, rather than be deported?