Thirteen serving and former police officers are facing charges of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice as a result of a 1988 murder investigation for which three innocent men were jailed. It is the largest number of officers ever to face such charges in British legal history.The charges result from the inquiry into the murder of 20-year-old Lynette White in Cardiff on Valentine's Day in 1988. Five men were charged with the murder and three, Antony Paris, Yusef Abdullahi and Stephen Miller, were convicted in 1990 and jailed for life. The men, known as the Cardiff Three, were released on appeal after serving four years and campaigned for years to clear their names.In 2003 a security guard, Jeffrey Gafoor, 38, from Llanharan, south Wales, pleaded guilty to the murder after he had been linked to the killing as a result of DNA developments. He was jailed for life at Cardiff crown court for the murder in which White, who had been working as a prostitute, was stabbed more than 50 times.The Crown Prosecution Service named the three serving officers from South Wales police who are to be charged as Detective Sergeant Paul Stephen, Detective Constable John Howard Murray and Detective Constable Paul Jennings. The retired officers to be charged with the same offence are Richard Powell, a detective inspector at the time of the original inquiry who retired as a superintendent, former chief inspectors Thomas Page and Graham Mouncher, former detective sergeant Stephen Hicks, and retired detective constables Wayne Pugh, Michael Daniels, John Brian Gillard, Peter Greenwood, John Seaford and Rachel O'Brien. Two people who were witnesses at the trials, Violet Elizabeth Perriam and Ian Albert Massey, are to be charged with perjury.All 15 have been summoned to appear at the City of Westminster magistrates court in London next month. The maximum sentence for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice is life imprisonment; the maximum for perjury is seven years. Of the five men originally arrested, Ronald Actie has since died. Yesterday, Nogah Ofer, solicitor for four of the men, said on their behalf: "It has taken 20 long years. Our lives have been utterly destroyed by being branded brutal murderers. We have never regained the lives we had before ... we now want to see those responsible in the dock."Three people have already been convicted in connection with the original trial. White's neighbour, Mark Grommek, and Leanne Vilday and Angela Psaila were imprisoned last year for 18 months for perjury.