John Reid was short of friends around Westminster last night, though he is not the type to mind. Downing Street, which can hardly want to lose another home secretary, defended his clumsy intervention in the paedophile sentencing row as wholly compatible with the attorney general's own task in deciding whether to refer the case to the court of appeal. But even friends felt Reid had overdone it.Is the incident further confirmation that Charles Clarke has been replaced by the kind of rough law-and-order populism for which Tony Blair's government has shown a persistent weakness? Jack Straw and David Blunkett enjoyed mocking "Guardian liberal" sensibilities. Clarke declined to play the tabloid game or even to bawl out officials in a department Reid promptly dismissed as "dysfunctional". Kindness did not save Clarke.Optimists hope Reid's remarks merely coincided with this week's "sack the softie" campaign by the Sun against the kind of sentencing it routinely misrepresents to its readers. The evidence from the home secretary's past form in seven cabinet posts since 1999 is mixed. Reid, a working-class boy from the wrong side of Glasgow, has the confidence of a man who beat the system to become a PhD, MP and now a cabinet heavyweight, but one who uses his colourful past to popularise policies like NHS "choice".As health secretary he may deserve blame for excessive hiring of NHS staff which deficits now show it cannot afford. "But John usually moves on after 12 months, far too quickly to take the rap," one Labour MP said. An overstretched army may blame him too for the latest Afghan deployment, though Reid loved the MoD - and, by general consent, it liked his blunt talk too.Yet one thoughtful Tory ex-defence minister calls him "outstanding, highly intelligent, able to see the pitfalls ahead, with a sure touch in the way he expresses himself". This MP also deplores this week's lurch into the sensitive territory between government and judiciary. But last night it was Labour and Lib Dem MPs who were more troubled by Mr Reid's latest outburst, coming so soon after his alleged "don't moan, take action" advice to voters on yobbery. "Pandering to tabloid instincts makes it all worse," said one MP.Reid is not a Brownite. So in 12 months' time he could be moved again, sacked or left where he is - as a punishment.