Two Victorian scandals shaped Britain's sex laws, which have remained in place for more than 100 years and under which Oscar Wilde and John Gielgud were prosecuted and thousands of other men are still arrested each year.An overhaul of the laws on sexual offences has not been attempted since 1956 and even the Sexual Offences Act of that year was a consolidation of the Victorian statutes and passed without real debate. There has been some reform since then, including the decriminalisation of homosexuality in private in 1967, changes to the law on rape, and increased protection for children, but much of the law still dates back to the 1885 Criminal Law (Amendment) Act. The first scandal was triggered when the crusading journalist WT Stead revealed the "white slave" traffic at the heart of the British empire. He was jailed for showing it was possible to buy a 13-year-old girl for sex in London. The scandal led to legislation raising the age of consent for girls from 13 to 16. But the bill was ambushed by Henry Labouchere, a republican Liberal MP, who proposed it should also make any form of sex between men a crime. Anal sex had been illegal since the reign of Henry VIII but his amendment extended punishment to "any act of gross indecency". There was little debate. The main concern was that it might become a "blackmailer's charter" and the legislation did not criminalise lesbianism. Hansard records that when one peer tried to raise the issue he was told to shut up on the grounds that he would only advertise its existence to an impressionable public. The new law unleashed a wave of homophobic witch-hunts which began with the sensational Cleveland Street scandal of 1889. It was revealed that two peers of the realm, Lord Arthur Somerset and Lord Euston, and, it was claimed, Prince Eddy, the son of the Prince of Wales, had visited a male brothel in London where Post Office telegram delivery boys were corrupted at four shillings a time. The scandal cemented public support for the legislation. The trial and imprisonment of Oscar Wilde for gross indecency followed in 1895 amid an intense newspaper campaign against "the buggers". Although the number of offences has fallen, there were 354 cases of buggery reported to the police last year, 163 cases of gross indecency and 1,648 cases of soliciting or importuning by a man. The police never lost their taste for using these laws to hound the famous. Gielgud was arrested for "cottaging" - soliciting - in a public toilet in the 50s.