The two 16-year-old brothers cleared of the murder of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor have spoken for the first time about the allegations against them and their alleged role as 'teenage godfathers' on the streets of south London.Known only by their code names of Boy A and Boy B, the teenagers used the opportunity to protest their innocence and rant about mistreatment. They accused the police of bullying and intimidation during the murder investigation. They said they felt sorrow for Damilola's parents but denied they had anything to do with the boy's death. Boy A said: 'I was not there, didn't kill Damilola and don't know who did. I really feel sorry for what has happened to this young boy. 'But I was on trial for something I didn't do. When they said "not guilty" I felt so happy. But immediately I felt sorry for the parents of Damilola. I looked over at Damilola's parents and I felt sorry for them because they wanted justice. I saw some of the pictures of the injuries to Damilola during the trial and that upset me. I didn't want to see them and I didn't want to be there.' His brother added: 'Of course I feel sorry for Damilola's parents as they have lost a son and part of their life has been torn away. But we never did it. 'You have to remember that nearly a year of our lives has been taken from us while we were inside for something we did not do. The police got it wrong, so wrong. The verdict that me and my brother received was very fair. I just feel relieved that [it] is over. I just want to live my life now,' he told Radio 4's Today programme. But in a separate interview for a tabloid newspaper, the brothers made no secret of their criminal past. 'If you live in Peckham and you run around with friends you are bound to do petty little things. I'm not going to say I never robbed anybody because the police know I have. But at the end of the day I wouldn't kill anyone.' On the radio the boys rejected suggestions that they were the 'new Krays'. 'We are nothing like the Krays,' said Boy A. 'I know that I have got a heart in me. I know that I care for people. In future when I go for a job people are going to see this and think this guy has been up for murder. I've been cleared, I've got not guilty. I've got nothing to do no more with that trial.' His brother added: 'We might do things that we shouldn't be doing. No child's an angel. I regret what I have done. I wish I had stayed in school. Eventually I'm going to go to college and study, just put this all behind me and get on with my life. We've been treated like scum and that. At the end of the day I'm not capable of doing something like that. Everybody has got a heart. We're all humans. I feel sorry for the boy. He only came over to get education and that and for his sister to get well. I am sorry for what happened to him.' In a separate interview, the boys' mother told Today she had been hurt by her representation in some parts of the media as a single mother who could not cope with her sons. 'Deep down in my heart I know that, despite the things they get up to which I can't say is very pleasant, as far as hurting a child, especially a 10-year-old child who has only been here a few months, no,' she said. 'It is quite difficult for me to actually admit my sons do such things, but as far as murdering anyone, that is out of the question. I don't believe that for one minute.'