A chink could soon be opened in the impenetrable curtain that for centuries has shrouded the English legal system's most secret institution. The government - assuming Labour is re-elected this week - is poised to allow researchers into the English jury room for the first time.English jurors' deliberations have been sacrosanct for hundreds of years. No one knows how the 12 men and women who hold an accused's fate in their hands reach the decision to convict or acquit. No OJ Simpson-style jury debriefings reach our TV screens, and in 1992 the Mail on Sunday was fined £75,000 for contempt of court for publishing interviews with jurors in the Blue Arrow fraud case about how they reached their verdicts. No change is likely on the media front. But the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, is proposing to authorise academics, with the lord chief justice's consent, and under strictly controlled conditions yet to be spelled out, to carry out research into what goes on when the jury is deliberating. Jurors' anonymity would be preserved but the possibility of video cameras to record their discussions has not been ruled out. The proposal, spelled out in a consultation paper last January, is ringing predictable alarm bells among those who suspect the government of less than total commitment to trial by jury. Last month, after the spectacular collapse of the 21-month, £60m Jubilee line fraud trial, ministers announced that they would go ahead with proposals for judge-alone trials in the most complex fraud cases. The change is already enshrined in the Criminal Justice Act 2003, pushed through at the last minute in a game of parliamentary ping-pong after a bitter fight with the House of Lords which nearly scuppered the entire act. As a result of a last-minute deal, another battle looms before it can finally be brought into effect: there will have to be a vote of both Houses of Parliament. Many lawyers oppose the move, arguing that every fraud case, however complicated, boils down to deciding whether the accused had a dishonest motive, a question 12 jurors are at least as well equipped as anyone to answer. Those who support the change say involving a jury stretches the length of a case and puts intolerable burdens on jurors and defendants. Opponents maintain that firm case management and good prosecution presentation can reduce even the most complicated case to a length the jury can cope with. Supporters say that with the increasing complexity of fraud, the insistence on jury trial means that some cases cannot be prosecuted at all. Could jury research give new ammunition to the advocates of judge-alone trials for the most difficult cases? Would the research show - as did a large-scale study in New Zealand - that juries do have difficulty with the concept of intent and whether a defendant acted dishonestly? Or would it confirm research findings from Middlesex University - which, of course, could not question jurors about their deliberations - that more than half the jurors did not fully comprehend what was going on in the trial? The 800-year-old right to be tried by a jury of one's peers is seen by many as a hallowed pillar of the English legal system, and any encroachment on it arouses strong feelings. Five years ago, Labour twice failed to curb the right of defendants charged with middle-ranking "either-way" offences such as theft to opt to be tried by judge and jury rather than magistrates. Hardly less controversial has been the suggestion that juries should be dispensed with in the most complex, lengthy fraud trials. The proposal dates back to a recommendation nearly 20 years ago by the Roskill Fraud Trials Committee. It surfaced again in 2001, in a wide-ranging review, commissioned by the government, of the workings of the criminal courts by the appeal court judge Sir Robin Auld. He proposed that in the most complex fraud cases, the trial judge could decide in the interests of justice to try the case without a jury. This time the government picked it up and ran with it, putting it in a white paper and then the Criminal Justice Act 2003. Despite the outcry from lawyers and civil liberties groups, Auld remains unrepentant. In his first interview since he launched his report nearly four years ago, he recalls: "There was a core of recommendations, 10 or 15 about jury trials that I knew, because the battles had been fought on Roskill and also on Runciman [the 1993 royal commission on criminal justice], would be controversial. At the end I just couldn't put my name to the report without saying what I thought should happen." On one wall in his large room at the Royal Courts of Justice in London is the board that once hung outside the chambers where he practised as a barrister before going on the bench. I notice the name of Michael Howard (yes, that Michael Howard), along with those of Ann Mallalieu, his first pupil and now a Labour peer, and, at the top, the former Labour lord chancellor Elwyn Jones. "I have no political allegiance," Auld says. "I think I've voted for every party in my time." He was, he thinks, "slightly naive" at the beginning of his review, which became "a bit pressured as the political aspects became evident". Labour was preparing proposals for reforming the criminal justice system and showed him a draft paper a few days before publication "crediting me with all sorts of recommendations which I had not then made or even indicated I was going to make. I made them change the draft several times." He argued that there should be a power to try other complex cases, not just fraud, without juries, a recommendation certain to meet with stiff opposition if ministers ever try to introduce it. "I said as a first step, let's do this for complex fraud and if it works, consideration should be given to extending it to other cases where the same problem arises. There are not necessarily very many of them. It may be that the expedient way to go about it is little by little, not with a view to removing juries where you can usefully work with them but doing so where, whatever the case, you can't." Most of his recommendations on reform of the courts and criminal procedures have been implemented, although the government is unlikely to take up some of his more controversial jury proposals, such as requiring juries in appropriate cases to give reasons for their verdicts, and allowing appeals against perverse verdicts by juries. Auld, who travelled to the US and looked at a mass of research from other countries during his review, lines up with the traditionalists in opposing intrusive research into juries. Not because he fears it might show up flaws in the system and damage public confidence in it, but because he feels existing research on English juries which stops short of the jury room, and research on jury deliberations elsewhere, particularly in New Zealand, tell us all we need to know. "To go further than has already been done would require intrusive research which could induce all sorts of elements of unease in individual cases about the validity of verdicts while research was underway."  Along with jury research, the government is also consulting on what to do in cases where allegations are raised after a conviction that jurors were racially biased or acted improperly in some other way during their deliberations. In several appeals, because of the rule protecting the secrets of the jury room, the courts have refused to look into allegations made by whistleblowing jurors against their fellows. In a recent test case, the House of Lords, by a four-one majority, upheld that stance, citing the need for finality of verdicts and the danger of undermining public confidence in the jury system. The consultation paper - contrary to Auld's recommendation that judges should be able to probe such allegations - proposes to preserve the status quo, despite the question reasonably posed by Lord Steyn, the dissenting law lord, in his judgment: "In cases where there is cogent evidence demonstrating a real risk that the jury was not impartial and that the general confidence in jury verdicts was in the particular case ill reposed, what possible public interest can there be in maintaining a dubious conviction?" Auld agrees: "I don't know why the government has taken that approach. It may be that this is one where the lawyers' instincts and traditions hold sway. It would have to be an exceptional case. You couldn't have an appellate court involved if there was a mere suggestion of jury impropriety, but I don't see why if there were some arguable grounds for intervening the matter shouldn't be looked at. "It seems to me vital that if we're concerned about the integrity of the system and the safety of verdicts, if there is any suggestion of jury impropriety which looks worthy of investigation, a judge at trial or the Court of Appeal should be entitled to look at it. What objection can there be to a court examining whether the system has been tainted in some way by a juror's comment, perhaps demonstrating bias or a wholly irrational approach to the case, in the jury room, or outside the jury room in the course of a trial?"