The home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday set out an autumn deadline to hammer out a voluntary agreement with the police over the scale and detail of his plans to modernise their working practices.Promising "dialogue and not a diatribe", the new home secretary outlined his plans which range from tackling high levels of sick leave and early retirement, using private security patrols to supplement visible policing, to a clearer comparison of crime and detection rates at a London "summit" with all 43 chief constables in England and Wales. Ministers regard the police as the last unreformed great public service and some of the proposals are bound to spark objections from both senior officers and from constables. Mr Blunkett made it clear he wanted to see rapid change. The home secreatary also warned that panic should not set in if the increase in the number of police officers is accompanied by a rise in the recorded crime figure. He said: "Reform will involve sweeping away arcane practices, unnecessary regulations and 'no change' attitudes." He promised his new Home Office standards unit, which will make clear unacceptable differences in performance between forces, will not threaten the operational independence of chief constables or represent a move towards greater central control. The Blunkett police reform package is the most sweeping since Kenneth Clarke's unsuccessful attempt more than a decade ago. It will extend to a shake-up of national police pay rates and fixed working patterns. The Police Federation's magazine this week declared "there ain't gonna be no war with Blunkett" and denied claims that they were the "last bastion of entrenched Luddism".Its editorial said the Home Office was wrong to argue "that our canteen culture and entrenched conservatism prevent the delivery of good policing to the British public". For his part Mr Blunkett was keen yesterday to stress that there will be consultation over the next three months. Nevertheless he has been horrified by figures showing the average number of working days lost per officer through sickness ranges from 9.5 in Humberside to 15.4 - or three weeks a year - in the South Wales force and the fact 56% of officers who retire early in Greater Manchester do so on medical grounds. But while the home secretary hopes that new occupational health schemes will tackle such problems, legislation is expected to be needed to introduce differential pay for officers who are out on the beat, work difficult shifts or have specialist detective skills. Changes in the law are also likely to be needed to introduce outside expertise into the police force. He cited the need to sweep away outdated regulations which meant there had to be 900 police on duty on the day of the Cup Final in Cardiff this year or that 200 officers attended every Manchester City home game. The reform of working practices will be underpinned by changes in the way crime figures are presented with the more authoritative British crime survey, which records people's experience of crime, produced annually instead of every two years and its sample size boosted from 20,000 to 40,000. It will be published alongside the police recorded crime statistics and the data presented so comparisons can be made between forces and at a community level. After the summit a spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said the changes in working practices would provoke a lot of discussion. "The devil will lie in the detail." The plans to introduce "neighbourhood wardens" to supplement police patrols are likely to prove a flashpoint. "They should not be given police powers or uniforms or vehicle livery that could be confused with the police," the Acpo spokesman said.