A gang member who murdered Rhys Jones plunged a makeshift knife into a fellow inmate when a fight broke out in a young offenders institution.Sean Mercer, 18, stabbed Jake Fahri, 19, four times in the back with a sharpened pair of tweezers during the attack in a prison exercise yard, causing a deep wound that was said to have narrowly missed his spine.Fahri is serving 14 years for murdering Jimmy Mizen, 16, in an unprovoked attack in a bakery in Lee, south-east London.He was sentenced in March after the court heard he viciously threw a glass bowl at Jimmy, who subsequently bled to death from a neck injury.Fahri was taken to hospital following the attack in the exercise yard at Moorland young offenders institution in Doncaster, South Yorkshire, on Monday. Mercer has been moved to an isolation wing at the institution.It is understood that he was assisted by a fellow inmate who apparently held Fahri down as Mercer stabbed him with the tweezers, which had been modified into a shank, prison slang for a makeshift knife.Mercer, who was a former member of the Crocky Young Guns gang, has already spent a number of weeks in the segregation unit after previous clashes with prison officers and governors at Moorland.He was sentenced to a minimum of 22 years in prison after the murder of Rhys in Croxteth Park, Liverpool, in August 2007. The innocent 11-year-old was shot dead as he walked across a pub car park on his way home from football practice. Mercer denied murder, and claimed he was at a friend's home watching a DVD when the boy was killed.Fahri was said to be moaning in pain and covered in blood as he was taken to hospital, where his wounds were stitched.In a statement, the Prison Service said: "A fight broke out between three prisoners. Staff acted quickly to control the situation. One prisoner was taken to a hospital for treatment. Police have been notified and are investigating."The incident is being regarded by the authorities as an attempt by Mercer to boost his so-called "hardman" reputation among other inmates at the young offenders institution.South Yorkshire police confirmed it was investigating the attack and said inquiries were continuing.Last week, a member of the gang who provided Mercer with the gun used to shoot Rhys had his sentence increased. James Yates, 21, provided the Smith & Wesson firearm that used in the murder of the schoolboy – and helped with its disposal.  Jake FahriHe was jailed for seven years, but his sentence was referred to the court of appeal by the solicitor general, Vera Baird, as being "unduly lenient". The judges agreed and extended Yates' jail tariff to 12 years.• This article was amended on 6 November 2009 to clarify that the bakery shooting took place in Lee, south-east London.