Martin Bashir: You're photographed blowing kisses, on another occasion you are photographed spitting, and on another occasion, you're photographed punching people. That is not the conduct of an innocent man coming out of a public inquiry into the tragic death of a young black teenager. Jamie Acourt: But fair enough right. But ... MB: That is disgraceful behaviour. JA: But you've got, you got I don't know how many... MB: Do you accept that was disgraceful behaviour? JA: No I don't, that was in self def ... The fighting, the throwing punches bit... [Gary Dobson admits that he and his friends were causing trouble from a young age] GD: We never pretended to be angels. MB: So were you a group of little bastards on the estate? GD: Yeah. Rascals, loveable rogues. Luke Knight: I had fights in school, I've never said I was an angel. But I've never used knives and I've never stabbed anyone or I've never killed anyone. MB: Almost immediately the police began receiving telephone calls naming the suspects as responsible for the murder. Withing 48 hours, 26 different people name the Acourts, Dobson, Norris, the Acourts. Why on earth would so many people suspect that you were responsible for this? Neil Acourt: I couldn't tell ya. MB [voiceover]: On the estate, many people had no doubt about who was responsible for the murder. Even Gary Dobson's ex-girlfriend wrote her suspicions down in her diary. MB: She says you and the Acourts were at the murder. LK: Well that's a lie. MB: That's laughable. You are dismissing 26 separate observations in 48 hours as rumours. You are dismissing the two notes on the car as rumours. You are now dismissing an independent former girlfriend of Gary Dobson - her diary. You are dismissing that as rumours? JA: Yeah. MB: Before the murder of Stephen Lawrence, did you ever carry a knife? NA: I may have done, yeah. MB: What was the purpose of you carrying a knife? NA: No reason, not, not to attack anybody if that's where you are coming from, I mean ... MB: No I am asking you, I want to know why you would carry a knife? NA: Well I couldn't tell you exactly why. You just do stupid things, you carve your name into the wood. MB (citing surveillance video): You are practising cutting someone there aren't you? NA: Yeah, I think all teenagers go through that phase.MB: But you are almost giving your friend a sort of lesson, an evening class in how to stab someone ... NA: You can call it a lesson, you can call it what you like - it's just mocking. It's just messing about. MB: Later on in the video Neil says 'Let's all get shivved up'. What does he mean by that? LK: Shivved up, I believe that's carrying a knife. MB: Your brother says 'you rubber lipped c***. I reckon every nigger should be chopped up mate and they should be left with nothing but fucking stumps'. What do you expect people to conclude from that? NA: Well, it's obvious what they are going to see isn't it? They're going think he's an animal. But it's not like that. MB: You're picking out what's going on, and you say 'Niggers are having a good time in the sun. All the white people are waiting at the bus stop', rather sarcastically. And then you say 'All the niggers having a good time at the bar drinking. The fat white bouncer looks like a c*** - that's racist that advert'. Were you trying to be funny? GD: I suppose so yeah. It's not very funny. I don't find it funny at all now. I do think it's rather sick ... MB: Do you accept that these are racist comments? GD: Yes I do. MB: Do you apologise to black people for saying these sort of things? GD: If they are offended by my words and actions on that video then yes I do apologise. MB (quoting LK on video): It was Cameroon... a fucking nigger country. ... LK: I mean it's embarrassing to watch yourself saying things like that ... MB: If you were capable of saying this sort of thing in '94, can you see why people think you were perfectly capable of hating black people the year before ... LK: But the reason why I think I was saying things against black people was because I believed black people ruined my life at that time. MB: On the surveillance video you are talking about somebody that you've not met, and you describe this black person as, you rubber-lipped c***, I reckon that every nigger should be chopped up mate and they should be left with nothing but fucking stumps. NA: Yeah. Well... MB: Am I what you'd call a Paki? David Norris: Pardon? MB: Am I what you'd call a Paki? DN: Well some people would call you a Paki. MB: Would you? DN: No, I wouldn't, no. MB: But you use that phrase here. DN: Yeah. Yeah. MB: You must have meant that you would call me that wouldn't you. DN: That's what ... it boils back down to as we said earlier. When you're young, you do stupid things and you're all boys being together. You have a drink, and I ain't being funny, Martin.... MB: David, you say that's what you do when you're young, you're silly. That was a year after Stephen Lawrence was murdered. If you're prepared to say that sort of thing, is it not likely that a year earlier when you're even more immature, it's possible you could have been involved in the stabbing of Stephen Lawrence? DN: No, it's not possible, Martin because I'd not been through half as much as what I'd been through now. MB: We already know you were a user of knives and handled knives very well and very efficiently. What we have now is a scenario of Neil Acourt who is a knife user and who is a racist. Put the two together and what do they come together in? They come together on the night of April 22, 1993, in the murder of Stephen Lawrence. NA: I mean in your eyes that may do. MB: Not just my eyes. NA: In the public's eyes ... MB: In the eyes of almost everybody. NA: The way it has been turned around. MB: I put it to you that you were one of the five youths who murdered Stephen Lawrence. Luke Knight: Well, I am completely innocent and there is no evidence, not one piece of evidence to say that I was there or involved or stabbed Stephen Lawrence. MB: Were you there when he was killed? LK: No I wasn't. MB: I suggest to you that your memory lapse was really because you knew you were guilty. David Norris: Well that's your opinion and you're entitled to you're opinion, but I know deep down. MB: What other opinion can you have when you mix with friends who live in the locality, who have a reputation of carrying knives. Both of them have admitted to us that they carried knives before the murder of Stephen Lawrence. You yourself are charged on two separate occasions in 92 and 93 with incidents where somebody was stabbed. On both occasions you were picked out identity parades. The reason you couldn't remember the Stephen Lawrence murder was because you were guilty. DN: That's fair enough. You're entitled to your own opinion and 99 per cent of this country in my opinion believe the same thing, Martin. MB: Stephen Lawrence was a black man who was stabbed to death by what an inquest jury described as a gang of white youths. I put it to you that you were one of the five responsible for Stephen Lawrence's murder. Gary Dobson: Well that's your opinion. MB: I put it to you that you were one of the five. Did you kill Stephen Lawrence? GD: No I did not. MB: You're saying that it wasn't you and your friends, that there are out there five other boys, who hate blacks, who use knives and who happen to stab this young man very near to your house,and that you've absolutely no idea who they are. Jamie Acourt: It's an amazing coincidence. You can call it that, yeah. MB: Who's to say you weren't carrying the knife on April 22, 1993 when Stephen Lawrence was murdered? JA: Me.