One speech does not make a policy but last night's by the home secretary - his first on penal policy - is the most promising for more than a decade. It marks a welcome and long overdue rebalancing of the criminal justice system, which hopefully will end the hardline and counter-productive era introduced by Michael Howard in 1993. A prison population that took four decades to increase by 11,000 between 1951 and 1991, climbed by 25,000 in the following decade, despite the largest and the most sustained fall in crime for more than a century.Egged on by populist rhetoric and the tougher laws of Mr Howard and his first two Labour successors - Jack Straw and David Blunkett - the courts became twice as punitive as they once were. We have ended up jailing more people than some of the most repressive foreign regimes such as Burma, Saudi Arabia and China.Charles Clarke looked at the research and saw thousands of the 77,000 inside should not be there. They are the victims of other public service failings: one quarter having been taken into care as children, half have no qualifications from school, three-quarters have at least two mental disorders. Boldly he wants to align penal policy with the government's social goals of widening access to education and health. He wants to see more community programmes for non-violent offenders as well as a network of community prisons to house those that require a jail sentence. These ideas go back to the groundbreaking Woolf report, which was endorsed by Kenneth Baker, the Conservative home secretary who received it, but afterwards torn up by Mr Howard. A prisoner who remains close to family and friends is six times less likely to reoffend on release. Currently, thousands are more than 100 miles from home. The average family travels for as much as five hours to visit a father - or mother - in prison. In these circumstances it is no wonder so many split up.Can Mr Clarke achieve it? In the present state of chronic overcrowding in cells it will be extremely difficult, but he believes he can reconfigure the prison estate to make it more community minded. It will obviously not please the tabloids but it would be much more effective. Once in place, community prisons should be able to drastically reduce reoffending, thereby helping to create a virtuous circle of falling prison numbers along with more literate and numerate inmates being released. The vision is certainly right. All we need now we need is the commitment.