Details still remain sketchy as to what actually happened on the evening of Mark Duggan's death last week. Understandably, family and friends were left shocked and angered by what happened, and how it happened. They wanted answers and they wanted justice. A protest was arranged in Mark's honour outside Tottenham police station on the High Road on Saturday. However, the events that took place shortly afterwards have completely overshadowed Mark's death.Businesses, homes, buses were burned, and reduced to smithereens. Shops were destroyed and looted, missiles were thrown. There are right ways to do things and there are wrongs ways to do things. If the community's justifiable anger was originally directed at the police, how come the community ended up becoming the main target of the violence?I know people who have lost everything they ever owned because their homes were burned down over the weekend. I know people who have worked hard to create successful businesses and now have nothing to show for it. I know people who should be working today, but can't because their workplace no longer exists. Insurance premiums in the area will sky rocket because of the damage and the fear it will happen again. House prices are going to plummet: who would seriously consider moving into the area now? Last but not least, jobs are going to be lost, because all of those big companies whose premises were destroyed won't reconsider reopening. Tottenham High Road was already run down and now it will be even worse. If you thought Tottenham was already a "slum", just wait until the smoke clears.There were people out there genuinely searching for justice, but even more people who weren't there for that. They just saw it as an opportunity to wreak havoc and seek things for personal gain. Stealing trainers from JD Sports? Taking phones from T-Mobile? Removing the hole in the wall, literally leaving a hole in the wall? All in the name of justice ... right? Mark lived in Tottenham and died in Tottenham, but looters went as far as Wood Green.The community was grieving for one man, and now we have to grieve for our community. Whatever liaisons that took place between the police and residents for the better of our community no longer exist. I seriously fear we are heading back to the dark ages. People like our grandparents, parents, Bernie Grant and all of Tottenham's other unsung heroes fought hard for us to walk these streets, and breathe this air following the Broadwater Farm riots in 1985. Who's brave enough to rebuild these ruins?I used to be proud to say I came from and still live in Tottenham, but after the events of Saturday I'm a little embarrassed. 