"Crime in England this century has increased 400%," according to a damning report. Among the reasons for this disturbing growth, are "a confusion of moral principle and habits of idleness and insubordination". Another key factor is that "the employment of women has destroyed the familial bond". What this has led to is "a hideous black band of society from which nine-tenths of crime and nearly all professional crime flow".Frightening stuff. The report, which also blamed high wages and strikes for this moral turpitude, appeared in Blackwoods magazine. In 1844.Roll on through the 20th century and into the present one, and you will find that the UK is "the most violent country in Europe: Britain is also worse than South Africa and the US". This headline appeared on the Daily Mail website last summer. Terrifying stuff indeed, if you believe it, as presumably some Daily Mail readers do. So is Britain really more violent than South Africa and the US? A glance at the crime statistics in those three countries shows that South Africa has a murder rate around 30 times higher than the UK and the US three times.Older readers who remember the Goon Show on the radio (younger readers should search it out) will recall the character Minnie Bannister, whose catchphrase was "we'll all be murdered in our beds". Sometimes it seems that Minnie has taken control of editorial policy at the Mail, which keeps its readers in a constant state of alarm at the prospect of being stabbed by hoodies, conned by asylum seekers or invaded by Gypsies. Fear of abduction by paedophiles – another current panic – is one of the reasons cited for parents driving their offspring to and from school rather than letting them walk, despite the fact that the children are much more likely to die in a car accident than be seized by a lurking stranger.A few weeks ago, at the Old Bailey, I bumped into one of the doyens of court reporting, David St George. He pointed out four courts, in three of which murder trials were taking place; the fourth case was one of attempted murder. "Not one of those trials will be reported," he said and he was right. Fifty years ago, such trials would be front page news in the evening papers and covered at length in many of the dailies. Now many newspapers have all but abandoned the old bread-and-butter reporting of murder trials for the half-baked "celebrity" news that permeates so much of the press – yet still fear of crime continues to grow. Why?Crime reporting has always featured horrible crimes. That's its nature. Murders and kidnaps and robberies and the subsequent investigations and trials have made headlines since newspapers were invented, so why are people so much more fearful now than they were 50 years ago when they were prominently covered?We still remain largely dependent on newspapers and television for our news and readers and viewers have an often-ambiguous relationship with their sources of information. More than 70 years ago, the Mass Observation survey of 1939 found that: "dependent as they [the public] are on the newspapers for the data on which to base their opinion, at the same time they distrust them. It is like being led through a strange country by a guide who may turn out to be a gangster in disguise".One factor for the increase in fear is the political agenda of much of the news. Britain was – at least until a couple of weeks ago – supposedly a "broken" society, broken by a combination of the last Labour government (lax licensing laws, feeble prison sentences, soft jails etc) and the legacy of the laissez-faire 60s. Thus, news items that appeared to support that view were highlighted. So although the level of crime reporting may not have increased, the way it is spun by the editorial and commentariat parts of a newspaper – those "gangsters in disguise" – gives the impression of a country in violent meltdown. Fear eats the soul.This is not to deny that Britain can be a dangerous place; that too many young people die from knife attacks; that some people's lives are made hell by callous bullies and dysfunctional thugs. But the more remarkable fact is that 60 million people still manage to rub along on these overcrowded islands despite all the cries about the "hideous black band of society", despite all these tales of woe.