The people of Hyde, it appears, held Dr Harold Shipman in high regard. When he forged Mrs Kathleen Grundy's will, he made her express her gratitude towards him for "all the care he has given [them]" - a sentiment that probably reflected their own accurately enough. He was esteemed locally as a wonderful doctor, though it was well known that many of his patients did not survive long. To adapt slightly the old saw about operations before the days of antisepsis, the doctor was a success, but the patients died.It was Shipman's bedside manner that deceived his patients. His very appearance - avuncular, steady, wise, rather older than his years - told in his favour. On seeing his photograph in the newspaper, quite a few people have exclaimed within my hearing that he was just the sort of man to whom they would have liked to confide their secrets. So how do you know that your own doctor is not a Shipman in sheep's clothing? Can you trust your own judgment? How do you know that it is any better than that of the people of Hyde? Every doctor knows of colleagues whose manner inspires the utmost confidence in patients, yet whose clinical skills are distinctly below par. I remember early in my career meeting a young doctor of Adonis-like beauty, with a plausible manner, unctuous and insinuating yet aristocratically superior, who cut a swathe through rich, foreign patients and was paid a fortune by them to administer injections of doubtful utility. His medical knowledge was no better than average, but his clientele longed to see him. He had found a niche and it was difficult to imagine him in any other. At more or less the same time, I knew of a physician in the East End of London who appeared much beloved of his patients, whom we (the junior doctors) all knew nevertheless to be an utterly unscrupulous villain. He never bought food for himself, but accepted gifts from his National Health patients like a potentate receiving tribute from his subjects. You could tell the day when he had an out-patient clinic by the constant trail of people trudging towards the hospital with carrier bags laden with chickens, vegetables and other groceries. For all we knew, he put in advance orders. His manner was rude, bullying and offensive, with inappropriate forays into jocularity and sexual innuendo. He had the smile of a crocodile and if he clapped you on the shoulder (as he did frequently) you were always relieved to discover afterwards that you did not have a knife in your back. It wasn't even as if he was a good doctor: quite the contrary. In serious cases, a friend of mine would call for a taxi (paid for by himself) and put the patient in it with instructions to go to the next hospital - if he wanted to live.Nevertheless, the patients were inclined to swear by this physician and generally wished to see no other. He exerted a strange hold over them, like a medical Svengali. It was as if, having once consulted him, they felt obliged to stick with him come what may - not loyalty exactly, but a kind of Mephistophelean pact. Something similar may have operated back in the 1850s, when the Shipman of that era, William Palmer, the surgeon of Rugeley in Staffordshire, poisoned his best friend, John Parsons Cook, for the sake of money. Cook must by then have been pretty well aware of his friend's true character (he had by then poisoned at least 10 people around him) and he himself survived one or two of Palmer's tentative efforts to poison him. Yet he continued to take food and medicine from Palmer's hand until the very hour of his death. Many of his contemporaries were taken in by the plausible Palmer. "Most people were at first favourably impressed by this apparently industrious, rising doctor," wrote George Fletcher, himself a doctor, who as a boy visited the scene of Palmer's crimes shortly after they were committed. "When some gross act was shown against him, they thought it was only a chance slip of the religious, well-mannered, soft-spoken young man. But he was cold-blooded and treacherous, with his relentless pursuit of women and money, though he did not appear to have many vices - at any rate, not on the surface, before the eyes of his neighbours. He was an affectionate husband to the wife whom he poisoned, giving her every luxury in his power. He was a kind brother to Walter till his time came to be poisoned." As for Palmer's habitual piety (his diary entry written 24 hours before Cook's death reads: "At Church - Hamilton preached"), it reminds one of Shipman's expressed wish to donate some of the money from Mrs Grundy's forged legacy to an old people's home and to establish a fund for the support of women who gave birth on the anniversary of her death. Nearer our own day, Dr John Bodkin Adams, a GP who practised before and after the war among the wealthy widows of Eastbourne, was widely believed to have killed for legacies, despite the religious piety that reassured so many of his patients of his inflexible uprightness. It was the widespread local rumours about the numbers of his elderly female patients who died, leaving him something in their wills, from canteens of silver to old Rolls-Royces, that led eventually to his arrest on a charge of murder. Like Shipman, he was supposed to have killed with opiates, though in the event he was acquitted. While some who were involved in the trial believed him to be guilty of several murders, the evidence was equivocal at best (or at worst). Certainly, on the case presented by the Crown, Bodkin Adams could not possibly have been found guilty. A curious thing happened after his acquittal, however: he became an almost universal symbol of medical murder. To this day, if you mention his name, most people will say, as they struggle to recall the precise details: "Wasn't he the Eastbourne GP who killed all those widows?" Whether it was because of his owlish appearance and slightly sinister unctuousness, or because of his very name ("Who would his quietus make with a bare Bodkin Adams?" as Shakespeare almost wrote), he has always been remembered, or misremembered, as a murderer. Indeed, he was successful in more than one libel suit because newspapers forgot both that he was still alive and that he had been acquitted rather than convicted of murder. It was almost as though everyone wanted him to have been a murderer, to justify their fear and suspicion of doctors. As people who like to believe that we are in charge of our own lives, we chafe and bridle at the notion of authority exercised over us by others, doctors included. That is why we receive with unseemly glee information that doctors have feet of clay, or in the case of Shipman, hands of blood. This confirms our opinion that authority is not to be trusted, that we are right to approach it with a chip on our shoulders. Authority, including that of doctors, detracts from our completeness as fully autonomous human beings: it is an affront to our egos. As a result, we veer constantly between unreasoning faith in the power of doctors - their miracle cures that will set us free at last of ageing, pain and death - and the paranoid belief that every doctor is either a bumbling incompetent or a murderous psychopath. The truth, of course, lies somewhere between these extremes, but we are rarely satisfied by the truth. As Bertrand Russell was so fond of remarking, there is no reason to assume that the truth, when found, will be interesting. You have only to go to last week's newspapers to appreciate the oscillation between unreasonable fear of, and unfounded hope in, doctors. As well as stories of a psychiatrist who had illicit sex with a patient (so much for the so-called medical code of ethics) and a surgeon who cut out the wrong kidney (so much for the profession's technical competence), it was reported that the gene for suicide had been found, holding out the hope that the immemorial curse of self-murder would soon become a thing of the past, and that a method of totally bloodless surgery had been developed. It is as if we believe in technical fixes, but not in those who are deputed to carry them out. Do the Palmers and the Shipmans of this world mean that we are always wrong to trust our doctors? Does the fact that Claudius was a smiling damned villain mean that we should never trust anyone who smiles? Because our judgment is fallible, and there is a very faint chance that we shall be poisoned or otherwise done away with by the doctor we hitherto trusted, does that mean that we should maintain an attitude of implacably hostile suspicion towards our medical advisers? Hardly.  Not only are very few doctor's surgeries Bluebeard's Castles (before Shipman I should have been inclined to write that none was), but trust in the doctor is one of the most powerful remedies known, a fact appreciated from Hippocrates onwards. "Some patients," he wrote, "though aware that their condition is perilous, recover their health simply because of their satisfaction with the goodness of their doctor." More than two millennia later, WR Houston published a lecture entitled The Doctor Himself as a Therapeutic Agent. Plus ça change. Patients want their doctors to be omniscient and omnipotent authorities. When patients complain to me about the treatment they have received before at the hands of another doctor, one of their most frequent complaints is that he looked something up in a book before their very eyes. In their opinion, this demonstrates his ignorance, incompetence and general untrustworthiness. A doctor should know everything without having to look it up: and, it seems, patients would rather be poisoned by a doctor who assumed the false mantle of omniscience than be treated correctly by a cautious doctor who knew that he did not know everything, and was not ashamed to acknowledge the fact before his patients. If we trust our doctor, we trust his treatment; and if we trust his treatment, it is more likely to cure us. The placebo effect, while not a panacea for all the ills to which flesh (and the spirit) is heir, is none the less very strong. So great, indeed, is the placebo effect that it works even when we are fully aware that what we are taking is nothing but a placebo. Even when a patient knows that the medicine he takes is entirely useless, he would rather take it than take nothing at all. And he is right to do so. Irrational confidence is sometimes rational.