Pro-hunt campaigner Otis Ferry was today cleared of criminal damage after snatching the car keys of two paparazzi who were pursuing the actress Sienna Miller.Ferry, the 25-year-old son of Roxy Music singer Bryan Ferry, had denied two charges of criminal damage after acting to stop a group of photographers chasing the film star after last year's Bafta film awards.He told West London Magistrates' Court today that the photographers were driving "like lunatics" and he feared they would cause a crash.Miller gave evidence on his behalf today, telling the court she felt "hunted" by the "frenzied" paparazzi.Frustrated by the absence of police, Ferry said he removed the keys from two of the photographers' cars and threw them on to the ground to stop the pursuit. The chase happened after Miller, at the time the girlfriend of Ferry's brother Isaac, left Boujis nightclub in west London on February 12 last year. Miller had been at a private party after the Bafta ceremony, at which she presented an award. Ferry, of Shrewsbury, told the court he got into his brother's Land Rover intending to follow Miller back to her home. He said: "It then became very clear that there were quite a few vehicles and they were absolutely stopping at nothing to get after us. "These cars were driving at us incredibly aggressively, initially trying to get between Isaac's car and Sienna's car." Miller telephoned Ferry's brother shortly after leaving the club to say she feared the photographers would follow her home. Ferry told the court: "From what I understand from what Sienna had said, they were desperate to find out where she lived. They seemed to want to stop at nothing to find her house. "She said her last house had been staked out 24/7 by photographers and she had had to move houses as a consequence." He said he was "shaken" by the "very scary" driving of the photographers, adding: "It was like dodgems driving." The convoy of vehicles stopped at traffic lights and Ferry got out to ask the photographer in the car behind him what he was doing, the court heard. Ferry said: "I just thought, this is the only way I'm going to stop these guys. So I put my hand into the car, pulled the key out then threw it in front of his car."· To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.· If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication". 