Until recently, the National Offender Management Service (Noms) has been a government masterclass in how not to talk about the reform of public services. Reform has drifted and, in the subsequent vacuum, the debate has been allowed to focus too much on contestability - a principle many see as shorthand for "privatisation". The polarisation of the debate risks many of the government's sensible proposals and ultimately risks further improvements in the service.The new chief executive, Helen Edwards, faces a tricky challenge in building consensus around elements of reform on which parties agree, and negotiating a way through those elements that are unpopular. Given that legislation will be required to drive forward the government's agenda, there are political sensibilities to be managed as well as policy objectives.All parties in the debate accept that the performance of the national probation service is improving, but that the case for reform is still reasonably strong. The service is facing serious short-term pressures, partly driven by high-profile failures - notably the murder of City financier John Monckton by a violent offender released from prison on licence - and the perceived need of the home secretary to respond. Last week, Charles Clarke announced another new order aimed at tackling the high-profile cases of serious offenders reoffending while under the supervision of probation.These are serious issues, but there are limits to what specific failures say about a particular service. More concerning are assertions from within government that probation is characterised too much by "historic provision" - reform jargon for doing things the way they have always been done and not asking whether they work. In a similar vein, officials tend to praise the motivation and dedication of staff before questioning whether they have the right structures in place for staff to put their values into practice.Reform, in the Whitehall mind, looks like Noms. Key to Noms is the "end-to- end" management of individual offenders by a single offender manager from court, through prison, through probation supervision, and back into society. This is generally regarded as either sensible or unproblematic and should be the starting point for any reforming consensus. Indeed, allowing debate to focus away from this concept has been at the root of the Home Office's problems in communicating what Noms is about.Offender managers will be expected to pick services - from a range commissioned at a regional level - from reformed public, private and voluntary sector providers. In principle, commissioners will be in a position to continually question how well services are performing, while offender managers should have a greater range of services with which to work.To say this is unpopular with those in the probation service is something of an understatement. There is considerable affection for the unified national service that Noms is intended to reshape, and concern about the principles behind the reform. Commissioning services from a range of providers will subject the public element of the probation service to contest (limited competition) from the private and voluntary sectors. Probation boards, which have a statutory obligation to provide services, will be replaced by probation trusts, which will not. If probation trusts are not commissioned to provide services, they could potentially be allowed to fail.Ideological distrust of markets and the private sector aside, this exposes a problem lurking behind much of this government's reform agenda. For those charged with reshaping public services, ideas aabout more diverse services and limited forms of competition often have a compelling internal logic - if only as a device to replace poorly performing providers. They tend to argue that reshaping services need not alter the values underpinning the service. For those charged with delivering services, the link between competition, however restrained, and higher standards is rarely obvious and, potentially, fits badly with how public servants think of their roles.So far, not so good. But Noms could also turn out to be a masterclass in turning the corner. Edwards' challenge is to build consensus around elements of reform that should be uncontroversial, particularly the end-to-end management of offenders and retaining a focus on them. Then, she must articulate a clearer rationale for more contentious parts of the government's agenda, consider the pace at which this should proceed, and bind staff and managers into this process in a much tighter manner than her predecessors have managed.· Tim Gosling is research fellow at the Institute for Public Policy Research.