Police are appealing for witnesses after two "bucket-sized" lumps of concrete were dropped from bridges on to cars in Essex, smashing their windscreens and injuring two people.A 57-year-old woman suffered fractures to her face and ribs as well as internal injuries after a block burst through the windscreen as the Nissan she was travelling in passed under West Hanningfield bridge on the A12 from Chelmsford to London.Police are treating the incident on Thursday as attempted murder. Chief Inspector Nick Morris said: "It's only by pure luck a lady was not killed."The woman had to be cut from the car. She was taken by ambulance to Broomfield hospital, where she was in a serious but stable condition. Her 56-year-old husband, who was driving, suffered minor injuries. The couple had been returning home after visiting friends.A similar sized concrete block had smashed the windscreen and dented the bonnet of another car, a Vauxhall Astra, 40 minutes earlier as it drove under the Fryerning Lane bridge on the A12 from London to Chelmsford.The driver, a 26-year-old woman, and her 48-year-old mother were unharmed but badly shaken. They were returning to the Chelmsford area after a shopping trip. Morris said: "It could have been horrendous. It smashed the bonnet, smashed the windscreen of the vehicle. It's more luck than anything that no one was hurt."Referring to both incidents, he said: "It is attempted murder. If you throw a large piece of concrete off a road bridge on to a large, busy road, you are likely to kill someone."Morris said the concrete block "might have been moulded inside a bucket ... an item someone might place on a grass verge to stop someone parking there"."I don't understand why someone would throw it on a car," he said. "The only outcome is going to be someone getting seriously hurt."Police are treating the two incidents as linked and suspect that more than one person may have been involved.Morris said: "I'm thinking there's a possibility that the person wasn't out there on their own. I would have thought it's someone that knows the area or lives in the area."Speculating on the age of those responsible, he said: "There's a minimum age someone has to be in order to drive between those two locations."The bridge over the A12 on Brook Lane has been closed while police complete examinations.Police said there had been a number of occasions over recent years where items had been dropped on to vehicles from bridges, but ruled out the possibility of installing CCTV. Morris said: "That would be an ideal solution, but everything comes down to cost. This is a rural location." He said police would be increasing patrols for the bridge.Appealing for those responsible to come forward, he said: "I don't know the reasons; only they have chosen to do this. But they should come forward to take responsibility for their actions."I'd like to ask anyone that saw any suspicious activity at the road bridges to come forward."