British citizens held on remand in other EU countries could be allowed to return home to await trial under plans to reduce the number of suspects in custody.In an attempt to streamline Europe's criminal justice systems, the European commission announced plans to release suspects on bail for less serious offences.Up to 8,000 EU citizens are currently held in foreign prisons across the union awaiting trial for offences which would not normally merit pretrial custody. Judges often detain suspects on the grounds that they would escape trial by returning home.A new European supervision order would mean non-resident EU citizens were treated the same way as citizens of the country where the alleged offence was committed. If a Greek citizen is released on bail in Athens on burglary charges, then a UK citizen charged with the same offence would have to be released too.Judges would be given some discretion. But judicial fears of "flight", in which a suspect escapes trial by disappearing back home, would be addressed by the supervision order. This would allow a Greek judge to demand that the alleged British burglar is forcibly returned to Athens for trial if he refused to leave home.Franco Frattini, Europe's justice commissioner, said: "The commission aims to strengthen the right to liberty and the presumption of innocence, allowing non-resident EU citizen suspects to go back in a controlled way to their home ... instead of being unnecessarily kept in pretrial detention in another member state."The changes would have a small impact on Britain's prison population, which is at a historic high of nearly 80,000 in England and Wales. There were 595 non-British EU nationals held on remand at the end of June. About a quarter would not be covered by the new rules because they are resident in the UK and about 20% of the rest are suspected of serious offences. That leaves about 356 suspects who would be freed. Each prisoner costs Britain about £24,572 a year, so the changes would save £8.7m annually.The proposal is a mixed blessing for Britain. On the positive side, it would free up vital prison places and mean that Britons could return home to await trial.On the down side, the proposal may be portrayed as an attempt by Brussels to extend its remit into sensitive national areas of responsibility. Some countries have complained that ministers should not waste their time on a proposal which will have little impact on prison populations.Britain will, in common with every other EU country, have the right to veto the proposal.