During the launch yesterday, Tony Blair drew on the past, and on the life his father, Leo, experienced during the tough 1930s in Glasgow. Leo may have been poor. But there was, the prime minister said, respect."What we have today and what our kids have today is a galaxy away from the life they experienced," said Mr Blair. "The one thing that would shock them, where they would say society has changed for the worse is in that loss of respect in local communities and on the street."Life for Mr Blair's father was certainly hard. He was fostered to a Glasgow couple, James and Mary Blair, who brought him up as their own and resisted efforts by his natural parents, who were travelling entertainers, to take him back.James Blair worked as a shipyard rigger and experienced financial hardship in the 30s. The family's weekly income was 18 shillings, of which five went on rent; the lavatory in their shared, rented house was used by 11 people. Leo, who left school at 14, initially joined the Young Communists but over the years his politics moved rightwards and he once had hopes of becoming a Tory MP.But some cast doubt on Mr Blair's contention that young people in 1930s Glasgow were more respectful than their modern counterparts."This is the kind of guff you get from Blair that turns your stomach," said Janey Buchan, 79, the former MEP for Glasgow who was a young girl in the city in the 30s. "In those days you would be too terrified not to be respectful because your parents would thump you for nothing and the teachers used the belt," she said. "There were terrific communities but the degradation you put up with I don't look back on with any fondness."In 1935, the Sunday Express warned that "the gangsters have come to Britain. Glasgow, second city of the empire, frankly acknowledges their reign of terror. A thousand young men ... rule the poorer districts. Their insignia of office are the broken bottle, the razor blade, the cosh, the knife and - newest and most effective of all - the bayonet".Glasgow's Evening Times reported one brawl in 1931 in which a brass-headed poker, a three-foot-long iron rod with a hook at each end, a Gurkha knife and "the spear of a swordfish" were used.The gangs and their leaders were famously disrespectful of authority and convention. In response, the police, under Sir Percy Sillitoe, fought force with force and were nicknamed Sillitoe's Cossacks. Sillitoe even went to Chicago in 1933 with FBI chief J Edgar Hoover, to compare lawlessness in the two cities.Less publicised than the gang wars was the extensive corruption among Glasgow city councillors and building contractors.