Keith "Froggy" Frogson and Robert Boyer lived only yards apart in neighbouring terraces and met almost daily in the local pub, but they had been on opposite sides in the bitterly divisive 1984/5 miners' strike.So when Mr Frogson was found hacked to death on his doorstep in July and Boyer disappeared from his home in a hurry, rumour was rife in the former pit village of Annesley Woodhouse that drink or a chance remark had torn open long-suppressed wounds. Yesterday a stranger truth emerged from Nottingham crown court, where Boyer, 43, admitted killing Mr Frogson with a sword and crossbow and setting fire to his house a fortnight later, when the old trade unionist's daughter and her husband were inside. While Mr Frogson, 62 and a genial grandfather noted for still wearing Coal not Dole badges, enjoyed his retirement, Boyer was sliding into insanity and a conviction that the older man was planning to dismantle his home, brick by brick. When a search by 600 police tracked him down in a makeshift shelter in local woods, the expected murder charge was replaced with manslaughter. Boyer readily admitted this and arson, being reckless as to whether life was endangered. "He had convinced himself that Keith Frogson was trying to dismantle his house brick by brick, that acid was being thrown at the brickwork and that a screwdriver had been used to chip away at the bricks," Andrew Easteal, prosecuting, told the court. "He had developed a fixation with Mr Frogson. He was obsessed with the idea that Mr Frogson was persecuting him and trying to damage his home." No one in the Nottinghamshire village - at the heart of the civil war between rival mining unions during the strike - had any idea of the sinister notions forming in Boyer's mind. But these were carefully calculated. The murder was a "ruthless execution", carried out after watching Mr Frogsons's evening routine and time of strolling home from the pub. "Mr Frogson was completely innocent of this and had no idea what Boyer was thinking, or the delusions he was suffering," said Mr Easteal. He realised, if at all, only for the briefest moment, when he was ambushed "first of all with the crossbow, then struck repeatedly with the sword until it was clear that he was dead". Mr Justice Pitchers adjourned the case for 12 weeks while psychiatrists at Rampton secure hospital in north Nottinghamshire try to assess what led Boyer to his terrible course of action. But a connection between his role as a strike breaker and Mr Frogson's as a strikers' recruiting sergeant and lifelong defender of the National Union of Mineworkers has been ruled out. Boyer had drifted in and out of work after the strike, but took little part in nostalgia or debates about the rights and wrongs of Arthur Scargill, who was to return to Annesley to lead more than 1,000 mourners at Mr Frogson's funeral. In the months before the killing, Boyer had been known to slink off into the woods - part of the scattered remnants of Robin Hood's Sherwood Forest - to poach rabbits and pigeons, using the crossbow among other weapons. "It was suggested initially that the origin of this tragedy had something to do with the miners' strike," said Mr Easteal. "May I make it absolutely clear that suggestion is wholly wrong. It has no basis in fact. "The reason for that misunderstanding stems from the fact that Boyer was a miner and worked through the strike and Frogson was a leading member of the NUM. But Boyer was quite oblivious to this until after the arrest. The fixation had nothing whatsoever to do with that. He was having entirely fanciful beliefs about what he believed Mr Frogson was doing." Boyer's delusions were such that, even at the height of one of the biggest manhunts the county police organised, he crept back to the village to set fire to his victim's house. The court heard that Rachel Frogson and her husband, Dilshard Junaideen, both 33 and now living in Sri Lanka, were lucky to escape as flames engulfed the terraced house. Rachel, her sister Mandy, 36, and brother Wayne, 34, were in court to watch as Boyer, who sat expressionless, spoke only once in the brief hearing to confirm his name. They were unwilling to comment after the case. A spokesman for the Crown Prosecution Service said that the decision to accept a manslaughter admission had followed a long and painstaking police inquiry which deserved great praise. He said: "It was only after very careful consideration and consultation that the prosecution team decided that the evidence of Boyer's mental condition was such that a charge of murder was not sustainable. A meeting then took place with the family where the reasons were fully discussed so that they would be aware of why that decision had to be made." Detective Chief Inspector Russ Foster, who led the investigation, said Boyer would be jailed but his actions had left his victim's family with a void which could not be filled. "They have demonstrated tremendous resilience during this investigation and have endured the worst events of their lives with the utmost dignity."