Family, God and education were the cornerstones of life for the Lawrence family. By 22 April 1993, Doreen Lawrence had gone back to studying; her husband, Neville, left unemployed by a slump in the building trade, cared for their three children; and for their firstborn child Stephen, his parents' hard work had paid off. He excelled at school, in exams and on the sports field. He had taken the first steps in realising his dream of being an architect. His future was bright and the possibilities endless.Just after 10.35pm one Thursday, an encounter with a white racist gang as he waited for a bus home ended Stephen's life at the age of 18.The family accused the police of bungling the investigation into Stephen's murder after years went by without anyone being brought to justice. Doreen and Neville refused to go away and in 1998 they won a public inquiry.Chaired by Lord Macpherson, its report in 1999 found the Metropolitan police's first investigation into the murder had been blighted by institutional racism and bungling. It was a landmark report into relations between the police and Britain's ethnic minorities.Since they lost Stephen, his parents have fought for justice. It has taken a heavy toll. Their marriage imploded, and Doreen has talked candidly about the pain of her loss to the Guardian over the years. She said: "I think about Stephen all the time. If you're watching TV and you see a child at a certain age, you think about what Stephen was doing at that age."Seeing someone put on trial for his murder is something they have waited nearly two decades for. Doreen said: "It's like a numbness that's there, and there's nothing you can do to make it any easier. When I think about Stephen, what more can I do to bring some justice for him? I have gone as far as I can go. I don't really know what else to do."Doreen Lawrence was born in 1952 in Jamaica and came to Britain as a girl. She left school with few qualifications and in 1970 met Neville, who was 10 years her senior. Two years later they married in Lewisham. Neville was also from Jamaica and came to the UK aged 18. He had a series of odd jobs and then began working as a painter and decorator. Doreen worked in a bank. The couple had settled in south-east London as they tried to make a better life. Stephen was born on 13 September 1974, followed by a brother and a sister.He was bright and did well at school, thrived at Cubs and Scouts and was a popular child. The family regularly went to church and Stephen grew up in a household where education and self-improvement were important.On 22 April, 1993, Doreen was away for her humanities degree course. She returned home late, and waited for Stephen, who had to be home by 10.30pm. Doreen and Neville would next see him at Brook hospital, after doctors tried to save his life from the knife wounds that severed major blood vessels. In the 18 years since, Neville has moved to Jamaica. Doreen works full-time at the Stephen Lawrence centre in south London, which helps youngsters become architects.In one interview she praised her two other children, Stuart, a teacher, and Georgina: "They provide me with a will to live, a will to continue, a will to know that I have to keep strong for them."