The Rochdale grooming scandal outrages on many levels. For what is the point of civilised society if not to protect the weak and punish those who prey upon them? For too long, as predatory groups of men preyed upon vulnerable, largely impoverished young girls, we failed to fulfil that basic duty. It is inevitable, in the aftermath, that there should be a rush to apportion blame.But, from the evidence of today's leaked internal review by Greater Manchester police, that rush doesn't seem to have helped in getting to the bottom of what really happened in Rochdale and what may be happening right now in other communities up and down the country.The first framing of this scandal was an ethnic one. The Times earned huge plaudits, and rightly so, for unearthing the grooming scandal. But even then, the justification for the failure of the authorities to react appropriately was framed as cultural. Police officers complained that their determined attempts to deal with the issue were hampered by political correctness. No one in authority was willing to address the problem with sufficient vigour because many of the alleged perpetrators were Pakistani Muslims, it was said. The system wasn't being allowed to work. Political correctness gone mad – and to disastrous effect. That theme was readily exploited by the British National party and the English Defence League.But from what we know of the police report so far, there appear to have been other more basic factors that may have hampered the appropriate response of the authorities just as grievously: detectives without training in child sexual exploitation deployed to interview potential victims; a lack of managerial oversight for investigations; a lack of strategies to respond to frequent "runaways", which allowed them to return to their abusers. There were attitudinal problems too. It is said there may have been discriminatory attitudes among police officers towards the victims – that's a statement about class.These are not deficiencies born of political correctness; these are basic systemic failings. Even if one accepts the notion that cultural considerations muddied the response, how could there have been an appropriate response with those basic failings?Today's report from Greater Manchester police should be a wake-up call. Everybody, whatever their background, wants this issue tackled. If there is an ethnic disproportion in terms of the offenders in a particular area, the authorities are within their rights to note that fact and try to find out why it is the case. It may tell us as much about class and the social positioning of various groups within a locality as anything else, which is all worth knowing. But the cultural dimension, if it exists, shouldn't be used as a fig leaf to hide deficiencies in the system. Left unchecked, that tactic merely distracts from the real job at hand; identifying and protecting the vulnerable and punishing offenders.This is an area that requires sober analysis and quiet professionalism. That includes building relationships with communities of all races and all classes that enable them to be better served by the police and other agencies. Policing, in particular, relies on consent.This is a complicated issue and it gains nothing from the grandstanding of self-justifying detectives and commentators looking for advantage in their ongoing campaign against difference in Britain.We all lose out when the focus is wrong and the diagnosis is shaky. But the victims we should be protecting lose out most of all.