The prison service was fiercely criticised over a jail fatality yesterday by the first public inquiry into a death in custody ordered by a judge under the Human Rights Act.The inquiry report castigated officials at Leeds prison for allowing inadequate and shoddy treatment of Paul Wright, an asthmatic, by a doctor whose disciplinary record should have barred him from supervising the case. It also criticised prison and Home Office staff for withholding information about the case and forcing Wright's relatives to take potentially costly high court action to win the judge's unprecedented order. The report found that Wright's death from an asthma attack in 1996 followed "some months" of sub-standard medical treatment at the prison, where the victim, 33, who had a long history of asthma problems, was serving three-and-a-half years for fraud, drugs and driving offences. The key issue, said the independent inquiry commissioned by the government from the human rights group Liberty, was the role of Kumar Narain Singh, a former GP whose appointment as an unsupervised prison doctor should not have taken place. Dr Singh, who has since been removed from the medical register at his own request, had been barred by the General Medical Council from practising independently, but had not declared this to the prison authorities. The inquiry chairman, Jon Davies, said that Paul Wright's medical care was in the hands of a medical officer whose appointment to the prison service had been mishandled and who was, despite the GMC caution on his record, allowed to operate as an independent clinician. "In the months before his death it seems clear to me that the medical service provided for Mr Wright was inadequate. In the days before his death there is considerable doubt whether he had in his possession medication which might have saved him." Dr Singh was later criticised at an inquest into the suicide of another Leeds prisoner, Steven Wilkinson, 39, whose resuscitation was stopped by the doctor after he was found hanging in his cell at the jail in Armley, West Yorkshire, in February 1998. The prison service apologised at the inquest, which was held two years ago, after a police inquiry into possible deception, wilful neglect and manslaughter by Dr Singh which ended without charges. Wright's family yesterday accused the prison service of covering up the circumstances of his death and of "gross failure" to give out information. His mother Margaret Wright, 62, from Riddlesden, West Yorkshire, said: "I am pleased the inquiry has at last taken place, but we are disappointed we had to take the Home Office to court and the inquiry was ordered more than five years after Paul's death. "We are also disappointed that many of our questions remain unanswered and are concerned the answers to these questions may never be revealed. I think the prison service has covered up what happened and I'm still very concerned about the poor level of medical care in prisons, notably in Armley itself. Some of the people criticised in this report still work there." Joanne Sawyer, a lawyer at Liberty, welcomed the report but regretted the inquiry did not have the power to compel witnesses to attend. "Most importantly, Dr Singh did not have to attend the inquiry to give evidence."