Myra Hindley desperately wanted to die a free woman but refused to do the one thing that might have made it possible. In a telephone call shortly after she had been operated on for a cerebral aneurysm she told me: "They want me to stop smoking but I just can't. It's the only pleasure I have left."There was more to this than addiction. Hindley remained to the end someone with a bloody-minded determination to live her life as she saw fit. She followed the recent House of Lords case, which could well have led to her release, closely, and drew up plans with supporters for where she might live. Yet at the same time, she retreated further and further from the world. Where once she had worked as a warder's trusty and had been given the reward of a yard to plant as a garden, she now confined herself to the drab room she had decorated with landscape photographs and pictures of her family, only venturing out to shuffle across the corridor to make a cup of tea to go with her roll-up. As the amount of exercise she did fell her weight ballooned. It was an image I found hard to reconcile with the woman I had met just before Christmas 1999. The small, beige visiting room at Highpoint prison had been specially prepared. On its Formica table stood two vacuum flasks, a plate of biscuits and a china bowl for putting used teabags into. Her voice, drifting down the corridor was familiar, her appearance a shock. She was wearing an impeccable lilac trouser suit over a white linen shirt. A needle-thin silver ingot, engraved with a cross, hung about her neck. "Hello, Duncan." "Hello, Myra." As she fixed me in her eyes I saw a faded version of the arrest photograph that had stared from 40 years of front pages. During the meeting, her manner remained controlled and confident. This was a woman who wanted her freedom. Is it possible that just a few years later, about to achieve it, she could not face the reality of what winning her freedom would mean? In her final days I communicated with her through intermediaries, who carried messages in and out. It had become impossible to speak to her on the phone as all her calls were monitored. Nor could I write to her, as all her letters were read. In recent months, the messengers talked more and more about her declining health, and in particular about her dramatic weight gain. Two weeks ago came the news that she was suffering from heart problems, then last week, that she had contracted a chest infection. On Friday morning I received a text message from a relative of one of the Moors murder victims who had been contacted by police: "She's dying. She's got less than 24 hours to live." I continued to communicate with her because I was trying, on behalf of the family of the last missing victim of the Moors murders, Keith Bennett, to extract information that would lead to the recovery of his body. My relationship with Myra Hindley began in 1998 when I asked her to write an account of her role in the murders. She had received countless requests to tell her story and refused them all. My approach, motivated by a desire to understand her role in them at a time when her case for release was before the courts, had been direct. I had not expected it to succeed. Then, one Sunday morning, my phone rang."Hello Duncan, I can't talk for long. I haven't got many units left on my phonecard." The accent was instantly recognisable as Mancunian, despite the decades away from the area she and Brady had once terrorised. Her voice was rough from the roll-ups she chain-smoked right till the end. The prison echoed loudly down the phone. It sounded as though she was standing in a corridor. "I understand that it can't just be for me. I know that what you do has to be balanced. I just feel it's right after all this time to explain what happened. Then people can decide what they think." Hindley, always wily, had become an educated woman in prison, obtaining an Open University degree and studying religion. She read the Guardian and the Sun every day and counted politicians, peers and a former national newspaper editor among her friends. She was not going to fall for a journalist writing to offer her the chance to "put your side of the story". The account she produced over 18 months, which was aired in the Guardian and a BBC documentary four years ago, stands as the only comprehensive record of the relationship between her and Ian Brady. It describes how their dark bond led to the murders of five children; Pauline Reade, Lesley-Ann Downey, John Kilbride, Keith Bennett and Edward Evans. A series of crimes that gripped the national consciousness like no other and turned a working-class girl from Gorton into the most reviled woman in Britain. The letters she wrote to me arrived in a thick bundle every Friday. Her prose style was self-consciously novelistic, sprinkled with metaphors and studied repetition. She wrote on an old Olivetti typewriter that broke down halfway through the account. After I managed to send her a new one, a contact delivered the broken machine to me in a black bin liner. Opening it I was greeted by a blast of Golden Virginia. On Sundays she would ring to ask what I thought of the letters. I told her what she had missed out and the questions she needed to answer. The phone calls were mostly businesslike, though as Hindley became more at ease with me she revealed a dry sense of humour. She refered regularly to the prison "mole" who she was convinced was feeding stories about her to the papers, once cracking that he was probably listening to us talking. Occasionally she would ask about my family and I would gently steer the conversation back to her own story. After a while, I stopped reading the letters more than once. The images were too upsetting to deal with and had begun to intrude into my daily life. When I did re-read them the detail of her descriptions was astounding. I felt I needed to see where she was writing about to help understand it, so I visited Gorton, where she had grown up. The streets were she lived had been demolished. The main landmarks of her childhood, however, remained. These included her primary school, the monastery church of St Francis and her favourite place, Sunnybrow park. When I walked into the Steelworkers' Arms, the landlord, sensing I did not belong there, asked if I knew who used to drink there. I kept quiet. He told me, describing her crimes, and then referred to her as "that bitch". It was the same all over Gorton. When I told Hindley, she laughed. It was a dry and uncomfortable sound. "It's strange but I can remember it all so clearly." Her forensic recall of events was that of someone whose experience of life, other than in prison, stopped in her early 20s. Throughout her time behind bars she continued to inhabit Manchester, a place she loved and had violated. This is perhaps one of the reasons her narrative was so carefully arranged. Without her history she had nothing, yet to live with it she had to tidy it up. In her letters she painted herself as a victim of circumstance. There was the drunken and abusive father: "I detested him because of the way he used to beat my mother, which was often. As soon as we heard the first raised voices we used to rush in and my gran would hit him with a rolled-up newspaper and I'd cling on to his legs and try to get him off my mother." Then there was the manipulative Brady. The tone in which she described her first meeting with him was that of a breathless schoolgirl: "I'd always been a dreamer, falling in love with film stars. I was crazy about James Dean and Elvis, and had heard the phrase 'falling head over heels in love' - but never thought it would happen to me. But as soon as Ian Brady looked at me and smiled shyly, that's exactly what happened." She was confident when writing about this part of the story because she was able to portray Brady as a sexual brute, herself as the victim. This just about worked until she started dealing with the murders. An innocent girl might stay with a bullying boyfriend - but with a child killer? There would be weeks, months between letters as she struggled to deal with the murders. It was as if she was slowly realising that her account of events, the story she had rationalised, was coming apart at the seams. She was, in her account, never there when the children died: in the car during the killing of Pauline Reade, over the hill when Keith Bennett died. And, crucially, she was unable to write at all about the death of Lesley-Ann Downey, whose tape-recorded pleas for mercy burned themselves into the memory of everyone who heard them. "I'm sorry Duncan, I just can't deal with it. I can't write about that." Myra Hindley knew that this tape was what had made her the most hated woman in Britain. It was a title she never got used to, railing at the fact that people refused to see beyond her crimes to the woman who had confessed, done all she could to help find her victims and embraced Catholicism. One Sunday she rang me, in a furious mood. "I saw those starving children in Sudan on the telly and it really upset me, so I sent £10 to the Save the Children appeal fund. I got a letter from the director last week returning it. It makes me so bloody angry. They're supposed to be a Christian organisation."While corresponding with Hindley I met Keith Bennett's father, Alan Bennett, and forensic archaeologist Professor John Hunter, who have been working together to try and find the body of Keith. They wanted me to use the relationship I had with her to try and extract more information which might help them. Hindley often expressed distress at the fact that Keith Bennett was still missing. There was also little doubt that she believed it would be far more difficult for her to secure a release while one of her victims still lay on Saddleworth Moor. The biggest problem I faced in getting her to help was prison security. After her account of the murders was published all her mail was opened and all her phone calls were taped. Beforehand this monitoring had been sporadic and ineffectual. This meant that I could only communicate with her via an intermediary. From time to time Hindley, depressed by her continued imprisonment and frail health, would slip into lethargy. During these silences, she would stay in her "room" in Highpoint's segregation unit. She would stop calling her friends or writing. The only people she didn't cut contact with were her family, to whom she remained close. It was after a long silence, during which Alan Bennett had all but given up hope, that a letter bearing a Suffolk post mark did finally arrive. It contained a map showing the path that she and Brady had taken the night Keith was killed. Over the next few months Hindley continued to help, supplying further detailed maps and answering questions put to her by the intermediary. Hunter and Bennett didn't find Keith but they were able to use the information she provided to narrow down the search area. I have no doubt that she wrote to me and tried to help find Keith Bennett's body because she wanted her freedom. But why, then, did she continue to abuse her body, knowing that to do so would probably result in her dying behind bars? Perhaps it was because she couldn't reconcile herself to the fact that she was different, that she had, as she said in one of her last phone calls to me, "a cruel, hard streak inside me. Something that made me capable of doing what I did."