A 64-year-old man has admitted murdering a teenage girl who was stabbed to death more than three decades ago in Bath.Christopher Hampton pleaded guilty to murdering Melanie Road, 17, during the early hours of 9 June 1984. Sentencing him to life in prison, Mr Justice Popplewell said he had carried out a lengthy and brutal attack. “You will very likely die in prison,” the judge added.In the 32 years since Melanie died, Hampton lived an apparently normal family life a few miles from Bath.He was finally caught in 2015 after police matched DNA from her clothing to a member of his family on the national database following a cold case investigation.Melanie, described as bright and outgoing by her family, was sexually assaulted and died from multiple stab wounds to her chest and back.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Melanie Road’s body was discovered a short distance from her home. Photograph: Avon and Somerset police/PAThe teenager had decided to walk the short journey home following a night out with friends in Bath. Her body was discovered at 5.30am by a milkman and his 10-year-old son, close to a block of garages a short distance from her home.Hampton, from Fishponds, Bristol, was to stand trial at Bristol crown court on Monday after originally denying the charge of murdering Melaine. But he changed his plea and answered: “Guilty”, when the charge was put to him again.Popplewell told Hampton, who has three children: “You murdered and sexually abused Melanie Road in a cul-de-sac in Bath near where you and she lived.“You were 32. You didn’t know each other. Melanie was 17, a happy, outgoing and sociable girl who at the time of her death was about to take her A-levels. It was a life full of promise.“Only you will know precisely how you approached her and carried out your attack but certain things are plain from the evidence. It was a lengthy and brutal attack for your own sexual gratification.“She was repeatedly stabbed – 26 times in all – with a sharp-edged knife, causing four-inch wounds. Eight of the wounds were to her breasts.“You first stabbed her while she was on her feet on the street on her way home, before chasing her some 30 metres round the corner to the cul-de-sac where she died.”Following the attack, Hampton remarried. The judge said: “You lived your family life for all those years knowing the extreme misery you must have inflicted on your victim’s family but you were too callous and cowardly to put an end to their heartache.” Police have had a DNA profile of Melanie’s suspected killer since 1995 but there was no match on the national database. In 2014, Hampton’s daughter received a caution for criminal damage. Her DNA was taken, as is routine, and added to the database.In May 2015, cold case detectives again ran checks on the sample from the killer and the link with the daughter’s sample was found. In June last year, Hampton provided a voluntary DNA swab to police, which was confirmed as a match with that collected at the crime scene.Melanie’s mother, Jean Road, said she thought she would not live to see her daughter’s murderer brought to justice.Describing the moment she first saw Hampton in the dock at the magistrates court, the 81-year-old said: “It was when we finally went to the court in Bath and I saw this man standing there that I thought: ‘He’s not a man, he’s a monster. How could he do that?’Then I realised that his wife and his daughter were sitting behind me. Both with blonde hair, the same as Melanie. How could he do that to somebody and then live with people like that and them not knowing?“It hurts beyond repair. I always said if I got hold of him I’d strangle him or stick a knife into him and that’s how I felt but I wouldn’t even use my energy up on him.“I feel that he should be shut up in a dungeon like they used to in the olden days and just left to rot because he’s not worth looking after. I know that’s against the law but I can think that, I’m allowed to think that.”Road, speaking before Hampton admitted murdering Melanie, paid tribute to her daughter. She said: “She made herself welcome wherever she went. She would walk straight in and she was at home. I think what helped her was because she was so bright. Everything that she did she did well. She was very bright. I always look at her as a child with an old head on her shoulders.“Even her siblings have said the same. But she was loved by everybody. She loved Bath, she really fitted in well with everything that she did in Bath.”Road, who has two other children, said the fact that Melanie was murdered in the city she had such affinity for hurt. She described how the daughter’s death had affected the family over the past 32 years, and her wish to see justice for her other two children too. “Because I’m 81 I thought I might be dead before it all finalised, but thank God,” she said.She last saw her daughter alive at the Francis hotel in Bath at lunchtime on 8 June 1984, the day before her body was discovered. She remarked on a red carpet at the hotel. “Melanie got out of the car and she said: ‘Look, there’s a red carpet laid out for me.’ That’s her last words,”Road said.Road said her husband, Anthony, had been concerned when they woke to find Melanie had not slept in her bed on the morning of Saturday 9 June.Police traced her family after a loudhailer alert when they discovered a keyring with the name Melanie near the body.“I heard the loudspeaker outside the house calling out ‘Melanie’,” she said. My husband and I just looked at each other and there was a police officer’s car going past and he was calling out ‘Melanie’. That’s all I heard. Then I opened the front door and ran after the car, banging on the back of the boot. He stopped and he said: ‘What did you want?’ and I said: ‘We have a daughter Melanie and she hasn’t come home.’“I got into the car and he took me back to the house and that’s when all hell let loose and I knew my daughter was never coming back again. And my whole life was taken over by this horrible deed. Melanie did not deserve that, nobody deserves what happened to her.”Later they were taken to identify the girl’s body. “That was a big shock to see Melanie lying there,” Road said. Timeline8 June 1984 Melanie Road, 17, goes on a night out at Beau Nash nightclub in Bath.9 June 1984 Her mutilated body is discovered by a milkman and his 10-year-old son at 5.30am in Lansdown area of the city. Police trace her family after a loudhailer alert when they discover a keyring with the name Melanie near the body.1984 to 1989 Police hunt for teenager’s killer through Operation Rhodium. Tests from the crime scene give police a blood type with proteins which match just 3% of the population. Ninety-four people are arrested but none charged.1995 DNA has become part of regular police work and a DNA profile of the suspected killer is developed and put on the national database for the first time. There is no match.2000 A DNA review produces a more detailed profile of the killer. Police start looking at familial DNA matches – people on the national database who partially match, which suggests they are related to the killer. There is still no match.2003 A cold case team is set up.2009 The 25th anniversary of Melanie’s death. A Crimewatch special is shown. Seventy names are handed to police, none of which are Christopher Hampton. Police revisit every bit of evidence gathered at the time by transferring 14,339 index cards – one for each person interviewed, named, arrested, etc – on to computers.2010 Police get funding for a £20,000 nationwide familial run. They compare DNA from the scene with people on the database, for family member matches. It produces the top 400 most likely relatives of the killer who are all tracked down to see if they have male relatives which match the estimated age of the killer. The male relatives are DNA swabbed in following years.November 2014 Unknown to the cold case detectives, Christopher Hampton’s daughter receives a caution for criminal damage after police are called when she has an argument with her partner and breaks his necklace. Her DNA is routinely taken and added to the national database.February to March 2015 Police obtain a rerun of the familial check on the national DNA database to include people added since the previous one in 2010 – about 1 million people.May 2015 Results come back with a familial match to Hampton’s daughter. Research by police revealed she was from Bath and had brothers and a father, who also had lived in Bath. She provides a phone number for her father.1 June 2015 Hampton provides a voluntary DNA swab to police in the car park of a commercial building where he was working in Ashton, Bristol. The officer tells him he will get back to him within five weeks and goes on to take dozens more DNA swabs.2 July 2015 Testing lab emails to say Hampton’s DNA matches that recovered from the scene and he is arrested that day. He makes no comment to all questions, but denies rape and murder in a statement read by his solicitor. Melanie’s family are informed.4 July 2015 Hampton is charged with murdering Melanie.9 May 2016 Hampton pleads guilty to murder. 