The government claimed last week that the number of people receiving publicly funded legal advice has hit a record high, with more than 800,000 people being helped with debt problems, disputes with landlords and bosses and other issues. In terms of debt advice, which has been an increasing focus for legal aid, the number of people helped rose by 15 per cent on last year, it said.However, lawyers, not-for-profit agencies and charities are sceptical about the figures. They have stepped up a campaign to protect the legal aid scheme from reforms that begin to come into effect in October. A coalition made up of the NSPCC, Mind, Shelter, the Refugee Council, Citizens Advice, the Child Poverty Action Group and umbrella group the Advice Services Alliance is concerned that the reforms will mean that legal aid - originally envisaged as one of the pillars of the welfare state alongside free education and healthcare - will be eroded to the point of collapse.The campaign group says that only a quarter of the population is now eligible for legal aid compared with 70 per cent when the architect of the welfare state, Clement Attlee, was Prime Minister 55 years ago, and warns that lawyers have been leaving this underpaid sector in droves. According to the Law Society, the number of firms with contracts with the Legal Services Commission has more than halved in the past five years; family lawyers' group Resolution says that, in the whole of Kent, there is now only one firm prepared to undertake legal aid work.Others broadly agree. 'We reckon that 70 per cent of the population no longer qualifies for legal aid,' says Des Hudson, chief executive of the Law Society. 'A single parent with a child working a full working week on the minimum hourly wage, or for that matter a Big Issue seller, might not even qualify. The best advice for consumers is: do not get arrested, don't have any marital disputes, don't become mentally ill and don't fall out with your landlord. The chances of accessing legal aid, if you can find a legal aid lawyer, are getting worse by the month.'The increase in numbers of cases cited by the government is largely attributable to the phone helpline Community Legal Service Direct, which was launched in 2005, argues James Sandbach of Citizens Advice. 'But it's unclear how useful telephone advice is, particularly to vulnerable groups,' he says.Lawyers and not-for-profit advisers recently threatened to boycott the new legal aid scheme by refusing to sign the contract. In the end, the deadline for signing was extended but since then relations between lawyers and their paymasters have hit rock bottom amid accusations that the commission effectively bullied firms into signing. The government's case for reform of legal aid was further attacked last month in a report by the House of Commons constitutional affairs committee, which damned the two central ideas behind the proposed reforms as 'a breathtaking risk'.'There has been a catastrophic deterioration in the relationship between suppliers [ie lawyers], their representative organisations, and the Legal Services Commission,' the MPs noted. 'Unless the relationship improves, we do not see how implementation of these reforms can be successful. We urge all involved in legal aid reform to really engage in a more constructive dialogue.'Will they get help?Anna has been married to Nigel for eight years. She stayed, and stays, at home to look after the kids. Nigel earns a six-figure salary in the City, while Anna has no assets in her name. Now their marriage has ended.Anna will be assessed on her financial situation, not her husband's, and is likely to be entitled to legal aid, which would cover advice, mediation and court appearance. However, if she receives a large settlement she may be asked to repay the money. In other words, legal aid is a loan. Legal aid is available to people whose pass 'a means test' - monthly income can't be more than £2,435 and capital must be below £8,000.It's 9pm and Edgar is in the cells after being arrested for drink driving. He thought he was under the limit, having only had a couple of shandies.Edgar is entitled to free legal advice at the station and could get telephone advice from CDS Direct, the criminal defence service. Drink driving is a strict liability offence if Edgar is shown to be above the limit. His case would be dealt with in the magistrates' court and he would be means tested if he wanted legal aid. Most people earning less than £21,487 (but not all) will be eligible for criminal legal aid. The average cost of a magistrates' case is £500. In the higher courts everyone is entitled to legal aid.Helen has breast cancer. She would like to be treated with a drug she has researched. It is available in other parts of the UK but her Primary Care Trust does not purchase it. She wants to challenge the PCT.If Helen is eligible under the means and merits test, she could get legal aid to have the PCT's decision judicially reviewed. Under the merits test, you have to have a reasonable chance of success. Her challenge could be taken as a group action, in which case a contribution may be sought, or it may be taken alone to establish a public interest point of principle.Andrea had to work over the holidays, so her son Timmy attended a summer school. The school identified that Timmy was dyslexic. Andrea can't understand why the teachers at his normal school missed this. The school denies Timmy is dyslexic and has refused to give him extra classes.Timmy is the client and is eligible so long as his case passes the merits test.·  Compiled with the assistance of the Legal Services Commission. See the legal aid calculator at www.clsdirect.org.uk/legalhelp/calculator.jsp?lang=en