Six women who were rescued by police from a brothel in Birmingham during a high-profile operation last week and were due to be removed from the UK by immigration today, last night had their expulsion deferred following pressure from campaigners.The women, mostly from Eastern Europe, were among 19 taken from the Cuddles massage parlour in a raid by 50 police officers following information that they may have been the victims of sex trafficking and that they may have been locked in and had their passports taken.Yesterday, human rights lawyers were refused access to the women, who were being held in Yarlswood detention centre in Bedfordshire on the grounds that they were not victims of trafficking and were in the country illegally.Academics and campaigners emailed Harriet Harman, the former solicitor general who this year launched a drive for a European-wide crackdown on trafficking, demanding that she intervene.They protested that women in such situations were often too scared to admit they have been trafficked and that they needed time and specialist help. They predicted that some of the women would be retrafficked within the month.Earlier the Home Office's immigration and nationality directorate appeared to deny that the women had been trafficked. A letter seen by the Guardian said: "This operation was West Midlands police-led and was not an anti-trafficking operation. At no point did any of the women indicate that they were trafficked into the UK, nor did they indicate any undue distress or reluctance to return to their home country."But last night the Home Office, refusing to acknowledge a U-turn, said: "Where a person has been a victim of trafficking it is recognised that these individuals, who have experienced exploitation, may initially need time and support to recover and reflect."Last night, Det Insp Mark Nevitt, who led the raid, was adamant that it had been an anti-trafficking operation and that it had been intelligence led, following information that previously trafficked women had been working on the premises. But none of the women held on Thursday had made allegations of trafficking. "I have to say that some of these girls are quite happy to go back and none have expressed any concerns about returning to their countries," he said.Liz Kelly, professor of sexualised violence at London Metropolitan University, and an expert in trafficking, said: "We cannot believe that in such little time they can know for certain these women haven't been trafficked. It is undoubtedly the case that women go back and are recycled through the sex trade in many Eastern European countries."Mary Cunneen, director of Anti-Slavery International, said: "We know from experience that very often when raided in circumstances like this, women will not identify themselves as trafficking victims and will say they want to return. They may have good reason from their experiences in their own countries to be distrustful of law enforcement. They may have been given very real threats either against themselves or their friends and families. They may simply be frightened."Sarah Green, for Amnesty International, said: "We are seriously concerned about the process the women rescued have been through. We are concerned there may not have been enough time to adequately assess what happened to them, and what risks they face if returned to their countries. These cases illustrate the vulnerability of victims of trafficking and the lack of protection in Britain. This is why Britain should sign up to the European Convention Against Trafficking, which it has so far failed to."It is understood that the 13 other women had leave to remain in the country and told police that they were voluntarily working in the sex industry. They are no longer in custody. Three people have been charged with keeping and managing a brothel and firearms offences.