The Home Office's recent pledge to create 8,000 more prison places by 2012 might have reassured some voters if not scared a few criminals. It surely makes life tougher for the Department for Education and Skills (DfES), which today unveils the latest stage in its reform of prison education and training.The main burden of the government's pledge to reduce reconviction rates by 10% by 2010 through making prisoners more employable will fall on the DfES. According to latest statistics, 58% of all adult prisoners and 85% of 14 to 17-year-old male inmates are reconvicted within two years of release. Recidivism costs an estimated £11bn a year.Ministers say that the Offenders' Learning and Skills Service (Olass) being rolled out nationally today will bring greater coherence and continuity to a system in which those prisoners lucky enough to start training programmes all too often have to go back to square one when they move jails.Each offender will have their individual needs assessed from the start of sentence and their "learner record" will be kept electronically. It will travel with them throughout the system so that they get appropriate continuous training and education until their release and beyond, when the aim will be to find them viable jobs, says Phil Hope, the skills minister who has responsibility for prison education."The key to reducing reoffending is getting people into jobs and jobs that they keep," he says.After competitive tendering, a new group of colleges and private training firms have won contracts to carry out the education and training with the understanding that they introduce continuity that the current system lacks.It is intended that better cooperation between colleges and training firms and stripping down courses to units will overcome the problem of "churn" - transfer of prisoners between jails - by ensuring that they can continue learning where they left off.Prisoners are to be elevated to priority status eligible for "mainstream" funding by the Learning and Skills Council, the funding quango that will run Olass. The scheme has been piloted over the past year in three regions - the north-west, south-west and south-east - and results have been so encouraging, says Mr Hope, that the national roll out is going straight ahead without a customary pause for appraisal.While clearly acknowledging the inadequacy of the current education system for prisoners and the low priority it has been given, ministers have responded angrily to accusations by the Commons education and skills select committee last year that their reforms were ill thought-out and lacked clarity and overall strategy."It doesn't give us due recognition for what we'd done before and moreover we've moved thinks on quite considerably," says Mr Hope. "We have an integrated approach between what goes on in prison and what's going on outside. Offenders are to be managed and taken through their journey by one organisation rather than many."The National Offender Management Service (Noms) set up two years ago will assign each prisoner one person who will take overall responsibility for their education.In future the aim will be for prisoners to do the final six months of sentence in a jail near their home areas to make it easier for them to continue any unfinished course of training with the same organisation that has been running it inside."When they get out of prison there is going to be better communication and transmission of their records," Mr Hope says. "Quite frankly we are not yet there but these changes are happening."As tough as maintaining a good supply of work-ready prisoners will be the task of boosting demand from employers. Government is keen to get more firms involved in a scheme developed by the energy company, National Grid, which has been interviewing and selecting likely employees from prisons, training them and giving them work on day release while they are in detention and giving them jobs after release. The company is recording a reoffending rate of just 7% among the former prisoners it employs.There will be no new cash incentives to tempt employers. The aim is that, particularly in areas of skill shortage, they will see good economic reasons for taking on ex-prisoners, says Mr Hope. "We can ensure that they have the kind of skills employers need."Educating the prison population is a mammoth task. Half of male prisoners and over two-thirds of female adult prisoners have no qualifications at all. More than half of all prisoners screened on reception are at or below Level 1 in reading, writing and maths.This is why a great part of the programme will be focused on basic skills, despite doubts raised by the education select committee. Its report, published in March last year, suggested that the decision to concentrate on basic skills was "based on little more than a hunch".It urged the government to do "thorough and robust research to identify what type of education and training provision will have the greatest impact on meeting the individual learning needs of the prisoner and providing them with real alternatives to crime on release".Unfair, says Mr Hope. "We do work on evidence-based research and not on a hunch. Anybody will tell you about the serious problem of the number of people in prison with no qualifications."That's why we've put a lot of effort into improving basic skills as well as offering bricklaying and other courses."