Kirsten Summers, 30, a mother from Castleford in West Yorkshire, was raped by a pizza delivery boy at her home in September 2000. Despite police identifying his DNA on her, and his giving a confession, the case was thrown out on a legal technicality."I was at home by myself one night when the doorbell rang. This young lad, who looked about 17, told me he was delivering a pizza. I hadn't ordered one, so sent him away, but he came back 40 minutes later, saying he was concerned about me. "He just walked in and pounced on me. One minute, he was joking and laughing, then he just changed. The struggle seemed to last hours, but it was over in 20 minutes. Then he zipped himself up, said he'd be back and went. "I was in complete shock, but his saying he'd return made me ring my next door neighbour, who called the police. I was examined by a doctor, DNA was taken from me, and I gave a statement. They found him after a fortnight by running his DNA through the computer. "In his first interview, he denied he knew me. In the second, the police presented him with the DNA finding and he made a confession in front of his solicitor. He'd also been examined before his interviews by a doctor, who said he was capable of being questioned. "When it came to the crown court, there was, suddenly, two days of legal argument. At the last minute, his defence argued he had a low verbal IQ of 70 making him on the borderline of being mentally handicapped. Because there was not an appropriate adult present when he made his confession, they argued the evidence wasn't admissible, and the judge said he had no option but to acquit. "I was absolutely gutted. I had a fit and began gulping for air, while the barrister from the CPS said he wanted to explain it to me and then talked to my sister about it over my head. All along the police had told me it was as cut and dried as it could possibly be, but when they threw out his confession it was just my word against his. "The injustice of this was worse than the actual 20 minutes when the rape took place. "One thing that would increase the rate of conviction would be for people to start believing women, because 93% of them can't be lying, can they? I know, because I'm one of them."