Trevor Moores, the recently retired head of child services in Westminster council, has a striking example of who David Cameron was talking about when he unveiled his policy to try to turn round the lives of 120,000 "troubled families"."We had a street gang take over a council flat and dealing hard drugs from a front window because the 11-year-old son had been bullied into being a runner for the gang," Moores said. "The mother had learning difficulties. The father was long gone. With the gang in the house, the 14-year-old daughter – who was bright – just barricaded herself into her bedroom. She was released when the police broke down the front door."Moores, who spent more than 35 years in social and youth services, has witnessed increasing numbers of children lining the courts or being taken into care who had been alienated, disturbed and living in households too poor to do anything about it since the arrival of drugs into estates a couple of decades ago. He said that their adults often either suffered from mental illness or an addiction to drink and drugs which rendered them incapable of even rudimentary parenting.But he says the introduction of "family intervention programmes" in 2006 by the Labour government changed things. "The programmes had two effects. One was getting all the (council) services to talk to each other. Two was creating a link in parents' minds that there were consequences. We would tell them unless they signed up they could be evicted or their children end up on the child protection register."Family intervention programmes, a US idea which first flowered in Dundee in 1996, essentially offer troubled parents a deal: keep your benefits, your children and your home and in return be a responsible mother, father and neighbour. Local services provide support to families with multiple social, economic, health and behaviour problems.An academic paper in 2006 showed that six trial areas reported that antisocial behaviour had reduced and tenancies stabilised for four-fifths of households involved. Unsurprisingly, family intervention has broad cross-party support.In his speech the prime minister talked of fixing Britain's broken society by turning around the lives of the 120,000 most troubled families by 2015 – by essentially getting them back into employment. The need to do something was urgent as these families were already costing the taxpayer more than £8bn a year. Cameron praised the work of Emma Harrison, the multi-millionaire founder of private welfare company A4e, saying she had "develop(ed) a plan to help get these families on track. It became clear to me earlier this year that – as can so often happen – those plans were being held back by bureaucracy."Moores said their problems were more "complex than that". "You had child protection issues, you had alcohol and drug addicted parents, you had mental health issues. Very few of these families we dealt with were in a position to work."Harrison's scheme is based on getting volunteers to adopt troubled households – turning up to chivvy people into being ready for work.There is a feeling in the voluntary sector that the project is at best "untried and untested". Rhian Beynon, head of policy at the charity Family Action, said Harrison's project has "yet to be evaluated," with just one family taking part in a limited trial. Harrison's website says: "We've pledged to help 100,000 families get back to work. We've still got 99,999 families to help."Beynon adds that "defining families with complex multiple needs primarily through worklessness is highly problematic. If someone has mental health problems you cannot make that person work."What is clear is that this marginalised group of families are more urban than rural. According to government figures, Birmingham has one problem household for every 245 people. In Somerset it's one for every 600 residents. Southwark in south London has the same number of troubled families – about 1,100 – as the whole of Surrey.A crucial factor is families' reluctance to engage with the authorities. Katherine Rake, chief executive of the Family & Parenting Institute, says one of the big issues is the mistrust these families have of the state. "The first reaction is that the state wants to take away my children. They don't come looking for help from schools or GPs."Then there is always the chance that some families are beyond help. In Birmingham one family signed up for "family intervention" but they lost their council house after failing to keep their side of the bargain. In Hull, another family had been given repeated attempts at help by the council, Humberside police and 12 other agencies. The adults were offered parenting classes and several of the children were taken through "acceptable behaviour contracts". They signed, but then breached them almost immediately.Further north, Pamela Nunn tried to explain how her family had become a byword for drug-dealing, prostitution and knife fights. She told the BBC's Tees station: "These people haven't got a clue what mams and dads have to put up with when their kids are on drugs. It totally ruins the full family."Such feelings mean politicians often have difficulty reaching some of the hardest cases, let alone winning their trust and tailoring services to their needs.Labour had similarly ambitious aims for intervention programmes; Gordon Brown promised to tackle "more than 110,000 problem families with disruptive young people" in 2008. They were to get parenting supervision, with the worst 20,000 families facing eviction if they did not respond. But that promise, made during public disquiet over knife crime, was never fulfilled. Last year only 3,518 families were actually in the programme. Family intervention has helped just 7,300 families in four years.Part of the reason is the cost. In Westminster the average intervention cost £20,000 just in wage bills, although that can be contrasted with £40,000 for a six-month spell in a young offenders' institution or £50,000 to put a child in care for a year in London. With the budget for early intervention grants mingled with more voter-friendly schemes like SureStart and effectively cut by £300m this year, it is little surprise that half the country's local authorities have declined to take part.Karen Buck, Labour's spokesperson on welfare, said the government's plans were flawed because there were too many people chasing too few jobs and queried whether there was enough money for a national family intervention programme. "If the government wants troubled families to get employment then it has to deliver job opportunities. In my own constituency it's one job for 25 applicants. Family intervention is a fantastic programme, but it is very expensive and you simply cannot do it on the cheap."