Ian Huntley did not call the police after Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman died in his house because the chain of events was unbelievable, he told his murder trial at the Old Bailey yesterday.The caretaker, who denies murdering the girls, said that Holly died in a freak accident in his bathroom, while Jessica died as he put his hand across her mouth to stop her screaming. But he "panicked and froze" when he realised the 10-year-olds were dead, and did not call the emergency services because he did not think they would believe what happened. Mr Huntley, 29, said there was a gap in his memory after realising they were dead, and his next memory was of sitting huddled, feet away from their bodies, having vomited. "I remember thinking about what to do," he told the court. "I was thinking of calling the police, but I couldn't believe what had happened and I got thinking, how, how, do you explain this to the police? "If you can't believe what has happened yourself, how are you going to expect the police to believe you? At that time it wasn't clear in my head what had happened." But by the early hours of the next morning, he said, he regretted his decision. Mr Huntley said he had been brushing down his dog outside his house in College Close, Soham, Cambridgeshire, when the girls passed by on the evening of August 4 last year. They had stopped to ask after his girlfriend, Maxine Carr, who had been a classroom assistant at their school, and he suggested they use the upstairs bathroom after noticing that Holly had a nosebleed. The caretaker told the jury that the schoolfriends sat on the edge of the bath and that as he fetched more tissues for the nosebleed, "I sort of turned and I slipped and went forward in the direction of Holly." He was not sure whether he had brushed against her, but he recalled seeing her fall backwards and hearing a splash. He had already filled the tub with six to eight inches of water, so that he could wash his dog. Last week, his counsel, Stephen Coward QC, told the court that the caretaker recalled the bath having 18 inches of water in it, while pathologist Dr Nat Cary said that the tub's overflow was 11 inches high. Mr Huntley said that if he had knocked Holly, it had been accidental, but that Jessica had begun "screaming and shouting, 'You pushed her!' over and over." He went on: "When Holly had fell [sic] into the bath I was stood there waiting for some movement... There was no movement. I just panicked and froze. "Stood here, it's logical just to pull somebody out of the bath, especially when they're not moving. I couldn't think logical thoughts. I couldn't think." He blamed "a combination of two things - panic and the screaming". Mr Huntley said he "clearly remembered" going over to Jessica and putting a hand over her mouth. He might have used another hand to restrain her, he added. "[I was trying to] stop her from screaming, so that I could think," he said. But "at some point it hit me what I should be doing... to get Holly out of the bath". He said he let go of Jessica, who fell to the floor. But when he pulled the first girl out of the water, he was unable to find a pulse, he said. Nor was he able to find a pulse on her friend when he turned to her. Mr Coward asked Mr Huntley what his next memory was. "Sat in the corner on the landing, just looking at Jessica," he said, adding that he had no memory of getting there and did not know how long he had been there. He added: "I had been sick." He admitted he made no attempt to resuscitate the girls, adding: "Holly had gone a strange colour. With Jessica, I had felt for signs - there were none. To be honest, I weren't quite sure what to do." But if the events were to be repeated, he said, "I would have pulled Holly out of the bath straight away." He added: "If I had pulled Holly out of the bath and got her to regain consciousness, everything would have been OK."