One of the country's top policeman warned yesterday that London could be in danger of developing into a Miami-style patchwork of gated communities patrolled by private security firms, creating "ghettos of affluence" and "justice by geography".The deputy commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Ian Blair, said this was the "final nightmare" scenario unless reforms of the service being considered by parliament were given a chance to work. Four London boroughs, Wandsworth, Kensington and Chelsea, Sutton and Bromley, have started plans for their own private police services because of fears that the Met cannot provide the bobby on the beat reassurance that the public demands, he said. Mr Blair's remarks were timed to coincide with debates today in the House of Lords and the Metropolitan police authority over plans to introduce a tier of community support officers (CSOs) with limited powers to provide a high visibility presence in targeted areas. The proposals have been criticised by the Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers. It wants thousands of extra police to be recruited rather than the creation of a cadre of "cut price" officers working "on the cheap". Though Mr Blair conceded yesterday that the CSOs would open up a second, lower tier of policing, he said that the pressures on the Met were so great now that the need for them was becoming overwhelming. Putting trained police officers on guard duty when they could be fighting crime was a waste of resources, he argued. "Police officers are far too highly trained to stand in front of vulnerable buildings," he said. "They don't like it - there has to be a better way forward." He said if local authorities began operating their own police forces based on extended warden schemes, it was the first step towards "pre-1839 days" when the Met did not exist and each area had its own watchmen. He said this would be utterly confusing for the public and inefficient. He believed the introduction of CSOs would keep this reassurance work "within the police tent", and give them access to the intelligence network and experience the Met has built up. "This is going to happen anyway. The question is, should the police be the controlling agency? Either we allow other people to do that [police work] for us, or we do it. It is a fundamental change in policing." Mr Blair said the CSOs would "look like the police" and be the "eyes and ears" of the service. The Met hopes to start recruiting a first tranche of 300 CSOs next month and have them ready for duty by August or September. They will be paid £18,000 a year - compared to £27,000 for a constable - and receive three weeks training. The CSOs will have radios but will not wear protective clothing or be equipped with handcuffs, batons or sprays. Some of them could be deployed for anti-terrorist patrol duties in Westminster, Tower Hamlets and Heathrow - relieving officers drafted from other boroughs and departments to beef up security since September 11. There is also a plan for CSOs to work on 21 bus routes. The police reform bill being considered in the Lords does not give the CSOs the power to arrest, but it allows them to issue fixed penalties for minor public order offences. The bill will also give them the power to search vehicles and bags, but only if they are "within sight" of a trained police officer. The CSOs will not be able to frisk suspects. Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan police federation, said Mr Blair should concentrate on lobbying for the extra 12,000 fully trained officers needed in London rather than trying to establish a "second rate, poorly paid, and poorly trained alternative". He added: "His plans are almost a joke. If Mr Blair represents the future of policing, then the service is in real jeopardy. He doesn't have any idea if it will work."