Scotland Yard last night warned people to be vigilant when opening suspicious packages after a woman was hurt by a letter-bomb sent to a company responsible for handling the London congestion charge, television licences and large government out-sourcing contracts. Counter-terrorism officers are investigating the attack, for which the motive was unclear.The woman, working in the post-room of Capita Group in central London, was injured in the hand and stomach when a device in a small Jiffy bag exploded yesterday morning at the company's headquarters in Victoria Street, just around the corner from Scotland Yard and close to the Houses of Parliament. She was taken to a local hospital."While this is a very traumatic incident for her, her injuries are fairly minor," said Chief Superintendent Ian Thomas who attended the scene. "We are investigating the cause of that explosion and the [Metropolitan police] counter terrorism command are looking at all the issues involved."The office was evacuated as police carried out a search and surrounding streets were closed to traffic. Police said no claim of responsibility was made and all potential motives were being explored.Apart from collecting the congestion charge and TV licences, Capita performs a wide range of services, including organising the payroll and pensions of the Metropolitan police. Since it was founded in 1984 Capita has expanded into a company that employs 26,000 people in the UK, Ireland and India. It includes both central and local government, the BBC and the NHS among its clients. Among its current contracts are the collection of council taxes and business rates. It also offers recruitment and payroll services, IT assistance and "off-shore solutions".Although letter bombs were part of the IRA's arsenal when the movement was active in the UK, they have lately tended to be associated in Britain with fringe organisations, including those involved in animal rights campaigns who have targeted individuals and companies associated with animal experimentation, including those providing services to them. Letter bombs have also been used in extortion attempts and to settle personal grudges with companies.In 2005 Justin McAuliffe, 33, from Bedford, was jailed for life for sending letter bombs to people he deemed to have slighted him. His targets included an ex-girlfriend and a former employer, as well as a bouncer who had excluded him from a club and a pub that had barred him.The so-called "Mardi Gra" bomber, Edgar Pearce, was jailed for 21 years in 1999 for sending explosive packages to Barclays Bank and Sainsbury's in an extortion attempt.