The number of al-Qaeda terrorists held in British prisons could total 1,000 within five years, threatening security and putting pressure on an already over-crowded system.The Prison Officers' Association (POA) says it fears that extremists are dividing along gang lines similar to the situation in Northern Ireland, where 29 officers were killed during the Troubles. They will also use being in prison to radicalise vulnerable young men and plan further attacks outside.'The radicalisation of young men is going to be our biggest problem over the next four or five years,' said Steve Gough, vice-chairman of the POA. 'If you look at the trials coming up, we are possibly going to have hundreds more [radicalised Muslims] entering the prison system. The whole estate is going to change because of this.'There are 40 trials involving extremists which have yet to come before the British courts. The security service MI5 estimates more than 2,000 people are currently under surveillance for their suspected role in alleged Islamist terrorist plots.If the trend continues, the POA believes the prison system will have to undergo dramatic changes to house the growing number of people convicted for terrorist offences. Belmarsh, the prison where most terrorists are housed, is already close to full.Yesterday the Home Office launched an urgent inquiry after it emerged that an al-Qaeda follower, Tariq al-Daour, jailed for establishing an online jihad network, was caught making a website in his cell at Belmarsh urging terror attacks. When al-Daour refused to hand over his laptop a riot ensued as prison officers clashed with a group of al-Qaeda sympathisers.'In five years' time, the way things are heading, the number of [terrorist] prisoners in Category-A prisons will increase by a thousand,' Gough said. The POA is concerned about the influence this new wave of extremists could have over other inmates in the prison system.'The majority of the prison population is comprised of angry young men, disenfranchised from society,' Gough said. 'It doesn't matter if they're English, Afro-Caribbean or whatever. These types of people are ripe for radicalisation.'Muktar Said Ibrahim, ringleader of the 21/7 attempted bombings in London, had spent time in Feltham and Aylesbury young offenders' institutions in the late Nineties, where he is alleged to have been radicalised. Imams at both institutions were suspended in 2002 amid fears that they were preaching extremism. Richard Reid, the man who attempted to blow up a transatlantic plane with explosives hidden in his shoes, was also apparently radicalised while he was an inmate in Feltham.The chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, has raised questions about Feltham, suggesting there has been 'concern among some staff that a small minority of young people were being coerced into joining the Muslim faith.'There have also been reports that parts of Belmarsh prison, where a number of terror suspects are held, have become dominated by extremists. Prison officers report that, when an officer confronts a Muslim prisoner in Belmarsh, he or she often finds themselves surrounded by five or six other Muslim inmates. 'They are becoming a lot more defensive,' Gough said.Experts warn that more needs to be done to control the influence of radical imams at a time when an increasing number of prisoners are turning to Islam. On any given Friday at HMP Wandsworth, Europe's largest prison, more than 150 Muslim inmates gather before an imam for prayers, a tenfold rise on the figure a couple of years ago. More Muslims attend prayers at HMP Wandsworth than all the other faiths combined across the entire London prison system.'I've seen some tremendous changes in people for all the right reasons,' said Irfan Chishti, an imam who leads Friday prayers at HMP Buckley Hall in Rochdale. But he warned that some followers of Islam were being influenced by radicals. Two out of his 50 regulars at Friday prayers have caused him concern since he started as an imam five years ago.He reported one man - a Palestinian man who regularly quoted the radical imam Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi, a supporter of suicide bombings - to the prison authorities, so great were his concerns.There is little in the way of vetting of those who can preach in prison, which means the system is vulnerable to extremists, according to Chishti. 'You've got someone preaching to an empty shell, someone who has been told Islam is the answer to all their problems; the void can be filled,' Chishti said.The Ministry of Justice has pledged that prison staff will receive guidance on issues relating to radicalisation and extremism. 'As numbers of extremists held in prison increase, staff are becoming more alert to the risks of radicalisation. We are never complacent and prison staff are encouraged to identify and report such activities,' a ministry spokeswoman said.