The disappearance of a servant girl in rural Sussex in the 1920s is being treated as murder by detectives, 83 years after she went missing on her way to work.In one of the oldest cold case reviews the country has seen, officers announced this week that they would reopen their investigation into what happened to 16-year-old Emma Alice Smith in 1926. The move follows the screening of a short film based on her disappearance. At the time the teenager vanished, Britain was in the grip of industrial crisis, Stanley Baldwin was prime minister and Eamon de Valera was making sure the Irish question was at the forefront of his mind.But the villagers of Waldron and Emma's parents and younger sister, Lillian, were distraught after she failed to return home from Tunbridge Wells, where she was working. She had cycled to the station at Horam in East Sussex as usual earlier in the day to catch a train, but never came back.Her family reported her missing to the local police, and it is believed the local newspaper may have carried an article, but the weeks and months passed and soon Emma's fate was something that occupied the minds only of her closest family and friends in the village.That was until a village playwright called Valerie Chidson decided to research Emma's disappearance for a short fictionalised film after seeing a picture of the teenager in an old village photograph."I was looking at the picture, the row of girls' faces, when a man just came up to me, pointed to this very pretty girl aged about 16, and said 'That girl disappeared you know'," said Chidson yesterday. "That pricked my interest in the story and I just kept wondering how she had disappeared. The general belief was that she ran away. Only, her father said she would never have done this."A few years later Chidson overheard someone talking about the photograph in the pub. She discovered the man in the pub was a relative of Emma's, and he claimed her killer had made a deathbed confession but her relatives had chosen not to go to the police because the crime had taken place so long ago.Last year - persuaded by Chidson - Emma's great nephew spoke to Sussex police and passed on the information given to him by his mother, her niece.On Monday night Chidson presented a 40-minute film to a select audience including Detective Chief Inspector Trevor Bowles, of the major crime branch of Sussex police.Afterwards, Bowles announced that his team had decided to carry out a cold case review, codenamed Operation Stratton, on the suspected murder of Emma Smith. He said yesterday: "The sister of Emma Alice was tending to a dying man in 1953 and he admitted to her that he had killed her sister. He told her that he had destroyed the evidence and dumped her body in a pond."Emma's sister was now dead, he said, so inquiries into the identity of the man who had allegedly confessed to her would prove very difficult. Given the passage of time, the police inquiry would not be one in which officers would point the finger of suspicion at any individual."This investigation is to locate the body of Emma Alice and return that body to her family for a proper burial that they wish to give her," said Bowles.