Serial killer GP Harold Shipman, convicted of murdering 15 patients, may have killed up to 297 during his 24-year career, according to a report published today.The Greater Manchester family doctor recorded 297 more deaths at his practice than other GPs working at a similar time in the same area. A statistical audit of his clinical practice between 1974 and 1998 found that he recorded 236 more deaths of patients in their homes than similar doctors. The excess of deaths was greatest among women over 75, suggesting the Hyde GP may be the UK's worst serial killer.The health secretary, Alan Milburn, ordered the clinical audit after Shipman was convicted in January last year of murdering 15 of his elderly women patients. Richard Baker of the University of Leicester carried out the audit, the results of which have been passed on to the police and crown prosecution service. The chief medical officer, Liam Donaldson, said: "The questions raised in the report will be distressing reading to the patients and relatives who were under Shipman's care over the years, but it is important for their sake that this work has been done and is published. It has started the process of addressing the many unanswered questions that remain after the trial of Harold Shipman. This review is unprecedented in its remit.The analysis makes chilling reading. Taken in the rounds, the review suggests that there must be serious concerns about deaths of some patients during Harold Shipman's entire career as a GP." A helpline has been set up for people worried that their relatives may have been a victim of Shipman, who is serving 15 life sentences in Frankland jail, County Durham. The numbers are 0161-633 8653 and 0161-622 6431/2/3.Shipman murdered most of his victims in their own homes when no relatives were present, using massive doses of Diamorphine. Professor Baker said that it was the excess of deaths in similar circumstances uncovered by his audit that gave the most cause for concern. Between 1985 and 1998 information was available for 288 of the 324 deaths for which Shipman issued death certificates. Prof Baker said 57.6% of these were classified as highly suspicious and 14.9% as moderately suspicious. The audit found an excess of deaths in most years of Shipman's working life as a GP, from his earliest years in practice.Introducing the report, Prof Donaldson said it had been commissioned after the "terrible crimes" of Shipman were exposed. "There were widespread feelings of horror and outrage among the general public and the medical profession itself," he said. Today's reports had been "painstakingly and rigorously" researched from a variety of medical documents relating to Shipman.Prof Baker compared deaths of Shipman's patients with those of other local GPs and found that Shipman had 297 more deaths on his books than the average. Of these, 236 were deaths at home. Prof Baker said: "Some excess of deaths were seen from the earliest years of Shipman's practice. They are not explained by the number, the age, sex or socio-economic characteristics of his patients. I should say 236 is the one I feel is most likely to represent the number of excess deaths."Prof Baker said one of his sources of information was cremation forms filled out by Shipman between 1985 and 1998. They revealed that, on average, he had last seen a patient only 49 hours before they died, compared with 88 hours for other GPs. He was also present at death in 20% of cases, compared with just 0.8% in the cases of other GPs. In deaths recorded by Shipman, relatives were present only 40% of the time, compared with 80% normally, and his patients died much quicker than normal. Prof Baker gave examples of comments made by Shipman on cremation forms. One said: "Saw patient at home, diagnosis made, arranged admission ambulance, patient dead when went back, all within 10 mins." Prof Baker said: "This seems to me very strange. Surely what you would be doing in those circumstances is resuscitating the patient and trying to keep them alive until the ambulance arrives."Special reportThe Harold Shipman caseAudioJanuary 5: Helen Carter in HydePolice quiz Harold Shipman over Winifred Mellor's deathPhoto galleryThe story in picturesRelated articles1 January: Judge to head wider inquiry into Shipman murders29 December 2000: Male 'Shipman victim' namedFebruary 1 2000: Profile of Harold ShipmanUseful linksGeneral medical council: Shipman struck offDepartment of HealthUniversity of LeicesterElaine Quigley: analysis of Shipman's wife's handwritingCrown prosecution serviceTimeline How the Shipman trial unfolded