Gerry Tobin"Gentleman Gerry", as he was known, was one of the most popular members of the Angels. He worked at the Harley-Davidson dealership in Mottingham, south London, and lived nearby with his 25-year-old fiancée, Beckie Smith. Macclesfield-born Tobin, 35, had emigrated with his family to Canada as a boy. He led Bible studies at his home in Calgary and even thought of becoming a missionary before returning to England in the 1990s and joining the HAs. Marcus Berriman, president of the London chapter, described him as "a rare breed of man, with the heart of a lion and a soul filled with compassion and selflessness". Tobin's fiancée, who has been given his beloved Harley, described Tobin as her "gentle Angel".Sean Creighton  Sean Creighton. Photograph: PACreighton claimed to be the "sergeant-at-arms" but police believe he was the president and main power behind the small south Warwickshire chapter and the man whose finger was on the trigger. He worked as a motorcycle mechanic. He pleaded guilty at the start of the trial as the evidence against him was overwhelming. Police believe this may have been an attempt to secure the acquittal of fellow-members by allowing them to blame everything on him.Dane Garside  Dane Garside. Photograph: PAGarside, the driver of the Rover, had only recently been awarded the black and yellow insignia of the Outlaws, designating him as a "fully patched" member. A 42-year-old lorry driver and father of seven, he had wanted to be in an outlaw bikers' club since he was 13 and had the Grim Reaper emblem of another club, Satan's Slaves, tattooed on his head in anticipation of the day when he would be accepted into the biking fraternity. He also had the word "warrior" tattooed on his head. Simon Turner  Simon Turner. Photograph: PATurner, the third member of the group, was a mechanic who worked at a motorcycle shop in Coventry that acted as an unofficial clubhouse for the members. His elaborate tattoos stretched all the way down his arms and round his neck and he was no stranger to violent attacks on strangers. In 1993, he had been jailed for ten years for grievous bodily harm for stabbing and throwing petrol over a man he had never met before but who owed money to a friend. Turner explained his action later by saying that he needed the money to buy his children's Christmas presents. Throwing petrol over the man had been, he said, just "a scare tactic".OthersThree others in the chapter, Karl Garside, Dane's brother, Ian Cameron and Dean Taylor, were in a Range Rover further up the motorway. Taylor had a conviction for aggravated burglary - using a sawn-off shotgun to recover some bikers' regalia. A seventh member of the chapter, Malcolm Bull, who worked in the refuse business, was in a third car, apparently acting as a link between the two other cars. Creighton had decided that a Hell's Angel - any Hell's Angel would do - would meet the Grim Reaper that day.