A teenager has been found guilty of stabbing 15-year-old Alan Cartwright to death as he tried to steal his bicycle.Joshua Williams, 18, used a blade to attack Alan, as he rode along Caledonian Road, north London, with friends in February.At the time of the attack, which was caught on CCTV, Williams had been on police bail on suspicion of possessing a 4in lock knife, although he was never charged.The defendant claimed to have an alibi but, in a trial at the Old Bailey, he was convicted of murder and conspiracy to rob.Alan, known as Little Al by his family, was killed close to the spot where 16-year-old Ben Kinsella was stabbed to death eight years ago, prompting a high profile anti-knife campaign led by his sister, the EastEnders actor Brooke Kinsella.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Cartwright. Photograph: Metropolitan Police/PAFollowing Thursday’s verdict, Alan’s family called for more police stop-and-searches and tougher, 10-year mandatory sentences to deter young people from carrying knives.Alan Cartwright senior, 44, said: “It will make people think twice about carrying a knife.Alan’s death was “another tragic example of the knife crime that blights our society”, prosecutor Jonathan Rees QC told the court. On the evening of 27 February , Alan was cycling with five friends when Williams and two other youths intercepted them, the trial heard. In just seven seconds, they stepped out in front of the cyclists and managed to take two bikes before the third robber approached Alan in the road and swung a knife at his chest, in a “deliberate and gratuitous” stabbing, Rees said. Despite being mortally wounded, Alan managed to cycle on before collapsing a short distance up the road outside the Cally swimming pool. He was pronounced dead a short time later despite the efforts of a first aider, police and paramedics. On 4 March, Williams went to Islington police station with his parents to hand himself in, the prosecution said. When asked why they were there, his mother told an officer it was about the incident in Caledonian Road, saying: “Yes, he’s involved, he did it.” As he was taken into custody, Williams, who lived off Holloway Road, north London, was heard by another officer to say: “It’s the right thing to do, isn’t it?”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   CCTV image of the attack on Alan, in front wearing a blue top riding his bike. Photograph: Metropolitan Police/PABut in his defence, Williams claimed he was at a youth club that night and he only went to the police station to tell them that he was not involved in the incident. The court heard that the defendant, nicknamed Slimzy, was identified as the third robber in a comment about the CCTV footage that was released by police and posted on YouTube. His parents and brother also gave evidence to back up his claims. However, the apparently religious family did not all swear on the bible in the witness box. Rees told jurors that Williams’s alibi was in tatters and the evidence from his family was disappointing, because they had “decided to abandon their principles to support him in his lies to the court”. He suggested the defendant carried a knife on the day of the robbery because he was the victim of an earlier knife attack by a group of youths, which Williams had said also happened in Caledonian Road three months before. The prosecutor pointed out the CCTV showed the killer who wielded the knife was clearly left-handed – the same as Williams. Alan’s parents, Michelle and Alan senior, and his sister, Cherrie Ives, 21, attended court every day of the trial. They wept in court as the jury delivered its verdict      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Cartwright senior, Cherrie Ives and Michelle Cartwright. Photograph: Frantzesco Kangaris/PAThe jury took three hours to reject Williams’s explanation. He will be sentenced alongside 18-year-old Shaquille Roberts and a 16-year-old, who have already pleaded guilty to the bicycle robbery. So far this year there have been 10 knife-related murders in London. In a statement read to the court, Michelle Cartwright told how news of his death came as an “unbelievable shock”, and she rushed to the scene eight months pregnant with her third child. She said: “Life without Al is killing me as his mum. It’s also had devastating effect on his family. He loved his dad, Al senior. Al has not been able to go back to work since this happened.“He says he cannot see a future without him. He was our loving boy – our only son.”Outside court, DCI Chris Jones said: “I’m pleased with today’s verdict. I’m pleased the jury rejected Williams’s claims he was not responsible for his crime. I hope it reminds young people who may consider carrying a knife that they face some very real consequences.” Williams will be sentenced on Friday at noon.