One of the most prominent anti-gun campaigners in Manchester has been arrested for having a pump-action shotgun in her home, it emerged yesterday.Sheila Eccleston, who was instrumental in setting up Mothers Against Violence, has been involved in a high profile campaign against guns following the death of her son Dean almost four years ago. She got in touch with Greater Manchester Police last week to tell them she had a gun at her home. The 51-year-old grandmother, whose work has been honoured by the Queen, told officers it had been handed to her by a gang member because of her work in trying to rid the streets of firearms. But armed officers arrested her at her home in Longsight, Manchester, on suspicion of possessing a firearm. She was questioned and held in a police cell for 12 hours. Mrs Eccleston said she had been handed the weapon six months ago by a frightened gang member. She had planned to keep hold of it until the police held a gun amnesty, but became worried and finally called officers as it was preying on her mind. The gun had been kept in a suitcase on top of a wardrobe. Her son, Dean, also known as Marcus, a 24-year-old father of three, was shot seven times at close range in Chorlton-on-Medlock in October 2001. The gunman has never been caught. After her arrest, Mrs Eccleston said: "I'm really upset. I think it's disgusting. The police know the work I do to get guns off the streets, and they still locked me up for 12 hours. "About six months ago, there was a knock my door. There was a guy at the door and he asked me if I was Marcus's mother. He said he'd seen me on the TV trying to get guns off the streets. He said he had a gun and asked if I would take it off him. What was I supposed to do?" She added: "I must be doing something right if it has brought even one lad to my door. So I agreed to take it. I would do the same again, although I would get the advice of a solicitor." Mrs Eccleston helped promote the Mothers Against Violence group, set up to combat gang violence in south Manchester. She has travelled to America to speak on the subject and has met Tony Blair. She has now left the organisation, but continues to campaign locally. A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester police said: "A 51-year-old woman was arrested on suspicion of possession of a firearm, and has been bailed pending further inquiries." Mrs Eccleston has previously had her car burned, her windows smashed and a firework thrown through her letterbox because of her work with Mothers Against Violence. She said there was a lot of hostility towards the members because "at the end of the day, we're the ones trying to get the guns and drugs off the street, and a lot of people don't like that". Though her son was "no angel", he had been in trouble with the police from an early age and spent time in prison, she insists he was not a member of the local gang, the Longsight Crew. When he was murdered, he was wearing a bullet-proof jacket and he used to sleep with a gun under his pillow. Mothers Against Violence, which now has groups in Leeds and Liverpool, particularly targets younger children before they have a chance to get into gang culture.