A second man has been arrested on suspicion of murdering off-duty police constable Neil Doyle. Doyle, 36, was attacked in Liverpool city centre in the early hours of Friday morning during a Christmas night out with colleagues.A 30-year-old man from Huyton, Merseyside, has been arrested and taken to a police station to be interviewed by detectives.Merseyside police said a 28-year-old man from the same area who was arrested on Friday night is still being questioned.Both men were also arrested on suspicion of assaulting two other off-duty officers who were attacked alongside Doyle by three men in Colquitt Street at around 3.15am. Doyle was taken to the Royal Liverpool hospital after the attack, but died a short time later. His two colleagues were treated in hospital for facial injuries.Doyle’s widow Sarah said in a statement: “Neil was very well loved by all of his family, friends and colleagues and it is a great loss to us all. We are finding it extremely difficult to come to terms with what has happened and need time to be left to grieve.”The couple got married in July and were due to go on their honeymoon next month.A postmortem examination concluded that Doyle died from a fatal bleed around the brain, an injury said to be consistent with an assault.A Merseyside police spokesman said detectives were investigating the possibility that the police officers had been recognised by their attackers from their work. “It’s one line of inquiry that we are looking at but it’s by no means the set-in-stone motive,” he said.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Doyle, who joined the force in 2004, was awarded a commendation for his actions in arresting three men after a violent robbery. He was based at Eaton Road police station in West Derby.Peter Singleton, chairman of Merseyside Police Federation, said the police community was devastated by the officer’s death. “Devastated is the nearest word I can think of,” he said. “His family, friends and colleagues are absolutely devastated. I spoke to the colleagues who were out with him and they were in absolute bits.“He exemplified the British bobby. He was a solid, good, hard-working, honest copper. Losing a colleague like Neil in such a tragic way is absolutely devastating.”