The small band of journalists who regularly covered the Stephen Lawrence inquiry had never known a story like it.Following the twists and turns in the convoluted drama that emerged piece by piece proved compelling and draining. We sat in the press room one day and confided in each other that this story had eaten its way into our psyche. Myself and the others would wake up in the middle of the night having dreams about what was being unearthed. I remember going for a week's holiday in Barcelona and being woken up at 5am by some small detail popping into my mind. I would try and explain to friends in the pub the minutiae of what was being exposed, and even the most generous and interested would slowly nudge me towards talking about football.The conclusion reached by the inquiry chairman Sir William Macpherson would be seismic: namely that police prejudice against black people was so ingrained that it contributed to allowing racist murderers to get away with their crime.It would take some time to realise that what we were witnessing was historic. No direct evidence of racism ever emerged; it never does in these cases. One by one officers involved would walk into the witness box, and more often than not, leave worse for the experience.Every day was full of drama as police officers made admissions, some which, although they were too obscure to make the headlines, contributed to a growing picture pointing to blunders that would tarnish the worldwide reputation of Scotland Yard.There were days of intense melodrama dominated by the two days the five prime suspects testified. That led to the inquiry chamber being stormed and a mini-riot as they left. The inquiry took place in the surreal setting of Hannibal House, housed in the birthday-cake pink Elephant and Castle shopping centre.For me the inquiry kicked off in surreal fashion. The day before it started, I co-wrote a story in the Observer newspaper. We had checked Sir William Macpherson's record on race cases and what we had found so alarmed Neville Lawrence that he and his wife Doreen wanted him removed as chair.The inquiry began with Macpherson denouncing the Observer for its story. I sat and watched as my professionalism and accuracy were trashed. The inquiry was adjourned while the Lawrences saw the home secretary. As would often be the case, the inquiry started with melodrama that turned into mayhem.A week later, with Jack Straw having given Macpherson his full backing, the first evidence was heard.What was clear was that the police had no idea how to handle the questioning they faced. They had simply never been exposed to real accountability, to having to justify every decision. Some tried bluster, others outrage at their honour being questioned. Few, it seemed to those watching, tried undiluted candour.A senior Scotland Yard officer told me during the early days of the inquiry that they could not say that Stephen's murder was racist.The Met's top brass headed by the then commissioner Sir Paul Condon held out against the tide of evidence that racism had blighted the murder investigation for so long that it became almost embarrassing to watch.Parts of the evidence nearly moved me to tears. The statement of Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen when he was stabbed, set out what the two friends had done on the last day of Stephen's life. It was the normal teenage stuff, playing video games, going around town, but as with most things in this inquiry, it was the weight of detail that proved so telling, that created such a sense of bathos.Outside the chamber, Doreen and Neville Lawrence struggled to keep their emotions in check. Neville would sometimes be so angry at the police's evidence, he would leave the chamber muttering under his breath, "That man's a liar". The sadness in Doreen's eyes seemed to grow as the inquiry wore on. A year on and the debate rages about whether the Stephen Lawrence inquiry made any difference to race relations in Britain.There is one undeniable change. For years black and Asian people had been saying they received a second-rate service from the police, that they were over-policed as suspects and under-policed as victims. After the Macpherson report, there is no excuse for anyone claiming they are ignorant of the discrimination at the heart of the criminal justice system, no excuse for the culture of disbelief that greeted the experiences of black and Asian Britons who found they were repeatedly being let down by the people from whom they needed help most.It was a black woman who travelled across London to attend the inquiry who best set out the challenge facing Britain in the wake of Macpherson's findings. She said: "Black people don't need an inquiry to tell us the police are racist, we know that. But if the inquiry finds that, will white people care?"I don't know, I still don't know.Special report Macpherson report: one year on