Prostitution policy in Britain is a disgrace created by the interlinking scandals of political cowardice and public indifference.Sex workers lead difficult and dangerous lives and the truth is that most people, including politicians, don't care what happens to them.The uncomfortable reality is that while these often pitiful girls and women cater to an eternal consumer demand, their lives are being put at greater risk by the lamentable failings of both government and law enforcement.Now, it has taken a grotesque murder spree to bring light to this bleak underbelly of Britain.Home Office figures show that 60 prostitutes, possibly more, have been murdered in the past 10 years. In the UK, the average conviction rate for murder is one of the highest in the world at over 75 per cent. But that impressive rate drops sharply to around 26 per cent when it comes to killings of prostitutes.Calls for reform of the laws are growing as the Ipswich story unfolds. In the Commons last Wednesday, the Prime Minister expressed his shock but urged caution. Policy should not be revisited until the investigation is over, he said.The problem is that current strategy on prostitution was forensically examined just two years ago. I helped prepare a government paper called 'Paying the Price' which described our laws as 'outdated, confusing and ineffective', and called for people's views on legalised brothels, registration for prostitutes and local-authority sponsored red light zones. But it did not work in the way we had hoped. In Whitehall, only a handful of politicians and officials wanted the report to see the light of day. At the Home Office we were divided between those eager to publish - and be damned if necessary - and those wanting the whole issue to go away.In the end, and despite opposition from a No 10 terrified of a hostile media response, the 'damned' won, not least because the then Home Secretary, David Blunkett wanted what he called 'a grown-up debate'. In January this year the government finally came up with a watered-down series of proposals that took a small step in the right direction - a change of rules allowing prostitutes to work together, a crackdown on kerb crawlers and new methods to help women addicted to class-A drugs. Almost a year later, even these mild measures have not been enacted.What we now need is a lasting and honest solution. I believe we must scrap our current laws and start all over again. That basically means decriminalising prostitution. The argument that the State should not, through its laws, condone a lifestyle that most find distasteful and demeaning is not good enough.Brothels, giving women a safer place to work, should be made legal, and subject to licensing conditions. In Australia and New Zealand, brothels are regulated in the same way as other businesses, and strict laws prevent soliciting in streets, or near homes and schools. We should pilot managed areas such as in the Netherlands, regularly patrolled by police, where sex workers are given an area where they can safely take their customers. These so-called red light zones have their problems. But their existence can help reduce crime, and enhance the women's safety.Politicians are fond of telling people that theirs is a world of hard choices. It is time they made this one.· Katharine Raymond was special adviser to David Blunkett from 2001 to 2004.