It was the middle of the night and John Smith was mending the damage from the weekend's latest copper cable theft in Sheffield – when a man fell out of the tree behind him.Smith, a member of Network Rail's local fault and maintenance team, had arrived at the scene before the thief could escape, forcing the perpetrator to shin up the nearest tree."I can laugh about it now but at the time it was pretty scary. I was stood there, waiting in the pitch black, and the cable thief fell out of the trees," said Smith, who, like his colleagues, has seen his overtime increase significantly lately as the crime wave pushes the maintenance teams to the brink."Another time, I went looking for stolen cable from the train lines, through a wooded area to where the grass had been flattened down. There it was, coiled up with an axe next to it, and I could hear them in the trees," he said.Again, the thieves ran off. But Smith's colleagues of Smith haven't always been so fortunate. "Andy was shot … John was shot in the back with an air rifle ... [Another colleague] was threatened to be stabbed when he caught up with them," he said.DreadBoth Smith and Chris Blythen, the man working with him on a stretch of railway track near Woodburn junction, not far from the city centre, have noticed a significant increase in their workload in the past two or three weeks.They said it was putting a huge strain on them and their colleagues. "It gets to the point where you're dreading the next phone call," said Blythen, who did four 12-hour shifts in six days last week, although he was only rostered for eight-hour ones."I've got no life," he said. "I get home around 9.30 and I'm back at work early the next morning. They're asking us to stay behind, there is that much happening. It's really hard work."In the last three weeks, we've been getting dragged away from other jobs a lot to cover these faults."It used to be once every now and again, but recently there is just so much happening and there is not enough manpower," he added.Smith and Blythen are based at the centre of a rapidly growing industry that has seen Sheffield, once the world's steel capital, transformed into Copper Theft Central. Thieves here are ripping out lines attached to track signals, which use copper to convey power and messages from the control centre.The scores of scrap metal merchants set up to deal in locally manufactured steel now offer ready buyers for stolen copper cables, while growing poverty fuelled by spending cuts and a slew of secluded yet easily accessible railway lines have made this part of northern England particularly susceptible."There's one area around Tinsley East junction [just outside Sheffield] where the number of thefts is in double figures. It was done twice last week," said Blythen."In one case it looked like it had caused some kind of explosion so the police were phoning up local hospitals asking if they had seen anyone with burns."At Tapton, near Chesterfield station, cable was taken from the same place three days in a row, until they caught him, and it was only about a metre long."And it's going to continue. If they catch someone, there's another 50 people waiting to do it instead," added Blythen, who says it is extremely difficult to stop theft because there are so few staff to monitor so much track.SpeculationNetwork Rail and Britain's train passengers are casualties of two major events – the economic downturn and the resulting spending cuts that have made would-be thieves more likely to steal, and the commodity boom, which has seen speculators piling into metals and other raw materials in the hope of turning a profit.With demand from fast-growing economies such as China and India likely to continue for some time, investors are increasingly seeking to profit from the rising price of copper and other commodities.The amount of money invested globally in commodity funds hit a record $415bn (£254bn) in April – more than 40 times more than it was just a decade ago – in a development that critics say is artificially inflating the cost of basic foods such as wheat and soya beans as well as industrial raw materials such as metals.Some leading industry consultants believe that financial speculation in copper markets is now so widespread that the price copper is currently trading at – about $9,000 a tonne and forecast by some to hit as much as $13,000 by the end of the year – is more than twice its true value of between $4,000 and $5,000 a tonne. This is making it more attractive for thieves, while threatening economic growth by making raw materials more expensive.