A television version of the Stanford experiment, in which students were "imprisoned" to study responses to power and oppression, has been delayed after participants rebelled against the way they were portrayed.After seeing an early version of The Experiment, volunteers claimed they were made to look stupid and psychologists expressed concerns that the scientific purpose of the series had been lost in the editing. BBC2 has been forced to delay transmission until next month, to take the concerns on board before the final version is completed.The programme was intended to examine the emotional, mental and physical responses to an environment in which power relationships were stretched. Volunteers were split into "prisoners" and "guards", and put in a purpose-built "prison" at Elstree studios in Hertfordshire and monitored by psychologists. All were consulted in the editorial process, and concerns were expressed at a screening of an early version. A participant told the Guardian: "It was very personality led, focusing on a small group of people. Everyone else was background noise. One particular guy was made to look a bit pathetic when he wasn't like that at all. "They said it was meant to be a thorough, scientific programme, but it just looked like a poor man's Big Brother." When the BBC advertised for participants last year it asked for volunteers who would take part in a "university-backed social science experiment to be shown on TV", and warned that successful candidates would be exposed to "exercise, tasks, hardship, hunger, solitude and anger".Only men were asked to apply, money was not offered, and there was no suggestion that participation would lead to fame. The project was overseen by two psychologists: Alex Haslam from Exeter University, and Stephen Reicher from St Andrews. An independent ethical committee also monitored the project. Its purpose was twofold: to amass a range of psychological data that could be published in a respected journal and possibly written up in a book, and to make an entertaining and informative television series. · ITV1 ratings dropped to a rare low on Saturday when only 300,000 watched ice hockey and football between 3.30pm and 4pm, while 8.5m watched the Grand National on BBC1.