The timing of today's walkout might have come as a surprise, but the dispute has been brewing for months as morale among prison officers - charged with looking after record numbers of inmates - hit rock bottom.Prison officers do a stressful and challenging job, said Rob Allen, of the International Centre for Prison Studies. "The starting salary for prison officers outside London is around £18,000 and the basic training is eight weeks," he told the BBC. "There is a sense that society does not value prison officers as much as it should."That view has been widely repeated by striking officers outside prisons. One said the maximum pay for officers at London's Wormwood Scrubs prison was £30,000. That contrasts with a starting salary of £29,103 for Metropolitan police officers who have completed their initial training. The Prisons Act 1952 compares a prison officer's role to that of a police constable - hence the no-strike agreement by both professions and the beef of prison officers.In real terms the prison officer's salary is decreasing. Last year's 1.4% pay award was well below inflation, which has rarely fallen below 3% since 2005. This year's 2.5% pay offer has in effect been downgraded to 1.9%, the Prison Officers Association says, by the government's insistence that it be staged through a 1.5% rise in April followed by another 1% in October."It was the staging and the fact that it was under inflation to start with [that triggered today's strike]," Jim O'Neill, the chairman of the Full Sutton branch, said today. "We don't want to be millionaires. I want to be able to take my family on holiday and treat them like I did last year but I can't do that if they keep taking pay out of my pocket."By common consent the prison officer's job has grown harder in recent years as they have had more inmates to look after amid a climate of squeezed budgets. Prisons have been so overcrowded that in June the government announced that hundreds of inmates would be released early to ease conditions. And crowded conditions also lead to anxiety among inmates, which affects those supervising them."I do not think today's action should be seen in isolation," Lord Ramsbotham, the former chief inspector of prisons, said today. "It is symptomatic of the problems of an overstretched and under-resourced prison service."There are record numbers of prisoners, and the secretary of state announced that budgets would be frozen for three years. That leads to tension among prisoners, which impacts on staff."Since 1997 the prison population has increased from around 60,000 to 81,000. At the same time a government programme of efficiency savings - aimed at cutting prison costs by £60m - has hit wardens, unions say.To add to the brew, demands on the Home Office, of which the Prison Service was a part until the formation of the Ministry of Justice, have also grown with the expensive battle against the perceived rise in international terrorism threats. Despite that, and despite high-profile new spending commitments such as the implementation of identity cards, Gordon Brown announced in this year's budget that the Home Office budget would be frozen in real terms.The various components of this potentially explosive situation have been fermenting amongst wardens behind prison walls and have come to a head today.Outside the maximum security Wakefield prison in West Yorkshire, where some of Britain's most notorious criminals were being guarded by no more than 20 senior managers, the mood was defiant."The feeling is so strong about this here. I have never known anything like it," said the POA branch secretary Bob Rennison. "It has taken a lot to force people into this because people do still care about what they do. But this is the straw that's broken the camel's back. It is totally solid here. We are not going to back down."