The exiled Russian billionaire Boris Berezovsky will not face charges in the UK for talking about plotting a "revolution" in his homeland, the Crown Prosecution Service said today.The oligarch, who was a close friend of the murdered dissident Alexander Litvinenko, was investigated by Scotland Yard after an interview with the Guardian in April in which he called for the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to be ousted. In his interview, Mr Berezovsky said: "We need to use force to change this regime. It isn't possible to change this regime through democratic means."The comments prompted fury among Kremlin officials who called it a "disturbing moment" in Anglo-Russian relations. The Kremlin called for the London-based exile to be extradited or, failing that, for the British courts to act. Susan Hemming, head of the CPS counter-terrorism division, said: "Crucially, in the interview Mr Berezovsky repeatedly invoked the recent Orange Revolution in the Ukraine as an example. We concluded that he appeared to indicate civil disobedience as the model he was advocating. This would fall far short of advocating terrorist violence."Mr Berezovsky is to be tried in his absence in Russia accused of embezzlement and money laundering. He believes the trial is part of a Kremlin bid to distract attention from the radiation poisoning of Mr Litvinenko, which he blames on President Putin's administration. The Kremlin has denied any involvement.Britain wants to extradite the businessman and ex-KGB spy Andrei Lugovoi to face charges in the UK over the murder. Russian prosecutors today officially refused Britain's request to hand over the suspect in the fatal poisoning of Litvinenko.The Interfax news agency reported that the Russian prosecutor general would not sanction turning over Mr Lugovoi on the grounds that the extradition would breach the country's constitution. Officials in the prosecutor general's office have yet to comment publicly, and both the UK Foreign Office and CPS said they were looking into the report.In May, Britain accused Mr Lugovoi of involvement in the killing of Mr Litvinenko, who died in a London hospital in November from a fatal dose of the radioactive substance polonium-210.Mr Lugovoi met Mr Litvinenko at the Millennium hotel in London on November 1 2006, hours before the former spy fell ill, but has denied any role in the killing.Mr Putin has said publicly he would oppose the extradition of any Russian suspects because the constitution prohibits handing over citizens to foreign nationals.The case has led to a bitter deterioration in relations between London and Moscow. Russian authorities last month tried to turn the tables on Britain by opening their own investigation into allegations of British espionage made by Mr Lugovoi. The businessman alleged that Mr Litvinenko and Mr Berezovsky were working for MI6 and claimed that British secret services could have been involved in his death.