Children up to the age of five could be kept in prison with their mothers in a controversial scheme being considered by Scotland's only women's jail.At the moment, mothers serving a prison sentence can only keep their children with them until the age of 18 months. But Sue Brookes, governor of Cornton Vale women's prison near Stirling, yesterday revealed that she is keen to extend the age to five in individual cases. Ms Brookes, herself a mother of three, said an open prison offered a fairly natural environment and she did not see the sense of putting children into care. "I would like the mums to be able to do the same things I can with my children - to play with them and do their homework with them," she told the newspaper Scotland on Sunday. If the idea is put into practice, mothers and their children would live in independent living units in the prison grounds. The mother would be free to take her child to nursery but would be bound by prison rules, such as reporting at the gate and being locked in, with her child, at night. After the children turned five they would be passed on to other family members or carers until their mother was freed. "We are starting to look at the relationship issues that are very likely the reason why [the women] are in here," Ms Brookes said. "There is usually a relationship that has gone badly wrong. We recently managed to get a mum and a two-year-old in the open prison going to a local nursery for the first time. That seems to me to be a good thing." Ms Brookes could not be contacted for further comment yesterday, but a spokeswoman for the Scottish Prison Service confirmed that the idea was being considered. Under the Scottish prison system, Ms Brookes can exercise discretion in individual cases. "When men go to prison they often have a wife or girlfriend outside who can look after the children," the SPS spokeswoman said. "Women tend not to have that kind of support when they go to prison. It does pose a problem." The spokeswoman said the scheme, if it did go ahead, would be operated on a case by case basis. The mother would have to satisfy social workers and psychologists that it was in the best interests of her child to stay with her behind bars. Cornton Vale, which hit the headlines in the 1990s (before Ms Brookes' time) after a spate of suicides, currently houses around 340 inmates. There are three children living on the premises at present, two in the main prison and one in one of the independent living units. Ms Brookes has estimated that there could be around 10 children in the jail at any one time if the idea of extending the age is pursued. The proposal has prompted concern, however, from some penal reform campaigners who say prison is no place for a child. Opposition politicians in Scotland are also cautious. Annabel Goldie, justice spokeswoman for the Scottish Conservatives, said the interests of the child must be paramount. "Obviously for babies, especially those being breast-fed, being with their mother is very important," she said. "But as children get older and become aware of the circumstances in which they are living, we have to make sure that this is the best option for them."