Detectives are to reinvestigate the deaths and disappearances of more than 100 Asian women, a conference on "honour killings" was told today.The 117 cases across England and Wales, which span a decade, will be looked at by police and the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS).Honour killings are often carried out by close relatives who believe that women have brought dishonour to their families. Experts also believe that some women may have been driven to take their own lives, with the suicide rate of Asian women aged 16 to 24 being nearly three times higher than the national average.The director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, called the killings "an area of hidden crime". "There is a significant level of crime which needs to be unearthed, investigated and prosecuted," he said. "It's about reassuring people that when they come forward as witnesses we will look after them."Mr McDonald admitted the problem was "mainly a cultural challenge". "We have to get inside these communities and that obviously presents challenges. All societies practise violence against women and we don't want to lose sight of that - but we're talking here about crimes of murder in dreadful circumstances. "There is no defence of honour to this kind of crime - when they are uncovered these crimes will be prosecuted relentlessly." Nazir Afzal, a CPS director in west London, said 12 cases of honour crimes were prosecuted in the capital last year. But no national data exists because police forces deal with the crime in different ways. The Metropolitan and West Yorkshire forces had gained significant expertise in investigating such crimes, but other forces had less experience, he said."We want to learn the lessons from these cases and make sure that future prosecutions can be improved," Mr Afzal said of the deaths and disappearances being re-examined."We hope we can secure prosecutions in these cases. And we hope that someone, somewhere will tell the police that they saw what happened and we can finally secure justice." Mr Afzal spoke of one extreme case involving a large Pakistani family where a girl was taken abroad and presumed killed after a song was dedicated to her on an Asian radio station in Yorkshire. "It was picked up by a member of her family who then told other members of her family," he said. "She disappeared in circumstances which suggested she was murdered. She was in regular contact with friends and they no longer have any contact with her."West Yorkshire police are very sophisticated in this area but it reached a stage where they weren't able to progress the inquiry. There have been no arrests. Nobody is being helpful in the investigation, as is so often in these cases." Another case, which took place in Newham, south London, in 2002, saw a woman who had been raped by a stranger killed by her family who believed the incident dishonoured their name.Although more prevalent among South Asian families, Mr Afzal stressed that honour crimes were not confined exclusively to those communities. He said he had seen cases involving Turkish, Romany, Bosnian and Kosovan, West African and Middle Eastern families. Hannana Siddiqui, of women's rights group Southall Black Sisters, said she had also dealt with victims from Italian and Greek backgrounds.