Tony Blair today promised that Labour would cut crime by 15% if it was elected for a third term.The prime minister's pledge came as the latest Home Office recorded crime figures showed that violent crime has risen by 9% in the final quarter of last year, but with overall crime down by 5%.The figures were seized on by the Conservatives as proof that violent crime had risen "very fast" under Labour, but Mr Blair stood firm, insisting that, by any measure, "crime has fallen".That claim was supported by today's British Crime Survey (BCS), which is based on thousands of interviews asking people about their experiences of crime. The BCS showed overall crime falling by 11% last year, with violent crime down by 10%.Mr Blair explained the differences between the two sets of figures as a result of changes introduced in how crime is recorded. "The recording of violent crime has risen, [but] that is because, for example, we are asking people to come forward in domestic violence cases or rape cases," he said. "There are common assaults that are now included in violent crime figures that were not included before."But Mr Blair accepted that "for many people in local communities it does not feel like that". "People worry about going down to the shops in case they are abused by hooligans, people worry about street crime and violent crime."Labour's commitment to increase visible community policing in the streets would help bridge the gap between perception and reality, he said. This included dedicated neighbourhood police teams and ensuring 24,000 community support officers were in place by 2008."It may not cut crime, but it will certainly cut the fear of crime," Mr Blair said.The prime minister outlined a three-prong law and order strategy: first, Labour's existing crime legislation to introduce antisocial behaviour orders and tighten the law around drugs; second, investment in children's early years - such as Sure Start centres - to prevent them falling into crime; and third, extra policing.The home secretary, Charles Clarke, confirmed that a third-term Labour government would introduce a flagship crime bill within weeks of the election, including controls on replica firearms and knives and new measures on antisocial behaviour. Mr Blair and Mr Clarke today set out a 10-point plan for tackling crime and antisocial behaviour. They said the plan was aimed at reducing the BCS figure by a further 15% by 2008.The promises include dedicated local policing teams for every community, a six-fold increase in community service officers to 24,000 within three years, a stronger voice for local communities in setting local police priorities, and greater powers for parish councils to issue fixed penalty notices. The Tory leader, Michael Howard, seized on the crime figures published today, which he said showed crime had risen under Labour. "These demonstrate with absolute clarity that violent crime has been rising very fast under a Labour government," he said. "Official figures may well underestimate the increase."Mr Blair also suffered further criticism from a police officer from Boston, Lincolnshire, who barracked the prime minister over his record of getting more police onto the street in a BBC Radio 5 Live phone-in."Why is it that you continually make my job harder by telling the general public that there are more police officers than there has ever been, when for every police officer you have put in the rank and file on the street, you have probably put another four in offices?" he asked him."My job is increasingly harder. I have heard this morning that you are going to be tough on crime, and you have set new figures. How do you propose to achieve those figures when you don't have the police officers to actually go out and do the policing?" Mr Blair responded: "I speak to a lot of police officers, Carl, who don't actually share that perspective and who actually believe that they are getting on top of the crime situation, difficult though it is."