An 83-year-old retired dentist who has dementia killed a stranger in a care home after mistaking her for his wife, a court has heard.Peter Woodroof, who becomes one of Britain's oldest killers, smothered 92-year-old Ivy Hawken to death as he experienced hallucinations and delusions, Plymouth crown court heard.Woodroof had told staff at the Hyne Town House care home in Strete, near Dartmouth, Devon, that he was angry with his wife because she had gone out partying and claimed another resident was a devil worshipper.His wife of 60 years, Audrey, was at the couple's home but Woodroof came to believe that she was in the room next door to him. In fact the resident he attacked was a stranger who had gone to bed after spending an evening playing cards with her family.Woodroof was in the home after a hip replacement operation and experts believe the anaesthetic aggravated dementia linked to Parkinson's disease.Woodroof admitted manslaughter and was made subject to a hospital order that means he will remain in a clinic indefinitely.He was too frail to appear in court but appeared via video link. He appeared distant and confused.The judge, Francis Gilbert QC said: "This is clearly a very sad case of an otherwise entirely respectable man suffering in old age the extreme consequences of dementia."Sarah Munro QC, prosecuting, said that on the evening of the killing in December last year Woodroof had "exhibited signs of agitation".He told staff he was angry with his wife, complaining she had gone out partying and said another male resident was a devil worshipper.Munro said: "He was noted to be asleep at 9.30pm but at 10.10pm he was found not to be in his room and within a minute staff found him in Mrs Hawken's room."She was lying on her bed on her back and he was kneeling on top of her with his body covering her face and the top half of his body moving. He made a grunting sound. The two female staff tried to lift him off but he refused to move."He said he loved her and was protecting her and would die for her. His voice became increasingly aggressive and attempts to move him failed."When they managed to get him away the woman's face was grey and she was not breathing. A postmortem examination showed she died from manual asphyxiation."Woodroof later told his son he believed he was killing his wife, Audrey. He told a psychiatrist he was woken by a loud noise and went into the room opposite and thought his wife was singing and screaming."He said he pressed a pillow on her to stop her screaming. He expressed remorse for his behaviour. He made no comment to the police other than to deny a sexual motive but made worrying and bizarre statements while at Torbay hospital. He said he wanted to buy Viagra and have a final fling and said some women needed a good bashing now and then."Robert Linford, defending, said Woodroof had served with the navy in the Korean war and went on to become a highly respected dentist who lectured at Guy's hospital in London and work as a regional dental officer.Despite being diagnosed at his arrest as needing psychiatric treatment he was held in Exeter prison for four months, during which time his wife, Audrey, died from a brain tumour.Linford said: "This case can be described as a tragedy. His wife's last view of him, and his last view of her, was in Exeter prison with her in a wheelchair and him on remand. When he is lucid the defendant is able to and has expressed remorse, sorrow and understanding of what he did."A statement from Hyne Town House care home said: "The past six months has been a very difficult time for all concerned. We hope this judgment will bring closure and allow everyone caught up in this tragedy to move on with their lives."