The more Bill Bratton talks about leadership and the ability of police not just to transform themselves but to lead change in society, it becomes clearer to see what attracted him to David Cameron. It is not just a change of policing culture he is advocating, it is also about the style of leadership and having political nous.If a politician's mandate is that he has to improve policing within budgetary constraints, that is what William J Bratton will do. He says he has done it before, in Boston, New York and Los Angeles. If he has to build alliances with police critics in the community, he has done that as well.But Bratton is not just idly boasting about being a "transformational leader". Given his track record in the United States turning around big city police departments from struggling entities to successful forces, he feels he could do the same in Britain, if he was allowed to.The image of Bratton in Britain so far is of a zero-tolerance, tough-talking police leader, in keeping with an image that US police are gun toting and far more militaristic than their British equivalent. It's a Robocop model versus Dixon of Dock Green, seemingly. But Bratton's style and declared values suggest a more nuanced police leader. When he left the Los Angeles police department in 2009, after seven years at its helm, his passing was lamented by the once mortal enemy of police there, the American Civil Liberties Union. For years it had fought and sued the LAPD, but Bratton slashed the number of annual complaints.Bratton is known for "broken window theory" policing, meaning even small infractions led to arrests because that gives a strident message crime will not be tolerated. But he insists a significant part in crime reduction was the "progressive" idea of community policing, which takes officers out of cars and to get to know their communities and their differing concerns, and stresses the need for partnerships.Bratton said: "Community policing was a significant catalyst in the turnaround in crime." This claim is supported by Fernando Guerra, director of the Leavey Centre for the Study of Los Angeles, who told the LA Times. "That to me is the ultimate in community policing, where the community is given the benefit of the doubt first, and the police had to justify their actions."After leaving Los Angeles, Bratton became chair of the private security company Kroll. Speaking from New York, he told the Guardian that policing could do more than just make streets safer, it could lead societal change: "Nobody can change race relations, society and public fears faster than the police."You need to address these issues all at the same time, not piecemeal. Police need to be inclusive, transparent and available, not parochial, exclusive and nontransparent."He makes no apologies for clamping down on crime, but insists he can do this and protect civil liberties. Bratton said: "I'm a progressive. I'm an advocate of gay and human rights, and of illegal immigrants being treated in humane ways. I'm issues focused. I believe the role of the police is critical to the protection and advocacy of human rights."He can challenge existing police culture to make the service more open for minority groups, which in turn helps boost confidence in the police. Bratton said: "In New York and LAPD the promotion path was open for women and ethnic minorities. They became more representative of the minority composition of the city." He added that there was "no glass ceiling for anyone", including gay people and transvestites.The British interest in him has reignited media interest in him across the Atlantic. Bratton points to a weekend New York Times piece which found that he helped change the racial makeup of the LAPD. The piece said: "In 1991, the year of the [Rodney] King beating, the department was 61% white and 87% male. As of last month, it was 36% white and 81% male."The former Los Angeles mayor James Hahn told the newspaper Bratton made big promises, which he kept. Hahn recalled Bratton's claims in his interview to become LA's police chief. "He also said, 'I can bring crime down in your city by 25%, and if not I'll resign.' That was an offer I could not refuse."Bratton says policing in the US failed in the 1960s, 70s, and 80s, believing crime was so ingrained it could not be challenged: "The cause of crime is human behaviour. In a democratic society the police are charged with controlling human behaviour," Bratton said.He said it must be done "constitutionally, compassionately and consistently", across all ethnic and socioeconomic groups.Bratton said that British police are not alone in suffering budget cuts; other agencies which help tackle discontent will also suffer losses: "It's quite obvious that there will be reductions not just for policing but for social services that ameliorate dissatisfaction."Bratton may have impressed civil liberties advocates in the US, but British police chiefs are considerably more sceptical. One told the Guardian: "He made a career going around the world to conferences, he only spent 20 months in New York." London mayor Boris Johnson told Sky News: "His particular success in tackling crime in New York was very much down to a huge ramp up in numbers, up from about 30,000 to 42,000 officers on the streets."Bratton has been monitoring the row between the government and British police chiefs. He was ousted from leading the New York police after falling out with the city mayor, Rudy Giuliani. Bratton said: "It's a very interesting situation to watch where people can feel comfortable to speak their minds."British chiefs have more ability to speak out against government. In the US most police chiefs are appointed by a mayor, if they don't get along, the police chief will not last very long."He said politicians have the right to "inquire and seek to encourage", but he believes in operational independence.Having been thwarted in his attempts to clear the path for Bratton to apply for the commissionership of the Met, the prime minister has recruited him to advise on gangs. This again has irked British police chiefs who feel it denigrates their successes. A senior officer said British police had regularly gone to the US to plunder tactics to tackle gangs, and had been so successful that the US was now sending their officers over here to learn about Britain's successes.That fact explains Sir Hugh Orde's frustration at Cameron bringing Bratton over. Orde, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, told the Independent on Sunday: "I am not sure I want to learn about gangs from an area of America that has 400 of them. It seems to me, if you've got 400 gangs, then you're not being very effective. If you look at the style of policing in the states, and their levels of violence, they are fundamentally different from here."Bratton says he is honoured to be asked to help and may be in London to meet the prime minister this week."I'm not coming in with the only bag of tricks in town," he says, adding that when it comes to gangs the US has many similarities with the UK – gangs "promote violence and fear, can destroy neighbourhoods", and will create "more violence unless forcefully challenged".Bratton said a series of creative programmes led to success in Los Angeles: "It has to be a comprehensive set of initiatives, it can't be piecemeal." He also said police chiefs need to look the world over for ideas: "Anyone who looks only inwards is not going to be as successful as someone who looks outside, the world over. It's a big world out there."Bratton said Britain was correctly dealing with the aftermath of the riots, using the criminal justice system to arrest and jail those responsible, and then maybe dealing with underlying issues: "The criminal behaviour, you have to focus on dealing with that first and it sounds like you are doing that. Violence can never be excused in a democratic society. When you engage in violence that is not democracy, that is anarchy."