Harold Shipman's career as the world's most prolific serial killer began soon after he started in general practice at Todmorden, West Yorkshire, in 1974.An exhaustive audit of his 24 years as a GP, published yesterday by the Department of Health, shows warning signs of an excessive death rate -particularly among his older female patients - in almost every year from 1975. Numbers climbed after he began practising in Hyde, Greater Manchester, two years later.By 1998, when a few of his murders came to light after a complaint about a forged will, the total of "excess deaths" of patients in his care had reached 297, possibly as many as 345. The audit of his chilling career as a GP was conducted by Richard Baker, a professor in the general practice and primary care department at Leicester University. After comparing the medical records, death certificates and cremation forms of Shipman's patients with those of comparable local GPs, he said he was particularly concerned about 236 "excess deaths" among Shipman's patients who died at home or in his practice premises. This was probably the figure that came closest to estimating the doctor's full death toll, he said. Prof Baker paid closest attention to the period after 1985 when fuller records were available. Shipman issued 324 medical certificates of cause of death and the audit was able to track clinical records of 288 of these patients. Prof Baker concluded that 166 of the deaths were "highly suspicious" and 43 were "moderately suspicious", in that they shared characteristics similar to the 15 murders of which Shipman was convicted last year. The figures suggest that more than half of the patients who died while under the doctor's care during this period were killed by him. Most of the established murder victims were older women who died suddenly at home - usually in the afternoon. Shipman was present at the death or attended shortly before death. A review of death certificates he signed showed that a disproportionate number were women over 75. "Most died at home and had either been seen within one day of death or with Shipman present at death. The clinical histories given by Shipman often did not relate convincingly to the certified cause of death and evidence to corroborate the cause of death from other doctors was frequently not available," the report said. Shipman commonly said deaths were due to heart problems, stroke or old age. He was 25 times more likely than comparable GPs to be present at death - attending in 20% of cases compared with a norm of 0.8%. Relatives were present at 40% of his patients' deaths, compared with 80% for other doctors. And 60% of his patients took less than 30 minutes to die, compared with a norm of 23%. Prof Baker drew attention to suspicious comments recorded by Shipman on cremation forms. In one case Shipman wrote: "Saw patient at home, diagnosis made, arranged admission ambulance, patient dead when went back, all within 10 minutes." The professor said this record was particularly odd because it should have been standard practice to try to resuscitate a patient until the ambulance arrived. Perhaps the most extraordinary clue to Shipman's irregularity was the timing of his patients' deaths, peaking abnormally between 2pm and 6pm in sharp contrast to the more regular pattern experienced by other doctors. "It is impossible to come up with a logical [legitimate] explanation of why so many patients die in the afternoon," Prof Baker said. Although most of Shipman's victims were women, the report found the deaths of 21 men were highly suspicious. "On the basis of the review of surviving records there is considerable reason for concern about the cause of death of substantially more patients than those of which Shipman was convicted," it said. Prof Baker said his evidence was circumstantial and it would be up to the police and prosecution service to investigate the cases of individual victims. The report found Shipman's record-keeping was consistently poor. "His writing was sometimes illegible, but of greater concern was the lack of detail he recorded about patients presenting complaints and his clinical management." A review of a small sample should have disclosed the problem. In some cases his use of inadequate records could be regarded as a deliberate ploy to conceal illegal activities, but it was impossible to judge thow far he fabricated entries. Prof Baker was unable to reach firm conclusions on how Shipman obtained all the diamorphine he used to administer lethal doses to the patients whose deaths were suspicious. The doctor did not maintain a prescribed drugs register. The report concluded: "There was a clear rise in the numbers of deaths towards the end of Shipman's career...It was not surprising therefore that his activities eventually attracted attention." A pattern emerged showing relatively low death rates during Shipman's first year at Todmorden and in the Hyde group practice. There were also few deaths between 1990 and 1992 when he left the group practice and set up alone. There was also evidence of clusters of deaths during shorter periods. They were more likely on certain weekdays. Occasionally several would occur on the same day or within a few days of each other. The audit was commissioned by Alan Milburn, the health secretary, at the time of the verdict on Shipman last January. He asked Liam Donaldson, the chief medical officer, to organise a review of Shipman's practice from 1974 to 1998 without trying to gather additional forensic evidence. Prof Baker said he had not been asked to come up with recommendations, but did so out of a sense of rage as a professional that Shipman had betrayed the trust of so many people who depended on him. The seven recommendations include routine monitoring of GPs' patient death rates, checks on their standard of record-keeping and more information on death certificates. Prof Donaldson said: "This review is unprecedented in its remit. The analysis makes chilling reading...Everything points to the fact that a doctor with the sinister and macabre motivation of Harold Shipman is a once in a lifetime occurrence... [but] there is much to be learned from this tragedy."He said Prof Baker's recommendations would be considered by the judicial inquiry that was set up in September to look into the circumstances of Shipman's crimes.