At Oliver Goldsmith primary school, news of the murder of Damilola Taylor, and the suggestion that the attack may have had its roots in playground bullying, provoked an angry reaction from parents. All day yesterday they queued to sign a petition calling for the school to take tougher action against bullies, but head Mark Parsons insisted he was "immensely proud" of his anti-bullying policy. "The vast majority of parents think I have a very strong line on bullying," he said. "I exclude a lot of children. I don't know how many but a lot - a lot more than the borough average. He rejected claims made by Damilola's mother that staff had failed to take reports of name calling seriously and added he was 100% satisfied that the death of the 10-year-old had nothing to do with the school. "The mum thought that I could deal with the stuff that led to his death but that was all about other people outside the school," he said.  He added that the type of behaviour the boy's mother had complained about would not have warranted serious punishment because he had not regarded it as bullying. However Jojo Kumi, 30, signing the petition outside the school, criticised Mr Parson's stance, saying: "When my son started he complained of being bullied. I sat down with the headmaster and he said it was just a minor problem. "It seems all bullying is a minor problem to him but every child reacts differently and what seems minor may be major to that child. I think he is running away from his responsibilities."  Asked when he first became aware that Damilola was being bullied at his 600-pupil primary school, Mr Parsons said: "If you mean when we actually called it bullying, that was when his mum came in. But the incidents she was calling bullying I had already dealt with before. "These were very low-level person to person slightly threatening behaviour. We are not talking physical violence in any sense. And there was name-calling and I also dealt with that. "Damilola had been here three months. In that time he had one argument with a child of equal size in his class, one little slight disagreement with a good friend of his and name calling. We are not talking about serious bullying here." Outside the window, life seemed to go on as normal at the school with children wearing their maroon sweatshirt uniform. But the presence of two uniformed policemen alongside the children's regular supervisors gave a hint of the tragedy that had enveloped the whole estate.Related stories 30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Boys murder should be wake-up call - Straw 29 November: Death of a school boyUseful links Metropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate