Cheryl Hartman wanted to go to prison. She thought she'd get help there for her psychiatric problems and addiction to anti-depressants. Ignoring the fundamental Catch-22 - that those who believe themselves to be so mentally ill that they should go to prison are too mentally ill to go to prison - the judge at her remand hearing on a charge of assault agreed to her request. She was sent to Holloway. She never came out. Less than three months later, on 18 June last year, Hartman was found hanging in her cell. She was 20 years old. This week Hartman's family will issue a complaint to the Parliamentary Ombudsman alleging maladministration in government. Recommendations following other similar deaths at Holloway had not been acted upon. Staff were not adequately trained. Medical advice was not followed up. In short, the Prison Service had failed a young, vulnerable - and very ill - woman. It was not the first time. Since New Labour came to power the number of self-inflicted deaths of women in prison has risen from one or two a year to eight last year. The figures for this year are already looking equally bleak, as are those for men, which have numbered over 80 for the past three years (up from 60 the year before the current Government came to power). Shocked into action by the deaths of people like Cheryl, and reacting to delayed but promising policy pronouncements from central government, the situation at Holloway seems now slowly to be changing. But the situation for the mentally ill in most of the prison system remains 'frankly a disgrace', as Dr John Reed, clinical director of the Prison Inspectorate, told the Health Select Committee last year. They face doctors with no training in psychiatry and prison officers who treat difficult behaviour as a discipline issue rather than a symptom. What's more, despite all the proud rhetoric from Whitehall, the Government has, according to its own senior officials, failed dismally to engage with the most fundamental issue: that severely mentally ill people such as Cheryl Hartman should never be sent to prison in the first place. Hartman, from north-west London, had led a troubled life since leaving school at 15: she complained of anxiety and panic attacks, sedated herself with high doses of anti-depressants, obtained from both NHS and private doctors, and was unable to hold down a job. Regularly she would go voluntarily to psychiatric units, desperate for help. Regularly she would be turfed out again because of aggressive or challenging behaviour. There were also some good moments, when she got her own flat and seemed to be taking control of her life, but soon she would deteriorate and the cycle would resume. In August 1999 she was arrested for assault while under the influence of alcohol and medication, and bailed to her flat. It was in March 2000, while still awaiting trial, that she was sent at her own request to Holloway. 'Personally I didn't think that someone with Cheryl's problems should go to prison,' says her brother, Sean McGowan, who was in court that day. 'She needed to go to a hospital.' In May she was given nine months in prison for the assault. Sentencing her, the judge said that he 'hoped the authorities can find you appropriate help'. At first she was sent to C1, Holloway's psychiatric wing, where she received treatment from a consultant psychiatrist called Dr Xena Labounkova. In June, hoping to prepare her for release on parole which was coming in August, Labounkova marked her for transfer to the young offenders' wing, although she wrote in her notes that 'if she is not coping - or should deteriorate - we would be willing to take her back'. Within days Hartman was, like so many of the stigmatised patients of the psychiatric wing, a victim of violent bullying. On 12 June she saw the prison medical officer, who noted that she was 'depressed and trembling'. Ignoring Labounkova's willingness to take her back - and without contacting her - the medical officer wrote in her notes that she should have an appointment with another visiting psychiatrist. The prison staff never arranged the appointment. A few days later, with Hartman clearly ill, the prison staff met to decide if she should be put on an official suicide watch. The staff decided that, as she was in a shared dormitory, the other girls would keep an eye on her. A few days after that they moved her to a single cell because they feared she was being bullied. Now no one was keeping an eye on her. On 18 June, now clearly very unstable, Hartman asked a prison officer if she could see the prison doctor so that she could be transferred back to the psychiatric wing. When the officer returned 20 minutes later, Hartman was hanging by a ligature made from her dressing-gown belt slung over a curtain rail. Despite attempts at resuscitation, she died. Instead of personally visiting Hartman's mother to inform her of her daughter's death - which is the standard practice - a prison official phoned Mrs Hartman. She was alone when she took the call. Other family members heard on the radio. At the inquest into her death in February, the prison officers questioned revealed that the only suicide awareness training they had received was five weeks before that inquest. It also transpired Holloway had failed to act fully on the recommendations of an internal prison service inquiry into a previous death. In August 1999 Sharon Peters had hanged herself from the curtain rail in her cell. The inquiry had called for all curtain rails to be removed. Many of them in the prison had indeed gone, apart from those in the young offenders' wing. Holloway talks up the changes that have occurred there in recent months, and there is no doubt that things are moving on. Under the 1952 Prisons Act, all healthcare for prisoners is provided not by the NHS but by the Prison Service. The result has been a disgracefully substandard service. This month, speaking at an NHS Confederation conference in Manchester, Martin Narey, director-general of the Prison Service, attacked the quality of many prison healthcare centres, calling them 'worse than the kennels I leave my dog in when I go on holiday'. He also criticised the quality of prison doctors. 'To be frank the majority of our staff are staff you in the NHS would not want to employ,' he said. Last year the Government set up the Prison Healthcare Task Force, which is a partnership between the Prison Service and the NHS, but significant change is proving slow and uneven. Under their auspices, healthcare at Holloway is now slowly being transferred to the NHS. Quietly, however, there are those who question the depth of understanding at Holloway of the importance of good therapeutic care for those with mental illness. Shortly after Hartman's inquest, in March of this year, Holloway dispensed with the services of Labounkova. Labounkova was credited by many who worked with her with forming vital one-to-one relationships with psychiatric patients under her care. Holloway removed her without having anybody to replace her, and for six weeks the prison holding some of the most mentally ill women in the country had only emergency cover. A few weeks later, one of those very psychiatric patients with whom Labounkova had a close relationship - a woman in her forties called Maxine Bower - was found dead in her cell, a ligature around her neck. (That weekend two other women on the psychiatric wing almost died in similar circumstances but were resuscitated.) As one source close to the case says: 'It is entirely possible that Maxine Bower would still be alive if she had continued under the close care of Dr Labounkova.' Bower's story highlights the most fundamental issue surrounding the treatment of the mentally ill in Britain's prisons: that they shouldn't be there at all. A recent study by Reed of the prison inspectorate found that, at any one time, a third of those being treated in prison health centres - around 500 people - had such severe mental health problems that they should be transferred into an NHS secure hospital. The Health Select Committee had recommended exactly that in a report last year. But there is never enough capacity for them and no prospect of there being so in the near future. Bower typifies the problem: the offence for which she was sent to Holloway was committed inside a secure hospital. Instead of staying within that clinical environment, she was bundled off to a prison ill-equipped to treat her. There have been attempts to create court diversion systems, to get the most seriously mentally ill sent to secure hospitals on conviction, but in most cases court-appointed psychiatrists can only make recommendations that are not acted upon. 'All the time I am seeing people in prisons whom psychiatrists had said should go to secure hospitals,' Reed says, 'but there just isn't the room, so they are sent to prison. I have seen people waiting months, and a year is not unusual. I've even heard of a two-year wait.' And all the time the patients are deteriorating. 'These prison health units are not staffed, built or organised to offer proper mental health care.' The number of beds provided in secure hospitals has increased recently, but these are designed to cope with a number of people who are soon to be removed from high-security hospitals that are inappropriate for them. Officials in the Prison Health Taskforce quietly admit that there are 'capacity issues'. Professor Louis Appleby, the Government's mental health tsar, admits 'there is not enough space in the system to deal with those people in prison'. Further, he says, care of the mentally ill in prison is not part of his remit. For all the talk of partnerships and joined-up government, it does not appear to extend to those with the most acute and desperate need. For the Government, the issue is no longer just humanitarian but legal: a failure to remove the seriously mentally ill from British jails breaches Article 3 of the Human Rights Act, which offers protection from 'inhuman and/or degrading treatment or punishment'. The Government was found in contravention of Article 3 by the European Court in Strasbourg over a case involving a mentally ill man, Mark Keenan, who killed himself in jail in 1993. The Act was incorporated into British law last year. 'They simply cannot at the moment comply with Article 3 if they keep banging up mentally ill people,' says human rights barrister Tim Owen QC. 'They face being found repeatedly in breach.' No Minister in either the Home Office or the Department of Health was available for comment. At the base of these dry policy issues are people's lives. 'Until women like Cheryl Hartman are diverted from prison,' says Deb Coles of Inquest, which represents the families of those who die in custody, 'these deaths are going to carry on happening.' There will be more grim statistics. There will be more coroner's inquests. There will be more Cheryl Hartmans and more Maxine Bowers.