A forklift truck driver accused of "systematically" murdering five prostitutes and arranging two of their bodies in the shape of a crucifix may have had an accomplice, a jury heard today.Prosecutor Peter Wright, QC, told Ipswich crown court that a full DNA profile matching 49-year-old Steve Wright was found on the bodies of three of the women he had "selected and murdered" in a 10-day period just before Christmas 2006. Speaking at the start of a trial expected to last at least six weeks, Peter Wright revealed how the defendant may have committed the murders "with the assistance of another". He also said that the naked bodies of two of the five prostitutes killed had been posed in a "cruciform shape" with their arms outstretched. "It is the crown's case that the similarities in respect of the pathological findings are such that it is reasonable to conclude that their deaths were no accident but rather the deliberate conduct of another or others, in which these women were being systematically selected and murdered," Peter Wright said. "In the 10 days that elapsed from December 2 to 12 2006, their bodies began to turn up. It is the prosecution's case that each of them was murdered by this man [Wright]." Steve Wright, of Ipswich, Suffolk, denies murdering Gemma Adams, 25, Tania Nicol, 19, Anneli Alderton, 24, Paula Clennell, 24, and Annette Nicholls, 29. Forensic scientists matched a full DNA profile found on one of Alderton's breasts to Wright, the court was told. Samples taken from the corpses of Nicholls and Clennell produced the same positive result, said the prosecutor.Distinctive fibres found on all three women's bodies were allegedly matched to Wright's Ford Mondeo car, his home and items of his clothing. The prosecution claimed there was a chance of about one in a billion that the DNA found on the corpses could have come from another person unrelated to the defendant. Earlier this morning, his trial before Judge Mr Justice Gross was delayed while the initial jury expected to hear the case was discharged. One member of the jury was reported as having an unspecified health problem. A new jury of nine men and three women was later sworn in and the trial got under way. All five of the dead prostitutes were found in remote locations near Ipswich between December 2 and 12 2006. Each appeared to have died from either asphyxiation or strangulation. Peter Wright also told jurors that the deaths of two of the other victims, Adams and Nicol, were "inextricably linked". He said: "We say the circumstances of their disappearance, the location at which their bodies were found, the condition of the bodies and the manner of their deaths will lead you to the conclusion that their deaths were, in fact, no coincidence. Rather the work of the defendant, either alone or with the assistance of another." The prosecutor added that all five victims had resorted to prostitution to fund their drug addiction. He added: "In each of their cases, this decision was ultimately to prove fatal." The court also heard that all five women were of slight build and weighed no more than 65kg (9 stone). In their drug-intoxicated state, none would have been "any match" for their "assailant or assailants", the prosecutor said. Wright was remanded in custody pending his trial after entering five not guilty pleas during a hearing at Ipswich crown court in May 2007. Detectives launched an inquiry after Nicol vanished on October 30 2006. Just over two weeks later, Adams was reported missing after going to work in Ipswich's red light district. Her body was discovered in a brook at Hintlesham on December 2 2006. Six days after that, Nicol's body was found in water in nearby Copdock. The body of Alderton was found in woodland at Nacton on December 10 and, on December 12, the bodies of Clennell and Nicholls were found in woods at Levington. Wright, who will be 50 in April, was charged on December 21 2006 after being arrested on December 19. His relatives, along with the family of some of the victims watched proceedings from the court gallery. They included Nicol's father, Jim Duell, and other members of the Nicol family. Members of Wright's family, including his elder brother, David, his father, Conrad, and his half-brother, Keith, also attended court. The trial has been adjourned until tomorrow.