 Hindley on the 'perfect' murder "He [Brady] began to talk about the perfect murder, and I thought that too was another fantasy. But one night he asked me if I wanted to see anyone I didn't like dead. I said no, I didn't dislike anyone that much..."Then one evening - and he hadn't been drinking - he told me he wanted to do a perfect murder and I was going to help him." She continues in another letter: " I knew by the time he began talking about the perfect murder that I was going to help him, that I had very little choice. Again, even if I went to the police there was no proof, only my word against his. And then he would know what I'd done if the police had told him I'd made these allegations against him, and although I knew he wasn't stupid enough to do anything to draw attention to himself, I also knew that he would bide his time while he thought of what to do and how to do it without raising suspicion. "I would have had to leave my job, which wasn't a problem; I could go away and lose myself somewhere, but how could I possibly tell my family all that had happened and been said by him without terrifying them? "They couldn't move; a family just can't uproot itself and move somewhere and find places to live, jobs etc; and still live in fear, looking over their shoulders all the time. I knew I was trapped and would have to do what he wanted of me."  The killing of Pauline Reade "He'd told me what to wear and had counted the buttons on my coat... He'd counted the buttons on his coat and jacket and shirt and made a list of everything... He was so methodical and precise, he thought of everything, every possibility, absolutely everything." She continues in another letter: "I knew I had a choice: I could either just wave at Pauline and drive past her, in which case she would have lived and I would have had to endure the consequences of Brady's rage. This all happened in split seconds; I looked at Pauline and saw my sister there and my gran and my mum. I made the choice of having to sacrifice Pauline so that my own family would be safe. I felt sick with fear and self-loathing as I asked her if she wanted a lift. She readily accepted and I opened the passenger door to the car for her to get in."  The aftermath "He'd brought a bottle of Drambuie to celebrate and he sat down next to me on the settee sipping his drink and saying that after all the years of dreaming of it he'd actually done it: he'd committed the perfect murder. "He asked me how I felt about it. I told him I'd never in my wildest dreams imagined that something like this could have happened and began to cry... "He put his arm round my shoulder and kissed me clumsily on the cheek telling me it was all over now; I'd learn to live with it and he'd try to control his temper and not hit or hurt me. I was so relieved I clung to him, still crying, and promised I'd do everything I could to cope with what had happened and do my best not to antagonise him, although I rarely did and he still hit and hurt me. "He stroked my hair - I thought the merest touch would repel me, but in spite of what had happened this new tenderness touched the core of my heart and flooded it with all the love and emotions I'd felt for him for so long."  Life with Brady "I must be totally honest and say he wasn't always cruel and sadistic towards me. We had some pleasant, relaxing times in country places that he'd found on his travels on his bike; we'd pack a picnic lunch, flasks of coffee and bottles of wine and spend whole days in a peace and tranquillity that were such a contrast to the other side of him. "To my knowledge, when we picnicked on Saddleworth, it was not on some grave; I didn't know where the graves were, and we certainly never sat and played that horrendous tape of the child [Lesley Ann] Downey; I'd heard it once, seen the photographs once, and had begged him to destroy them and the tape. I thought he had, until the police found them in his suitcase at the left-luggage department at, I think, Manchester's Central station."  The second killing "One weekend in November, just after I'd passed my driving test, we were sitting watching something on the TV and he calmly said to me: 'I want to do another one.' I asked him: another what? What he'd said hadn't penetrated my thoughts. 'Another murder. What did you think I meant?' "I couldn't believe what he'd said. I said he'd told me he'd wanted to commit the perfect murder. He had done. He'd told me when I said I was frightened and had never in my wildest dreams imagined being involved in something like that, that he'd said it was all over; that I'd learn to live with it. Why, for God's sake did he want to do another one? "His reply was that he just did, that he'd been thinking about it for some time, had half formed a plan and would tell me what I needed to know when he felt I needed to know. I said no, I'm not being involved in anything like that evening again. "He said I was already involved - could I turn the clock back and undo what I'd done? I couldn't, so I had to go forward; if I thought I had a choice I was wrong. I was hysterical and he began strangling me again until I was quiet. He said I was going to help him again and I'd better get that into my head. And he left."  Culpability "I knew I'd never be able to come to any kind of terms with this [the murder of John Kilbride]; that it would haunt me for the rest of my life, as would the murder of Pauline Reade. That is why I've said several times that I am more culpable than Brady is, even though he committed the crimes. "Not only did I help procure the victims for him, I knew it was wrong, to put it mildly, that what we were doing was evil and depraved, whereas he subscribed to de Sade's philosophy, that murder was for pleasure. "To him it had become a hobby, something one did to get absorbed into, interested and often fascinated with, and it had become literally a deadly obsession. And I knew that I was a part of his hobby and obsession."  No going back "With the killing of John Kilbride, a child, I felt I'd crossed the Rubicon. "He [Brady] said good, admit ting to having crossed the Rubicon was tantamount to admitting what he'd tried to drum into my head: that what was done was done, and couldn't be undone, there was no going back and even after the first murder we were irrevocably bound together and more so after the second one. "Just then he looked up at the TV - there was either a football match on or late sports news. He said: 'Look at that massive crowd. Who would miss one person, two, three, etc, from all the millions of people in this country?' I didn't say their parents and family - he never gave them a thought and I knew I'd really have to steel myself to do the same."  Power over life "The following Sunday we were watching Sunday Night at the London Palladium. I can't remember if the host was Bruce Forsyth or Norman someone, but whoever it was his catchword was: 'I'm in charge.' Brady casually said to me: 'What do you think I get out of doing what we've done?' And I immediately said because he was in charge. It was having the power over someone's life and death. He smiled and said good, you know where I'm coming from now."  What might have been "All I'd ever hoped for from a relationship with him was marriage and children. It wouldn't have been dull and boring; we were on a similar intellectual level and shared many good tastes in music and literature. We could have gone to theatres and other art venues; we both had good solid jobs, a car in which we would and indeed did set off on driving and camping holidays. One thing which we both shared was a dissatisfaction with belonging to the working class and being trapped in it. We could have risen above that; at Millwards he had the prospects of promotion. I could have studied and gained the qualifications necessary for a career climb. But it wasn't to be."