Two independent investigations of the Metropolitan police's four-year pursuit of a senior officer of ethnic minority origin are being held, the Guardian has learned.The Met spent more than £3m investigating the Iranian-born Superintendent Ali Dizaei for alleged corruption. He was twice cleared of criminal charges, and it is claimed that he was subjected to a racist witch-hunt. The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) is investigating complaints by seven friends and associates of Mr Dizaei about the behaviour towards them of detectives who investigated Mr Dizaei in Operation Helios, during which he was put under surveillance and his office phones were tapped. The Investigatory Powers Tribunal (IPT) is to hold a separate hearing into whether the tapping of his phones breached the human rights of the people he was speaking to. The IPCC investigation is being carried out by Charles Clark, deputy chief constable of Essex. He is looking into allegations that Met officers discriminated against people of Iranian origin and breached the privacy of innocent people. A third claim is that the investigating officers were oppressive when questioning Mr Dizaei's associates. Among those making complaints are Ali Ghavami, a diplomat; Mr Dizaei's uncle; and several friends. Mr Dizaei's solicitor Eddie Parladorio is also a complainant. He said: "I am disappointed that it has taken over two years to investigate these complaints. "We are now delighted that Essex police have been appointed for this purpose and await the outcome with interest." The IPCC confirmed that its investigation was not criminal, and could lead to disciplinary charges only if detectives were found to have behaved wrongly. The IPT will examine complaints from members of the Black Police Associations whose conversations with Mr Dizaei were listened in to by investigating officers. Some of these conversations concerned advice that Mr Dizaei was giving to officers suing the Met for discrimination, in his role as the BPA's legal adviser. The tribunal will decide whether police actions were lawful.It is also expected to examine whether the surveillance and photographing of Mr Dizaei and people he met broke human rights laws. The Met has always defended the conduct of Helios, and the judge at Mr Dizaei's first trial said the police had acted properly. The Met said he was unfit to be a police officer, but after the trial cleared him it reversed its position. He returned to work a year ago with the force declaring that his integrity was intact. He received £80,000 compensation and agreed to drop his complaints against the officers who had pursued him, and an employment tribunal claim for racism which, police insiders said, could have cost the force £1m if he had won. Since then he has been promoted to chief superintendent. He had been tipped to be a chief constable before he was suspended in 2001 for allegedly endangering national security, abusing drugs and using prostitutes. The Met is also bracing itself for the report of an inquiry chaired by Sir William Morris into its discipline procedures, set up after Mr Dizaei's second acquittal.