Nick Davies's article reveals how the departmental stalling tactics of "joined-up government" can perpetuate real-life tragedies (Lifeline that failed victim of system, June 22). He quotes from my article in the magazine Safer Society, in which I describe my struggle while in government to implement the Social Exclusion Unit's report.Since that article was written, the government can rightly claim that prisoner rehabilitation has improved on a number of fronts. However, these improvements will do little to stop tragedies like the death of Andrew O'Connor as long as officials continue to defend their departmental patches by blocking desperately needed reforms in benefits, healthcare, housing and family-support systems. But I'm afraid that Davies's article will provoke minimal outrage because it describes failures affecting a heavily stigmatised group. However, we as a society should be judged on how we deal with the Andrew O'Connors of this world, and Davies shows us to be sadly indifferent.Julian CornerRevolving Doors As a barrister working in the criminal justice system this article accurately reflects my experiences, over almost 30 years, of most petty criminals' life stories. It should be required reading for all those involved in the sentencing process - including magistrates and judges. The causes of crime are not going to be reduced by ever punitive Asbos, mandatory minimum sentences or any of the other political kneejerk reactions that are now thrust on the criminal justice system. Robert ColoverLondon Nick Davies' article shows what can happen when government departments fail to work together. However, he fails to highlight the benefits that occur when they do. Since the youth justice system was reformed in 1998, locally managed youth offending teams have brought together local authorities, education departments, the police, probation, health and social services to address the needs of young offenders in a coordinated way. Our challenge is to prevent children and young people from offending; to tackle issues such as homelessness, drug and alcohol misuse and poor mental health; and to ensure that young people sentenced to custody are effectively resettled back into the community. This is a huge challenge. But the government is increasing our funding for targeted prevention work with the most vulnerable. This means that the Youth Justice Board and its partners can focus even more effort into what your article calls "an effective attack on the causes of crime". Rod Morgan Chairman, Youth Justice Board Nick Davies's impressive article on the criminal justice system in England and Wales was no surprise to those of us who have been involved in criminal justice. The abandonment of the political consensus on law and order, when Michael Howard became home secretary in 1994, led to the two major political parties trying to "out-tough" each other in what is laughingly described as criminal justice policy. This climate has lasted for more than a decade and many now working in criminal justice, who have supported this approach, have lost sight of the folly of being tough for its own sake. And where has it got us? A political culture, fuelled by the tabloid media, which would have us believe that crime and disorder is out of control, to be dealt with only by ever-tougher measures. A prison population that has more than doubled over the past decade and is rising. All this while crime continues to fall - largely due to economic stability and high employment. And who suffers? The Andrew O'Connors of our society. He and thousands like him are the real victims of our present barren and damaging criminal justice "policies". Mike Worthington Hexham, Northumberland