David Blunkett, the home secretary, made clear yesterday his determination to press ahead with "far reaching reforms" that will give the public a greater democratic say in how the police operate.At the same time Home Office ministers confirmed that a decision would be made this autumn whether or not to form an FBI-style agency to tackle organised crime. At a private meeting at the Institute of Directors in London with the 43 chief constables in England and Wales, Mr Blunkett said he wanted to develop community-based policing as the next stage in the service's reforms. The move is likely to prove controversial as it will involve chief constables delegating some of their traditional control of resources and operational decisions to divisional commanders. Yesterday some chief constables voiced their unease about his earlier proposals, including the way that chief constables are appointed. The home secretary published a pamphlet in July showing that his programme for developing community-based policing would, in the short-term, mean publishing separate crime and police performance figures for every community and boosting the public profile of local police commanders. He said yesterday that he wanted to see local commanders enjoy greater power over decisions about operations and resources, allowing them to respond to local needs, from burglary prevention to anti-social behaviour. Mr Blunkett has said that in the longer term he is considering introducing elected neighbourhood panels and partially or wholly elected police authorities to oversee each force. He has drawn attention to the directly elected sheriffs of the US as an example of the kind of increased local accountability he would like to see. "We want to build a bolder and more ambitious framework to tackle crime and the fear of crime in our communities," Mr Blunkett said. "I want to explore - with community representatives, police, crime and disorder reduction partnerships and police authorities - how we achieve greater delegation to deliver a flexible police service able to respond to local needs." He insisted that he wanted to see change initiated at the grassroots and not imposed by Whitehall. "We can only grow if we challenge existing barriers to fighting crime by ensuring that local people have a greater say in how their communities are policed and engaged fully with the police." Mr Blunkett said a decision would soon be made whether to introduce a FBI-style agency for tackling organised crime and terrorism. "The world is changing and we must change with it by setting up the right structures, mechanisms and expertise to allow us to stay one step ahead of organised criminals." Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, that Labour was not to be trusted when members talked about local accountability and bottom-up reform. "David Blunkett has done more than any other home secretary in recent years to impose his views on local forces from the top down."