Time is running out for Jimmy Ray Slaughter. In 1991, an Oklahoma state jury sentenced him to death for a horrendous double murder. His girlfriend, Melody Wuertz, had been found mutilated, with gunshot and knife wounds; their 11-month-old daughter, Jessica, had been shot. He has languished on death row for 13 years, but now orders to carry out his execution are expected within a matter of months. But he might yet be reprieved. Earlier this year, Slaughter took a controversial new test that could force a court of appeal to overturn his conviction and make him a free man. In America, the test, known as brain fingerprinting, has emerged as a potential successor to the discredited lie detector or polygraph, which no longer counts as admissable evidence in US or British courts. Proponents of brain fingerprinting make some strong claims for the technique. It can, they say, determine with near absolute accuracy, whether or not a subject is telling the truth about witnessing certain events. Others dismiss the technique, protesting that too few studies have been done to judge whether it works or not. Slaughter took the test this February at the maximum security state prison in Oklahoma where he is being held. Under the supervision of Dr Larry Farwell, a Harvard-educated scientist and founder of Brain Fingerprinting Inc, an Iowa-based company, Slaughter was asked questions while his brain activity was monitored via a series of electrodes placed around his scalp. According to Farwell, the test showed that, with a statistical confidence of 99.9%, Slaughter did not recall key details of the crimes: he did not know where in the house Wuertz's body had been found, where in the room she was lying, nor what was printed on her T-shirt. Nor did he know where in the house baby Jessica had been shot. Last week, on the strength of the results, Slaughter's attorney filed an appeal. Scientific evidence - and Farwell would include brain fingerprinting in that category - has been found to sway juries more than human testimonies, and rightly so, says the test's inventor. "There is a good reason why a jury should give more weight to scientific evidence than testimony because a testimony may not be truthful, whereas the brain never lies," says Farwell. "In witness testimonies, you're given a subjective account of the content of someone's memory. In brain fingerprinting, you're given an objective account." Brain fingerprinting has already been ruled admissable evidence in US courts. Last year it was used, albeit tangentially, to free Terry Harrington, a man who had been convicted of murder in 1978 and sentenced to life imprisonment. A brain fingerprinting test suggested that information stored in Harrington's brain did not match the crime scene, but did match his alibi. When a key witness heard about the test results, he confessed that he had lied in the original trial some 25 years earlier, and Harrington was freed. Although the brain fingerprinting test had been ruled as admissable evidence, it was never actually put before the jury. Advocates of brain fingerprinting say that, unlike the old-fashioned polygraph tests that measure pulse rate, blood pressure and changes in the skin's electrical conductivity, it cannot be fooled by relaxed, well-prepared criminals. The test is based on an EEG (electroencephalograph), which involves wearing a hair-net of electrodes that can pick up faint electrical flickering within the brain. Subjects are first fitted with the electrodes and then played sounds, or shown a series of pictures or words, associated with the crime. According to Farwell, if the person's brain stores a memory of any of these, it will betray the fact with a characteristic electrical brain wave that peaks around 300milliseconds later. For this reason, the tell-tale peak in activity is called a P300 "event related potential" or ERP. Brain fingerprinting also measures a second characteristic electrical response, called "mermers", that flashes across the brain less than a second after the first. Reading the mind of a murderer is a murky business though. The stress of carrying out such a crime could be enough to distort memories of what happened. "There are certain psychological defences which stop people remembering things, and one of those is trauma. But whether you can recover those memories from trauma is a massive debate," says Keith Ashcroft, head of the centre for forensic psychopathology in Manchester. It had long been thought that memories associated with traumatic events are those most accurately etched on our minds, but an experiment in 1986 on a group of US students showed that memories of the Challenger shuttle disaster faded significantly after three years. What could happen in the 12 years since Slaughter was tried? While some argue that brain fingerprinting is near foolproof, others are desperately unimpressed. "If you put a set of electrodes on a person's head, you will pick up a set of characteristic rhythms. P300 refers simply to the frequency of the wave and it is a very well known brain rhythm you can detect under many, many circumstances when a person is actively concentrating on something," says Steven Rose, director of the brain and behaviour research group at the Open University in Milton Keynes. "The suggestion that you can tell from that whether a person is guilty of some crime or other is complete fantasy." In light of such strong criticism, how did brain fingerprinting become admissable evidence in American courts? The usual rule, for the US supreme court at least, is that for scientific evidence to be admissable, it must pass the Daubert criteria. Essentially, these require the science to have been tested, peer reviewed and published. It has to be accurate and well accepted by the scientific community. Even though the Daubert criteria do not apply to district courts, on 5 March 2001, Iowa district court judge Tim O'Grady ruled that brain fingerprinting passed the Daubert criteria and was therefore admissable as evidence. The judge's view clashes with that of one of Farwell's harshest critics: his former professor at the University of Illinois where Farwell studied in the late 1980s. According to Emanuel Donchin, brain fingerprinting simply is not well understood or advanced enough to be used in real cases yet. "We published the seminal paper that started it all and by which I still stand," he says. "The paper, however, makes it very clear that these are preliminary investigations and that much research is needed before the paradigm we describe can be applied to real life. Unfortunately, the necessary research has never been conducted." Farwell counters that brain fingerprinting has a good track record. In one set of tests, a group of people were presented with words and phrases that would only be familiar to FBI agents. By using brain fingerprinting, Farwell says he was able to tell with 100% accuracy who among the group was an FBI agent and who was not. There is also concern that brain fingerprinting is merely the first of a new wave of techniques that could eventually blur the line between guilty and innocent. Wrye Sententia, co-director of the centre for cognitive liberty and ethics in Davis, California, is worried that we could be entering a world of "pre-crimes" like that depicted in the film Minority Report, where police are able to arrest criminals for crimes they have yet to commit. "We already have pre-emptive military actions, what about preventing crime, terrorism by sifting out guilty or suspect knowledge?" she asks. Farwell agrees that more research is needed but says the process cannot wait: "When Jimmy Ray Slaughter came to me for help, he had a life expectancy of about 90 days. I had to say yes or no. I couldn't say 'wait'," says Farwell. "I said yes, and I believe this was the right decision for me. If my already well-proven invention can save innocent lives while still more research is going on, I believe it is my responsibility as a scientist to make it available."