Police believe the gunman who killed 12 people during a shooting spree in Cumbria targeted some of his victims deliberately but picked others at random.A senior police officer working on the complex investigation said Derrick Bird was motivated partly by grudges, but that there was apparently no reason for some of the shootings.As police continued their investigations at 30 crime scenes, the government warned against a rush in changing Britain's already tough gun laws and Bird's relatives denied reports of a family feud.Speaking in Cumbria today, Iain Goulding, detective chief superintendent with Cumbria police, told reporters he was determined to uncover the reasons for the killings.He said: "A key part of the 'why' in this investigation is trying to establish whether those tragically killed were chosen because of a motive, because of a grudge, or were simply random killings. Our initial assessment is that we have a combination of both."Goulding said he did not want to speculate about the motives of Bird's rampage. Local reports have suggested a row over a family will and a dispute between taxi drivers. Goulding said that domestic and financial issues were two lines of inquiry being pursued by police.He confirmed that Bird had a previous conviction, for theft, dating back to 1990, but that he had never served a prison sentence. Bird had no apparent mental health problems nor was there evidence that he was on medication.Bird's family issued their first statement since the killings, in which they expressed their distress.The statement reads: "We are utterly devastated about the death of our dad. He was the nicest man you could ever meet. He was a loving husband and doting dad and grandad. We would like to take this opportunity to say there was absolutely no family feud. Our dad's only downfall was to try and help his brother."Dad was a loving and cheerful character and was well known throughout the village. He will not only be missed by us, but by the whole community. Love you forever. Sleep well."Speaking in the Commons earlier, the home secretary, Theresa May, promised a "debate" about gun laws but said it would be wrong to act before the full facts about Bird's killing spree were known.May told MPs: "Undoubtedly, yesterday's killings will prompt a debate about our country's gun laws. That is understandable – and indeed it is right and proper. But it would be wrong to react before we know the full facts. Today we must remember the innocent people who were taken from us as they went about their lives. Then, we must allow the police time to complete their investigations."David Cameron warned against any rushed response, an approach endorsed by Labour's former home secretary Alan Johnson. The prime minister and May plan to visit the area tomorrow to make sure the police, emergency and health services and local councils have all the support they need.Cameron, speaking at a press conference in Downing Street, said: "The right thing to do is, of course, to look at all of these issues and have an open mind."But we should be clear that in this country we have some of the toughest gun control legislation anywhere in the world and we shouldn't make any kneejerk reaction to think that there is some instant legislative or regulatory answer."The prime minister added: "Of course we have to do everything we can to stop these dreadful events, but you can't legislate to stop a switch flicking in someone's head and for this dreadful sort of action to take place."Johnson, while agreeing there should be no rush to judgement, suggested any review should consider whether follow-up checks on licence holders were "adequate" and whether there might be a greater role for GPs and the NHS in assessing gun owners' mental health.He also asked whether there were any lessons to be learned from terror attacks like those in Mumbai for non-terrorism offences. "Do you think that a small rural force like Cumbria are properly equipped to deal with events that are more often predicted to happen in urban areas?"Cumbria police confirmed that Bird – who went on the rampage in the UK's most deadly shooting incident since the Dunblane massacre – had been a licensed gun holder. May, in a statement to the House of Commons, said he had held a shotgun licence since 1995 and a firearms licence (for a .22 rifle) since 2007, adding that police had confirmed to her that his licences covered the firearms seized yesterday.Twelve people were killed, and although all have been named locally, police have so far confirmed only five – David Bird, 52, Derrick's twin brother, who was shot at his home in Lamplugh, family solicitor Kevin Commons, 60, who was found dead in the driveway of his house in Frizington, Susan Hughes a 57-year-old mother-of-two, from Egremont, and Jane Robinson, 66, who died yards from the home she shared with her sister in Seascale. The fifth was Jamie Clark,23, of Carlise whose body was found in his car on the A5083.Seven people remained in hospital today after the 52-year-old taxi driver went on the apparently indiscriminate shooting spree. Six are in hospitals in Cumbria of whom five suffered gunshot wounds to the face, two were shot in the back, one in the back and arms and another in the chest. Charles Brett, the clinical director of the West Cumberland hospital , Whitehaven, said. Of these six, two were in a stable but serious condition and four comfortable.Another patient is being treated in Newcastle upon Tyne, but the family have requested no information should be given on that person's condition. Earlier today Cumbria police said the patient's condition was stable.