Youths who repeatedly terrorised a vulnerable family before the mother killed herself as well as her severely disabled daughter could have been brought to justice under at least seven acts of parliament, a coroner said yesterday.The former assistant chief constable of Leicestershire police, Chris Tew, told an inquest into the deaths of Fiona Pilkington and her daughter, Francecca Hardwick, 18, it would have been hard to bring cases to court because many of the incidents were not crimes but antisocial behaviour.But after hearing that officers were called about the family's problems 13 times in the year of the deaths, the coroner, Olivia Davison, said the history and context of the abuse, which included boys and girls throwing stones at the house and shouting taunts and obscenities, meant it did amount to criminal activity."We had people being hounded in their own house," she said. "It seems we have seven or eight acts of parliament which are smack on to deal with the kind of behaviour this family faced."The inquest at Loughborough town hall heard that officers failed to recognise the family's vulnerability and see that they were the targets of sustained victimisation because of their disabilities.Had they done so, and the incidents had been identified as hate crimes, it "might have made a difference" to the police response, Tew admitted.But, at the time, the force did not highlight disability as a cause of hate crime in its official policy, he said. Changes introduced since a review after the deaths meant that the force "would have pulled all this together a lot earlier".Francecca, know as Frankie, had severe learning difficulties, was doubly incontinent and could not be left on her own.Her brother Anthony, now 19, is severely dyslexic and was frequently bullied, and Pilkington, who suffered from depression, was described as shy, timid and scared."This family were patently vulnerable to the eye," Davison said."I think that the officers standing with this family … if they saw Anthony and Francecca, and indeed Fiona, and they heard that they were being taunted and abused and were frightened and their house was being stoned, you'd think the officer … would think these people are vulnerable and these people need help."The bodies of Pilkington, 38, and Frankie, were found burnt beyond recognition in her Austin Maestro in a layby in Leicestershire in October 2007.That year, police had repeatedly been called to reports of the family being under siege in their home in Barwell, near Hinckley, the inquest was told, and officers were contacted a total of 33 times in seven years but on many occasions never came out.Of the 13 calls in 2007, seven resulted in an officer attending and one drew a visit from a police community support officer.Tew read from an internal police review of the handling of the case that admitted too many of the reports of antisocial behaviour were closed prematurely.In one case, an officer accepted Pilkington's assertion that she had been "over-reacting" by complaining about youths in her garden smoking.For years, she, Frankie and Anthony, had been tormented by a gang of local boys and girls, some as young as 10. They would gather outside the family's home, throwing stones at the windows, shouting taunts and obscenities, smashing bottles and urinating in the garden.Around Halloween and bonfire night, they lobbed flour, water and eggs, and Pilkington would tape up her letterbox, fearing they would put fireworks through it. They mimicked Frankie's walk and, when she went to bed, would motion through the window to try to get her to lift her nightdress.When she and Anthony went into the garden, the gang threw objects at them, so most of the time they cowered inside, the curtains always half drawn.Pam Cassell, Pilkington's mother, recalled turning up one sunny day to find her daughter sitting in darkness inside.Pilkington had rung the police to complain that children were walking on her hedge and she had simply been told to close the curtains so she couldn't see them, Cassell claimed.Anthony was frequently bullied and was physically attacked several times. Once he reported being hit with an iron bar and another time he was forced into a shed at knifepoint and locked in. When he made friends with the paperboy, the gang started abusing him too.The problems had started as soon as the family moved into the house in Bardon Road 15 years before the deaths, Cassell told the inquest. They escalated when Anthony fell out with a boy from the street. The inquest heard he would taunt them by standing outside their house, shouting: "We can do anything we like and you can't do anything about it."Her daughter, Cassell said, though of normal intelligence, was shy and vulnerable. She was unable to defend herself and "didn't want any trouble".Inside her house, Pilkington did her best to look after her two needy children. Frankie, who loved to go on the swings in the nearby park, would become agitated, pulling hair, biting and punching. The children's father, who was separated from Pilkington, visited at weekends, and sometimes her boyfriend stayed with them. For the last four years, Cassell moved in to try to help.Cassell said her daughter was desperately worried about Frankie's future,It was her desire to protect her that led Pilkington to take her with her in the car, Cassell told the inquest, along with the family's pet rabbit, to keep Frankie happy."She wouldn't have left Frankie to face the world, not on her own," said Cassell.Pilkington would have known her mother wouldn't have been able to cope with Frankie as well as Anthony, Cassell insisted. "I didn't have a washing machine for starters," she told the court.And yet Frankie, for all her problems, had her own special talents. She could make pottery and cook and, when she was in a good mood, liked to help her family."She could massage you if you felt stiff or anything," Cassell said."She could do quite a lot of things we didn't know about."And of course she liked to play. "We used to take her out in the rain," Cassell said, "because she used to love jumping in puddles."As her desperation grew, Pilkington wrote letters to her MP asking for his help. But around six months before her death, she grew tired of fighting, Cassell said. "Fiona just gave up, she despaired."Late in the evening of 23 October, Cassell went into her kitchen to get a drink and noticed a handful of papers stuffed through it addressed to her, as well as Pilkington's house keys. On reading them she knew instantly that, far from cleaning her house, her daughter had been preparing it for her death. She called police and told them to look for Pilkington's car. Soon after, a lorry driver reported a vehicle on fire in a layby on the A47 close to Pilkington's home. When fire crews started to extinguish the flames they realised there were two bodies inside.The inquest continues.Police response: Seven years of harassment and attacks, still 'no officer attends'October 30, 2000Pilkington reports children throwing eggs, but no police cars available. Incident closed.March 26, 2003Anthony goes missing after bullying at school. Officer visits.August 3, 2003Anthony's tooth chipped in assault. Pilkington decides not to proceed after no contact from officer nine days later.January 9, 2004Cassell reports children throwing stones and setting fire to gates, but no officer sent.January 24, 2004Pilkington reports youths threatening to kill Anthony, is advised to call school.June 22, 2004Mother reports "ongoing problem of youths taunting disabled daughter". Log explains: "Advice given. Incident closed".July 3, 2004Pilkington gives statement saying Anthony has endured eight years of bullying, after he is locked in shed at knifepoint. Log records: "Problem not sorted, still being bullied." Officer contacts school. Conclusion is case "undetected".July 28, 2004Cassell reports Anthony beaten with iron bar. Harassment orders issued and two crimes recorded.October 13, 2006Anthony is pushed into a van and hurts his hand. Incident closed after an officer attends eight days later and all parties are contacted.February 1, 2007Neighbour reports shouting youths outside home. No officer available and case is handed to officer. No contact made for four days. Pilkington writes to her MP: "I really don't know how to handle anything any more."February 12 2007Local woman reports youths smashing bottles at Pilkington's home, Anthony distressed. No officer attends.April 6, 2007Anthony hit by stones. Officer attends, speaks to youths and contacts council, which writes anti-social behaviour letters to some parents.September 25, 2007Cassell reports a window broken. No one attends until following day.September 26, 2007Cassell reports children cycling past throwing stones. Officer attends and "advises" youths.September 28, 2007Pilkington reports another window smashed. Officer attends and one boy's father is "spoken to".October 4, 2007Cassell reports youth throwing stones at window, claiming it was sixth time in five days. Email sent to beat officer by police. No one attends.October 23, 2007Pilkington and Francecca found dead.