In David Thomas's article on the sentences handed down in the aftermath of the riots, he confined much of his analysis to sentencing for public order offences, and correctly laid down the well-known sentencing criteria for offences caused by individuals in the midst of larger public disturbances. He believes the sentences imposed by the magistrates' courts are wholly in line with guideline principles and that any discrepancies, graphically characterised as "a feeding frenzy" by the head of the prison service, was misrepresentative of a perfectly normal regime, operating in accordance with consistent reference to the guidelines. In short, all was well with the sentencing world. I disagree, and I disagree based on an analysis of the parallel world of bail.Prior to the summer riots, approximately 10% of defendants were refused bail. After the rioting, this figure leapt to 66% for comparable offences. What does this tell us?It certainly informs us that the magistrates' courts were acting in a decisively different way to their normal behaviour. Of course, a proportion of this can be put down to potential sentences that may follow with the deterrent element. But this does not explain, in my opinion, the significant increase of individuals being deprived of their liberty either post-plea of guilty or awaiting further hearing if unconvicted.What it does indicate is that the magistrates' courts were acting disproportionately in relation to many of the matters coming before them. I should make it clear that I completely accept that in individual circumstances, the sentencing guidelines provide for a deterrent element to be applied to a sentence. But this increased deterrent element has on many occasions been applied across the board uniformly, without any application towards individual circumstances of the case. The Criminal Justice Act 2003 lays down a list of purposes in relation to sentencing. The act does not indicate that any one purpose should be more important than the other and that each case should be dealt with on its individual merits. This is where the magistrates' courts have been falling into error.How else can one explain, for instance, the imprisonment of a woman for five months for receiving a pair of shorts from an individual who may have obtained them during a public disturbance through which the defendant slept? This sentence was overturned at the crown court by a judge who commented that it was not in accordance with the law.Furthermore, a clear analysis of sentencing inclinations post-riot and whether tariffs were disproportionately increased can perhaps be better ascertained by considering sentences not for public order offences, as Thomas does, but for the standalone offences such as theft and handling, which are not necessarily caught under public order sentencing guidelines. In short, I suggest that Thomas has fallen into the sort of error that often befell the magistrates' courts and that is to assume that all offences committed during the riots would automatically carry the public order deterrent. Just as the magistrates' courts' attitude to bail disproportionately intensified over this period, so to, I suggest, has the attitude to sentencing.