There is a general acceptance within government and the police service that knife crime cannot be tackled in isolation.In Scotland a violence reduction unit was set up in 2005 in Strathclyde and throughout Scotland the following year, in response to a homicide rate amongst young men five times greater than that in England and Wales. It combines "robust policing", including officers in 50 schools, with early identification of those at risk of offending, knife amnesties, advertising campaigns and rehabilitation of violent offenders, and has seen a remarkable 15% reduction in serious knife assaults in Strathclyde over the last three years. "It is a very long process," said Det Chief Supt John Carnochan, who heads the unit. "We need to intervene in as timely a way as we can." Most of those involved with knife violence, he said, came from areas of high deprivation and from dysfunctional families and had drug, alcohol, and educational problems. "You need to deal with all of those issues first," he said.Police in England and Wales also recognise that the issue is complex, where they are seeing an intensification in the severity of offending, and a change in the age profile of offenders and victims, down from mid-late teens to early 20s, to early-to-mid-teens."In response to the rise in knife violence in London this summer police arrested more than 1,200 people and 528 knives were recovered. A total of 1,214 people were arrested for possession of weapons and other knife-related crimes in a six-week period. But Met police commissioner Sir Ian Blair said, in the wake of Ben Kinsella's murder this week, that "the problem of knife crime is still with us".Around 10% of 11-12-year-olds claim to carry or have carried knives in the last year and one in five 16-year-olds claims to have used knives in the past year. Hospital statistics show that admissions for stab wounds among school-age children have increased every year since 2002-03. Whatever legislation is brought in, the main issue remains the attitude of those who carry the knives. "Amongst the kids themselves, the level of fear and of prison and authority is very low and successive policies over the years have done very little," said Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers."