A 14-year-old boy was shot in the neck in a drive-by shooting outside a takeaway in east London last night, police confirmed today.Scotland Yard said it appeared that shots were fired towards the teenager and his friends from a red Citroen Saxo with blacked-out windows outside the Blue Ocean fish bar in Barking Road, Forest Gate at around 11.30pm.The 14-year-old received treatment at an east London hospital, where his condition is said to be non-life-threatening, a Metropolitan Police spokesman said. Detective Inspector Simon Stancombe, who is investigating the case for operation Trident, said: "We need the help and support of the local community to assist us to continue the removal of firearms from our streets. "All calls to us are taken in strict confidence and we urge anyone with information to come forward and assist us with our inquiries."The young victim is black, and was wearing a black jacket, grey T-shirt, khaki green trousers and black woolly hat when he was shot, police said. Police also said they are keeping an open mind as to the motive. The shooting is the latest in a string of gun-related incidents and stabbings, which have claimed the lives of seven teenagers in London since the end of January. Last Friday, 14-year-old Paul Erhahon was stabbed in the foyer of a block of flats in Leytonstone, east London, while Adam Regis, 15, a fellow pupil at Kingsford Community School in Beckton, was stabbed to death in Plaistow last month. Adam, the nephew of former Olympic sprinter John Regis, died just days after Kodjo Yenga, 16, was stabbed to death in Hammersmith Grove, west London. Billy Cox, 15, was shot dead in his home in Clapham, south London on Valentine's Day. Earlier in February, 15-year-old Michael Dosunmu was shot dead by gunmen who broke into his home in Peckham in what police believe was a case of mistaken identity. In January, 18-year-old Jevon Henry died after being stabbed in the heart in St John's Wood, north-west London. Anyone with information about the latest shooting should call the operation Trident incident room in West Hendon on 020 8733 4774 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.