The justice secretary, Jack Straw, is to lose his last remaining powers to block the release of prisoners such as Ronnie Biggs, it emerged today as he was criticised for allowing public opinion to cloud his judgment over the release of the Great Train Robber.Sir David Latham, chairman of the Parole Board, said there was no rational reason why Biggs had not been released earlier. In July Straw rejected the board's recommendation to release him on the grounds that Biggs was "utterly unrepentant". He was finally released on 8 August on compassionate grounds as he was severely ill with pneumonia.Latham, a high court judge, said the justice secretary might have had a gut feeling that people would not like the release of a man who had not expressed regret for a "really awful" crime. "I think it was a genuine feeling on his part on the way the public might feel about it, but that doesn't necessarily mean it was a rational decision." He suggested that a judicial review challenging the initial decision to refuse release was likely to have succeeded.The Biggs case was an example where politicians found themselves getting into difficulties, Latham said. Having a political element in such decisions was bound to distort their rationality.As a result of new legislation coming into force early next year, Straw will lose the last of his powers to veto the release of lifers, which have been eroded over the past 20 years. The final group, which included Biggs, covers those who were sentenced to 15 years or more under the 1991 Criminal Justice Act but before the 2003 sentencing legislation was implemented. It is thought that this group covers 430 long-term prisoners including Wayne Black, who is serving 24 years for robbery and kidnapping, and the gang sentenced for the failed Millennium Dome heist. It is also believed to include several terrorist prisoners. Straw has already announced he wishes to lose his historic power to decide whether a prisoner should be recommended for a royal pardon.The loss of his powers to block prisoner releases came as the Parole Board argued that the justice secretary's remaining powers to block the move of a prisoner from closed conditions to an open prison should also be transferred to the board. Parole Board panels should also in future review decisions to return any such prisoner to closed conditions."We should be entitled to make a binding decision, subject to safeguards, in such cases," Latham said.These decisions are currently made by prison governors in consultation with National Offender Management Service officials. Decisions are only referred up to ministers in very rare cases.The recommendation was made as the Parole Board published proposals to bolster its independence by becoming part of the Courts Service rather than the Ministry of Justice. The board faces a 2,000-strong backlog in deciding cases involving lifers and those serving "imprisonment for public protection" sentences, which have no fixed release date. Delays in holding oral hearings in these cases range from three to 18 months because of shortage of judges.The Parole Board hopes that if it became part of the Courts Service the judiciary would face a direct responsibility for ensuring sufficient judges were available to carry out the task. The board also wants new powers to enforce the attendance of witnesses and the provision of prison and probation reports to resolve delays.But it stops short of seeking to be turned into an independent court. "The board considers transfer of sponsorship to the HM Courts Service would best serve the requirement of independence, would enable its functions to be carried out with the necessary informality and would retain the essential inquisitorial nature of the proceedings," said Latham. "If it became part of the court structure formally, the latter two could be put at risk."The MoJ will announce a decision on the Parole Board's future in the new year.