The family of Raoul Moat is considering asking for a second independent postmortem examination because the official report contained no mention of injuries from the Tasers that police said they used on him.Northumbria police said two shots from the stun guns were fired at Moat before he killed himself. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is to look into whether the 50,000-volt electric charges caused the former bouncer to commit suicide.Relatives, who have seen the results of the initial postmortem, told the BBC and Sky News that it showed he had gunshot wounds consistent with a weapon he was carrying and marks that pointed to "rough living" but made no reference to any injuries inflicted by a stun gun. Police said Moat had been carrying "more than one" firearm.Northumbria police topped a recent league for the number of incidents in which a Taser was aimed or used, recording more incidents involving the stun guns than the Metropolitan police, which covers a population more than five times larger.Northumbria constabulary, which covers a population of around 1.4 million people, recorded 704 incidents in which a Taser was aimed or used between April 2004 and August 2009, when the statistics were released. Although Tasers are designed to incapacitate criminals, medical experts say they can trigger involuntary muscle spasms.Moat's uncle Charlie Alexander said yesterday he was "upset" that police did not respond to his offer to talk his nephew out of hiding. Alexander was the closest thing to a father figure for Moat, who never knew his real father and told police during negotiations: "I haven't got a dad." Alexander said he called police at 11pm on Friday and offered to talk to Moat, but never heard back from them."I am still like upset that I couldn't go and bring him back in," he told the BBC. "They said it might be because I might be at risk."He added: "If I went up, and he would have somebody that loves him ... it would possibly have turned him that little bit that he needed [to give himself up]."Police were searching Rothbury and the surrounding countryside today for a second weapon, which they believe Moat may have discarded in the area. Cragside House, the National Trust stately home nearby, is also being searched and remains closed to the public.The IPCC announced an official inquiry yesterday into the final moments of the standoff between armed officers and Britain's most wanted man within hours of Moat's death.Nicholas Long, an IPCC commissioner, said the inquiry would seek to ascertain "how this incident came to a conclusion".The IPCC is also looking at the failure of Northumbria police to act on information from Durham prison that Moat was a possible danger to his former partner Samantha Stobbart, 22, who had ended the relationship while he was in jail.Two days after his release, on 1 July, he shot and wounded Stobbart and killed Chris Brown, 29, her new boyfriend. The following day, Moat shot David Rathband, 42, an officer from Northumbria police, in the face.Fresh details about Moat's background have emerged, which may explain his enmity towards the police. Arrested 12 times since 2000, Moat had been charged on seven occasions, but convicted only once – for assault on a child, for which he served his recent prison sentence.Moat spent most of the confrontation with the police holding his sawn-off shotgun to his head and neck before pulling the trigger at 1.15am. This followed hours of gentle persuasion by police negotiators to give himself up in an attempt to bring to an end one of Britain's most extraordinary manhunts.Investigators will be looking at the account of Susan Ballantyne, a Rothbury resident, who described how police officers had crowded around Moat in the moments before he shot himself. They will also look at Moat's police history.He had evaded capture for six days. Before Saturday's shooting in Rothbury, Northumbria police had repeatedly insisted that they wanted to take him alive.Other areas the IPCC may choose to investigate include the response times to releasing information to the public. A positive sighting was made of the distinctive Lexus saloon used by Moat in Rothbury a week ago.The inquiry into Moat's death may also raise questions over the surveillance strategy of Northumbria police. Before arriving in Rothbury last Saturday, Moat visited his friend Andy Mcallister in Newcastle.Homicide detectives spent much of Sunday interviewing Mcallister, 45, but did not keep him under close watch. At 1.30am on Monday, 5 July, Moat handed a 49-page handwritten confession to Mcallister for the police, and sought to tell the media his side of the story.