The finances of organised criminal gangs selling images of child abuse on pay-per-view internet sites are to be targeted by an anti-paedophile centre to be established in the UK next year.The government believes that going after those who earn money from the illicit trade in online images will reduce supply. This week it will announce that Jim Gamble, deputy director-general of the National Crime Squad and a former counter-terrorism head in Northern Ireland, is to become the first chief executive of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre.Talking for the first time about his job, Gamble said: 'We're creating a financial investigations unit that will target the pay-per-view sites in a way we have never done before. Where these people operate sites for profit by selling images we'll target their homes, their cars and bank accounts. We will seek to seize their money and ensure that money goes back into the system to help deal with the symptoms of this crime.'The unit, with about 100 staff and based in London, will operate in conjunction with anti-paedophile teams across the world.Home Office Minister Paul Goggins said: 'Targeting online child abuse has been one of our priorities during the UK's presidencies of the EU and G8. There is a growing consensus the only way to deal with this vile material and those who make it available is through international collaboration.'Around 50 per cent of sites showing children being abused are operated on a pay-per-view basis, say experts. 'The people involved in these sites often aren't doing it because they're deviant by nature. They're doing it because they're business people. It's risk versus profits. We need to reduce the profit motivation,' Gamble said.The decision to target those making money from child exploitation represents a significant policy shift, following Operation Ore which saw some 7,200 people questioned for downloading illegal images but was attacked for being a drain on police time and sometimes wrongly identifying innocent internet users as paedophiles.As 3G mobile phones are rolled out across the UK, there is concern the dissemination of child abuse images could escalate as more children risk being 'groomed' by paedophiles.'The nature of the technology means they can groom 10, 20, or 30 children over a period of time. They only need to be successful on one occasion to harm a child,' Gamble said.The new centre is to work in partnership with a range of internet companies, including Microsoft, Vodafone, BT and AOL, as well as children's charities such as the NSPCC. It will also involve high-street store chains, asking their buyers to help find the location of abused children by studying their clothes and the furniture in the photographs.The centre will promote a website, www.virtualglobaltaskforce.com, allowing children to report concerns about online paedophiles.