The scramble for the law and order policy ticket at the next general election continued today, with Michael Howard following in Tony Blair's footsteps and holding a walkabout to discuss crime and policing.The Conservative leader took to the streets of Hove to reiterate his party's opposition to making the police document each stop they make.Yesterday Mr Blair went walkabout in Harlow, Essex, to sell the virtues of his government's anti-social behaviour orders.Both trips show the importance the big two parties attach to being seen as tough on crime ahead of a likely election next year. Mr Howard said that political correctness and red tape are standing in the way of police officers doing their jobs - but admitted that Asbos were one way to help tackle crime.He spoke during a 30-minute walkabout in Hove, Sussex, where local traders claimed they never see police on the streets, and where vandalism and burglaries have increased. After meeting shopkeepers, Mr Howard pledged to fund "several hundred" extra officers for Sussex alone through his party's proposed asylum policies. He labelled government plans to ask police officers to fill out forms whenever they stop someone in the street as "absurd". "We are told it will take seven minutes on average for a police officer to fill in the forms, and we are not talking about stop and search here," he said. "We are talking about every time a police officer simply stops someone in the street and says 'what are doing here and where do you live?'. "It's absurd and it's a very good example of the kind of political correctness and paperwork that is stopping officers doing their jobs." Mr Howard visited the Hangleton area of Hove, where a byelection is planned for October 7, as part of a day-long trip to Sussex. Local community association leader David Smart said a Range Rover had been driven through the front of one local off-licence, the public toilets had been shut for months due to vandalism and several shop windows had been broken. Mr Smart, 68, a retired policeman, said: "What we need up here is a permanent CCTV camera pointing at all the shops. East Brighton has millions to spend on CCTV but we get the scraps. "And we never see any real police officers. We get a few Community Support Officers who are dressed to look like police officers but they have no powers." Grocer Garry Sanders, 47, said: "My front window was broken and the day it was re-fitted it was broken again. Every time it happens, my insurance premium goes up." And Nick Hollick, 32, owner of Stadium Motor Spares, told Mr Howard: "We never see any police up here now. We had a temporary CCTV camera for three months and it made a real difference but it went. "We used to go out to meet customers but now we are afraid of leaving the store unattended. It's got worse, definitely." Yesterday, during a walkabout in Harlow, Essex, Tony Blair hailed the increased use of measures to tackle anti-social behaviour as "immensely positive", saying Asbos were a key tool in the battle. The number of Asbos issued in Brighton and Hove has doubled in recent months, Home Office figures show, reflected a national trend. Between April 1999 and March 2003, nine were issued, compared to 18 between April 2003 and March this year, giving a total of 27. But today Mr Howard said not enough Asbos had been handed out. "Asbos can make a useful contribution but in the last five years we have only seen 2,500 handed out nationally," he said. "Today I have learned that even in quiet places such as this there are real problems caused by hooligans which create a real fear of crime for shopkeepers and other people. "We intend to save money through our asylum policies and we are going to recruit more police officers. We are going to stop the paperwork which prevents officers from doing their job."