The Tories have taken to presenting Harry Brown as somehow authenticating their "Broken Britain" campaign. "Once in a while, a movie comes along that has genuine social and political content and deserves to be treated as a commentary on contemporary mores," avers former Spectator editor Matthew d'Ancona. Apparently, the Brit vigilante flick "most definitely falls into this category". The film "portrays a society that is utterly disfigured." All Londoners should see it, because it will show them "the brutal reality" of life on their city's "forgotten estates, especially south of the river".I've lived in south London's supposed badlands for the last 30 years, and I beg to differ. Round our way, mums taking their kids for a walk in the park aren't gunned down for kicks by psychopathic bikers, as in Harry Brown's pre-titles taster. Our drug dealers aren't Kurtz-style, Grand-Guignol archfiends who invite surprise visitors to violate unconscious overdosed lovelies in whatever way they choose. Our drug busts don't prompt riots, still less instant descent into MadMaxLand. Oh, and few of our elderly gents embark on spectacular killing sprees when dissatisfied with the circumstances of a friend's decease.Still, this is entertainment. Let director Daniel Barber do what he will with the unlovely environs of the Elephant and Castle. We can take it, as our grandads used to say of the blitz. His film's dissociation from any discernible reality limits its effectiveness as drama, but so do its atrocious screenplay, indifferent acting and absurd plot. Of itself though, a mere sub-Winner bloodfest is unlikely to do much harm.Attempts by Conservative apologists to glean mileage from this farrago might be readily enough dismissed. However, they've been getting backing from a more authoritative source. The film's star, Sir Michael Caine, appears to be on-message. This changes things. These days, a grand celebrity and national treasure can command the ears of the populace and sway the fate of nations.Making Harry Brown required Sir Michael to venture from his home in greenbelt Surrey back to the mean streets of his lowly youth. He saw at once why they've turned into the hell on Earth that's depicted in the film. Society, he divined, has failed the young hoodlums who stalk them. "If you treat people like animals, they will probably become animals," he concluded. So what can you do? Why, switch your support from Labour to the Conservatives.Some may think that anyone who's made more than 100 films must clearly be a sage. Nonetheless, Sir Michael's social insights are open to challenge. The people among whom I live aren't "animals". If the treatment some of them have received is fit only for beasts, then most of them have managed to emerge from it with their decency unscathed. To suggest that their conditions must define their lives is to insult them.There are bad people in Bermondsey, just as there have always been, but their malevolence isn't simply a product of their surroundings. Like the rest of us south Londoners, they're human beings. As such, they enjoy a say in the shaping of their destinies. Ironically, both Harry Brown the movie and Harry Brown the character seem to agree.Sir Michael insists that while on location he talked to lots of local youngsters. "They're not terrible kids," he concluded. "We've failed them." Yet the film insists that its miscreants are indeed terrible. That, presumably, is why they deserve the terrible fate meted out to them. Summary execution would hardly be a reasonable penalty for mere victims of socialist misrule.As a born-again Cameroon, Sir Michael presumably believes that hoodies should be hugged, not slaughtered. Harry, however, harks back to an older Tory tradition. He hankers for law and order, and even in its absence wants the punishment to fit the crime. Unlike Sir Michael, he doesn't get to expound his political philosophy. If given that opportunity, it seems unlikely that he'd see tax breaks for married couples as the antidote to young thuggery.As Harry Brown, Sir Michael turns in a reasonable if unremarkable performance. As a social scientist, he's less impressive. On the whole, actors are probably best off sticking to acting. Quite a lot of people know that.