The life of a criminal barrister can appear charmed: big money (last year 10 QCs were paid more than £500,000 for doing criminal work, which is funded by legal aid), thrilling cases (a daily diet of "sex, violence and death", according to one senior member of the bar) and the opportunity to stride Rumpole-like around London's inns of court on a daily basis.But this career utopia is only enjoyed by a tiny proportion of a profession that has been squeezed harder than almost any other over the past decade. While their cousins at the commercial bar continue to prosper, the current crop of high-rolling criminal QCs could turn out to be the last members of an endangered species.The criminal bar's problems stem from incentives created by the last government for solicitors to conduct basic court advocacy themselves, leading to a dramatic fall in demand for baby barristers' services – and with it, their rates. These days trainees can get paid just £10,000 annually; a sum that can take years to rise above the £20,000 mark, as work-starved juniors survive on the scraps thrown to them at far-flung magistrates courts. News that pressure to cut costs may lead the Crown Prosecution Service to instruct a single prosecuting counsel for murder trials shows that work for junior counsel will become even more scarce.It's no surprise, then, that over the past few years increasing numbers have been leaving the profession altogether. Alex Deane, who quit the criminal bar after four years to join the civil liberties group Big Brother Watch, describes his old job as "a hobby and a pleasant one for those with an independent income, but you simply cannot make a living from it in the first four or five years." He continues: "Once you factor in tax and expenses, it's not just a joke that you'd be better off on benefits. It's genuinely true."And that was before the government announced it was to lop £350m off the legal aid budget – the pot out of which criminal barristers are paid.If the cuts have a positive aspect, it's that they have at last forced the profession to face up to the plight of its young. Last November the then Bar Council chairman Nicholas Green QC admitted "there's no more money", as he called for junior barristers specialising in publicly funded work to diversify into other areas. To help, Green put in motion plans to loosen the strict regulations that have historically limited barristers to a narrow range of advocacy-related tasks.Green's words were echoed on Monday evening by Nichola Higgins, chair of the Young Barristers' Committee, in a speech she made at the Inner Temple, one the inns of court. "There is nothing to be afraid of if you've got talent," she said, as she urged junior criminal barristers to supplement their practices with commercial instructions.Higgins herself is attempting to develop a sideline advising on the Bribery Act – the sort of work more usually associated with commercial solicitors. Other areas she identifies as ripe for her peers to expand into range from mediation in small-scale civil disputes to advising foreign companies looking to move to the UK on corporate law matters. "As barristers we have a solid grasp of the basics of law, we're adaptable and we pick things up quickly, so we can do this," she continued.Diversification is good news for those who, like Deane, don't have family money to support them through their early years of practice – and the hope is that higher junior earnings will help break the embarrassing upper-class stranglehold on the bar (two-thirds of barristers are privately educated and 82% went to Oxbridge). Rebecca Vanstone, whose criminal chambers 23 Essex Street is increasingly moving into regulatory prosecution for bodies such as the Environment Agency and the General Medical Council, said: "Doing commercial work wasn't exactly what I had in mind when I joined the profession – I have always wanted to do criminal defence – but you've got to eat."The danger, however, is that a move away from specialisation will see legal aid take second fiddle to more lucrative commercial instructions – perhaps even relegating it to the status of pro bono work, which is seen as a spare-time activity by most commercial lawyers. This worries Michael Mansfield, one of the country's leading criminal QCs. "Having the most vulnerable in society being looked after by whoever has got time on their hands would be an extraordinary state of affairs. They will undoubtedly receive a poorer service," he says.Instead, Mansfield hopes to see "barristers and solicitors aligning themselves according to areas of interest, and working together more efficiently under one roof" in what would amount to a partial fusion of the two branches of the profession.Adam Makepeace, practice director at the legal aid solicitors' firm Duncan Lewis, thinks this "greater partnering" would make good commercial sense, creating economies of scale while also allowing criminal barristers and solicitors "to continue doing what they are best at". But first he believes we're in for a "massive wave of consolidation across the entire publicly-funded side of the profession".Welcome to the new post-cuts era of the criminal bar. Rumpole of the Bailey it ain't. Alex Aldridge is a freelance journalist who writes about law and educationClarification, added on April 2 2012: This article put the percentage of Oxbridge-educated barristers at 82%. The true figure, according to a 2011 Bar Council survey, is approximately 30%.