A growing number of people remanded to prison to await trial are committing suicide, according to the Prison Reform Trust.Yesterday the trust's "Reform Remand" campaign said that last year there were 36 such deaths, meaning that more than a third of prisoners who took their life while inside had not been convicted. More than 50,000 people a year are remanded into custody. The latest figures show that 270 have been waiting for more than two years to be tried - more than double the number three years ago. Juliet Lyons, director of the trust, said that many remand prisoners were locked in cells for up to 22 hours a day with no regular access to showers and with just 30 minutes' exercise. They also had to share with convicted prisoners the use of cells designed for single occupation, and had to watch their cellmate use the toilet. Many had only limited access to the legal information they needed to prepare for their trial. Earlier this year the home secretary, David Blunkett, admitted that most of those on remand were not in prison long enough for education and work skills programmes to make any difference - but were there long enough to lose their jobs, their family links, and even their homes. The campaign claimed that more than 10,000 of the 50,000 a year on remand in custody were acquitted when they reached court, and that more than 25,000 were given a community penalty and not a jail sentence. Mrs Lyons said that more efficient courts and bail information schemes would help to curtail the shame of holding people on remand in the worst conditions in the most overcrowded jails. A prison service spokeswoman denied that there was a higher suicide rate amongst remand prisoners. She said that those locked up for 22 hours a day were the exception rather than the rule - but accepted that the population pressures, particularly in local jails where remand prisoners were held, meant they shared cells with convicted inmates; a programme of introducing privacy screens in shared cells was underway. The campaign was launched as the chief inspector of prisons reported on Elmley in Kent - where one in three is on remand. Heavily criticised two years ago, Elmley had improved "noticeably" despite holding 30% more than it was designed for. But she said that, despite the best efforts of staff, the prison would be unable to provide a decent and challenging environment unless numbers went down.