A woman who stabbed her husband to death a week after they returned from their honeymoon was jailed for five years yesterday.Catherine Osliffe, 34, carried out the attack within minutes of telling her husband Roger: "We've only been together for a week and I hate you already. I can't stand you." A jury at Preston crown court found her guilty of manslaughter, but she was cleared of murder. The court had heard that Osliffe, a college lecturer, and her 35-year-old husband, a self-employed fencing contractor, often argued at their home in Whalley, near Clitheroe, Lancashire. On the night of his death they were said to have argued before and after a visit to a nightclub. By the time they returned home in the early hours of June 6 last year, they were arguing about some flowers that Osliffe's mother had given her, which her husband wrongly thought were from another man. He poured the flowers and water over her as she lay in bed. She went downstairs picked up a knife from the kitchen and stabbed him, inflicting a fatal blow that passed through his left shoulder and pierced his lung. She waited for 10 minutes before phoning for an ambulance. Osliffe told police that her husband had stabbed himself. But she was arrested after he told paramedics that it was she who had attacked him. During a 999 call, she told the operator: "I need an ambulance fast. He put a knife through himself. He pushed it into his heart." But her story fell apart when Mr Osliffe regained consciousness in the ambulance on the way to the Blackburn Royal infirmary, where he later died of his injuries. David Mansell, a paramedic, said in a statement, which was read to the court: "I asked, 'Why have you stabbed yourself'. And he said, 'I didn't.' I said: 'We were of the impression that you stabbed yourself. Who did stab you?' He said: 'Cath's done it.'" The couple, who both had children from previous relationships, met in 2002. They moved in together two years ago and married at the local parish church on April 30 last year. But the relationship was so volatile that their neighbours frequently heard them screaming and shouting at each other. Osliffe's daughter, Samantha Pickles, 14, was woken by the sound of arguing. She saw her stepfather with blood running down his leg and he shouted at her: "Look what your mum's done to me." Passing sentence, Judge Openshaw said: "There had been many arguments, particularly after they had been drinking, which was something that happens. After their arguments, they quickly made it up." He said Mr Osliffe had verbally abused the defendant for receiving flowers because he thought they were from another man. "In due course, she put these flowers in a vase and put them in the sitting room. He got it in his head that she was dressing up to go out to meet this other man." Paul Reid, counsel for the defence, said Osliffe was provoked by the throwing of the flowers and the water and this was made worse by the way her husband dealt with her protestations about where the flowers came from.