My days are spent fighting my fears and my ill health. Sleep comes in short bursts, and every day is a fight. But despite what has happened, I try to stay strong for my family.I grew up in Merseyside and when I was 17 I left home to get married. My husband and I had three children, Thomas, Stephen and Natasha, but my marriage was unhappy and ended in 1974. Four years later I married again and had Chantel and Anthony. I was happy and I adored my family. My own childhood was not great so I gave my children what I never had. I suppose I built a wall around us. Our home was always full of laughter, noise and the sounds of them playing together. But then, in 1998 my world was turned upside down. My younger sister, Joyce, had moved to London aged 17 to work as a nanny. She also married young, at 19, and had two children. We were close - growing up we had shared a bed for a long time - but did not see as much of each other as we would have liked, because she was down south. She was always quietly spoken and would remind me of a little sparrow. When Joyce was 40, one of the children she was looking after died of meningitis. Soon after her marriage fell apart, partly due to the effects of grief at the child's death. One day Joyce was discovered unconscious in her home by a neighbour and taken to hospital. Before she slipped into a coma she told the neighbour that she had been attacked and left for dead. Three days later she died from extensive internal injuries. No one has ever been convicted of her murder. I miss her so much. By the time she was killed, my second husband and I were divorced, but my best friend Marie was there for me as were my five children.Joyce had left a big gap in my life and I felt cheated. I was devastated that we had not been able to catch her killer. I thought things could not get any worse, and kept my family close to me for fear of anything happening to them. Two years later my son Stephen split with his partner of nine years - the mother of his daughter - and he came to live at home for 18 months. He was tall, dark and handsome, and a really good listener. He loved his music, especially The Beatles and Fleetwood Mac - and everybody loved him. Soon after he came home he befriended a woman called Elizabeth and they started to have an on-off relationship. Elizabeth was very keen but Stephen was cautious and just wanted a friendship. She had been through a hard time; she was depressed after her baby was stillborn and had recently split up with her husband. She became quite obsessive about Stephen, sending him countless presents and phoning and texting constantly. I felt there was something not quite right but Stephen would just say, "Mum, she just has a broken heart, that's all."Stephen ended the relationship and was relieved when she seemed to accept it. Six weeks later he came to see me and said he was having mates over for a birthday celebration. He kissed me goodbye and went to get drinks for the party. That night I was woken up by a neighbour who told me she had seen Stephen being taken from his flat on a stretcher into an ambulance. At first I assumed he had drunk too much and had an accident. But when I called the hospital, they told me to come immediately, and would not tell me how he was. I knew something terrible had happened, but nothing prepared me for the resuscitation unit. A doctor pulled me into a private room and told me that Stephen had died. He was only 31. In the distance I could hear someone shouting, "No, No." It was Chantel. She was howling like an animal in pain. Stephen had died as a result of an injection of diamorphine. Elizabeth had arrived at his flat when all but one of his friends had left. The friend answered the door and Elizabeth told him that she had arranged to visit Stephen. He was asleep on the sofa after drinking and could not contradict her. The friend left them alone - something he now bitterly regrets.Elizabeth then injected Stephen with diamorphine. She dialled 999 and said she could not wake him. He died hours later, in a coma. When I saw her at the hospital being comforted by a nurse, I shouted: "It's her, she's done something to Stephen!" In the end Elizabeth admitted injecting him and was sentenced to three-and- a-half years for manslaughter. Stephen's death felt like a family massacre. We were destroyed, and Chantel took it particularly hard. They were so close and very alike. My happiest memories of them are the times when we all lived under one roof with lots of love, laughter, and bickering, and just knowing they were safe, tucked up in bed. Chantel was also going through a difficult divorce and ended up on antidepressants. Sometimes she struggled to get out of bed.About a year later she started taking heroin. Soon she was shoplifting to pay for her habit, and after being banned from the city centre, she started to sell herself on the street. I tried desperately to get her into rehab, but was told there was a 12-to-18 month waiting list. Chantel agreed that we grandparents would look after the kids. When she was caught shoplifting again she was sent to prison. But she needed help, not punishment: she was kind and loving, very emotional, and really too sensitive for this world. When she came out, she went straight back on the streets. I never gave up looking for treatment for her but there was nothing available. In desperation, I would follow her to the red-light area and try and stop her getting into cars. Then, one day in 2004, I was stopped in the street by a girl Chantel shared a house with. She told me Chantel had not come home the night before. The girl had reported it to the police but they just said something like: "That's what you lot do, isn't it? She'll be with a punter." I knew Chantel would never have walked out on her family. We spoke every day, and we became even closer after Stephen died. Every night, my friend Marie and I would look for her. I registered her with the Missing Person's Helpline, got her face on milk cartons and BT plasma screens in the shopping centre, and her photo on fruit machines in pubs, but there was no news. I refused to think of her as dead and would pray for decent weather because every time it rained I would torture myself that she was huddled in a shop doorway shivering. Eighteen months later, in July 2005, there was a breakthrough. After the London bombings a mosque in Birkenhead was firebombed. Police found a jacket at the scene that led them to Stephen Wynne, a former soldier who had gone to the same school as Chantel. Police searched Wynne's flat and found a letter in a bin under the sink in which he wrote about a "junky whore" who was "worthless". He meant my Chantel. Wynne claimed he didn't kill her, but woke up to find her partially dismembered in his bath after spending the evening with her. I don't know why he did it. In court he said he'd bumped into her in the street, offered her heroin for sex, and when they got to his flat she stole his heroin, so he hit her with a meat cleaver. Six months later Wynne was found guilty of Chantel's murder and sentenced to 21 years, later reduced to 18. I never found Chantel, except for a few shards of bone near her bloodstained clothes in Wynne's back garden, along with the tools used to hack her to pieces. We buried the bone with some of her clothes. I will never ask that bastard where she is, but I swear I will find her one day and give her a proper funeral.Human nature can be so very cruel, but I know there are some good people in the world. And I have faith. There has to be a better place than here, and I hope in that place Chantel and Stephen are happy, waiting for me. I will not allow those who have taken so much from me to win. I am part of the group Families Fighting for Justice, whose members are relatives of murder victims; it is like family sharing the same pain. I feel I must help others, to try and make a change. I live day to day with a broken heart, but I will always fight on · • Jean Taylor was talking to Julie Bindel. For more information see familiesfightingforjustice.com Do you have a story to tell about your life? Email it to my.story@theguardian.com. If possible, include a phone number