8.07am: There's lots of election activity this morning. Gordon Brown is giving a speech on crime (at 9.30am) and Alan Johnson will follow that up with a press conference (at 12.30pm). Michael Gove is making an education announcement in a speech at 10.30am. And David Cameron is about to give an interview to Heart FM. I'll be blogging them all live.8.18am: Cameron is talking about the Tory spring conference. Jamie Theakston, the presenter, asks if Cameron went out to celebrate afterwards. From Cameron's answer, it sounds as if that's not quite what happened. But Cameron does say how much he lives Brighton.Theakston says that if the interview starts to sound like a party political broadcast, an alarm will sound. He gives an example. Cameron accepts that he's been warned.(Good job they don't do this on the Today programme.)After a song, Theakston says Cameron's speech "seems to have been a hit".Cameron says it went down "all right".Did he learn the speech by heart?Cameron says he knew what he wanted to say. But, as he was speaking, it came out slightly differently.Theakston says it's St David's Day and the weather's nice. Cameron agrees.Theakston introduces "the battle of the boroughs", which seems to be some sort of a quiz. He's throwing questions to a caller from Plaistow. I thought this was meant to be an interview with Cameron?8.21am: Heart seems to have given up on Cameron. They're reading out the traffic report now. While I wait for him to come back, I've been looking at the papers. The Daily Telegraph and the Independent both have the same picture on the front page, showing Cameron jogging in Brighton. The Telegraph's headline is: "I'm fit to run Britain." But in the Independent, it's "Cameron struggles to make the running." As they say, you pay your money ...Now Heart's playing Take That. I hope the interview picks up soon. So far, it's been useless.8.25am: By the way, if you want to listen, or if you like Take That, you can find Heart here.8.26am: Theakston asks Cameron if the song, Greatest Day, could be Cameron's campaign theme. Cameron demurs.But he does tell us Gary Barlow lives in his constituency.Q: What would Cameron normally be doing at this time?Cameron says he is normally woken by a young child. There's a lot of "bed hopping" in his house. Sometimes he wakes up in one of the children's beds.He talks about getting the kids ready for school. And he tells us he had a bacon sandwich this morning.And now Theakston says: "That's the main story this morning - David Cameron speaks to London's Heart." Main story? Cameron had a bacon sandwich! This is dreadful. But I suppose I better keep listening, just in case he says something interesting.Here's a ghastly thought: we've got 10 more weeks of this nonsense.8.33am: Benedict Brogan in the Telegraph is good on the Tory spring conference and the party's reaction to the Sunday Times poll.Certainly what shocked the Tories most about yesterday's poll was the suggestion that people trust Gordon Brown more to look after all groups in Britain, to understand their problems, and to tell the truth. And that after a week that has seen the Prime Minister exposed as a compulsive bully who is in denial. The only comfort was that Mr Cameron beat Mr Brown on which of them has the character to be an effective leader, by 40 points to 28.8.36am: Cameron tells Theakston he's got "mixed tastes" in music. He likes Bob Dylan. And he likes County and Western "sometimes". Theakston reminds him that he's live.Q: When will the election be?Cameron says he would like it to be tomorrow. March 25 is still a possibility. But he thinks it will be May.The sooner you can have a government that can think about the long term ... the sooner we can roll up our sleeves and get on with the job that needs to be done.Asked about the polls, he says the Tories have "every chance" of wining the election. But it's going to be a "tight contest".Q: Is is "squeaky bum time" (to use an Alex Ferguson expression)?Cameron says he does not know that's a Ferguson phrase.Q: Why are young people not engaged in politics?Cameron says young people are "incredibly interested" in issues like the environment. They care about political issues. But the political system "switches them off". In the rest of their lives, they have control. They can take control "at the click of a mouse". Cameron says he wants to give them more control.8.42am: I feel the need to apologise. This must be the worst interview I've heard for ages. Theakston has achieved the impossible: he's made Piers Morgan sound highbrow.8.44am: Q: Who wears the trousers in the Cameron household.Cameron replies:Guess ... We discuss these things before she decides.Q: Who controls the remote control?Cameron says his flicking from station to station drives his wife, Samantha, mad.Cameron says he enjoys sport. He's an Aston Villa supporter. But tennis is the sport he plays the most. He recalls going to Rolling Stones concert when England were playing. Apparently the Stones kept going backstage to listen to the match.8.48am: Theakston asks Cameron why there are so many roadworks in London.Cameron says the utilities need to repair the infrastructure. But Boris Johnson is trying to ensure that utility companies carry out their repairs at the same time.At least! A hint of a story. Asked about clutter on the roads, Cameron says there is some evidence that if you remove some signs and traffic lights, people drive more carefully. The government should "look at this", he says.8.52am: Heart is playing another song. And I've just turned to Boris Johnson in the Telegraph. In Conservative politics, if Cameron says one thing, Boris can always be relied upon to say the opposite.The headline on the Guardian story about Cameron's speech yesterday says:Cameron admits: the election will be a close thingAnd in the Telegraph, the headline on Boris's column says:Brown to win? You must be joking8.55am: Theakston asks Cameron if he is "wibbly wobbly under pressure", as Lord Mandelson said last week.Cameron says Mandelson is not a reliable guide to anything.He says it will be tough for the next couple of years. But there's a "bright light" at the end of the tunnel.That's it. And what have we learnt? At least one thing: John Humphrys's job is safe.9.00am: That was a waste of time. But, this morning, it should get better. Brown is giving a speech on crime at 9.30. Sky is showing some footage of him talking to police officers in Reading now. At 10.30 Michael Gove is giving a speech on academies. And at 12.30 Alan Johnson is holding a press conference on crime. He will be urging us "to take a long hard look at the Tories' policies on crime".9.06am: Some extracts from the Brown speech were released to journalists yesterday. Here's the story Polly Curtis wrote about it for the Guardian based on what Downing Street was briefing in advance.9.18am: Big Story. Lord Ashcroft has admitted that he's a non-dom. He has just put this statement on his website.I am making this statement in advance of the release by the Cabinet Office of limited information about the award of my peerage and of the undertakings I gave at the time.  While I value my privacy, I do not want my affairs to distract from the general election campaign. I have therefore decided to release a copy of the letter which I wrote to William Hague, and to expand on what actually happened.  As the letter shows, the undertakings I gave were confirmed in a memorandum to William Hague dated 23rd March 2000. These were to "take up permanent residence in the UK again" by the end of that year. The other commitment in the memorandum was to resign as Belize's permanent representative to the UN, which I did a week later.  In subsequent dialogue with the Government, it was officially confirmed that the interpretation in the first undertaking of the words "permanent residence" was to be that of "a long term resident" of the UK. I agreed to this and finally took up my seat in the House of Lords in October 2000. Throughout the last ten years, I have been declaring all my UK income to HM Revenue.  My precise tax status therefore is that of a "non-dom". Two of Labour's biggest donors - Lord Paul (recently made a privy councillor by the Prime Minister) and Sir Ronald Cohen, both long-term residents of the UK, are also "non-doms".  As for the future, while the non-dom status will continue for many people in business or public life, David Cameron has said that anyone sitting in the legislature - Lords or Commons - must be treated as resident and domiciled in the UK for tax purposes. I agree with this change and expect to be sitting in the House of Lords for many years to come. 9.31am: Brown is speaking now. I've just finished reading some lengthy extracts from the speech that I've already seen. It's a substantial mix, which combines some Tory-sounding, "tough on crime" policy and rhetoric with an attack on the Conservatives for claiming that Britain is "broken" and an appeal for an "honest" debate about crime.I'll post some highlights in a moment.9.36am: Here are some of the key points from the Brown speech.• Brown says neighbourhood police teams should now be spending 80% of their time on the beat. He says this is set out in national standards that also stipulate that the police should respond to non-emergency enquiries in 24 hours and hold monthly beat meetings.• Reports cards measuring police performance will be published online from next week, Brown says. To increase police accountability, residents will also get the power to petition online for extraordinary public meetings with senior police officers.• Ministers are holding a summit on anti-social behaviour tomorrow. Brown says this will consider minimum standards for police dealing with antisocial behaviour, as well as tougher action for people who breach asbos and a faster application process for asbos.• Repeat victims of antisocial behaviour will be entitled to legal support if they need to obtain an injunction to protect themselves. Brown says this proposal was set out in a police white paper last year but that the government will consider how to implement this quickly.• Brown says he understands why people are concerned about anti-social behaviour.I understand the worries of a mum who avoids taking her kids to the park because of louts drinking and causing trouble. And the fears of young women worried about walking home from work in the dark at night.I understand the anxieties of pensioners who hesitate before going to answer their front door, and the couple who think twice about going out for a meal in townI understand that it is not just crime and anti social behaviour, but fear of crime, and fear of anti social behaviour, that can damage our communities. People become wary of making eye contact; strangers stopping you in the street are treated with suspicion; young people hanging around are assumed to be up to no good; neighbours hesitate to help out someone in trouble. • But Brown also insists that crime has fallen, and that Britain is not broken.So we never accept the simplistic and defeatist argument that our communities are "broken".Let us go back once more to the facts: a society in which not just crime and anti-social behaviour but also child poverty, illiteracy, and ill health have all fallen cannot be called a broken society.I know there are problems, but I also know that there is nothing bad in Britain that cannot be fixed by what is good in Britain. • And, in a reference to the Tories, Brown accuses them of scaremongering. They are "ramping up a public sense of panic", he says.I know crime is an emotive issue. Everyone has strong views about what should be done about crime and criminals, and it is right that this should be at the forefront of public debate – and indeed political debate. And I know that all of us in public life care about crime. Of that there is no question. But I say to you – we do have a responsibility to have that debate honestly – and to deal in facts, not fear.As bad as the fear of crime is the crime of fear. And I will play no part in that.9.55am: Back to Lord Ashcroft. According to an article by David Hencke, this is what Ashcroft's spokesman, Alan Kilkenny, said last year when asked about the prospect of Ashcroft making a public statement about his tax status.Hell is more likely to freeze over.It's amazing what a Freedom of Information request can achieve.10.07am: The Conservatives had just put out a press release about the Michael Gove speech. He will say that the Tories would introduce an education bill within days if they win the election and that they would aim to get it onto the statute book by July 2010. He says this would allow hundreds of schools to re-open in September as academies.The bill would allow schools to convert to academies quickly because it would remove the duty to consult local authorities. It would also change the Ofsted inspection framework. Ofsted inspectors would focus on just four criteria - teaching, leadership, behaviour and safety, and pupil attainment - instead of 18, as now. And outstanding schools would be exempt from inspection.10.20am: Nick Clegg is giving an education speech today too. The full text is available on the party's website. According to the press release, he is reaffirming the Lib Dem commitment to a pupil premium - and criticising the Tories (who have the same idea) for not saying how they would fund it.The Conservatives have also promised to target funding towards disadvantaged pupils. But they have not given any detail on how they will pay for it. In fact, they have committed precisely no pounds and no pence.It is, in my view, the height of cynicism to pledge a pupil premium – by definition an amount of money per pupil – without attaching a figure to it.10.24am: Michael Gove is speaking in a room in Portcullis House (the £250m parliamentary office block on the Palace of Westminster estate). I'm just heading off there now to listen to him.10.58am: That was no good. They may have spent £250m on Portcullis House, but I could not use the laptop from the Attlee Suite because I could not get a signal. Anyway, I heard Gove speak - and Cameron introduce him. I fear we're hearing rather too much about Cameron's bedroom habits this morning. (See 8.26am). He told us that his wife Samantha told him in bed this morning that his best work as shadow education secretary came when he applied "common sense" to education policy.Cameron also said he wished the DCSF - the Department for Children, Schools and Families - was still called the department for education. He claimed that it was known as the "department for carpets and soft furnishings" in the education world.11.05am: Alan Johnson, the home secretary, has just told BBC News that the Ashcroft announcement undermines David Cameron's claim to champion "transparency" in politics.We've spent years trying to establish whether Lord Ashcroft was a non-dom or not. Today's announcement is ... a bombshell, in the sense that all this talk about patriotism disappears into the ether when it turns out what Lord Ashcroft has been doing.But, according to the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg, Johnson was less keen to discuss whether Labour non-doms in the House of Lords would start paying full tax in the UK when new legislation comes into force saying parliamentarians must be full taxpayers. Ashcroft has said that he will stay in the Lords and pay the full tax bill.11.13am: Re Ashcroft, the Tories are now trying to focus attention on Lord Paul, the Labour non-dom who has hinted that he might leave the Lords rather than become a full UK taxpayer when the new legislation comes into force. Eric Pickles, the Tory chairman, has tweeted this:Lord Paul big Labour donor indicates he will leave Lords rather than expose himself to UK tax.The Pickles tweet also includes a reference to this story in the Daily Telegraph. The article quotes "friends" of the peer saying he is likely to leave the Lords in the summer. Paul himself told the Telegraph:I will examine what it means and make the best decision for my situation. I am non-domiciled. I will follow the law.11.21am: There's a wonderful spate going on between John Prescott and Eric Pickles on Twitter. (It's the first time, I think, I've seen two senior political figures slugging it out on Twitter.) Prescott started it at 10.33 with this:My message to Ashcroft. Pay back ten years of tax or leave the Lords. You made a promise and you broke it. Pay up or get out #cashcroftPickles hit back with the Lord Paul tweet (see 11.13am). Then, replying directly to the point made by Prescott, he sent out seven tweets identifying seven separate Labour donors asking if they will repay 10 years' tax.Prescott replied to Pickles:@ericpickles Ashcroft says he'll pay tax IF Cameron wins. Does that mean we can also refuse to pay tax IF Tories win? Yes or no? #cashcroft11.27am: Cameron has just given a brief interview about Ashcroft. He said Ashcroft was in the same position as Lord Paul and he seemed to dodge a question about whether he knew the details of Ashcroft's tax status until today. I'll post the quote in a moment.11.29am: Cameron said that Ashcroft had been asked to clarify the undertakings he gave when he became a peer and that he had been asked to clarify his tax status and he said the peer had now answered both questions.He's a non-dom. Those are people who live in the UK and pay tax in the UK but have that non-dom status, like, for instance, Lord Paul, one of Labour's biggest donors, who the prime minister recently made a privy counsellor, one of the highest offices in the land. I'm glad it's cleared up. Now we can get on with the election campaign.Asked if he knew Cameron was a non-dom, Cameron replied:I have always taken the view that someone's tax status is a matter between them and the Revenue and I've answered that question many times, but I'd delighted that Lord Ashcroft has made these statements and has answered these questions, so I think that now we can get on with the election.Asked how much damage the affair had done the party, Cameron replied:Look, I think you have to respect people's privacy and you have to respect the view that someone's tax status is a matter between them and the Revenue, but I'm delighted Lord Ashcroft has come out and said, 'You want to know the undertakings I gave, here they are, you want to know my tax status, here is is'. It happens to be the same as Lord Paul, one of Labour's biggest donors, someone the prime minister himself made a privy counsellor. I think that clears it up completely.And also, we've said for the future - this was our proposal - that anyone who wants to sit in the Lords or the Commons must either be or be treated as a full UK resident taxpayer. And that will change for the future. This clears that up. As a result, we can now get onto the election campaign. That question people wanted answered has been answered.This is disingenuous. It is true to say that the Tories now support legislation saying parliamentarians will have to pay full tax in the UK. But the proposal did not come from the Tories initially. The Labour MP Gordon Prentice and the Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott were campaigning for this long before Cameron said he was in favour.11.50am: Labour HQ has just been on the phone. The 12.30 press conference with Alan Johnson has been cancelled. Apparently there are "technical problems" with the press centre. Strangely, the press officer doesn't seem to know any more about what these "technical problems" might be.I think it's fair to assume that the only technical problem they've got at Labour HQ is that although the Johnson press conference would "technically" be about crime, in reality it would be all about Ashcroft.The Ashcroft story is damaging to the Tories - because it reminds voters that the party has been evasive about the tax status of a major donor - and Labour seems to have decided that there's no point saying anything that would distract attention from it. But there may also have been some nervousness about having Johnson bombarded with Pickles-inspired questions (see 11.21am) about Lord Paul and other Labour donors.12.05pm: Chris Huhne, the Lib Dem home affairs spokesman, is on Sky now. This is the statement he put out earlier.The Conservatives' biggest donor is a tax-dodger from Belize who has not paid a penny of British tax on the vast bulk of his estimated £1.1 billion fortune held offshore. This raises extraordinary questions about the judgment of successive Tory leaders - William Hague, Michael Howard and David Cameron - whose view seems to be that only little people should pay tax. The Tory party has been bought like a banana republic.On Sky, Huhne says the Tory approach seems to be that only "little people" should pay tax. It is "frankly shocking" that this has been allowed to carry on. Cameron should have "stamped on this as soon as he became leader".The presenter says there are no Lib Dem non-doms in the Lords. But he asks Huhne about the £2.4m the Lib Dems received from Michael Brown, a convicted fraudster. Huhne says that the Lib Dems took the money from Brown in good faith. He was only convicted after he had given the money.But shouldn't you give it back, Huhne is asked.Huhne says the Lib Dems can't give the money back. They've spent it.The Ashcroft case is different. Ashcroft is worth more than £1bn, he says. By being a non-dom, he may have saved £12m a year, Huhne says.12.15pm: The full text of the Brown speech on crime is now on the Downing Street website.12.17pm: Earlier, at 11.21am, I quoted from a tweet sent by John Prescott saying that Ashcroft has promised to pay full tax in the UK only if the Tories win the general election. This is wrong. In his statement Ashcroft says he expects to be sitting in the Lords "for many years to come". Tory sources say that he is going to comply with the new rules requiring peers to pay full tax in the UK whoever wins the election.12.26pm: According to a post by Iain Dale on his blog, Ashcroft only contributes at most 10% of the money going to Tory candidates in marginal seats.12.33pm: Gordon Prentice, the Labour MP who has been campaigning for some time to get all parliamentarians to pay full taxes in the UK, told Sky earlier that the Tories have not been straight with people.This whole issue ... is about the undertaking Michael Ashcroft gave 10 years ago to be a long-term resident of the United Kingdom. I would say that means paying taxes like the rest of us. And it is a dirty little secret that he has had, that he has concealed from us for 10 years ... I would say to David Cameron why don't you just pay back the millions that Ashcroft has given the Conservative party. Don't pay them back to Ashcroft. He's got £850m. He does not need any more. But pay it over the Inland Revenue people who should have got that money.12.50pm: Jack Straw, the justice secretary, has just issued this statement.Lord Ashcroft was initially turned down for a peerage. He was only granted his peerage on the basis that he would return to live in the UK, become fully resident, and that he would pay tax in the UK on his wider income.  Today Lord Ashcroft has been forced to admit that he has not complied with this promise and that for the last ten years the Conservatives have been concealing the truth. Instead of paying tax in the UK on all his earned income, he has been channelling millions into the Conservative Party to help them buy this election. This is precisely what you'd expect from the old Tory party of the 80s and 90s. It just goes to show that rather than having really changed his party, David Cameron has kept it as it was. Today David Cameron claims he proposed to change the law to force peers to pay full tax. He did not. The Tories' initial amendment left open an 'Ashcroft loophole', which would have allowed non-dom peers to avoid paying tax on their foreign income. Instead, it was this Labour Government which took action to ensure that in future every peer and MP is treated as a fully resident UK taxpayer.12.51pm: The Straw statement goes further than anything other Labour figures have said. The justice secretary is not just accusing Ashcroft of being unpatriotic (as Alan Johnson did - see 11.05am). And he is not just accusing Ashcroft of giving the impression 10 years ago that he would become a full UK taxpayer (as Gordon Prentice did - see 12.33pm). He is accusing Ashcroft of breaking a promise.Here's how Labour justify the charge.In his memo to William Hague dated 23 March 2000, Ashcroft said:I hereby give you may clear and unequivocal assurance that I have decided to take up permanent residence in the UK again before the end of this calendar year.At the end of the memo Ashcroft described this - and his promise to resign as Belize's representative to the UN - as "solemn and binding undertakings".Labour, in a briefing note sent to journalists, says the memo indicates that Ashcroft intended to become "resident" in the UK for tax purposes and that this meant paying tax on all earned income, not just UK income.But, in the statement he issued today, Ashcroft said that "permanent residence" had been defined in a specific way.In subsequent dialogue with the government, it was offically confirmed that the interpretation in the first undertaking of the words "permanent residence" was to be that of "a long-term resident" of the UK.Labour says in its note to journalists this shows that Ashcroft is "trying to redefine his original promise". Ashcroft, I presume, would argue that he was not redefining the original promise, but just clarifying what it meant.1.20pm: Lord Paul and Michael Gove have just been on the World at One. Paul said that he could not see what the fuss was about and that there were other non-doms in the Lords. Gove refused to say whether he or not he knew that Ashcroft was a non-dom. He also claimed that Labour has received more in the past year from someone who is reportedly a non-dom. I'll post the full quotes in a moment.1.24pm: This is what Michael Gove, the shadow children's secretary, said about Ashcroft.It's important that people appreciate that some of the language that has been used by Chris Huhne and Gordon Prentice ... is inaccurate. [Ashcroft] is not a tax dodger. He's not a tax exile. He's a long-term resident and he's non-domiciled. And that's the same status as Lord Paul. And the same status reportedly as a variety of Labour donors, and also, I think, a Liberal Democrat donor [a French donor to Chris Huhne's leadership campaign].Asked if he was surprised to learn that Ashcroft was a non-dom, Gove replied:I respect his privacy. He's taken the opportunity to state his status.Gove also said that Ashcroft was not the biggest donor to the Conservative party.In the last year he's given only 1% of donations to the Conservative party. Sir Ronald Cohen, who's reportedly a non-dom, has given more in the last year to the Labour party than Lord Ashcroft has given to the Conservative party.1.35pm: Lord Paul told the World at One that he did not know what the "fuss" was about. He said that it was unfair to compare him to Ashcroft because he did not donate to Labour in a personal capacity. He donated through his company, which pays taxes in the UK.He said the law allowed him to sit in the House of Lords.I have no problem with anybody who wants to be a non-dom, because that is what the law allows ... I wish I really understood what the fuss is about ... I am sure there are a lot more people who are non-doms who are sitting in the House of Lords and they will make the choice at that time when the law [saying non-doms either have to leave the Lords, or pay tax in full] is passed.2.01pm: Some light relief. Ed Balls, the children's secretary - or education secretary, as Cameron would like to call him (see 10.58am) has made a spelling mistake on Twitter.Oops - spelt "tries" as "trys - will retweet2.15pm: A spokesman for Ashcroft has strongly denied the claim from Jack Straw (see 12.50pm) that Ashcroft has not complied with the promise he made when he became a peer. The spokesman told me:[Ashcroft] has never broken a promise and he has never gone back on an undertaking.Ashcroft's office is looking at the Labour claims in details. We may get a more detailed response later.I've also asked the Tories if William Hague knew that the undertaking he had been given by Ashcroft about "permanent" residency had been interpreted to mean "long-term" residency. I'll let you know when I get an answer.2.40pm: Here's Nick Clegg on the Ashcroft announcement.If you are seeking to pour money into the election in a way which affects how people vote, then it is wholly wrong that you basically seek to pay taxes only partially in this country. That is inconsistent. If you are going to get stuck into British politics, then pay full British taxes.2.57pm: Sam Coates has put up a useful post on his Red Box blog listing the donations Ashcroft has made to the Tories. He says Bearwood, Ashcroft's company, has given £4.13m out of £89.5m the Tories have received since Cameron became leader.3.14pm: In the comments section below, abanks asks:Apropos of something else entirely, why is Cameron an Aston Villa fan? Does he have connections in the West Midlands or does he think that it's worth a few votes in key marginals? Or is it because Prince William also supports them? I think we should be told.Just in case I ever need to apply for a job on Heart (see 8.42am and 8.55am), I thought I'd better find out. Apparently Cameron's uncle was a Villa fan and the first football match he ever went to was a Villa game.So there you go ...3.21pm: Back to real politics. Straw is on BBC News. He stresses he is talking in a party capacity. That's interesting. After he issued his statement earlier (see 12.50pm), Ashcroft's office were wondering whether Straw was speaking in a ministerial capacity. In other words, was it the government's view that Ashcroft had broken the promises given when he became a peer? From what Straw seems to be saying, it's not the government's view.Straw quotes Sam Coates from the Times as saying that the Ashcroft revelations casts doubt on Cameron's claims to believe in transparency.Straw also says he has introduced legislation to ensure that non-doms cannot sit in the Lords.The original amendment on this proposed by the Tories would have allowed Ashcroft to stay in the Lords without paying full tax, Straw says.Straw accuses the Tories of 10 years of "concealment".I'll post a full quote in a moment.3.27pm: This is what Straw said on BBC News just now about Ashcroft:There are a whole series of questions now for David Cameron as much as for Lord Ashcroft. Why has it taken the Conservative party and leadership 10 years to "clarify" the position of Lord Ashcroft and his tax status. I have been listening, as you will have done, time after time after time to Conservative senior politicians being asked "What is the tax position of Lord Ashcroft". And all they have said is that Lord Ashcroft pays tax in accordance with UK law. Of course he does that, because it would be a criminal offence not to do so. It has taken this pressure to get this statement out of Lord Ashcroft following a rather unpublicised but very, very important pronouncement by the information commissioner, the independent information commissioner, accusing the Conservative leadership of being "obfuscatory" and serving to compound the speculation about Lord Ashcroft's tax position ...This is about the judgment of David Cameron and William Hague, to whom the original undertakings were given. Why have they sat on this information for such a long time ... Lord Ashcroft is not just any old donor. He's the vice chairman of the Conservative party. He has, literally, a seat in Conservative party headquarters. He's running their campaigns in marginal seats. So he has huge influence.3.39pm: Here is the report from the information commissioner into the Ashcroft case mentioned by Jack Straw just now (see 3.27pm).4.10pm: Just back from the afternoon lobby briefing. Downing Street isn't accusing Ashcroft of breaking the promises he made at the time he became a peer. The prime minister's spokesman said he thought that when Ashcroft received his peerage, he did not negotiate directly with the government. Ashcroft would have dealt with the honours scrutiny committee, the spokesman said. The spokesman said that's what he assumed Ashcroft was referring to when Ashcroft referred to his "dialogue with the government" in the statement he issued today.5.11pm: More on Cameron and Aston Villa (see 3.14pm). Apparently, the uncle who took him to his first Villa game wasn't just a fan but Sir William Dugdale, a former Villa chairman. A Twitter correspondent flagged up this, a diary story in the Independent from 2006. It's about Cameron's office being asked about his favourite football team and not giving a reply because "he doesn't really like football". Subsequently, however, his office said that he was a Villa fan. "We're not going to lie and say he watches them every Saturday but we all get more interested in football when England are playing," a spokesman told the Indie.5.26pm: That was an odd day. I started expecting to be covering various unrelated campaign events. And instead everything has been swamped by Ashcroft, or "unforeseen circumstances", as Labour put it in the press notice explaining why they were cancelling the Alan Johnson press conference. (They seem to have given up the "technical problems" line - see 11.50am). The only consolation for Cameron is that at least he now won't have to spend the election dodging questions about whether or not Ashcroft is a non-dom. But that does not mean that the controversy has not gone away. Ashcroft's spokesman has not said any more in response to the Jack Straw allegations (see 12.50pm, 12.51pm and 2.15pm) and the Tories have not explained whether Hague knew about the way permanent residency was eventually defined. The Tories are on the defensive. The next big event will come tonight, when YouGov releases its latest polling figures. All the details will be here tomorrow.That's it. Thanks for the comments.