Nine members of a gang of money forgers, including three generations of the same family, were jailed for up to seven years yesterday for what the prosecution claimed was Britain's biggest ever counterfeiting operation.Two-thirds of all the fake £20 notes circulating in 2005 were produced by the gang and the Bank of England recovered more than £14m. As the sentences were handed down at Snaresbrook crown court, London, family members and supporters screamed insults at police, court officials and journalists. The uproar intensified when one defendant, Tracey Byard, 41, collapsed in the dock when told she was being jailed for four years. Riot police had to be summoned to disperse the crowd. Reporters, who had been were singled out for death threats, were eventually guided to safety through a side door to the court usually used by officials.All the defendants admitted conspiracy to counterfeit notes. Passing sentence, Judge William Kennedy said: "Each of you who participated in these conspiracies were part of the biggest and most effective counterfeiting operation ever encountered by the Bank of England."At first sight, someone who had given little thought to the true nature of this enterprise might ask why this sort of offence is regarded with such seriousness. With an economy measured in trillions of pounds, does counterfeiting, even of tens of millions of pounds, really matter? The answer to that is a resounding yes - it matters enormously. This is not some quaint cottage industry organised by otherwise law-abiding citizens to eke out in an unusual way a few extra pounds to spend. This is a prime example of organised crime." It would also have helped to fund organised crime, he said.The judge added: "It is for all those reasons that counterfeiting has for hundreds of years been regarded as an offence of great seriousness." In medieval times offenders were charged with treason.The gang members, ranging from 23 to 71 years of age, were arrested after a surveillance and phone tapping operation which began in August last year. In a raid four months later, police found printing machinery in sheltered housing where Mrs Byard's unsuspecting 85-year-old grandmother lived. A stash of £22,000 worth of notes was found wrapped in plastic on top of a kitchen cupboard, awaiting distribution.Tim Cray, prosecuting, told the court: "This is believed to be the largest counterfeiting case ever to come before the courts in this jurisdiction. This conspiracy was regarded by the fiscal authorities as a threat of the highest order to the banking system. It also involved the production of counterfeit notes on an industrial scale and was organised by dedicated and resourceful criminals."He added: "The impossibility of estimating the number of notes that might emain in circulation is in itself an indication of the effectiveness of the counterfeiting."Mr Cray described the gang's activities as both "labour-intensive and time-consuming". That, he said, was why the forgers found it necessary to spread production across a number of sites. But despite its size, most of the work was carried out in a tiny east London print works, no bigger than the average-sized living room.Beside the sterling notes, £1,367,550 in counterfeit €50 notes was recovered. The gang operated in workshops and homes across London and Essex. Police raided 20 premises. They uncovered a "complex" production line and seized state of the art printing equipment and foiling machines meant to produce greetings cards, but which were used by the gang to copy security features.They failed to find the A3-size plates used for the forgeries.Terrence Reife, 55, of Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, was the principal organiser, the court was told. He got the longest sentence - seven years. Reife was joined by Gerald Byard, 63, of Hoxley, Essex, who got five years. Byard recruited his daughter Tracy and granddaughter Leigh-Nicole Byard, 23, who was also jailed for four years. Anthony Williams, 50, of Hoxton, east London, who involved his daughter Keely, 30, got five years.For health reasons Keely will be sentenced next month along with Michael Liddiard, 59. James Brook, 64, of Hackney, received five years; Paul Kemble, 42, of Islington, received three; Terence Jackson, 58, five; and Patrick Wingrove, 71, of Hackney, three-and-a-half years.