David Blunkett yesterday agreed to change the law to hand over to judges his power to set minimum jail terms for convicted murderers, after seven law lords ruled that the home secretary's role breached the European convention on human rights.More than 200 murderers whose tariff - the minimum term to be served before they can apply to the parole board for release - is longer than the term recommended by judges will be able to apply for a new tariff fixed by the lord chief justice. They include 70 who have already served longer than the original judges' recommendation. The ruling comes days after the death of Britain's most notorious lifer, the Moors murderer Myra Hindley, who had been pinning her hopes of release on the judgment. The law lords ruled unanimously that to allow a politician, rather than judges, to decide how long a murderer should serve before he or she can apply to the parole board for release breached the guarantee of a fair trial by an impartial court independent of the executive. The decision removes the last of the home secretary's powers to decide prisoners' release dates. Earlier decisions of the European court of human rights in Strasbourg have stripped him of the right to decide minimum terms for prisoners serving life for crimes other than murder and for juveniles subject to detention at her majesty's pleasure, and to keep lifers in prison once the parole board has recommended their release.The seven judges made a "declaration of incompatibility", a ruling possible only since the Human Rights Act came into force two years ago, and made in only a handful of cases so far. The declaration does not itself change the law, but creates an expectation that the government will act to change it quickly.Mr Blunkett said new primary legislation would set out statutory principles approved by parliament for judges to use in deciding tariffs, preserving parliamentary accountability. The change means the tariff will in future be fixed by judges and any appeal will also be to judges, so politicians will no longer play a part in the exercise.Mr Blunkett said: "We will need to study the judgment carefully before finalising our proposals but I intend to legislate this session, to establish a clear set of principles within which judges will fix minimum tariffs in the future."These principles will be debated and agreed by both houses of parliament, and in setting minimum sentences a judge must, in open court, give reasons if the term being imposed is inconsistent with those principles."He said parliament would continue to set the framework for minimum periods and that the attorney general would have powers to appeal against sentences seen as too lenient under the new principles."These principles will set out that for the most serious crimes such as the sexual, sadistic murder of children, life should mean life," he said. "The principles will be based on the same mitigating or aggravating factors on which I and previous home secretaries have based our decisions."Aggravating factors will include murder committed in the course of armed robbery or the murder of prison or police officers in the course of their duty," he added.But lawyers said an attempt to insist on a whole life tariff for every sexual murder of children, regardless of the offender's age and circumstances, would fall foul of the courts.Edward Fitzgerald QC, who represented Anthony Anderson, the double lifer who brought the case to the lords, and Hindley, said: "Were they to introduce an inflexible guideline stipulating whole life minimum sentences for the sexual murder of a child, they would violate the Human Rights Act and could be challenged in the courts."The NSPCC said it feared that the ruling would lead to the earlier release of dangerous child killers. But the judgment applies only to the term of the tariff, the period for retribution and deterrence. Once that expires, it is for the parole board to consider whether or not the prisoner is too dangerous to release.Anderson's solicitor, John Dickinson, said: "Prisoners still considered by the parole board to be a danger to society will not be released even if they have come to the end of the tariff set by their judge." Anderson, whose 15-year minimum tariff recommended by the trial judge after his 1988 conviction was increased to 20 years by the then home secretary, will be entitled to have a new tariff set once the new legislation comes into force. In another ruling yesterday, the law lords rejected a challenge to the mandatory life sentence for murder.For the record: the killers serving longer Anthony Anderson was convicted in 1988 of murdering a 60-year-old man and a 35-year-old homosexual after gaining entry to their houses to steal. The trial judge, with the agreement of the lord chief justice, recommended his tariff should be 15 years, but the home secretary fixed it at 20 because he had killed twice.  John Taylor was convicted in January 1989 of murdering Susan McNamara, a snooker club owner. The trial judge and the lord chief justice set his tariff at 16 years, but Jack Straw, while home secretary, decided he should serve 22 years before being considered for parole. He cited evidence of sexual interference with, or theft from the victim, the absence of mitigating factors, the "brutal nature" of the attack, the absence of any particular motive, and Taylor's previous convictions.  Quayyum Raja and  Mohammed Riaz, two Kashmiri students, were jailed for life in 1985 for murdering Ravinder Mhatre, an Indian diplomat. The trial judge recommended a tariff of 15 years for Raja and 10 for Riaz. But in 1988 Douglas Hurd, then home secretary, added 10 years to each tariff and Michael Howard refused to cut them, because it was a "political" murder.The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday November 27 2002A panel accompanying our report entitled New law gives 200 lifers hope of quick release described a victim of Anthony Anderson as "a 35-year-old homosexual". The murdered man's sexuality would in many cases add nothing to our understanding of events but this is how he was described in a court judgment. The murderer had used this knowledge to gain access to a house where the double killing took place. Unfortunately, it was impossible to include this vital information in such a short supporting piece; on reflection, the fact that the victim was a homosexual should have been omitted. The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Monday December 2 2002We referred to the crimes of Andrew Anderson as though the two murders for which he was convicted had taken place at the same time in the same location. They were separate murders committed in different locations some months apart.