A man will appear before magistrates tomorrow charged with one count of murder and five of attempted murder following last week's knife attacks in London.Ismail Dogan, 29, a former psychiatric patient, is accused of the murder of Ernie Meads, 58, a masonry expert who lived in Enfield, north London. Meads died early last Thursday morning after he stumbled into the offices of a Tottenham delivery company drenched in blood. He leaves a wife and grown-up son and daughter. The case against Dogan comes amid a spate of stabbings. On Wednesday, 59-year-old shopkeeper Mahmut Fahri was killed after he chased a pair of thieves who stole two bottles of spirits from his shop in Bounds Green, north London. On Christmas Eve four men were arrested at Butlins holiday camp in Bognor Regis, West Sussex, after a man died following a fight in one of the resort's pubs. A knife was recovered nearby. Police in Surrey arrested a 23-year-old man the same day after a man in his fifties was found with multiple stab wounds in Guildford. And in the early hours of Christmas Day, a 40-year-old man was found dead from knife wounds on a street close to Shepherd's Bush Green, west London. Police believe the man died after a fracas involving two groups of friends at about 5.15am. In addition, police in Scotland have launched a murder hunt after a 93-year-old widow was found dead in her Glasgow flat. The body of Margaret Weir was found on Christmas Eve morning. A cause of death has not been established, but police have confirmed that the woman was murdered. 'This was a particularly violent attack,' said Detective Superintendent Kenny Watters, 'I find it despicable that a lady who has lived through two world wars is killed in such a manner.' Dogan, who was under the care of a consultant at St Ann's Hospital in north London, is also accused of five other attacks, some of which happened so quickly that the victims did not even see the knife and believed they had been punched. The first victim, aged 29, had just said goodbye to his girlfriend and was heading to work before being stabbed at 8.20am. He staggered to Edmonton Green railway station before collapsing on a bench. At 8.50am 49-year-old Roger Levy, a father-of-two who works as a science fiction writer and as a dentist, was stabbed nearby. He is in hospital in a stable condition. Dr Yasmin Drabu, medical director at North Middlesex Hospital, said all five had potentially life-threatening wounds, mostly to the stomach and abdomen. The murder of Mr Meads has once again highlighted broader concerns over patients given care in the community falling through the net - and overstretched professionals failing to recognise the signs of increasing instability. Marjorie Wallace of Sane, which campaigns on mental health issues, said too often relatives who tried to raise concerns about sufferers were dismissed. 'Obviously we don't know what happened in this case, but when family and friends become concerned that [a patient's] mental state may be deteriorating - or in some cases they may be failing to take medication - they are being told it's none of their business; that it's the confidentiality of the former patient that is the primary right and that unless that former patient seeks help themselves, no-one can intervene.' Knife crime is rising sharply across Britain, prompting the government to consider new laws raising the minimum age of knife ownership and extending the range of banned weapons. Last year 272 people died from knife wounds, an increase of 35 per cent in five years, while 80 people died from gunshot wounds.