The Metropolitan police failed to investigate scores of rape allegations because officers did not record them as criminal offences, the Guardian has learned.An internal review by Scotland Yard found that women who complained to police that they feared they may have been raped or suffered a serious sexual assault had their concerns dismissed in up to six London boroughs. In a breach of police policy, officers instead classed the incidents as crime related incidents [CRI], meaning the cases were not investigated properly, informed sources say.Several women who believe they were victims of the black cab rapist John Worboys, suffered this fate, with their complaints not being classed as crimes. Worboys was convicted by a jury on Friday of 19 charges of drugging and sexually assaulting 12 of the women, in one case raping his victim. The practice of dismissing women's fears of rape and failing to class them as crimes is believed to have continued for several years and was ended last year. The review that identified the practice was triggered by the Worboys case.When the procedure was corrected it led to a spike in recorded rape cases, up by 25% over the past year, at a time when overall crime in London fell.According to Scotland Yard's own figures, in the 12 months to December 2008, 2,366 rapes were recorded at the Met, compared with 1,897 in the year before - an increase of 469 recorded rapes. It is believed the bulk of this increase follows the error having been corrected.Officers are told all allegations of rape should be investigated, unless there is strong evidence the claim is false. But this policy was ignored in six of the Met's boroughs. One source said: "The object could have been a massaging of the figures or a misinterpretation of policy. There is some evidence of trying to keep the figures down."The most common type of case the practice occurred in was one where a woman went to the police fearing she may have been raped, but was unable to remember what had happened. This can be a common feature where an attacker has used drugs to overpower a victim or when alcohol is involved. Officers failed to record the allegations as an offence that needed to be investigated, but instead listed them as a CRI, which does not appear on the official crime statistics. A source said: "When you are uncertain of what has happened you are supposed to record that as an allegation of crime. You believe the victim, it should be recorded as a rape, unless there is substantial grounds to believe otherwise."Some of the cases have now been properly recorded and investigated and detectives believe the women were attacked.The source said failing to record the allegations as crimes was so serious because the training given to officers was that they should be highly suspicious when someone cannot remember what happened, as it might be drug related."Generally they would not be investigated. If it was classified as a CRI not a lot would be done about it," the source said.A senior Met source said officers were under pressure to keep crime figures as low as possible: "If you get a case where there is no evidence, and record it as a rape, some people will say we would never have a chance of hitting targets. My view is you might not be able to prove it, but record it, investigate it, get evidence."Former senior Met officer Brian Paddick, who once headed a Scotland Yard project to improve the number of convictions for rape, said: "It is shocking this has happened for such a serious offence. It could be a reflection of the pressure the police are under from the Home Office to improve the clear-up rate and reduce reported crime.He added: "There is not the political will in government and the Home Office to put resources into place, which the offence requires, to bring people to justice."