Muslim groups today accused the police of harassment after Home Office figures showed a 300% rise in the number of Asians subjected to stop and search techniques under anti-terror laws.More people of all backgrounds were stopped and searched under the Terrorism Act 2000 last year, but the percentage increases among Asians were higher than most. Nearly 3,000 Asians were stopped in 2002-03, up from 744 the year before.In the same period, stop and searches on white people rose 118%, up to 14,429 from 6,629, according to the Home Office report, Statistics on Race and the Criminal Justice System. Stop and searches on black people rose from 529 to 1,745 over the year, an increase of 230%. Muslim leaders immediately decried the figures as proof of "Islamophobia" in the wake of the September 11 2001 attacks. The government admitted the figures were "frustrating" as they suggested that changes in procedures had not addressed racial imbalances. Home Office minister Hazel Blears said that the government was launching an action group to look at the way stop and search powers were used by police, and that from next April forces would be required to record the reason for all stop and searches. "We do think that the disproportionality is too high and we need to make sure that our police forces are using these powers properly," Ms Blears told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "I am very concerned about the undermining of confidence in the criminal justice system as a whole by stop and search, and that is why I am saying that we need a sea change in the way that we deal with these issues," she said. Massoud Shadjareh, spokesman for the Islamic Human Rights Commission, said: "We are quite appalled. This proves what we have been saying for the last couple of years, that there is a lot of Islamophobia and Islam profiling when dealing with terrorism."Abdal Ullah, an independent member of the Metropolitan police authority and a Muslim, said: "People have come to me and said the Asian community is in the situation where the Afro-Caribbean community was after the Stephen Lawrence inquiry, and so on. The Muslim community have become a scapegoat in that respect. What this is doing is alienating the Muslim youth." But Glen Smyth, the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation representing rank-and-file officers in London, said overall the number of searches carried out on Asians was still low. "The increase has gone up from two per day to eight per day, so in terms of the people as a whole it is a pretty small number, bearing in mind the circumstances in which we are operating," he told Today. "Every news broadcast virtually every day of the week since September 11 when the twin towers were attacked has talked about extremist terrorist organisations from a certain part of the world and people coming from that part of the world are inevitably going to feel under siege. So just to blame it on these figures, going from two to eight, is rather over-egging the cake a bit," he said.A total of 21,577 searches were made under anti-terror laws in 2002-03 in England and Wales, compared with 8,550 in 2001-02. Of these searches, 61% took place in the Metropolitan police area and 21% in the City of London. In total, 869,164 stop and searches were recorded in 2002-03 in England and Wales under the full range of legislation, a rise of 22% on the year before and the highest level since 1998-99. There was a 17% increase in searches for white people, a 38% increase for black people and a 36% increase for Asians. The figures showed that police stopped black people six times more often than white people. The previous year the figure was five times higher.The report said the most common reason for conducting a search of black and Asian people and those of other minority ethnic appearance was drugs, while for white people it was stolen property. It also found that 13% of stop and searches resulted in an arrest, which was the same level as 2001-02.