Thousands of people have attended memorial services throughout west Cumbria today, a week after Derrick Bird rampaged through the area shooting 12 people dead and injuring 11 others.Communities leaders used the services to vow that the county would not become defined by the shootings, but by how it recovered from them.Bird, a taxi driver, first killed his twin brother, David, and family lawyer Kevin Commons before apparently settling scores at the Whitehaven taxi rank where he killed his colleague Darren Rewcastle.Bird then drove through the countryside randomly shooting people. The carnage ended when Bird abandoned his car and made off on foot into a remote wooded area where he shot himself.Today's services began at 11.45am and culminated in a minute's silence at midday. The House of Commons also fell silent at noon ahead of prime minister's question time. In similar speeches read out at each of the services councillors and other local dignitaries said: "The world is watching west Cumbria and we must ensure that as a region that we are not defined by the shootings - but by our response to them."David Cameron confirmed that the government would look again at the gun laws. He said: "The people of Cumbria are tough people, but also very compassionate, very caring and very much a strong community and they have shown that in how they have responded to these dreadful events."Services were held in the following eight locations (click on the links for more details).• Whitehaven• Cleator Moor• Egremont• Frizington • Gosforth • Millom • Seascale• Boot The Guardian's Helen Pidd, who is covering the services today, has gathered the testimony of those who witnessed and survived the shootings.She has also been speaking to some of mourners at today's services.Les Taylor, 63, a former Sellafield worker, was planning to attend the memorial service in his village Egremont where two people were shot and killed by Bird. Like everyone here he still can't believe what happened. "I knew the lad that committed the crimes. He worked in the next building to me at Sellafield. He was such a nice lad. He would do anything for you. I couldn't believe it when I heard." Taylor also worked with Mike Pike, the 64-year-old who was shot and killed by Bird while out on his bike in the coastal village of Seascale. "Mike was a top trade unionist, very committed to the men. When the engineers went on strike I used to bring him tea on the picket line."Like so many here, Taylor was close to the horrific action last Wednesday. "My wife and I left Whitehaven and headed to Egremont about half an hour before Derrick Bird. Once the news was on TV we started to get phonecalls from friends and family, who knew where we had gone, checking we were still alive."Copeland councillor Cath Giel said: "We realise people in the borough are in shock and need a chance to reflect on these terrible events. We hope these gatherings, and the minute's silence as a whole, will allow people time to come to terms with their own thoughts."It will also allow us to collectively say, as a community, that we are thinking of the victims and all those affected."One of those injured in the shootings remains in the care of North Cumbria University Hospitals NHS Trust in a comfortable condition, the trust said today.A spokeswoman added: "We have been asked to give no further updates about any other patients who remain in hospital."WhitehavenThe coastal town is the headquarters of the police investigation into Bird's killings and the centre of media attention. It was also where Bird killed his fellow taxi driver Darren Rewcastle after a row. Taxi drivers in the town sounded their horns at the end of today's minute's silence. People wept as the horns sounded for a full minute, just yards from where the cabbie was shot. "It's what Darren would have wanted," said "Big Eddie", a driver at the rank and a friend of Mr Rewcastle. Today's service was "incredibly moving," says Helen Pidd in Whitehaven. "I would say there were well over 1,000 people, maybe even 2,000 gathered in the square in Whitehaven. There were people hanging out windows overlooking the square, there were families with buggies, people in wheelchairs, shop assistants still in their uniforms. Everybody with their heads bowed."Former mayor George Clements said: "We gather here today united in grief and sadness to remember those members of our community who lots their lives last Wednesday. There are no words that can express the spectrum of emotions each of us have been through in the last seven days, and nothing I can say can ease the pain. "The world is watching west Cumbria and we must ensure that as a region we are not defined by the shootings but by our response to them."He added: "Throughout Copeland people are at this moment gathering at services like this one to express their support to those who lost their lives or were injured. People throughout our region have suffered great loss, but none more so than the families of those who were killed."Cleator MoorThe village is where Bird's eldest son, Graeme, lives. Around 500 people gathered in the village's market square for the service.EgremontAn estimated 2,000 people attended the Egremont service. The village – and nearby Haile and Wilton – lost five of its residents in Bird's killing spree. Maureen Sharpe, 42, niece of Bird's friend and victim Terence Kennedy – whose hand has been amputated in hospital – said she doubted Egremont could recover. The Rev Richard Lee spoke of the tranquillity of the village: "Suddenly, it all stopped." He added: "For many of us, we held our breath and wondered when we could breathe again. Sometimes there is no logic, there is no explanation, there is no easy way through it." FrizingtonAround 100 people gathered at the village war memorial, around two miles from Bird's home in Rowrah. The memorial is around half a mile from where Kevin Commons was shot dead in his driveway. GosforthFriends of Garry Purdham hugged each other and wiped away silent tears as around 200 villagers walked down country lanes to gather in the village car park. None of Mr Purdham's grieving family were present.The Rev Jonathan Falkner, minister at the local Gosforth church where read out the names of the 12 victims before offering prayers for the dead. He said: "Within this parish we remember especially Garry Purdham and we pray for Ros his wife, Cameron and Flynn their sons, Jack and Bridget his parents, Robert and Becky, brother and sister, and all the wider family. "We would think too, about Derrick Bird's mother in her double loss, his brother, his ex-wife and two sons, struggling to understand, as so many of us are, how this could have happened."  Purdham's funeral will be held tomorrow.MillomOne of the many areas where people were warned to stay indoors during Bird's rampage.About 150 residents huddled under umbrellas and rain-hoods as drizzle accompanied the service. Town mayor Doug Wilson addressed the sombre gathering and local priest Father Mark Houston led the service. SeascaleHundreds of people attended a service to remember three of Bird's victims: Mike Pike, who was shot dead while cycling; Jane Robinson, who was was killed while delivering catalogues; and estate agent Jamie Clarke, who was shot as he drove along Gosport Road. David Moore, a firefighter who tried in vain to save Pike and Robinson, said the village "must now try to move on". Moore, who opened the memorial service in Seascale, said he and his fellow firemen tried to save the two victims but there was nothing they could do. He also treated pub landlord Harry Berger, who was injured in Seascale when the gunman shot at him in his Range Rover while he waited by the bridge under the village railway. Moore said: "Seascale was and still is a stunned community. I have come here today to pay my respects. This is a community in stunned silence. It has not come to terms with it yet, a week has disappeared in our lives. "We have to mark the occasion today and we must now try to move on. We are a strong, close-knit community and we will pull through this." BootPassing hill walkers joined members of the tiny community to remember Bird's victims just a few hundred yards from where he took his own life. Around 30 people gathered in a car park under brooding, dark skies and surrounded by the imposing Lakeland peaks. Local vicar the Rev Anne Baker said: "Sadly, Derrick Bird's journey ended here and people were shot here. One of the most prominent members of our community is still receiving treatment from gunshot wounds. "But I think it's important that we remember that lives can be rebuilt and throughout the whole of this area we will be joining together to help people come to terms with last week's tragedies."