The home secretary, Charles Clarke, said yesterday that he had not been not "fully aware" of the scale of the failure to deport foreign prisoners until last October - but there were plenty of earlier warning signs for any Home Office minister or senior official able to read.Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, was among the first to put the problem into black and white. In her annual report in January 2004 she said the Home Office's "institutional blind spot" for foreign national prisoners was evident by the fact that many jails did not know how many they had until the inspectors told them. "This was helped by the dilatory attitude of the immigration service which, unless pressed, was not monitoring those liable to deportation. In many prisons we found many prisoners well beyond sentence with no idea when they might be released and go home."Her warning was followed in May 2004 by a Prison Reform Trust report that said individual prisons did not record on their computer systems who was eligible for deportation. Indeed the Prison Service did not know how many foreigners it was holding. For many their nationality had not even been recorded or was incorrect. In January 2004, 1,200 prisoners were officially classed as being "of unknown nationality". Officials admitted the actual population of foreign prisoners could be 10% to 20% higher than published figures.Ministers struggling with record prison numbers and an immigration service unable to cope with waves of asylum seekers might be forgiven for making the deportation of foreign prisoners a low priority. But the previous year the then home secretary, David Blunkett, had made it mandatory under the 2003 Criminal Justice Act for the immigration service to consider throwing foreign criminals serving more than 12 months out of the country when they finished their sentences.Even when it was decided to speed up their removal to make extra room in the prison system, the official response still seemed to justify their nickname as "the forgotten prisoners". The early removal scheme to free up 400 prison places was expected to begin in June 2004 but before it could get under way the Prison Service was supposed to carry out a detailed audit of all foreign national prisoners before the scheme could begin.If this had been carried out, Mr Clarke might have been spared the embarrassment of the last two days. But from Commons written answers in September 2005 it is likely this audit was never done. "Information on the number of persons held in prison who are the subject of a deportation order is not ... available except by examination of individual case files, at disproportionate cost," said the then prisons minister, Paul Goggins.According to No 10 this week, Home Office officials became aware that foreign nationals were being released without being considered for deportation in January 2005. The message was underlined in a National Audit Office report on deporting failed asylum seekers in July 2005 which warned that preparations to send foreign prisoners home were in chaos.Mr Clarke said this week that publication of the NAO report was the first time the problem had been brought to his personal attention. The figures released this week show that by this time more than 735 of the 1,203 foreign prisoners released without deportation being considered had already walked out of the prison gates.That October, the Tory MP Richard Bacon raised the issue with Sir John Gieve, the most senior Home Office official, and Brodie Clark, the immigration service director of operations, at the Commons public accounts committee. The home secretary admitted yesterday that the Home Office note sent in reply not only got the number of foreign nationals released without deportation wrong, but "due to an oversight" failed to answer Mr Bacon's specific questions. The home secretary maintains that it was only at this point he became "fully aware" of the scale of the issue and said that he "set in motion a whole set of procedures to change the way the Prison Service and Immigration and Nationality Directorate [IND] were working". Nearly £3m was allocated to recruit a further 100 immigration staff to do the casework and to be based in prisons to identify those who should be deported.Mr Clarke has said that he warned Tony Blair just before Christmas that hundreds of foreign prisoners had been freed without the investigation required by Mr Blunkett's 2003 Criminal Justice Act. But in February Mr Clarke was told that the numbers being released without being considered for deportation had actually accelerated. His package of measures had made the problem worse, not better.The new staff were finding more cases but the IND lacked the staff to deal with them and they were being let out anyway. A further 288 had been released this way - nearly a third of the overall figure of 1,023. As Ms Owers published her third annual report highlighting the problem, the home secretary and his new permanent secretary, Sir David Normington, considered what they should tell the public accounts committee this week. They decided to come clean.Key dates1999 First cases recorded of the 1,023 convicted foreign criminals being released without being considered for deportation2003 Then home secretary David Blunkett makes it mandatory for immigration service to consider deporting foreign prisoners on their releaseJanuary 2004 Chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, warns of "institutional blind spot" over deporting foreign prisonersJuly 2005 National Audit Office says Home Office cannot say how many have been released because it could not arrange deportationOctober 2005 After MPs clash with senior Home Office officials, Charles Clarke orders £3m emergency package and warns Tony BlairFebruary 2006 Ministers told more than 200 people had been released since August, despite the packageApril 2006 Clarke offers to resign after admitting 1,023 have been released without being considered for deportation