The paranoid strain in British politics runs deep and wide. A large proportion of the population believes that we now live in an Orwellian "surveillance society", in which private and public databases record our lives while security cameras track our movements. So ingrained has the fear become that respectable academics and journalists repeat as fact the claim that the average Briton is caught on CCTV cameras "300 times a day", even though the "fact" was the invention of one Clive Norris, a sociologist from Sheffield University with a gift for fiction.An opposing and equally large proportion is paranoid about crime. It believes that we need even more state snooping because we live in "broken Britain", a land awash with guns, knives, drugs, booze, benefit cheats, crack whores and feral youths. (A small but impressive minority manages to hold both fears in their minds simultaneously, I should add, while displaying no apparent awareness of the contradiction.)The price of liberty may be eternal paranoia – only by watching the state obsessively can citizens stop it acquiring more powers – but the murder of Joanna Yeates shows the scant connection between supposedly intelligent debate about crime and actual crime. Consider the resources available to Avon and Somerset Constabulary. It had as many officers as it needed, the media that kept the story running and the latest forensic techniques.If Britain were a surveillance society, the terrible killing of a young woman ought to have been the moment when the secret state proved its worth. Yet in the month since Ms Yeates's body was found on Christmas Day, Big Brother has seemed neither big nor sinister. CCTV picked her up in her last hours. But the cameras were in supermarkets and off-licences because, overwhelmingly, CCTV is used protect private property from thieves at cashpoints and car parks, or in shops, rather than monitor the lives of guilty and innocent citizens alike.The police had nowhere to turn for quick solutions. They had no recordings they could run to find pictures of her leaving or being taken from her flat. No hope of just pressing a "play" button and wrapping up the case before New Year's Day.It was weeks before they arrested a second suspect, who may turn out to be as innocent as the first: a retired schoolmaster whom the press implied was guilty on the not wholly convincing grounds that he was an arty eccentric with an odd haircut, an "obsession" with Christina Rossetti and a "passion" for the Liberal Democrats.Clifton is a wealthy suburb of Bristol and the killer took Ms Yeates's body to a field in the Somerset countryside. These are not obvious locations for surveillance technology. But the security companies, which have done so well out of fear of crime, and the civil libertarians, who fear that the police state is peering into our souls, should note that Big Brother can't always watch us, even in the camera-infested centre of London.The Metropolitan Police have got nowhere since finding Gareth Williams's corpse in a padlocked bag in his Pimlico home in August. All the CCTV systems in London cannot tell them who was with him in the house on the day he died. Mr Williams worked for MI6, and one might have expected the Secret Intelligence Service to be wary of the dangers of foreign agencies blackmailing him. But MI6 seems to have been as surprised as everyone else when detectives discovered its employee visited bondage websites and spent thousands of pounds on women's clothes.In a strange way, I find it comforting that MI6 knew so little about his private life and was not tapping his phones and hacking his computers. I am glad to live in a country when even the spooks aren't too spooky. Similarly, the public interest in Joanna Yeates speaks well of Britain. Readers could point out that there would not have been the same coverage if she had been black and poor, and they would have a case, although the anger aroused by the murders of Damilola Taylor and Stephen Lawrence provides a partial counter-argument. Yet to say that Joanna Yeates was white and middle class isn't to say much. Millions of people are white and middle class. If Britain were "broken" – a gangster-ridden land like Johannesburg or Mexico – the murder of a Joanna Yeates would barely have registered. Only a safe and placid country, where people fear violence but rarely experience it, could find her death shocking.Last week's crime figures showed that the murder rate in England and Wales had fallen to the lowest level in 10 years and overall crime had collapsed since the mid-1990s. We could relax were it not for two nagging doubts. The most significant fact about Joanna Yeates was not that she was white and middle class but that she was a woman.The number of sexual offences is rising sharply while overall crime is falling. The Home Office and Crown Prosecution Service mouth their usual platitudes about the increase reflecting well on them because it proves that women have "confidence" in the system. Julie Bindel, who can often seem like the last feminist in England, all but laughs when she hears the old line. As someone who deals with rape victims, she can state with certainty that the last thing they have is trust in the system. The conviction rate for rape is so low because it's becoming a risk-free crime, she says. The reason the figures for sexual violence are going up is plain: there is more sexual violence.If Britain can feel broken to abused women, it can feel as dysfunctional to the inhabitants of the slums. I don't want to get too Marxist with you this early on a Sunday, but there is an iron correlation between increases in poverty and increases in violence. The Downing Street policy unit estimated in 2006 that an improving economy explained 80% of the fall in crime from the mid-1990s. The Lancet showed in 2009 that rises in unemployment led to rises in homicide and suicide. As austerity bites and unemployment spreads, murder and self-harm will follow.If we allowed justifiable fears to propel us into useful action, we would take two steps. We would join the Labour party, the only available vehicle for worthwhile social change. It may be a vehicle whose wheels are invariably falling off, whose passengers are invariably stabbing each other in the back and whose driver is invariably mad and heading at full speed in the wrong direction, but there you are, it's all there is. Second, we would do all we could to encourage the creation of a militantly unreasonable feminist movement, which Britain now needs more than at any point in my lifetime.