On November 7 2000, four thieves crashed into the Millennium Dome on a JCB armed with a nail-gun, a hammer, smoke bombs and bizarrely, a Catherine-wheel firework. Their aim: to steal the De Beers Millennium Collection, a dozen diamonds valued at between £200m and £350m, including the world's most perfect gem, the 203-carat Millennium Star.The "Diamond Geezers" had planned a spectacular, finely timed smash-and-grab raid that would see them in and out of the Dome in five minutes. Instead, two minutes in, they were ambushed by 200 armed police in the largest operation of its kind. In February 2002, they were sentenced for their "wicked plan" by a somnolent judge (he admitted to falling asleep during the trial) to a total of 71 years. While this seemed to be a conspicuous success for the Flying Squad, several awkward questions remained unanswered. Why did the Diamond Geezers believe they could get away with the world's largest theft in broad daylight from what was supposedly Britain's premier tourist attraction? Were they as dangerous as the police made out? And who would want to buy the planet's hottest diamonds? Operation Magician was intended to restore the Sweeney's tattered reputation after many years of highly publicised corruption scandals. It was the largest Flying Squad operation in history. It was also the most expensive, lasting for several months, including two months of undercover surveillance inside the Dome. "These were serious armed robbers ... other criminals walked in fear of the name Ray Betson," Det Supt Jon Shatford proudly told reporters while Betson, 38, along with Aldo Ciarrocchi, 29, Bob "the builder" Adams, 58, and Bill Cockram, 48, lay trussed up like Christmas turkeys on the floor of the Dome, joking with the armed officers standing over them. One hundred yards to their right, 50 Miss World hopefuls were having a photo-call. A party from Devon were complaining to a bemused policeman that they were "seriously miffed" to have missed it. "It was all a bit Monty Python," said an amused David James, then chairman of the beleaguered Dome. Contrary to the police's assertions, the Diamond Geezers were anything but a gang of professional blaggers; they were in fact a collection of peculiar amateurs down on their luck. The past criminal dealings of Ray Betson, the ringleader and driver of the JCB, had mainly involved buying goods on the cheap abroad and importing them illegally. Two Customs and Excise raids in late 1999 and early 2000 suddenly left him stockless and broke. He had been planning to take his family to live in Marbella but now didn't have enough cash for the plane tickets. Italian Aldo Ciarrocchi (who tried to create a diversion outside the vault by letting off smoke grenades) was motivated by love. He had fallen for Elisabeth Kirsch, a stunning American model, and, while he pursued her with lavish gifts, including a Cartier watch, his property-rental business went bust. He had hoped to start a new life in America with Kirsch but, like Betson, he didn't have enough cash for the air fare. Robert Adams was a plasterer by trade and his job was to help smash the glass in the vault. His life was crime-free until he returned from working on a lucrative six-month job in Saudi Arabia and found his best friend had moved into his house with his wife. His friend threatened Adams with a kitchen knife and they fought. As they struggled for possession of the knife, Adams stabbed him in the stomach. He turned himself in and got six years. He made sympathetic new friends while inside, and after he got out, he found work as an occasional cash-in-hand plasterer for criminals and did a little cannabis dealing on the side. Betson recruited him on the day before the attempt because he felt Adams "needed a lucky break". Then there was getaway driver Terence Millman, 56, who had experience of armed robbery and had spent 14 years in prison. He supplied the criminal connections that Betson needed to get the job done, as well as assisting in the creation of a foolproof plan. But Millman was on his last legs; this was his "one last job", his grand swansong, because he was suffering from terminal cancer of the stomach and lungs. He wanted enough cash so he could "go out with a bang". The speedboat driver Kevin Meredith's only previous offence was to not pay his TV licence. Ray Betson's best friend, petty thief and builder Bill Cockram thought the plan was "pie in the sky" at first, but decided to go along with it when he realised how bad the security was. The security at the Dome was dire. Inexplicably, the last line of defence between determined, ruthless robbers and the world's most precious diamond collection was a 17-year-old host called Alex (and no one had thought to tell him). Alex was also shocked to learn that the diamonds spent most of the year out of the Dome, at other exhibitions in Paris, Antwerp, Dubai and Tokyo and that no notice was put up, so for the most part people were looking at fakes and didn't know it. This might explain why such weak glass was used to encase them. Bill Cockram can be seen on the police surveillance video with his nose pressed against the glass like a boy outside Hamley's at Christmas. He's looking for a plastic interlayer which sits between two sheets of glass to protect it from a smash-and-grab attack. There was none. This was why Cockram and Adams were able to smash a fist-sized hole in the glass in only 27 seconds. Then there were the Group 4 security guards, who were described as "elderly and ineffectual" during the trial by the prosecution. During 2000, there were a number of extraordinary security breaches at the Dome including a streaker who gate-crashed Miss World four weeks after the attempted theft. On another occasion, protesters wearing T-shirts with a single large letter on them arranged themselves on the Dome's stage and simultaneously opened their jackets to reveal: "800M QUID FOR BIG TENT SEEMS CRAP." Then there were the vandals who climbed on to the Dome's roof and covered it in expletives and the drug-addled youngsters who climbed to the top to take their picture. Not one person was caught by the Group 4 security guards. They were not going to present any problem for any would-be thieves, especially as normal procedure was to not intervene in any robbery but to call the police. It's no wonder then that the Diamond Geezers didn't carry guns, something that the 200 police officers had been told to expect. "All my intelligence said they'd have guns," said Shatford. "My theory is the guns were in the white van that got away. Perhaps they thought that this was going to be so easy that they didn't need guns." The white van that got away was said by the Diamond Geezers to contain the "grass" Tony, who, they claimed, set the job up. The white van had in fact been driven by one of the men working at the former Old Coal Yard in Plumstead, where the gang had stored their vehicles. The Diamond Geezers used Tony to distract attention from the Mr Big who bankrolled the raid and found a buyer for the diamonds. This man was Jack Carter (his real name can't be given for legal reasons), one of the most dangerous men in Britain. A middle-aged south Londoner, he rose through the criminal ranks to become one of the most successful drugs traffickers in the world. Despite having his shipments tracked by an RAF Nimrod and an HMS Vanguard submarine, he had managed to evade arrest. Tired of the bloody battle for the drugs market, Carter had reverted to robberies, which he would safely supervise from a distance. He also became involved in the comparatively risk-free world of VAT fraud. A mutual friend brought Betson into Jack Carter's circle and suggested him for the Dome job. Ironically, Carter was arrested for VAT fraud in 2000 and in his address book, confiscated by customs officers, were several names linked to the Dome job, including Ray Betson and Aldo Ciarrocchi. They also found sophisticated listening equipment in Carter's house - identical equipment was later used by the Diamond Geezers. Associates of Carter's are "looking after" the Diamond Geezers' families while they are inside. Carter was able to find a buyer for the diamonds thanks to his international connections in Marbella - the European Miami, so-called because it attracts drug dealers from all over the world as well as top international criminals, including gem-smuggler extraordinaire, Alexei Vlasov, a lieutenant in the "Rising Sun" criminal organisation. With a network that stretched across Russia, the Middle East and Europe, Vlasov would have little trouble disposing of the diamond collection. He planned to buy the diamonds for £1m and would eventually make a net profit on the black market of about £1.5m-£2m once they were cut and sold via a large, well-known, seemingly legitimate diamond firm in Antwerp. Carter and the Diamond Geezers would split the £1m 50-50. On July 24 2001, Vlasov was caught smuggling diamonds worth more than £1.5m in an operation involving the Russian police and the CIA. He was also charged with 13 other black-market diamond deals and is now serving a dozen years in a Russian jail. On his Interpol red notice (an arrest warrant detailing a criminal's activities), an associate of Jack Carter's is listed as an "accomplice". Including the trial, the police operation to catch the Diamond Geezers cost £3.5m. In return, we got a few petty criminals off our streets for a dozen years or so. Jack Carter is still free and terrorising Britain, and is thought to have been involved in the attempted robbery of the Swissport warehouse of £80m in gold and cash in May this year. The Diamond Geezers feel hard done by, but as Great Train Robber Ronnie Biggs said to Diamond Geezer Bill Cockram when he found out what he was in for: "Bloody 'ell, we never learn, do we?" · Diamond Geezers, by Kris Hollington is published by Michael O'Mara, £9.99.