A woman who summoned her boyfriend to intervene in a supermarket queue-jumping argument that culminated in the death of a frail bystander uninvolved in the row was yesterday found guilty of manslaughter.Antonette Richardson, 37, had left her boyfriend in the car outside a branch of Sainsbury's in Merton, south-west London, on 10 June last year while she went in to buy cigarettes. As she queued for the till, she got into an argument with a fellow shopper, Adam Prendergast, 19, who accused her of pushing in.Richardson told the jury at Southwark crown court that she was so frightened by Prendergast's "foul-mouthed" aggression that she rang Tony Virasami on her mobile telephone, begging him to come in and help her. When her 38-year-old boyfriend stormed in, she pointed at Prendergast, shouting: "That is him, that is him."Instead of launching himself at Prendergast, however, Virasami mistakenly set about 57-year-old Kevin Tripp, delivering a "most almighty" punch to his head. Mr Tripp, who was frail after contracting polio as a child, and who also had ME, fell, slamming his head against the ground.As Mr Tripp lay bleeding from a fatal head injury, Richardson told Virasami that he had hit the wrong man, and was seen in CTTV footage pointing in the direction that Prendergast had fled after witnessing the violence. One witness recalled Richardson saying, "It is not him, it is the other guy", while another heard her say: "You have got the wrong man."Michael Worsley QC, prosecuting, told the jury: "Her boyfriend had hit what turned out to be the wrong person, who was lying on the floor bleeding, and she says 'We need to find the right guy'."When you are considering what her purpose and intent was at the time when she fetched or caused the other defendant to come to the premises - when you are considering her state of mind - these words give a significant clue."The CCTV footage of the attack was shown to the six-man, six-woman jury during the eight-day trial.Over the course of five still images, Virasami is seen stalking towards Mr Tripp, pulling back his right arm to deliver what one witness described as a "haymaker punch", and then arguing with Richardson while standing over Mr Tripp. In the final two pictures Richardson points at Prendergast as he bolts from the supermarket, prompting Virasami to start after him.Mr Tripp, who lived in Colliers Wood, south London, with his partner and five-year-old daughter, died later in hospital.Virasami, who was on bail, tagged and under curfew for shoplifting at the time, was arrested at the scene, while Richardson was arrested the next day at the home they shared in Catford, south-east London.Both were charged with Mr Tripp's manslaughter. Virasami pleaded guilty, but Richardson protested her innocence, claiming she had feared for her safety and had not wanted anyone to get hurt. Yesterday, however, after deliberating for over seven hours, the jury rejected her version of events, finding her guilty and eliciting cheers in court from Mr Tripp's family.Remanding her in custody for a pre-sentence report, Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC told Richardson: "This is a serious case. Bail will be refused."Outside the court Mr Tripp's partner, Josie James, said she hoped his killers would be jailed for as long as possible - "but I know they probably won't get as long as they deserve". In a joint statement after the hearing Mr Tripp's sisters - Gillian, Laurel and Joan - and brother Derek described him as "a wonderful brother and a special member of our family".They added: "He had polio when he was six, which meant for a year the family could only look at him through a hospital window. But he fought his illness and was special to all of us. Yet his life was ended in seconds and none of us had a chance to say goodbye."The siblings said they would never understand the actions of Richardson and Virasami, nor forgive them. "Neither has shown signs of remorse in court, even smiling at us during a previous hearing. We can never forgive them."Detective Inspector Bob Campany, who led the investigation, said he hoped the case would send "a clear message to violent people who cannot control their emotions and those that incite them". He said of Richardson: "It was her fatal decision to call Virasami that set off the chain of events that ended with Kevin's death."Partner's griefJosie James, the partner of Kevin Tripp, spoke movingly yesterday of his love for their young daughter, Rianna. "Although Kevin was not well with ME, he looked after Rianna for the first 18 months while I went back to work. He was there when Rianna started walking at nine months; he was there when she held her pen for the first time, when she drew her first pictures. One of the last images my Rianna and I have of Kev is in the hospital, on apparatus to keep him alive, bruised, yellow and so very, very cold. She talks about daddy having all the wires in him. I was there when they took all the wires away, holding his hands saying that we loved him. And then Kev was gone, but not forgotten. I cannot express how much we miss Kev."