A man was shot by police after officers unsuccessfully used a Taser to try to restrain him, Scotland Yard has said. The man was taken to hospital for treatment following the shooting in Kilburn Lane, Brent, north-west London, police said.Police watchdog calls for Taser guidance after inquest into fire death Officers had been called to a disturbance in Claremont Road at around 2.45am on Thursday and located a man believed to be in possession of a knife. They attempted to detain the man but he fled and was followed to Kilburn Lane, where he was shocked a number of times with the stun gun but with no apparent effect, and subsequently shot, according to Scotland Yard.In Kilburn, police cordoned off Claremont Road on Thursday morning and were only letting residents and local workers through after checking their address and picture ID.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Police officers cordon off Claremont Road in KilburnJeff Bryan, 60, who lives near the scene of the incident, said: “I heard a lot of sirens but that’s a norm in this area. Shootings don’t happen but this is a main road to Ladbroke Grove and the estate, so sirens are common. “I found out what actually happened this morning about half past three, which is when my wife wakes up to go to work. She called me to say the road was blocked off. You can see the spot where it happened from my son’s bedroom window; it’s just taped up. The police didn’t say anything, I found out the details from the news. He must have lived around here.”“My nine-year-old son goes to the school off that road,” says Ahmed Mohamed, 40. “The school called me really early this morning to say the road is blocked and there’s lots of traffic. They scared us because I didn’t know what happened and it sounded serious. I’m worried something will happen again; I was thinking about letting my son go to school by himself, but not anymore. Today a shooting, tomorrow a kidnapping. I know the area isn’t 100% safe. In the morning it’s fine but at night it’s dodgy.” Ela Colangelo, 36, said: “I didn’t hear anything last night, I only found out about the incident this morning when I couldn’t leave my road. This kind of thing doesn’t happen often around here but the police are always around. I’m not too worried, it’s London.”A spokesman said: “Officers discharged Taser but with no apparent effect on the man. Firearms officers attended in support of local officers and Taser was discharged, again with no apparent effect. The man was then shot by police.” Police later clarified that the taser was not discharged twice, but they refused to confirm how many times the device was used.Nobody else was injured during the incident and the Met’s directorate of professional standards was informed, police said.A spokesman for the police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Commission, said: “The IPCC is independently investigating this incident. We have investigators at the scene and we are also at the post-incident procedure.”This article was amended on 8 October. Scotland Yard later issued a clarification that the taser was not discharged twice.