One in every four teenagers has been a victim of bullying via a computer or mobile phone, according to a report today from the children's charity NCH.It found 16% of young people aged between 11 and 19 received threatening text messages on their mobiles. A further 7% said they had been harassed in internet chat-rooms and 4% via email. Nearly a third of the frightened youngsters told pollsters that they had not previously told anyone about the experience. Those who had were more likely to confide in a friend than a parent. The charity commissioned the survey after hearing anecdotal evidence of bullying emails. But after questioning a representative sample of 856 young people, pollsters BRMB found bullying by text message was much more common. John Carr, associate director of the charity's children technology unit, said: "Online bullying is a modern menace which needs to be addressed. If we want children to benefit from the good things IT has to offer, we need to protect them from the risks it poses." The charity, founded as the National Children's Home in 1869, said it was concerned that children as young as 11 were being faced with taunts or threats, often from an anonymous source. "They are either not telling anyone and suffering in silence, or confiding in people who themselves don't know how to deal with it effectively. The more people know this happens, the easier it will be for children to cope with it," the charity said. It advised all schools to amend policies against bullying to include text and online abuse, with training for teachers and pupils on handling it. Parents should find out who to contact when a child reports online bullying, and mobile phone companies should take responsibility for finding effective ways of dealing with it, the charity said. Although it was simple to escape email bullies by changing an email address, phone companies often charged for changing the number of the pay-as-you-go mobiles most commonly provided by parents for children. The cost of a new Sim card could be £25 and credits on the phone would be lost. The charity advised young people: don't put up with bullying and always tell someone you trust what's happening; always be careful who you give your mobile phone number or email address to, and, if you do start getting bullied, change them; if you receive messages that upset you, make a record of the times and dates and report them to police. The charity said parents, teachers and children could find further information on its website at www.nch.org/itok/Text message bullyingThe text message on the 15-year-old Lancashire boy's mobile was: "I know your school. I'm going to beat you. Hurt you. Disfigure you."It was the start of a campaign of bullying that did not stop until the boy's mobile phone company agreed to change his number. He knew why he was being threatened, but not the bully's identity. Weeks before he had formed a friendship through an internet chat-room. He gave his mobile number, but did not get one back in return. When the on-line relationship soured, the "friend" started sending abusive emails. The boy changed his email address and the abuse switched to the text-messaging on his mobile phone. The 15-year-old told his parents and contacted his phone provider, Orange, which provides new numbers free for users being harassed by malicious calls or messages.