A countrywide fraud ring, estimated to have netted £20m by cashing chequebooks stolen from Royal Mail, has been broken up by a series of dawn raids, Scotland Yard said yesterday. The arrests of 36 men and women, carried out as part of a police investigation code-named Operation Bangor, followed complaints initially from householders in Barnet, north London. Most of those detained were taken into custody in London; others were seized in Manchester, Leeds, Birmingham and Luton. Four employees of Royal Mail were among those held. Altogether more than 1,500 chequebooks were reported missing. Some victims found their monthly bank balances had dived into the red when cheques, ranging in value from £800 to £1,200, were cashed from books they had never received. First hit was the Golders Green area of north-west London, where up to £5m was believed to have been stolen. At one stage, last August, officers were receiving an average of 12 complaints a day. Detectives then discovered cheques were being taken in other parts of the country. More than 400 Metropolitan police officers were involved in the arrests yesterday. They were accompanied by officers from the Department for Work and Pensions, the Immigration Service and the Post Office investigation department. Scotland Yard said a number of those detained were Angolans and Congolese. Apacs, the banking industry payments organisation, said it had not observed a rapid rise in cheque fraud. Last year banks lost £46.2m as opposed to around £500m through credit card fraud. But a spate of frauds has occurred involving the use of stolen cheques to purchase goods in eBay auctions, an Apacs spokeswoman added. Royal Mail praised the police investigation and insisted the company had a stringent approach to internal crime. "[Yesterday's] operation demonstrates we take any threat to the security of the mail with the utmost seriousness," a spokesman said. "The majority of our people are scrupulously honest and take pride in delivering the mail safely. They will be pleased by the action we have taken - the few dishonest people in the company do a huge disservice to the hard-working and trustworthy majority." Royal Mail said 0.005% of letters were affected by theft and 90% of incidents occurred when postmen and women were the victims of the crime and not the perpetrators. Internal crime accounted for one letter out of every 250,000.