The Metropolitan police was yesterday plunged into its biggest crisis over race since the damning Macpherson report when its own black officers warned ethnic minority people not to join the force, the Guardian has learned.The Metropolitan Black Police Association's decision followed the acquittal on all charges of Superintendent Ali Dizaei, 40, once tipped to be the first ethnic minority chief constable. Mr Dizaei was the subject of a four-year investigation by the Met into allegations that he endangered national security, abused drugs and used prostitutes. All proved baseless. The MBPA chairman, Chief Inspector Leroy Logan, told the Guardian his members will boycott the force's drive to recruit more Asian and black officers until an inquiry establishes who was to blame for bringing the case. Mr Dizaei's supporters accused Scotland Yard of a racist witch-hunt after Mr Dizaei, a vocal critic of the force, was cleared of corruption following a multimillion-pound investigation involving phone intercepts and surveillance. In April he was cleared of charges alleging that he had abused his office and perverted the course of justice. Yesterday he walked free after the prosecution decided to offer no evidence three weeks before a trial over allegations of fiddling expenses. The CPS had ignored claims that it had no evidence and decided to try him for falsely claiming £846 in motoring expenses. That decision to press ahead cost an estimated £500,000; previous court and investigation costs had totalled nearly £7m. The crown said yesterday it was dropping the charges because there was so little chance of a guilty verdict. "This is the saddest day for the Met post-Macpherson," said Mr Logan. "At this time black and Asian people shouldn't join the Met. We're fed up with a load of platitudes and spin from the commissioner downwards." The 1999 Macpherson report into the bungled Stephen Lawrence murder investigation branded the Met as institutionally racist. Reforms after Macpherson meant the Met had to boost the number of ethnic minority officers to 25% of its total by 2009. The figure is currently 5.7%. The decision by Asian and black officers to boycott the Met's recruitment drive also challenges the government, which sees the programme as a key reform to stamp out racism within the ranks. Mr Dizaei, suspended since January 2001, still faces disciplinary charges, including an allegation that he accepted money for giving advice. He called for them to be dropped and told the Guardian: "I want to wear my uniform and walk back to Scotland Yard as soon as possible. I'm not going to take the money, shake hands and go. I love the police service." Mr Dizaei is suing the force for racial discrimination at an employment tribunal and says some in the force tried to destroy his life and career. A leading Met source said the pain for the force could drag on for years. "We will go to discipline, find him guilty, an employment tribunal will turn it over, that will take 2 years, and this will ratchet the bill up to £2m or £3m because he would have been a chief constable." Anti-corruption officers hunted Mr Dizaei over two continents, even enlisting the FBI, Canadian police and the security services. The Tory MP Peter Bottomley, who supported Mr Dizaei, yesterday called on the Commons home affairs select committee to investigate. The Metropolitan Police Authority called for a full report from the commissioner, Sir John Stevens. The authority is investigating complaints against three top officers over their handling of the case, including the deputy commissioner, Sir Ian Blair. The Met says its conduct was approved by trial judge, Sir Michael Hyam, who rejected defence claims that the investigation had been an abuse of process. Deputy assistant commissioner Stephen House justified the £2m the force admits was spent, saying it showed the Met's determination to face down corruption. "What cost do you put on a senior police officer whose integrity is in doubt?" he said.