In 2008, Nick Rhead, 24, and Simon Jackson, 26, then medical students, volunteered to give young people training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in Liverpool. "We had 11 in the group, aged 11 to 17, some in school uniform," Nick says. "We asked who had seen a stabbing or had been stabbed. Every one of them put up their hands. Three had seen shootings. That's what gave us the idea."The two, now junior doctors at Aintree hospital, worked with Steve Boote, the restorative justice co-ordinator for the Liverpool Young Offenders service, to establish the Liverpool Project. Medical students who have the capacity "to give and take a bit of banter" are recruited and trained. They give two 90-minute sessions to groups of half-a-dozen young offenders, aged 12 to 17, who are compelled to attend. They are taught the basics of specialised first aid and pre-hospital trauma management to give on the street."We don't do PowerPoint. We don't give lectures. We have a bit of a laugh and they respect the fact that we are giving our free time," Nick says. "We are teaching them something useful that might make a real difference to their lives."Simon adds: "We talk to them about various situations to assess if there is psychological damage since so many have witnessed violence. We ask them to talk about how they might behave after a stabbing. Some say, for instance, 'I would take out the knife [from a friend] and stab them out.' We explain that if they remove the knife, the person can bleed inside. A person may be bleeding internally and there's no external blood. We point out that retribution can mean two victims instead of one. We aren't preaching; we are trying to widen their understanding so they make more rational decisions."Nick adds: "They come in thinking the choice is, 'You live or you die'. We explain you may have to live with a plastic bag for the rest of your life or your family may have to hang around a hospital for weeks." The Liverpool Project is a two-way transaction. "Most medical students come from a middle-class or well-off background," Nick explains. "Without contact, they could easily stereotype the young people who come to the project. Once they have contact, that changes.""Some of the young people have such intelligence and ability, they have such potential, but it's going to waste," Simon points out. "Circumstances mean that they have become rooted in violence."In three years, the project has expanded. Recently, 150 medical students applied when a dozen new volunteers were required. It runs courses in Liverpool, Manchester and Nottingham and, from this week, it opens in London. The scheme has had grants amounting to £5,000. "It's very cheap to run," Nick explains. "People have donated mannequins and old clothes and we all give our time. We want the project to expand but in the hands of medical students. For some of the young offenders, it's the first time they've met someone close to their own age who is trying to do something positive with their lives. And that matters – not just the training they receive."