The parents of murdered skydiver Stephen Hilder today made an urgent appeal for new information about their son's death, warning that his killers could strike again.The 20-year-old fell 13,000ft to his death over Hibaldstow airfield, north Lincolnshire, on July 4. Both his main and reserve parachutes had been sabotaged. Speaking at a press conference in their home town of Hereford, a week before what would have been their son's 21st birthday, Paul and Mary Hilder called for witnesses to come forward. Mr Hilder said that would be important not only for the family, but also for the "skydiving community, [because] they are all concerned it will happen again". "If anyone has got any information, they must come forward," he said.Mr and Mrs Hilder hope the appeal could provide new leads for detectives, who have yet to charge anyone in connection with the case. Three men, two aged 19 and one aged 24, were arrested and released on police bail in the weeks following the murder.Mr Hilder said that he had no complaints about the progress of the police investigation, adding: "It's not because of lack of effort that it's going the way it is."Asked how he and his wife were coping with their son's death, he said: "It's difficult, because our mood changes from day to day. It's very difficult to know what one's feelings are - perhaps we'll know that when the person is caught." He said that anyone who might have information "should realise what we are going through and the fact it could be done again". He added: "Somebody knows who did this." Mrs Hilder said that the investigation had shed no light on why her son might have had enemies. "It makes even less sense now," she said. "We found out a lot about Steve that confirmed he was a good guy, and that a lot of people thought a lot of him. He was no angel, but there had been no great secrets." However, she said that she hoped finding her son's killer would enable the family to "move on". "It doesn't get any easier. We're going to be in this situation for ever, but at least if the instigators can be brought to justice we can leave that behind us," she added.Stephen Hilder was an army officer cadet based at the Royal Military College of Science at Shrivenham, near Swindon. He had been taking part in the national championships of the British Collegiate Parachute association, and had made more than 200 jumps.