Ealing Labourites must be quite cheerful these days: on 6 May they held two of the borough's three parliamentary seats and took the Council back from the Conservatives. No doubt their disagreements about who should be their party's next candidate for London Mayor are quite cheerful too, but it's interesting that these exist.Council leader Julian Bell has declared his preference for Ken Livingstone, but his newly-elected colleague Dan Crawford is among those who would prefer Oona King. He chaired a meeting at Ealing Town Hall last night where Oona introduced her crime policy. Around 30 party member showed up - not at all a bad turnout - to hear Crawford describe her as a "modern, progressive and forward-thinking" potential Mayor and Oona herself deliver what I thought was the most accomplished public performance of her campaign so far.Those who deride her as a Blairite automaton might mock the heavy echoes of the former prime minster's most famous soundbite, but Oona's variation on "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime," was both internally coherent and a clear expression of her three broad campaign themes. These are presented at the end of her policy document beneath the heading My Philosophy: prevention is better than cure; improving public services means improving human relationships; more power to the people. Behold, the sharpening outline of a distinctive approach to being boss of City Hall. How would she apply it to the policing of the capital?Top of her agenda is chairing the Metropolitan Police Authority - or whatever the Coalition replaces it with - as Boris Johnson used to do until the overwhelming pressure of his ribbon-cutting commitments obliged him to stand down. In fairness, though, the received wisdom is that the job is so vast that doing it thoroughly would leave little time for anything else. Even the most persistent MPA members are mystified and maddened by the obscurities of the Met machine. Responsiveness is not its forte. But perhaps these are reasons for applauding Oona's promise of greater efficiency in handling 999 calls, improved accountability to residents and Safer Neighbourhood Teams patrolling outside office hours where necessary - not to mention reducing Met overtime bills. She also advocates firm early-intervention remedies for troubled, troublesome families, a zero tolerance approach to antisocial behaviour, high visibility community payback schemes and a programme to create 1000 "community crime activists" to speak up for their neighbourhoods' concerns. The package comes across as a blend of early New Labour idealism before its gruesome authoritarian streak took over, communitarian theory and - not for the first time - a sort of Boris-plus. It also looks like a hefty job of work, but in a city where fear of crime persists despite crime levels falling repeatedly, it's easy to spot its potential voter appeal.There was a section in her speech backing the use of electronic knife-detection measures too, though, intriguingly, nothing about stop and search. I asked her about that afterwards. Was it helping, or was it making matters worse? "I knew you were going to ask about that," she said. Mentioning a conversation she'd had the previous day with Richard Stone of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry team, she acknowledged that racial profiling "is an issue," and that when stop and search becomes a form of harassment of "just one community" and "undermines confidence in community policing," then it has failed. However: "It's better to have kids stopped and searched than to have them shot and stabbed." In other words, much depends on how the power is deployed. On this and other crime-related matters she addresses the balance between civil liberty and intrusion in the name of social civility with caution: "I guess I am just shaped by the experience of people who are scared in their own homes." Her speech was well-received by an Oona-friendly audience, which applauded her I-am-not-Ken observation that, "To beat Boris you have to be able to reach beyond Labour's core vote." Her words were wisely free of lapses into think-tank jargon that seeped into her address at that recent hustings in Redbridge. Oona is the race's outsider in most eyes, but a more focused picture of how a King mayoralty would look is now forming. The string of hustings coming up will be the more productive as a result.