Magistrates' powers to impose prison sentences will be increased from a maximum of six months to 12 and a formal system of sentence discounts introduced to encourage defendants to plead guilty, in an attempt to reduce the number of jury trials.Ministers believe the compromise will allow them to scrap controversial proposals to curb the right of defendants to choose trial by jury, while still cutting the number of jury trials by 6,000 a year. In an interview with the Guardian - one of his first since Labour won re-election last year - the lord chancellor signalled that the compromise proposals were likely to form part of a white paper this summer and be incorporated in one or two criminal justice bills in the next legislative session. The government is going ahead with many of the recommendations for a shake-up of the criminal courts commissioned by Lord Irvine from the appeal court judge Sir Robin Auld in 1999. Ministers hope that increasing the sentencing powers of magistrates would encourage them to keep more cases for themselves rather than sending them to the crown court for jury trial. Of the proposed regime for sentence discounts, Lord Irvine said: "The earlier the plea, the greater the discount. Those [defendants] who are greater realists will be attracted by plea discounts, backed up also, perhaps, by indications in advance of the likely sentence if the matter has to be contested." Defendants charged with complex frauds, however, may lose the right to jury trial. A judge could decide that the case should be tried by a judge either alone or with lay assessors, such as accountants or bankers. Or a defendant could himself opt to be tried by a judge alone. "That whole range of possibilities is under consideration." The compromise on jury trial is unlikely to satisfy the Bar Council, which said it would oppose any moves to restrict trial by jury. Another candidate for abolition is the centuries-old tradition which forces high court judges to spend weeks at a time away from home presiding over cases at distant courts. The system of going out on circuit, which dates back to the 12th century, is deterring some top QCs from answering the call to the high court bench. Lord Irvine is looking at re-allocating many of the cases now heard by high court judges to circuit judges, the next tier down and permanently attached to local courts. Instead of spending half their time on circuit, high court judges could go for short periods for specific cases. It could also save millions on the lodgings - historic houses and flats staffed by butlers, housekeepers and cooks - which cost the taxpayer £5.6m in 2001-02. The courts shake-up could even spell the end for judges' and barristers' wigs. The government's hand has been forced by solicitors who fought a long and ultimately successful battle for the right to appear alongside barristers as advocates in the higher courts. They claim their wigless state marks them out as second-class citizens and have threatened to take the lord chancellor to court over the issue. "My own view is that wigs should go," said Lord Irvine. "I think anachronistic dress, which is what wigs are, [is] as inappropriate today as archaic language which is mystifying to people. "Wigs I think are a thing of the past and I also think they contribute to a very old-fashioned image for barristers which they could well do without." There will be a public consultation before the summer on court dress, including wigs. "If at the end of the day wigs are retained, of course solicitors will have to wear them."