The government's pledge to protect children and vulnerable adults by giving employers access to criminal records is in serious trouble less than two months after its launch.The new body supervising the checks, the criminal records bureau (CRB), has been hit by backlogs in processing claims, a computer crash that led to the loss of data and a boycott from the voluntary sector over charges for registering 1.5 million people a year. The bureau is funded by a £940m private finance initiative based in Liverpool, but is the responsibility of the passport agency, which only three years ago faced a fiasco over the failure to issue tens of thousands of passports in time. Since its launch - a year late, because information held on the police national computer contained inaccuracies - it has been forced to: · publish an apology on its website after losing up to 100 online forms filled in by organisations during a consultation exercise. All were asked to resubmit their forms; · admit that a huge backlog had built up over the handling of requests from schools checking teacher applicants; · look into having applications processed in India, to tackle the backlog; · deal with a boycott from voluntary bodies protesting at "hidden charges" to volunteers and insurance liabilities. In February last year David Blunkett, then education secretary, announced he was waiving charges for volunteers. He said: "We estimate that the voluntary sector will need to make at least 1.5m checks per year. That is why Jack Straw and I have worked together to ensure that organisations like the Scouts, playgroups and Sunday schools will not have to bear the cost of ensuring volunteers have undergone the essential criminal record background checks." Eight big voluntary organisations including church and childcare groups have now written to Mr Blunkett warning that, contrary to his promise a year ago, volunteers are facing charges of between £8 and £23 plus VAT to process their records. The letter, signed by Susanne Rauprich, chief executive of the National Council for Voluntary Youth Services, warns: "We are deeply concerned that the CRB will be unable to function effectively... The consequences of this failure could be extremely serious, both in relation to ensuring the safety of children and vulnerable adults and also to the availability of volunteering opportunities in England and Wales." The eight organisations warn that insurance companies are refusing cover, because the umbrella bodies, a mixture of public and private organisations checking and processing the applications, have to withhold some information on the police national computer from applicants and decide whether an applicant should be employed if there are only suspicions of misbehaviour. "Concern over this matter is so grave that several of the organisations feel unable to register with the CRB in the current circumstances and have advised their members not to register," they say. The National Association of Clubs for Young People, which registered twice with the CRB after the agency lost its application, also condemned the charging. Malcolm Tyndall, its communication director, said: "The government basically gave out misinformation last year." The case has now been taken up by MPs from all parties, who are demanding that the government fulfils its pledge not to penalise volunteers. The Home Office said yesterday that about 709 organisations had registered to process the forms and that insurance liability affected only a "small minority of cases". It admitted there was a backlog of 27,000 applications, but blamed a third of these on errors or illegibility. John Denham, the junior Home Office minister, is to meet some of the organisations complaining about the situation. The Home Office said: "The CRB is determined to meet its customers' expectations and achieve its published service standards. The CRB has significantly increased staff numbers in Liverpool to reflect latest productivity forecasts. Working hours are being extended from 14 hours towards 24 hours per day."