A student stabbed to death on a train had been carrying out a "gentlemanly act" when he went to the aid of a passenger in distress, it was revealed yesterday.The student, named by police as Thomas Grant, 19, intervened to help a woman who appeared to be having an argument with another man on a Virgin cross-country express travelling between Penrith and Oxenholme in Cumbria with 200 passengers on board. Mr Grant died instantly from a wound to his chest.Passengers in the same carriage looked on appalled before being ushered to other parts of the train by Virgin staff. The attacker was locked in but managed to smash his way out of the carriage when the train, the 10.10am service from Glasgow to Paignton, Devon, arrived at Oxenholme station.A man was later arrested in nearby Kendal and was still being questioned last night.Mr Grant, an only child, was in his first year at St Andrews University and was said to have had a "very bright future".He was travelling alone back to his home in Gloucestershire after sitting an exam and had used the west coast route because he wanted to take his bike on the train.It is believed Mr Grant, described by his father as his "best pal", was stabbed after carrying out what a source described as his "essentially gentlemanly act". He was said to have stepped into the argument and jumped to the defence of the woman.Police travelled to Mr Grant's home to tell his parents of his death.A Virgin spokesman said yesterday that passengers had raised the alarm as the incident developed. "The train manager was made aware that something was going on in one of the carriages at the rear of the train," he said. "She saw pretty instantly what the incident was and moved all the passengers out of the carriage - they all moved very quickly."She then locked the connecting doors. This left the man with the knife in a carriage on his own. He could not get at anyone and the passengers were safe. The train manager's extremely quick thinking may well have prevented anyone else from being injured or worse."The train pulled into Oxenholme station, where the attacker kicked out an emergency escape window in the carriage and ran off. All passengers then left the train, which was sealed off as forensic teams moved in.All Virgin trains carry CCTV cameras and a spokesman said that footage would be offered to detectives to aid the investigation. A British Transport Police spokesman said he could not confirm reports that the woman or the attacker were travelling with children.He added that officers were continuing to question a 21-year-old man from Skelmersdale, Lancashire, in connection with Mr Grant's death.He was arrested on Saturday afternoon in Kendal, two miles from Oxenholme, but has not been named.The attack comes as British Transport Police roll out Operation Shield in a bid to trap passengers travelling with weapons before they board trains.The scheme involves the use of hand-held scanners and portable versions of airport style metal detector gates. The devices have already been deployed several times in the north-west of England and were in use at Piccadilly station in Manchester for four hours on Saturday night. They have not yet been used in Scotland.