Extraordinarily, the report concludes, when the full surveillance operation went into action on April 27, the team did not begin their observation until shortly before 8pm and finished after 9pm - giving them less than two hours. Photographs were subsequently taken of the suspects together, but they were never properly researched or used. Officers involved in interviewing the suspects after they were arrested were unaware of the findings. Nor was any other surveillance of any other kind ever mooted.  'The conclusion must be that this operation was ill-planned, badly carried out and inadequately documented,' the report says. 'If it was partly a substitute for arrests, as a matter of policy, then we conclude that the decision-making in this regard was flawed and incompetent.'  There were further problems with the elimination of suspects. Under police procedure, suspects should be eliminated under six criteria and an entry should be made on the policy file detailing which had been used.  In the Lawrence investigation, 75 suspects were registered on the HOLMES computer system, but in most cases senior officers failed to make entries in the policy file detailing which criteria had been used, and instead made individual judgments in relation to each subject.  On May 6, the decision to make arrests was taken, and must have come as a complete surprise to the investigating team, the report says. No proper steps were taken to ensure the suspects were at home.  Gary Dobson and the Acourts were at home when the arrests were made at 6.30am on May 7. A knife was found in Dobson's bedroom drawer while a large number of weapons, including knives, a sword and an air gun, were found at the Acourts.  The report found, however, that the searches were inadequate. Although information suggested that knives might be hidden under floorboards, there is no evidence that a single floorboard was removed.  David Norris was not at home but came to the police station with his solicitor on May 10. Luke Knight was arrested on June 3 after being identified by Duwayne Brooks.  The interviews which followed lacked planning and persistence, the report concludes, although it notes that the right of silence remained absolute at the time. It says the six-minute interview of Jamie Acourt could be regarded as a 'let-off', showing little if any evidence of preparation or technique, but the decision not to persist was probably correct because Acourt had demonstrated his determination to say nothing.  There was also evidence before the inquiry of laxness in connection with the running of identification parades which took place at the area identification suite at Southwark police station. On May 7, Jamie Acourt took part in a parade but both Mr Brooks and another witness failed to identify him. On May 13, when Neil Acourt was identified by Mr Brooks and charged with the murder, witnesses were left together without police supervision.  On June 3, Mr Brooks identified Knight and he was charged with murder. Mr Brooks had been accompanied to the identification suite by Detective Sergeant Christopher Crowley, who later said that Mr Brooks had made comments to him which led him to believe his identification of Acourt and Knight was highly suspect. In particular, he said that Mr Brooks had told him that he could only remember the physical description and hair of the attacker and had not seen the faces of the youths.  The officer was accused of either lying about or misunderstanding Mr Brooks' comments, but the report concludes that there was considerable validity in DS Crowley's assertion that the comments were made. The issue was to be a major feature in the criminal trial.  The report states that 'one of the saddest and most regrettable aspects of this case concerns the family liaison between the police and the Lawrence family.' One of Mr and Mrs Lawrence's main complaints was that they were not kept informed of the progress of the investigation.  Two officers had been appointed as family liaison officers on the morning after the murder, one of whom had no previous experience in such as role, and, in common with other officers, was not prepared to accept that the murder was purely a racist crime. The officers also had other duties within the investigation team, which, the report concludes, must have detracted from their their liaison role and created confusion.  They failed to blend in with the wishes of the family, the report says, by objecting to the number of people around Mr and Mrs Lawrence. This showed 'a lack of training and sensitivity in understanding the way in which a black family may react to the terrible circumstances in which Mr and Mrs Lawrence found themselves.'  The problems between the police and the family went to the top of the investigation team. Det Supt Weeden claimed that he had made repeated attempts to speak directly with Stephen's parents, only to be informed that they could not see him. He had invited them to the police station, but Mr and Mrs Lawrence declined.  At this point, the report says, it became apparent that Mr Weeden lost patience with the family and their solicitor Imran Khan. He never met the family face to face until more than a year after his appointment as senior investigating officer, and had distanced himself from the family and their solicitor. 'There is no doubt that the relationship was from its earliest stages difficult and unhappy. This situation should never have been allowed to develop or to be maintained. The responsibility for this must be with Mr Weeden in his supervisory role in connection with family investigation.'  According to the inquiry, Mr Weeden's conduct towards the family betrayed 'unwitting racism'. From time to time, the family did indicate that they did not want to be disturbed, but this, the report says, they were perfectly entitled to do and cannot diminish the criticism of the family liaison. The officers did not make enough effort to overcome what they saw as obstacles, and were too willing to step back from a situation because it was unfamiliar to them.  Although the inquiry and the family accepted that the officers' intentions were good, the report concludes that the family were not dealt with as they should have been. 'Inappropriate behaviour and patronising attitudes towards this black family were the product and manifestation of unwitting racism at work. Coupled with the failure of the senior officers to see Mr and Mrs Lawrence and to sort out the family liaison, we see here a clear example of the collective failure of the investigating team to treat Mr and Mrs Lawrence appropriately and professionally because of their colour, culture and ethnic origin.  After the CPS indicated they did not want to prosecute the suspects in July 1993, a review of the investigation was set up by Deputy Assistant Commissioner David Osland. The report finds the review by Det Chief Supt Roderick Barker, which concluded that the investigation had been 'competently and sensitively investigated' was factually incorrect and inadequate. It says that Mr Osland was too ready to accept these conclusions and describes his attitude to the Lawrences and their solicitor as 'reprehensible.'  It also criticises Sir Paul Condon, who read the review, for a 'lack of rigour' in accepting it without question. In evidence, Mr Barker had said that he wanted to avoid undermining the senior investigating officer, Mr Weeden. But Sir William says: 'During the hearing of Mr Barker's evidence we were convinced that Mr Barker produced a misleading and flawed review, and that the review was effectively indefensible. We have to say that we found his evidence unconvincing and incredible in a number of important respects.  In particular, the report criticises Mr Barker for arguing that he had to be guarded about police errors because they then might come into the public domain and jeopardise a future prosecution. 'The implication here is both quite clear and unforgiveable,' the report says. 'It is that a senior officer considered creating two versions of a review document, the first to be disclosable to the defence and deliberately designed to mislead by omitting any adverse references to the investigation, and the second to be an honest document indicating any flaws in the investigation which might be useful to the defence, but deliberately withheld from subsequent defence discovery.'  Even more serious, the report says, was the complete omission in his review of the crucial informer, James Grant, on the grounds that the information 'could possibly come into the public domain.' The report says this omission was 'extraordinary.' Mr Barker is further attacked for criticising the Lawrences' thirst for information. 'Mr Barker was in our view surely part of the collective failure which marks institutional racism.'  The report concludes: 'There can be no excuses for such a series of errors, failures and lack of direction and control. Each failure was compounded. Failure to acknowledge and to detect errors resulted in them being effectively concealed. Mr Osland attracts more censure over his attitude to the Lawrences before and after he retired. He made remarks that were 'unfortunate and wounding' to the family. In a letter to Sir Paul in September 1993 he said his patience was wearing thin with the family and their lawyer. After his retirement he gave a newspaper interview in which he advised officers accused of racism to sue the Lawrences. The report says these views exacerbated the Lawrence's feelings about the police. Criticism of the Crown Prosecution Service in declining to bring prosecutions against the suspects is largely rejected in the report. Howard Youngerwood, who made the decision, was described as an impressive witness. 'We fully understand Mr Youngerwood's reasoning and his decision, and we believe that his conclusion was correct. If further evidence came to light, either scientific evidence or further evidence which might have emerged as a result of the repeated pleas to the public for their assistance, then the matter could have been revived. But if the situation remained as it was there could be no prospect of the case being pursued satisfactorily. are criticised, however, for allowing the Lawrences to read about the discontinuation in the media rather than telling them first. This was 'most regrettable. The report praises the second police investigation which started in the autumn of 1994 under the control of Det Supt William Mellish and supported by Commander Perry Nove. The report says: 'The second investigation attempted to salvage the situation. Forthright steps were taken. Clifford Norris was arrested. Sophisticated surveillance of the suspects took place. By 1994 however the case was becoming stale. No satisfactory fresh witnesses have ever come forward. We have no criticism of this investigation by Mr Mellish. Indeed it was managed with imagination and skill. The trust of Mr and Mrs Lawrence was regained by the sensitive approach of Mr Nove. In launching the private prosecution against four of the suspects in 1995, the report says it was apparent to the family's counsel, Michael Mansfield C, that he had 'very real problems' with the evidence, particularly the confusing identification evidence of Duwayne Brooks. The case against Jamie Acourt and David Norris was thrown out, but Neil Acourt and Luke Knight were committed for trial.The report says: 'Mr and Mrs Lawrence's legal team can thus say that at least there was some hope of conviction' because the magistrate ruled there was a prima facie case against them.  When the two youths and Gary Dobson appeared at the Old Bailey in April 1996, Mr Justice Curtis dismissed the case for lack of admissible evidence.  The report says he was right. 'We are convinced that no judge could have reached any decision other than that made by Mr Justice Curtis. All the necessary evidence was called. All the possible arguments were made and heeded. The prosecution was given every chance to make a case. There simply was not the material available to go to the jury. Mr Justice Curtis so found. We are convinced that he was right.' But Sir William found no criticism of Mr Mansfield.  The report defends the role of the family's solicitor, Imran Khan, in trying to advise the family and help them get information from the police. 'It would be wrong to criticise Mr Khan, since he was doing what the family wished him to do and they had confidence in the methods which he was employing.'  While broadly supporting the Police Complaints Authority-supervised investigation in the family's complaints against the police by Kent police, the report does say it cannot accept the conclusion that there was 'no evidence to support the allegation of racist conduct.' Sir William makes wider recommendations, suggesting that an officer can be disciplined up to five years after leaving the service. He also recommends that complaints should be independently investigated.