The jury in the Soham murder trial at the Old Bailey yesterday retired to consider its verdicts against Ian Huntley and Maxine Carr. But it returned within two hours to ask if it could see again the bath in which Holly Wells allegedly drowned in August last year.Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering Holly and her schoolfriend Jessica Chapman at the couple's home in Soham, Cambridgeshire. He admits conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. His former fiancee denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. Ms Carr, 26, was a classroom assistant at the 10-year-olds' school. She claims she had no idea her partner was involved in the girls' disappearance when she gave him a false alibi. The caretaker has told the court Holly died after falling into his bath accidentally, and that he killed Jessica inadvertently as he tried to silence her screams. He then dumped their bodies in a remote ditch, cut off their clothes and burned their corpses. Mr Justice Moses sent the seven female and five male jurors out at 11.08am after completing his summing-up of the 27-day case. He told them that their verdicts on all charges would have to be unanimous. They were given a laptop computer to call up images presented in the case and the media interviews that the defendants gave between the disappearance of the girls on August 4 last year and their arrest almost a fortnight later. At 12.55pm the jurors returned to court, asking to see the bath and to be provided with a tape measure and "straight edge". Mr Justice Moses ordered that courtroom one be cleared and the bath brought in so that the jurors could inspect it in private. Mr Huntley's legal team initially said there were 18 inches of water in the tub when Holly fell in, because Mr Huntley was about to bathe his dog. Dr Nat Cary, a pathologist, said the bath's overflow was 11 inches high and he questioned how high one would fill a tub for a large dog. Mr Huntley said in his evidence he had run six to eight inches of water. Earlier, the judge concluded his summing-up by finishing his summary of Ms Carr's evidence. Referring to her police interviews after her arrest, he told the jurors: "It is now apparent she was very far from coming clean in those interviews. That's something you are entitled to bear in mind when considering the truth or otherwise of her evidence." Ms Carr did not tell police that she knew Holly and Jessica had been inside the house. The judge said she had admitted that feeding false information to police tended to interfere with investigations and that she should not be the judge of whether something was worth investigating. But she had also said: "Because I thought the girls were alive, I didn't think of the effect of what I said on the investigation." Mr Justice Moses told the jury that they might think "she came very close to admitting" conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Yesterday he told them they had to consider that count only if they believed her innocent of the more serious charge of assisting an offender. He also told them they could consider manslaughter verdicts against Mr Huntley if they believed he had killed the girls and that the deaths were not accidents, but could not be sure that he intended to kill them or cause them really serious bodily harm. The jurors were later sent home for the weekend, and will resume their deliberations on Monday.