Gang loyalty has replaced family ties for an "almost feral" generation of angry young people, the chief constable of South Wales police, Barbara Wilding, warns in the Times. She says it cannot be tackled by policing alone.Her speech - at the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies at King's College London - was delivered to an invited audience in May, but has only now come to light.In many of our larger cities, in areas of extreme deprivation, there are almost feral groups of very angry young people. Many have experienced family breakdown, and in place of parental and family role models, the gang culture is now established.The Independent leads on Cherie Blair's admission before a home affairs select committee yesterday that she fears for the safety of her children on the streets. If young people think they can carry knives and no one is ever going to pick them up carrying a knife, then they are more likely to take one out," she said. "We know younger people are carrying knives. This is almost a new phenomenon - that younger people are carrying knives and, sadly, using them. The statistics are not looking at the right areas; they need to broaden what they are looking at. Anecdotally, it seems clear the perception is that it's much worse.Her remarks were seized upon by the Conservatives, who described them as a "sad indictment" on the failure of her husband's 1997 promise to get tough on crime and its causes.The Mail's Quentin Letts was impressed neither by Blair, whom he calls "that odd panto horse", nor the committee. Words poured out of her, as water from an overfilled garden bucket, sploshing over the side of two broad, ungainly lips.The committee has been vulgarised by its chairman, Keith Vaz, "a media tart who keeps calling witnesses who will get him mentioned on the TV news", Letts says.Mrs Blair started giving the committee the benefit of her limited experience of gun and knife crime. She waved her luxuriant, chestnut-coloured curls from side to side. She shone two insistent, staring, wondrous, spooked eyes at the committee. She held out one of her hands and clawed at the air, as though grabbing hold of a newspaper reporter's collar. It was all rather peculiar.There is also widespread coverage in the morning papers of a march yesterday by around 500 young people in memory of murdered Ben Kinsella and to call for an end to knife crime.This is an edited and extended extract from the Wrap, our daily digest of the morning papers.