Police officers said yesterday that they were "appalled" when two nine-year-old girls were captured on CCTV (one pictured above) throwing a missile from a motorway footbridge that went through a car window.The pair, too young to be prosecuted, were taken home after being caught targeting motorists on the M25 near Merstham, Surrey, on May 11. Chief Inspector Mark Clark, from the strategic roads unit, said: "This really has to stop now before more people are killed or maimed. Such cases had "dramatically increased", police said. In the first quarter of this year Surrey police dealt with an average of 26 incidents a month - twice as many as in any of the last three years. Incidents of objects thrown off bridges over motorways and A-roads in Surrey increased to 105 in the first four months of 2003, compared with 163 in 2002, 167 in 2001 and 89 in 2000. The force is targeting areas with high numbers of incidents, many of which are covered by CCTV. Mr Clark added: "I appeal to parents of children who live within easy travelling distance of a motorway, please make sure your children are not participating in such a dangerous activity. There is always a danger of copycat incidents, but we must warn everybody of the tremendous dangers being caused to innocent motorists. "I warn both parents and their children that prosecution for this very serious offence will always be our objective." Details of the incident were disclosed as detectives investigating the murder of lorry driver Micky Little, 53, by a stone thrown on to the M3 near Camberley on March 21, say they have a new lead. They are looking at the attempted theft of a Renault Clio nearby on the same night. DNA has been taken from blood on the car. Detective Chief Inspector Graham Hill, leading the inquiry, said: "The most direct route between the scene of the attempted car theft and the footbridge would have taken the offender past the building site where the brick used to kill Mr Little was removed from. This was a despicable crime and we are determined to find whoever is responsible." A spokeswoman for the AA welcomed Surrey's decision to highlight stone-throwing, but said: "There have been very few deaths caused by objects thrown from bridges. There are 1,000 people a year killed through speeding and 500 through drink-driving, so it's very important that we keep it in perspective." However the AA would like to see more CCTV cameras.