A fugitive businessman wanted for ­questioning over the murder of his ­girlfriend in a Paris hotel was arrested ­yesterday in woodlands in the Greater Manchester area, where he had ­apparently been living rough.The search for Ian Griffin switched from France to Britain after the weekend ­following sightings of him at Shepperton boatyard in Surrey and the discovery of his Porsche in Cheshire.Cheshire police said yesterday evening that a 39-year-old man had been arrested at 3.30pm in Chelford, Macclesfield, after officers were tipped off as to his whereabouts."At this stage it would appear that the man has been living rough in a tent. ­Cheshire police are liaising with the French authorities," a police spokeswoman said.Detectives had been hunting for ­Griffin, 39, since the body of his Polish-born ­girlfriend, Kinga Legg, was found at the Bristol hotel in Paris on 26 May. A maid is reported to have found her in the bathroom of the couple's suite.Legg, 36, had been severely beaten, apparently with fists and a lampstand, and died from internal bleeding caused by several blows, according to a pathologist's report. Police said the room was spattered with blood and furniture was smashed.Witnesses said Griffin had been purchasing electronic navigation charts and a satellite navigation system, and making inquiries about buying a cabin cruiser.Friends of the couple have told reporters that they frequently drank heavily and took antidepressants. Last month Griffin sent one friend a photograph of himself bleeding from a cut above his eye, an injury he alleged Legg had inflicted.Hotel staff were reported as saying the couple had consumed large amounts of champagne after checking in the day before Legg's body was found. Griffin is said by friends to have been suffering from anxiety and depression in recent months.There have been reports he contacted associates shortly after his girlfriend's death, alleging she had attacked him using a stun gun disguised as a lipstick, which she had bought in Paris. The day after Legg's body was discovered, Griffin was sighted at a boatyard on the Thames at Shepperton where he moors his 18ft speedboat, the Madog. He was told he could not take the boat away as it was still being prepared for use on the open sea.Staff say he "seemed flustered" and was disappointed when told that his boat was not ready. They also say he made inquiries about buying a cabin cruiser in which he could sleep overnight, but then said he did not have time to discuss the purchase.Three days later his black Porsche 911 was recovered from a property at ­Winwick, north of Warrington, near to his parents' home.Chesire police last night refused to confirm the identity of the man who was found in the woods. He was arrested under section 9 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861, which covers any murder or manslaughter committed ­outside the UK.Griffin is a former male model described by friends as a flamboyant figure. He made a fortune from a string of enterprises, including tanning salons in the north-west, a store that sold electrical gadgets and a number of internet ventures. Many of his ­companies were later dissolved, however, and he told friends he had been "ripped off" during a property deal. Three years ago he was declared bankrupt at Warrington county court.Legg had a successful business career before meeting Griffin four years ago. She was involved with a number of enterprises, including a major vegetable export business.After living together in Knutsford, Cheshire, the couple moved south and shared a rented mansion near Oxshott, Surrey.Griffin is understood to have collected clothing and other belongings from the Surrey home since arriving back in the UK. Both properties have been searched by police.