A former solicitors' clerk who knowingly infected two women with HIV was yesterday found guilty of "biological" grievous bodily harm in the first case of its kind in England and Wales.Mohammed Dica, 38, a Somali living in Mitcham, Surrey, was diagnosed with HIV in 1996, but went on to "coldly and callously" trick two women into having unprotected sex with him. Both could die from Aids within 10 years. A jury at Inner London crown court took less than three hours to convict Dica on two counts of grievous bodily harm, after hearing that he had targeted vulnerable women and "recklessly gambled" with their lives. It is the first successful prosecution for passing on a sexually transmitted disease in England and Wales for 137 years. In March 2001 a man was convicted under Scottish law of reckless conduct after infecting his girlfriend with HIV. Dica's first victim, a 37-year-old who cannot be named, met him in 1997 after her marriage collapsed and he offered support. She agreed to unsafe sex after he assured her he had undergone a vasectomy. She said Dica, who is married with three children, had not mentioned HIV. But during their six-month relationship he would always say after sex: "I'm so sorry, please forgive me, God forgive me." The woman was diagnosed with HIV in 1998 and confronted Dica. He insisted he did not carry the virus, saying it was a "homosexual disease" and only affected people "cursed by God". Dica met his second victim in 2000 at an office Christmas party at a nightclub in south London. Identified only as Deborah, she has two young children and said Dica was only the second man she had ever slept with. She left her boyfriend of 18 years for Dica, who deceived her into thinking he was a lawyer and Gulf war veteran, but did not tell her he was married and HIV-positive. Dica told her he lived with his strict Muslim sister, so the couple met in hotels. She agreed to unprotected sex after he said he had difficulty using condoms. When Deborah's health deteriorated and she tested positive for HIV, she tracked Dica to St George's hospital in Tooting, south London, where she discovered he was being treated. She went to police after learning that he was still with his wife and had infected a previous girlfriend. After the verdict, Deborah said: "If my ordeal helps the law to be changed to make it easier for men like him to be prosecuted for offences like this, if it helps educate people and saves even one life, it will have been worth fighting for." Judge Nicholas Philpot called the case "novel and particularly troublesome, not to say serious". He adjourned sentencing for two weeks, but said: "If I had to sentence him today, there is no doubt he would be going to prison for a long time." Dica faces a maximum five years' jail on each count. Detective Sergeant Jo Goodall from Lambeth community safety unit said she believed Dica had infected other women and appealed for them to come forward. But the Terrence Higgins Trust warned against a rush to criminalise the transmission of HIV. A spokesman said: "The law needs to be clarified and must not be dictated by precedent. If there was a rush of cases, it could discourage people from coming forward for testing and treatment."