Another day of paperwork and domestic calls, another night of separating drunks anxious for a fight; the daily work of the police is hardly glamorous, yet its unpredictability can make it desperately dangerous. Every day the police have to deal with serious criminals in difficult situations - people who have both the will and the capacity to inflict acute harm. Drug dealers, armed robbers, not to mention terrorist suspects; there's a whole gamut of risks the police run that are at the opposite end of the danger spectrum from Toni Comer, whose brief CCTV appearance is now being played across TV and the internet.Yet it's precisely that fact that makes the CCTV footage of a policeman apparently laying into Comer with punches so shocking. Comer is not a burly man and she was not armed on the night she was arrested: she is a young, slight woman, though one who was apparently so under the influence of alcohol she could not control herself. And thus the question arises: if the police use such force to subdue a teenager (she was 19 at the time), what force might they use on people who pose a greater physical risk? It is not hard to see how that thought leads, eventually, to disproportionate use of force, and, ultimately, to the most serious cases.That isn't to belittle the risk to Anthony Mulhall, the PC who first struggled with and then struck Comer. PC Mulhall said Comer was attempting to "grab handfuls of my genitals" and anyone doing that in such a frenzied way is bound to elicit an instinctive response from most men. Couple that with the adrenaline that would have been pumping through his veins after he'd almost tumbled down the stairs with Comer and, possibly, his knowledge of what serious injuries can be caused by a frantic attack, and his attempt to stop her by any means begins to seem more human. But not excusable: after all, Mulhall is trained for such situations. Much will depend on what the on-going investigation establishes about where Mulhall's punches landed and whether they constituted reasonable force.Yet, truthfully, it doesn't look good. Pause the tape at about 2:20:50 and what do you see? A young black girl, her jeans by her ankles and her underwear exposed, being dragged by two men considerably larger than her, while at least ten other men look on, ready to intervene, and an attack dog barks. That's a lot of force for one little girl.South Yorkshire's Chief Constable Meredydd Hughes spoke yesterday of the need for "context" in understanding the officer's actions. But the police, to paraphrase Lord Hewart, must not only be proportionate, they must be seen to be so.