 The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Friday May 27 2004In the article below we state that Michael Sams murdered the estate agent Stephanie Slater. Sams was convicted of abducting Ms Slater, who survived her ordeal, and the murder of Julie Dart. The only maximum security prison wing for women in Britain is to be closed down and its 76 inmates moved out in response to a highly critical report today by the chief inspector of prisons.Anne Owers says that the women, including the serial killer Rosemary West, should no longer be held in such "restricted, oppressive and claustrophobic" conditions. The decision to move the women to other prisons follows six self-inflicted deaths inside Durham women's centre in the past three years. The Prison Service said yesterday that the small number of high-security male prisoners, including Michael Sams, who murdered the estate agent Stephanie Slater, will also be moved, stripping the jail of its high-security status. The decision means that Durham will return to its Victorian role of a local community prison specialising in resettlement work. It currently holds about 600 men, with space for eight maximum-security inmates. The high-security women's centre opened in 1974, since when the wing has held, among others, Myra Hindley, Linda Calvey (the East End criminal dubbed the Black Widow for hiring a hitman to kill her husband), and the IRA bombers Ella O'Dwyer and Martina Anderson. The Prison Service said yesterday that the opening of Bronzefield, a new women's prison at Ashford, Middlesex, in three weeks' time, a second new women's jail at Peterborough ready next year, and spare capacity elsewhere in Britain's prisons meant there was no need to hold women at Durham now. Some inmates will be moved within weeks but it will take up to a year to close Durham's high-security sections. The announcement coincided with a damning report by Ms Owers which says that conditions at Durham are bleak and grim. She says that the presence of seven high-security prisoners, including one classed as "high risk", has a big effect on the regime for the remainder of the women held at Durham, regardless of the risk that they might pose to the public. "The environment was very secure, but extremely oppressive, and movement between the wing and activity centre was sometimes protracted, because of searching regulations required of establishments holding category A prisoners," said Ms Owers after her snap inspection of the premises in January. "Most women were subject to a level of security that they did not require ... [it was] unfair and imposed by procedures designed to manage the risk posed by very dangerous men." The women held in Durham are all serving sentences of four years or more but only about one third are serving a life sentence. Ms Owers says she is also very concerned about the high level of suicides and self-harming incidents during recent years. Until August 2002 there had not been a suicide of a woman prisoner at Durham for 12 years. Since then six inmates have taken their lives. "There had been a number of serious incidents where it appeared that prisoners could have died had it not been for the swift actions of staff," says the chief inspector's report. It adds that more than half the women held at Durham had been the subject of an official "at risk of suicide" form at some point. Ms Owers is also concerned about the apparent regular use of a punishment strip-cell for those at risk of suicide. She saw one example of an inappropriate disciplinary charge being brought against a woman who had been repeatedly harming herself. She says the general environment has been restricted, oppressive and claustrophobic. "The exercise yard and the external surroundings were grim, with an absence of any greenery to soften the surroundings. Internally the wing was bright and very clean but still provided a very confined environment." While an "excellent hair and beauty programme and some data entry work" was provided, the security restrictions meant that other work for long-term prisoners was unskilled and repetitive. Peter Atherton, the deputy director general of the Prison Service, said that the decision to change Durham's role had not been taken lightly. "We intend to manage the transition very carefully over the coming months. Developing Durham into a community prison will enable staff to specialise in resettling short-term prisoners in the north-east." Dispiriting and bleakWhat the chief inspector of prisons said about Durham women's wing · A constricted and forbidding physical environment with a dispiriting and bleak exercise yard; it is an unsuitable place to hold women · Six suicides in two years among its small population · Out of sight of management, with the men's jail called the "main prison" · The high level of disorder of a few women made it difficult to deal with the quiet despair of others · Only seven high-security prisoners but all women subject to stringent security · Good hair and beauty salon but work [for inmates] repetitive