Today's acquittals have confirmed the suspicion that those ultimately responsible for Roberto Calvi's death 25 years ago in London were not in the dock.Sentenced to four years in jail for illegal foreign currency deals in 1981, Calvi fled Italy pending an appeal. Upon his arrival in London in June 1982, he began sending signals back to Rome that if he was imprisoned he would tell everything he knew.If he had carried out this threat, a lot of mud would have stuck to the many figures in Italy's financial and political elite, because of the nature of Banco Ambrosiano, the bank at the centre of the case.Calvi had been the chairman of Banco Ambrosiano, in which the Vatican held a significant stake - a link that inspired Calvi's nickname, "God's banker". It has also been reported that he had connections to a masonic lodge known as P2 or Propaganda Due. These connections would have brought him into contact with many of Italy's movers and shakers in politics, business, the civil service and Italian intelligence.Banco Ambrosiano, which collapsed with £800million in debts, was used by the mafia to launder its money from the drugs trade. It was also the finance house through which unlawful payments were made by large corporations to leading Italian politicians.If information is power, then as chairman of Ambrosiano, Calvi wielded a lot as he knew of the myriad money trails that meandered through his bank. But his knowledge also made him vulnerable to those who felt under threat if he went public.The New York-born investigator Jeff Katz, who was hired by Calvi's family in 1991 to look into his death, said those who went on trial were alleged middlemen in the Calvi scandal."They were on trial for alleged conspiracy to commit murder," he said. "They were not the people who allegedly decided to have him killed and they were not the people who put the rope around his neck."Investigators claim Calvi was lured on to a Thames riverboat by the mafia in June 1982. He was then strangled from behind with a rope and concrete bricks were stuffed in his trouser pockets along with $15,000 (£7,500) in cash. A noose was made with the rope, placed round his neck and his body was hung on scaffolding by Blackfriars bridge to appear as if he had committed suicide.An inquest in London initially ruled that his death was suicide, but after a high court challenge by Calvi's family, a second inquest was held and an open verdict was recorded.In 2003 Italian prosecutors concluded that the banker had been killed, and in October 2005 four men and a woman went on trial in Rome for his murder.Mr Katz, who spent three years reconstructing the circumstances of Calvi's death, played a key role in uncovering evidence that he could not have committed suicide."It is now accepted that Calvi was murdered," said Mr Katz, now chief executive of the London-based corporate investigations company Bishop International. "It was only last year that London police accepted that it was a case of murder. That is something of an accomplishment."The defendantsGiuseppe "Pippo" Calo: nicknamed Cosa Nostra's "cashier" by the Italian media for his alleged laundering of mafia money, Mr Calo has been in jail since the 1980s on Mafia charges unconnected to Calvi's death.Ernesto Diotallevi and Flavio Carboni: businessmenSilvano Vittor: Calvi's driver and bodyguard.Manuela Kleinszig: Carboni's Austrian ex-girlfriend.