Most of the delegates who set the rules for diplomatic immunity in Vienna in 1961 would have grown up in the early years of the 20th century, when diplomacy consisted largely of wealthy, clubbable gentlemen with a classical education and catholic interests, parading in ostrich-feather hats in public and, in private, cutting cynical secret deals over brandy and cigars.The treaty their 1961 successors came up with, the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, was signed against the background of a cardinally different era. It wasn't so much that the cold war was in full swing, although it was. It was that the old world order, with Europe on top, had collapsed. The old European empires, the British, the French, the Dutch, the Belgian and the Portuguese, were disintegrating at speed, and old colonies were becoming new countries. Independent republics and kingdoms, borders and capitals, had been proliferating on the map since the end of the war, with names, such as Vietnam, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, that still sounded unfamiliar to Europeans. Anger in Britain in recent days at the possibility that diplomatic immunity might allow a London-based Saudi diplomat to escape investigation for alleged indecent assault has focused attention on the 1961 convention's immunity clauses. Yet one of the reasons the delegates drafting the convention did not think through the dangers of potential diplomat criminals escaping justice was that they had other concerns on their minds. Many of the European delegates, historians of diplomacy say, were more concerned to define exactly what a diplomat was. They were tormented by primitive fears that their Georgian terraces and fine arrondissements would be overrun by embassies of thousands of ex-colonial "diplomats" from Africa and Asia. Their developing world counterparts, on the other hand, were determined to avoid snubs and paternalism from their old colonial masters. Amid this tension, it is not surprising that the subtler consequences of the document - the possibility that rogue diplomats from any country, rich or poor, might be able to evade responsibility for awful crimes - were unforeseen. It is striking that the convention does, in fact, have one big exemption for diplomatic immunity: you can still sue a diplomat in the civil courts, it seems, for "a real action against private immoveable property". In other words, if a drunken ambassador kicks your front door and makes a mark, you can sue him, but if he molests small children, you can't. No wonder the question is being raised as to whether, more than 40 years on, and in a world that has again changed utterly, it is not time to revisit the concept of diplomatic immunity. Some go further: they wonder whether the very idea of diplomats and embassies, in their traditional sense, have a place in the 21st century. "Diplomats are not as important as they once were, or, indeed, as some still think they are," says Geoffrey Robertson, a leading human rights lawyer. "In this age of jet travel and email and videoconferencing, the role of the ambassador as representing his head of state no longer has the same significance. And that immunity from prosecution for serious crime is wrong in principle." This linkage of diplomatic immunity with the notion of diplomatic redundancy infuriates specialists like the distinguished historian of diplomacy Professor Geoff Berridge of Leicester University. "It's absolutely ridiculous," he says. "This idea surfaces periodically. It has done since the early 1970s, this idea that diplomats have been made irrelevant by the jet age and the telephone and so on. "Have you heard of a multinational corporation that doesn't want its people on the ground, snooping, pressing the flesh, engaging in what we would call public diplomacy? The only reason ministries of foreign affairs get flak for this is that they are so visibly dealing with foreigners all the time. Their constituency is foreigners, so they're always going to get it in the neck." Indeed, the Foreign Office (FO) in London is one of the staunchest defenders of the traditional concept of diplomatic immunity. There can be no immunity for our diplomats anywhere, they say, without reciprocal immunity for foreign diplomats here. "Diplomatic privileges and immunities allow ambassadors and their staff to act independently of any local pressures, to represent their countries under protection from attack and harrassment, and communicate freely with their own governments," says an FO official. "But the convention makes clear the purpose is not to protect the individual." Under the 1961 convention, accredited diplomats are exempt from almost all forms of taxation in their host countries, and cannot be prosecuted for any crime unless their own government and the host government agree to waive immunity. The current Saudi case involves a 41-year-old diplomat, as yet unnamed, who was arrested by police on the morning of July 26 after he was accused of indecently assaulting an 11-year-old girl in west London. Because of his status, neither the police nor the Crown Prosecution Service can take the case further until the British and Saudi governments agree what should be done. The FO says it sent a letter to the Saudis last week, asking for the diplomat's immunity to be waived, but it has yet to get a reply and is "pressing them for a decision". All the government would be able to do if the Saudis refused a waiver would be to request that the Saudis sent the man home; if that failed, the last resort would be to declare him persona non grata and expel him. Waivers are not unprecedented. If the country where the crime is committed is particularly large and powerful, and the diplomat's country particularly small and weak, the diplomat's chances of escaping justice are less. Seven years ago a Georgian diplomat, Gueorgui Makharadze, was sentenced to between seven and 21 years in prison in the US for causing the death of a Maryland teenager while driving drunk. When the disproportion in size and power is in the other direction, waivers are less likely. In 1987, the US refused to waive the diplomatic immunity of the husband of one of its diplomats in London after he was accused of indecent exposure. The charge could have carried a sentence of up to two years; instead, the US embassy chose to send him home "for treatment". The most notorious example of alleged criminals being allowed to return to their home countries without investigation or prosecution came in 1984, with the murder of the policewoman Yvonne Fletcher outside the Libyan embassy in London. The burden of evidence pointed to the embassy as the origin of the gunshots which killed her, from a weapon smuggled in a "diplomatic bag" - under the convention, diplomats' luggage is not subject to search. "We can never again allow the spectacle of what happened after Yvonne Fletcher, when the killers were escorted out to the aeroplane with the murder weapon, it is suspected, in their suitcases," says Robertson. In the wake of the Fletcher tragedy, the government concluded that while it might be desirable to reform the convention, the time and effort required to get every country in the world to agree would make it next to impossible. Robertson points out that there was no reason why groups of countries could not set the ball rolling by agreeing between themselves to a permanent waiver for their diplomats in each other's countries. "There's no justification at all for it to continue in relation to the countries of the European Union, most of which have reasonably high standards of justice, for America, or for many nations of the Commonwealth," he says. "Yes, we still need the Vienna convention, because in some countries, the justice system is corrupt or politicised, and there is a danger diplomats could be framed. We need to protect embassies. We don't need to protect diplomatic baggage any longer." One way forward, he says, would be to replace diplomatic immunity for the most serious crimes with the option of trying diplomats so accused in one of the new international criminal courts now being set up. The system has been a long time coming, the ancient Greeks drew up basic rules of diplomatic conduct, but for centuries, being a diplomat was an edgy business. In a study of the emergent diplomatic corps in Ottoman Constantinople in the early 17th century, Prof Berridge points out that European diplomats were part negotiators, part emissaries, but to a great extent hostages. Sir Thomas Roe, the English ambassador for most of the 1620s, described a discussion about trade between England and Turkey some way removed from present niceties: "The vizier took part against us, the veriest villain that ever lived, and used me with great contempt, threatened to hang my secretary," he wrote to London. It was no way to treat a gentleman, Sir Thomas felt, and class, privilege and honour were the drivers of much of the early attempts to make rules protecting diplomats. "You wouldn't have got individuals from the higher social strata to do this kind of work if they could be abused and insulted in foreign countries, if they weren't given a certain degree of special protection," says Berridge. The 1961 convention was, in itself, an update of a convention drawn up in 1815, at the end of the Napoleonic wars, by a set of ministers who were also aristocrats, determined to stamp out any further pretensions by commoners or the lower orders to run Europe. A glimpse into the world of diplomatic crimes and misdemeanours in London in 2002, given in a parliamentary answer last year, suggests that the popular image of the country's 20,000-odd foreign diplomats as dedicated to taking advantage is wide of the mark. A little over 3,000 unpaid diplomat parking tickets were recorded, with just three countries - the United Arab Emirates, Libya and China - making up a fifth of the total. But a more worrying figure was the 20 serious crimes - those carrying sentences of 12 months or more - which diplomats had committed. Deep down, the problem of diplomatic immunity may remain as it was: one of elites and honour. That the reason countries' governments may be so reluctant to let their diplomats be punished abroad is that they all come from the same narrow group of top people, all with very great ideas of their own importance. Thomas Otte, another expert on the history of diplomacy, observes: "Historically speaking, of course, the whole issue of diplomatic immunity arose because, traditionally, diplomats were regarded as honourable spies, honourable men sent abroad to spy and lie for their countries."