The police are to be given a new "street bail" power to deal with minor offenders such as shoplifters without taking them to a police station as part of a package to put more officers on patrol.Police officers due to give evidence are also to be kept in contact by pager or text message rather than be expected to hang around court, possibly for days, waiting to appear.Police on patrol are also to be encouraged to take meal breaks in restaurants and cafes to avoid wasting time going back to the police station and to provide a reassuring sight to other diners. The police are even considering negotiating a discount scheme with the big supermarkets and food outlets so that officers will not lose out on their subsidised meals in the police canteen. The scheme is already running in the West Midlands where it started as a way of providing reassurance to Indian restaurant owners who regularly faced disruptive customers. But police sources made clear yesterday that it would not lead to the American practice known as "grazing" whereby officers expected free meals on their beat. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said he hoped the package, which would also include equipping beat officers with hand-held computers, would make the best use of the time officers spend on the beat and cut down on the paperwork. But in a speech to the annual police superintendents' association in Chester he also announced that he is to delay the introduction of the requirement on all police officers to record the name, address and ethnic origin of all the people they stop on the street. Mr Blunkett said he was not abandoning the need to record all stops, which was a key recommendation of the inquiry report into the murder of the black teenager, Stephen Lawrence, but instead had decided to phase in its introduction. "There is no point in reducing bureaucracy in one area only to have it increased in another. Some people feared that in accepting the Lawrence report recommendation we would do this. I intend to build on our commitment by bringing in phased implementation to achieve a means of recording stops in a way that is the least bureaucratic for the police and individuals concerned." The delay will not apply to the report provided to all suspects who are stopped and searched in the street. But Mr Blunkett hinted that the full introduction of a similar report for all those stopped in the street may take several years. He said a pilot scheme by Wiltshire police under which patrol officers are equipped with hand-held computers might need to be adopted nationally. The home secretary confirmed that police numbers had reached 129,603 and were at the highest level since official records began in 1921 and promised the superintendents he would soon set a new target that was even higher. The idea of introducing "street bail" is contained in the report of an official task force on police bureaucracy published yesterday. The scheme would give police officers in minor cases the power to deal with an arrest on the street without immediately having to take the suspect into custody, which could take up to four hours at peak times. Instead they would be given an appointment to attend a police station at a later date. It will need new legislation as at present those who are arrested, rather than, say, given a fixed penalty fine, are legally expected to be taken to a police station without delay. But the home secretary stopped short yesterday of endorsing demands from the police task force to save even more police time by extending the range of offences which can be dealt with by fixed penalty notices from 11 to more than 50. At present four police forces are trying the new £40 fixed penalty notices for the 11 offences which include crimes such as drunkenness and threatening behaviour. The task force under the former chief inspector of constabulary, Sir David O'Dowd, suggests they should be extended to offences such as kerb crawling, soliciting for prostitution and ticket touting. In particular, with the onset of new cameras which can automatically recognise car number plates they believe fixed penalty notices should also be used for insurance, MOT, car tax and car registration offences.