The mother of Maxine Carr was today jailed for six months for intimidating a witness in the Soham murder trial.Shirley Capp, of Grimsby, was last month found guilty of threatening her neighbour Marion Westerman. At Sheffield crown court, Judge John Reddihough today said he had no choice but to jail 61-year-old Capp, because to do otherwise would be to "send out completely the wrong message".Capp showed no emotion as the judge read out his sentence, but her daughter, Hayley Hodgson, wept in the public gallery. The jury was told how Capp had threatened Ms Westerman during an argument at her house, which began with a dispute over a cat. Ms Westerman told police - and, eventually, an Old Bailey jury - that she had seen her daughter and the Soham murderer, Ian Huntley, looking in the boot of a car outside Capp's house shortly after 10-year-old Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman had gone missing. She said Carr had been crying. Today, the judge said he was satisfied Ms Westerman had been frightened by threats made by Capp, and had immediately afterwards told a police that she was not going to give evidence in the Soham trial because of them. He said Ms Westerman had been "extremely upset". "She was frightened for her own safety, and she was saying she would not give evidence in the Soham case because of her fear," the judge said. "In due course, she actually did give evidence as required. "This is a serious offence and, in recent years, courts have been very concerned at the increased number of witnesses that are threatened or intimidated." Judge Reddihough added: "For this reason, only a custodial sentence is appropriate for the offence for which you have been convicted. "It would send out completely the wrong message should a custodial sentence not be imposed for intimidating a witness in a case so serious as the Soham murder case." The judge said he had taken into account a psychological report which detailed the trauma Capp had suffered since her daughter's arrest in August 2002, and was continuing to feel when the intimidation offence took place on May 13 last year. He heard she had been diagnosed with chronic post-traumatic stress disorder and severe depression. The judge told Capp he had taken into account the "difficulties you have faced and continue to face by reason of the notoriety of your daughter, Maxine Carr".