A joint report signed by nine chief constables has warned the home secretary, David Blunkett, that policing in the south-east is in crisis because of the number of officers who have left the service due to low pay and soaring house prices, the Guardian can reveal. They have urged him to consider an across the board pay increase for their officers of between £3,000 and £5,000 as one way of preventing further "disastrous leakage". The problems are most acute in the forces around the capital. In Thames Valley, 24% of the force is now made up of officers with less than two years' experience. Thames Valley's chief constable, Peter Neyroud, estimates that this figure will soon rise to 30% and that between 50 and 60% of his frontline officers are currently rookies. "'You cannot do skilled policing with this kind of approach," Mr Neyroud said yesterday. "I'm already 300 officers down, which makes a huge difference. And this is against a backdrop of increased number of calls. This situation cannot continue." Other forces suffering similar problems are Kent, Sussex, Hertfordshire, Essex, Bedfordshire and Surrey. Many officers from these areas have been lured to the Metropolitan police which can offer weighted salaries and travel allowances, but the Met is also struggling to retain staff and has signed the report which was handed Mr Blunkett on Thursday. Figures show, however, that the Met's neighbouring forces are the ones hurting the most. Denis O'Connor, Surrey's chief constable, has said he could lose more than 400 officers within a year because they cannot afford to live in the county. "The cost of living in Surrey is the highest in the UK and the county has overtaken London for house prices. This has resulted in our people transferring elsewhere. "We have no problem recruiting officers, the problem is retaining them. At the moment we are financing their two years basic training, but after spending £70,000 on them, they have no obligation to stay with us and are simply moving elsewhere." Mr Neyroud said that he understood why special emphasis had been put on the Met in the wake of the September 11 atrocities, but that this had made his job much harder. "The forces around London have all been substantial losers. I have lost experienced sergeants, firearms officers and special branch officers. It is almost impossible for me to replace them with people of similar calibre. "It's no good me saying that the Met is the problem. Living in the south-east is the problem. Many of the officers we are losing are ones in their early to mid-30s, who have families with two or three children. They need to move to a bigger house, but they simply cannot afford to do so. "House prices in the south-east have gone up massively in recent years. To rectify the situation we need to give our officers a significant allowance lead." Mr Neyroud said that a survey by Thames Valley police federation revealed that only 400 of the force's 3,865 rank and file officers were not actively pursuing a transfer to another force. Cutting the amount of time served as a probationer from two years to 12 or 14 months is one of the drastic solutions being considered to stem the flow, he said. Offering housing loans to new recruits is another idea being floated. A delegation from the nine forces lobbied the Home Office two weeks and was asked to submit a report for the home secretary's immediate attention."Until the meeting, I'm not sure the Home Office had grasped how serious the situation had become," Mr Neyroud added.