The rhetoric was noticeably more robust and his attack on Labour harder, as Charles Kennedy yesterday used a speech to the National Liberal Club to expand on his vision of "tough liberalism".In the austere surroundings of the Victorian building, the Liberal Democrat leader took up the catchphrase of his home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, to unveil details of his "Asbo Plus" proposals - under which young offenders and their families would be given help by youth and social workers to change their behaviour. Speaking of the need for community justice panels, which would mete out punishment to local offenders, often forcing them to face their victims, he insisted "this is not a soft option", unlike the stance of Labour."The government has been tough on rhetoric, but weak on solutions," he said. "Its approach is piecemeal, knee-jerk, headline chasing, focusing on the symptoms - the criminals - at the expense of sound policies aimed at tackling the disease, crime itself." The point of this speech was to deflect Labour "myths" about the Lib Dems' crime strategy. September's Hartlepool byelection, at which Labour was able to characterise the Lib Dems' barrister candidate, Jody Dunn, as being "soft on crime" for representing a heroin addict, pointed up just how critical crime will be in the forthcoming general election - and how ruthlessly Labour will exploit the Lib Dems' initial failure to back Asbos. Yesterday, Labour's wily campaign spokesman, Fraser Kemp, was swift to denounce the Lib Dems as "soft on crime", and to "charge" the party on five counts. They included "ending all jail sentences for drug possession", which the Lib Dems back only if addicts undergo rehabilitation; "opposing fixed penalty notices for drunken louts" and "refusing to send young teen criminals to court". Crime has also provided ample opportunity for Labour to pillory the Lib Dems for opportunism."Once you point that out, the Lib Dems have a serious problem," Mr Kemp tells Guardian Unlimited in an interview today. He also stresses it is Lib Dem policy to allow 16 year olds to star in porn movies. Faced with such a trenchant attack, Mr Oaten shifted the party's policy last month, in an admission the party had scored an own goal by voting against Asbos. And, with an eye on Tory marginals high on the Lib Dem target list, Mr Kennedy recognised crime, along with hospitals and schools, would be a key electoral battleground. Clarity was needed. "One of the things we are accused of is creating a muddied message - this is our attempt to redress that," said an aide. "There's nothing particularly new in what we're saying," added the culture spokesman, Don Foster, who said there had been unanimous agreement on the "tough liberalism" approach. "What we are trying to do is package it in a way that explains it more clearly than in the past." But Mr Kennedy's speech could also be seen not just as a rattled reaction to Labour jibes but as a recognition of the need to grow ideologically as a party. For behind the parliamentary party's consensus over the need to adopt harder rhetoric is a split between the libertarian wing that can be crudely characterised as being to the right - with its belief in free markets, the rights of the individual and a non-interventionalist approach - and MPs characterised as to the left, more preoccupied with intervention. That division was exposed by the publication of the controversial Orange Book, authored by a group of not-so young Turks, including Mr Oaten, Ed Davey, David Laws and Vince Cable, which set out strong pro-market views. But it can also be seen in the way in which the party is split on subjects such as hunting, smoking and smacking. In recent votes in the Commons, Lib Dem MPs split 32 for and 16 against a ban on hunting and 25-18 in favour of an outright ban on smacking. A smoking ban in all enclosed places was overwhelmingly backed at conference, but many MPs are more ambivalent, with the more libertarian deputy leader, Sir Menzies Campbell, and Mr Oaten recently telling a Guardian fringe meeting they were opposed to it. Such divisions are far more pronounced than in the other two parties, according to Philip Cowley, reader in par liamentary government at the University of Nottingham, who points out that since the early 1990s the Lib Dems have been far more disunited on issues such as prohibiting handguns and hunting than Labour or the Conservatives. And, he argues, they matter. "The more the Lib Dems are taken seriously both as a threat by the other parties and by the public, the more these splits become noticeable. "But it is very noticeable that they do split much more than other parties." One shadow cabinet member with a more libertarian agenda admits to bemusement "at the way people define their liberalism in different matters", but adds: "It doesn't matter there are these divisions because they are very personal issues." He adds that the Lib Dem leader's adoption of "tough liberal" rhetoric does not indicate he has chosen to plump for one side. But, with Mr Kennedy now talking of an era of three-party politics, political observers believe he needs to take the party back to its traditional Liberal roots to succeed. If it does, one Tory former cabinet minister admitted last week, the Lib Dems may be on course to become the principal opposition. Change of focus Constitution Downplay interest in reform, believing issue puts off voters. But, behind scenes, much the same - backed English regional assemblies  Crime A big U-turn. Spokesman Mark Oaten reversed stance on anti-social behaviour orders, now proposes 'Asbos plus' incorporating reform as well as punishment  Education Tricky. Policies popular but expensive. Would scrap tuition and top-up fees, but some in party worry this helps middle-class voters, not poor students  Europe Still UK's most pro-Europe party, but stirring of concern at future EU direction  Health Promise to cut red tape and to extend free personal care for the elderly, as in Scotland. But is this radical enough?  Tax Scrapped 1p on income tax to fund education. Shadow chancellor Vincent Cable wants efficient use of money, not just high spending