The government agency launched two years ago to track down the assets of organised criminal gangs yesterday recorded its biggest victory when it confiscated £3.6m linked to a drug trafficker who had previously been acquitted on cocaine smuggling charges.Liverpool-born Curtis Warren became the highest profile victim of the Assets Recovery Agency (ARA) when he lost his case to prevent it confiscating the money. The £3.6m represents the proceeds of an £80m importation of cocaine masterminded by Warren in 1991. Five hundred kilos of the drug had been hidden inside lead ingots before being extracted and put on the market. Warren and 10 others had been arrested after a second cocaine importation worth £150m was intercepted but he and all but one of his co-defendants were acquitted when the case came to court. Before leaving the court after being cleared, Warren told customs officers that he was "off to spend my £87m from the first shipment and you can't fucking touch me". Warren, once listed as one of Britain's richest men, moved to the Netherlands where he is serving a 12-year sentence for importing more than 300kg of cocaine, 1kg of ecstasy, a tonne of hashish and possession of handguns, grenades and CS gas canisters. He was sentenced to a further four years for killing an inmate who attacked him. Warren's lawyers had claimed at the high court in London that the money was his and should be used to settle a confiscation order imposed by the Dutch courts. But to impose its claim on the £3.6m, the ARA successfully argued that the money belonged not to Warren but to a Colombian associate, Mario Halley, who was imprisoned for six years for his part in the operation. Warren may now have to serve a further six years if he fails to settle the Dutch outstanding confiscation order. The ARA was set up in 2002 in an attempt to revolutionise the fight against crime by targeting the profits of organised gangs. Unlike any other state agency, it has the power to confiscate alleged criminal assets even when the owner has not been convicted. It merely has to prove that the money, or property, are the profits of crime in legal proceedings in the civil court. Yesterday's result brought its total of successful seizures to almost £5m. Estimates of Warren's fortune have varied wildly. A Dutch financial investigation in 1997, seen by the Guardian, contains an impressive list of properties alleged to belong to him including real estate in Wales, Turkey, Spain and Gambia, a boat, 200 houses in Liverpool, a brothel and a football club. But investigations by both the Dutch and British authorities have so far failed to result in much of Warren's alleged fortune being seized. The proceeds seized yesterday were first discovered in the form of used notes in several currencies in the attic of a Middlesbrough second hand car dealer called Brian Charrington in 1992. The value then was £2.2m. Charrington, who was arrested as he landed in Teesside in his private jet, was also a drug smuggler working for Warren. It later emerged that he was also a police informant and the charges against him were dropped.