Time magazine recently ran a cover story headlined  "Britain's mean streets", with its correspondent writing: "Britain is afraid of its young."Such stories are grist to the mill for the Daily Mail, or as my colleague Michael White calls it, the Daily Beast, which delights in stoking paranoia among its readers. A regular Mail reader can be forgiven for thinking that Britain is a country covered by vomit from binge drinkers or terrorised by knife-wielding feral youths. Don't just take it from me, take it from the cops on the beat."The Mail is the worst" at hyping up crime, Sergeant Neil McCluskey told me during an event at Rotherhithe, a south London neighbourhood by the Thames that is a predominantly middle-class neighbourhood full of newish apartment blocks for people who work in the City.McCluskey, who heads a so-called safer neighbourhoods team at the Surrey Docks police station, said knife crime in the Southwark area of London was falling, thanks in part to the safer neighbourhood strategy started by the former home secretary David Blunkett.McCluskey basically said safer neighbourhood was just jargon for putting police on the streets, reverting to the old way of doing things."Things have come full circle," he said. "We've gone back to what police used to do some 20 years ago. It's not rocket science. In the last 10-12 years it was more a case of responding to calls, now we are out on the streets more, talking to people and things are more joined up. We have better contacts with the local council, two or three phone calls and we can get things done, like getting a street light fixed."McCluskey and his three colleagues had turned up at the Odessa youth club where blacksmiths from the Surrey Docks city farm were engaged in a local swords-into-ploughshares exercise. Kevin Boys, a blacksmith and sculptor, had set up a makeshift forge where members of the club could try their hand at turning knives that had been handed in or confiscated by police into candlesticks and other ornaments.To the sound of hammers clanging on red-hot metal, Boys said: "We wanted to take the horribleness out of knives and turn them into something nice, make bouquets for memorials to people who have been hurt."Tommy, 13, who held up his handiwork for a photographer, looked as if he had enjoyed his moment with the hammer and tongs."If they do this once a month, it would keep people off the streets," said Tommy. He is under a one-year ban from the club because he threatened a staff member with a pool cue. The club made an exception last night.For Southwark council, which claims that knife crime dropped last year compared with the year before, the guns and knives into flowers project is one of several to tackle youth crime. Boris Johnson, for all his apparent buffoonery, was on to something when he said that voluntary groups had a big role to play in the fight against youth crime. Such local initiatives indicate that not all is doom and gloom and that much imaginative work is being done at grassroots level - not that you would know if you are a regular Mail reader.Feel free to let us know of similar initiatives in your neighbourhood.Tommy at the Odessa youth club. Photograph: Southwark council