The man accused of killing Lord Shaftesbury criticised the aristocrat's family in court yesterday, accusing them being of interested only in the peer's money.The third day of the murder trial descended into chaos as Mohammed M'Barek, 43, burst into tears then leaped to his feet pointing at the victim's relatives."You're the guilty ones, you the rich, who want to take his inheritance," he shouted as police grappled with him in the dock. After refusing requests to sit down and be quiet from his lawyer and the judge, Nicole Besset, Mr M'Barek was taken down to the cells and the hearing temporarily adjourned. He and his elder sister, Jamila, who was the peer's third wife, are accused of plotting to murder him, then dumping his body on a gully overlooking the Mediterranean.Ms M'Barek, 45, is alleged to have lured her estranged husband, who had asked for a divorce, to her flat "consciously and without constraint to accomplish his assassination", in order to inherit his fortune. She is accused of paying her brother to drive from his home in Germany to carry out the murder. Mr M'Barek initially denied any involvement in the death, but later told police he had "accidentally strangled" the peer in a drunken argument. Ms M'Barek has denied the killing was premeditated and insisted she only helped load the body into her brother's car.On his return to court, Mr M'Barek apologised for his outburst but continued his outburst at members of the dead man's family, saying they had neglected the peer. "He went to escort bars, took cocaine and looked like a tramp," he said. "His family weren't interested in him. It was my sister Jamila who saved him, it was she who made a man out of him." He then described the French justice system as "criminal".The outburst was another twist in the surreal account of the flamboyant 10th earl's life and death that has unfolded in the Palais de Justice in Nice on the Côte d'Azur since Tuesday. "As far as I'm concerned we should let him speak a lot more," said Jean-Louis Moreau, the public prosecutor, after Mr M'Barek's interruption.The court also heard from Catherine Gurtler, who ran an escort service in Geneva. She said she had introduced the peer, whom she had known for some time, to Ms M'Barek. In February 2002, Lord Shaftesbury, who often contacted her for girls, rang and asked for an escort called Sophie who had been with him before, she told the court.Sophie said she was not available but suggested her friend "Sarah", whom Ms Gurtler said she knew to be a "professional" - and who was Jamila M'Barek.Ms Gurtler, who now works for British Airways in Geneva, said she was worried when she learned of the peer's disappearance. "Jamila has one goal: to make money," she told the court. "When she wasn't working for agencies, she was working in hostess bars. She wanted to take advantage of the earl as much as possible." Ms M'Barek then leapt up to protest: "I am a modest girl from a traditional Muslim family. What she has said disgusts me." Her lawyer, Franck de Vita, said his client had not been a prostitute but added: "You might say she was an old-fashioned style courtesan. Wealthy men enjoyed her company."Ms Gurtler, 58, said her escort girls were paid around £1,000 a night, adding that she had been fond of the peer: "He was really very kind. You don't let someone like that go." Later at the court Ms Gurtler approached Nicolas Ashley-Cooper, 27, the current Lord Shaftsbury, and asked him to honour a bounced cheque signed by his late father.Ms Gurtler said the cheque from Drummonds Bank made out to her for £1,279, dated February 2 2002 and signed "Shaftesbury", was for sex with Ms M'Barek.The 12th earl who inherited the title after his 27-year-old elder brother died of a heart attack a month after the discovery of their father's body, apparently refused.The case continues.