A new report by UN-Habitat shows Brazil to be the most insecure country in the world due to the threat of rising crime.The report highlights the fact that parts of Rio de Janeiro are now effectively a war zone and links the massive rise in violent crime throughout Latin America to the process of urbanisation. It notes that an unprecedented number of people are now living in favelas and shantytowns throughout the poorest parts of the world and that this is generating a social crisis affecting education, public health and public security.The reports findings will not surprise most Brazilians where fear of crime is a national obsession.A new film Tropa de Elite has become a runaway success, although it has yet to be released, and tens of thousands of pirated copies have been sold around the country. Tropa de Elite is based on the work of Rio's Special Police Operations Battalion (Bope) - the "Men in Black" as they are often known engaged in the fight against the city's drug gangs. The group's logo is a skull and dagger and the film shows them carrying out a summary execution of a drug trafficker. No one doubts that its scenes of torture, gun battles and extreme violence are entirely realistic. In fact many people who saw it being shot in the favelas thought that it was a documentary.However, new statistics show that events in Rio from part of a national trend. A study carried out by Correio Braziliense, the local newspaper for Brasilia, reveals that 189 people have been murdered in the last 181 days in the peripheral cities that surround the country's capital. The figures have shocked many Brazilians who always considered their capital to be relatively safe.Brasilia was constructed in the 1960s as part of a massive wave of industrialisation under its then president, Juscelino Kubitschek. The rate of urbanisation rocketed, as millions flocked from rural Brazil into the cities. According to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), Brazil was still a predominantly rural country until the 1960s. Since then the rate of urbanisation has climbed from 44.7% (1960) to 67.6% (1980). Between 1991 and 1996, more than 12 million Brazilians moved from rural to urban Brazil.Sao Paulo became one of the world's largest metropolises but, like neighbouring Rio, its population has stabilised in recent years. Brasilia, by contrast, is still growing and more and more people continue to arrive from the arid northeast.Brasilia's satellite cities have been gaining a fearsome reputation over the last few years, however, the shooting of a journalist, investigating its rising rates of crime have focussed attention on the problem.A federal force, similar to Bope has just been dispatched to some areas and the media have been running a series of articles on social conditions. These tell a familiar, but depressing, tale of the lack of social amenities and basic services and an almost complete absence of leisure activities for a bored youth. The consequences of this have been a growing gang culture and an increasing number of turf wars over drugs. It is not as bad as Rio yet, and there are some good social programmes that are making a difference. But it has given a wake-up call to many about what the future has in store.