Police officers who abuse stop-and-search to harass members of ethnic minorities should be prosecuted, the chairwoman of the tactic's biggest review said yesterday.The Metropolitan Police Authority's review said that, nationally, black people were up to eight times more likely to be stopped than whites, and Asians five times. In London, where a quarter of such searches take place, the "disproportionality" was getting worse not better: the rate rose 30% for black people, 41% for Asians, and 8% for whites between 2000-01 and 2001-02.The Muslim Council of Britain said that the rise for Asians represented a targeting of Muslims post-September 11.Cecile Wright, chairwoman of the review, said stop-and-search should be exercised only by officers trained in its use; those who repeatedly abused it should face legal action, though it should be "the individual prosecuted, not the police as a body". The authority, the Met's official watchdog, has asked the Commission for Racial Equality to consider doing this.By law, officers must have reasonable grounds to carry out a stop. "[The act] is quite clear: it's not about having a hunch, it's about being successful," Ms Wright said.The review did not want stop-and-search abolished, but, Ms Wright said: "There is no evidence that stop-and-search catches criminals at a better rate than other methods. We had to question whether the use of stop and search is really cost-effective or efficient."The report made 55 recommendations, all adopted by the Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens. But the force agreed one only after it was amended, asking the commissioner to publicly acknowledge "that if racial bias exists in the use of stop-and-search powers, he gives a commitment that the practice will be eliminated". Sources said the word "if" was inserted last week, taken out, and put back on Wednesday."Disproportionality is not solely the product of a few bad apples," the report said. Five years on from the Macpherson report's notorious "institutional racism", it concluded: "Current increases in disproportionate stop-and-search rates has raised community concerns about a return to uglier periods in London's history when overt racism was common police practice."Carole Howlett, Met deputy assistant commissioner, said: "Concerns about unjustifiable disproportionality and the quality of stop-and-search encounters are issues that concern us all. The negative impact that disproportionality can have on our relationship with all of London's communities must be recognised and we will all work towards preventing it."We are an interventionist police service. This is something that I believe Londoners want, a police service where they see us taking action out on the streets. Stop-and-search allows us to do this."