 The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday May 19 2004 In the article below we refer to bail as "the usual penalty" for the kind of offence of which Maxine Carr was guilty. Bail is not a sentence but a provision allowing the liberty of an accused person awaiting trial. Why, I have wondered for days now, is the media so worked up about Maxine Carr? Why is anyone who could be supposed to have anything to say pursued to write or be interviewed about her? I know, because at the last count I have had 16 requests from the media and so, no doubt, have other journalists interested in crime.The extraordinary thing about this is that Carr has not committed any real crime. In fact, she has done nothing except to be unlucky enough to fall in love with a dreadful man - as silly young girls are apt to do. Yes, yes, I know, she lied for Ian Huntley; she gave him an alibi for the period when he presumably killed Holly and Jessica, the two little girls in their Manchester United shirts who few of us are likely to forget. But isn't it likely, from her reaction after she learned what he had done, that she wouldn't have committed even that very minor offence had she known that he carried out the murders? Of course he would have told her he didn't do it, would have appealed to her love and knowledge of him. "Can you imagine me, with whom you are planning to have babies one day, killing two kids?" he might have said. Of course she, at best probably not the brightest girl, couldn't imagine it. And, of course, she thought he was right when he said the police were only after him because they knew him from a completely different offence and needed a scapegoat until they found the real murderer. So she said he was with her during those critical hours. It was certainly wrong of her, and infuriating for the police. But can anyone explain how that small lie, which almost any girl in love might have told, could lead to an otherwise innocent young woman being sentenced to a comparatively long jail sentence (3 years) instead of being granted bail, the usual penalty for that offence, or given probation? What is more puzzling than her prison sentence is her demonisation by both media and public. During her trial, the mobbing of the van taking her to court was considered so dangerous, a video link from Holloway was finally set up for her court appearances. In prison, too, she was isolated after being threatened and abused by other prisoners who called her Myra Hindley Mk 2, threw things at her and banged on her cell door until, as one inmate is cited as saying, "She was so terrified, she became a bundle of nerves". When, last week, the Home Office announced that many months' planning had resulted in the decision to provide Carr with a new identity and secret address - at a cost of £1m - the media identified her with two very different cases where this anonymity was granted: those of Mary Bell and the two boys who killed James Bulger. If there are good reasons why the Home Office acted as it did - such as specific dangers to Carr that they know of - perhaps we should be told what they are. Otherwise, would it not have been sensible to put their trust in the far too often underrated decency of the public, apply the £1m to childcare or hospitals, and release this young woman from prison without any publicity whatsoever, allowing her to make a life for herself by her own efforts, thereby finally becoming an adult. What is this public fury, this "rage for revenge" as someone called it? Where does it come from, in a people whom the whole world considers reserved, calm and just? Is it because Carr, irrespective of what she herself did or didn't do, is associated in the public mind with the murder of children? Or is it, as the public reaction to Princess Diana's death might suggest, that there is in the calm British psyche a rarely touched, rarely shown store of anger or distress, all the stronger when it emerges after suppression? More to the point still, is this potential to anger particularly strong in the media? Does the media reflect the feelings and reactions of the public, or do the public adopt the opinions of the media, which, never let us forget, consists of individuals with strong feelings, strong opinions, and the opportunity to express them? Having been "of" the media for a long time, and having seen how opinion is often deliberately created, I tend to think that it is the media who acts and the public who react. Carr has been so misrepresented in the media that one cannot possibly hold it against the public if, getting information only from what they read, hear or see on television, they see her as an adjoint to Huntley and believe her to have been part of the murder of the two little girls.· Gitta Sereny is the author of Cries Unheard: The story of Mary Bell (Macmillan)