One hundred officers from five police forces are now hunting a serial rapist in the biggest linked inquiry since the search for the Yorkshire Ripper and the largest ever manhunt for a sex offender.Yesterday they warned that the man would try to add to his 10 victims and urged girls and women across the south-east of England to be vigilant. They have distributed thousands of leaflets and emailed schoolchildren about the attacks. Detectives are convinced that the rape of a 14-year-old girl in Hertfordshire on Friday is linked to nine previous attacks, although they are awaiting confirmation from DNA tests. It would be the man's first known assault north of London. He first struck near Ashford, Kent, in November last year, abducting a 10-year-old girl and raping her in nearby woodland. Eight months later he struck again, raping a 30-year-old woman in Earlswood, Surrey. Since then he has attacked girls as young as 12 and women of up to 52, in Berkshire, London and now Stevenage. Police believe he is particularly dangerous because of his violence and callousness. He carries a knife and has punched victims in the face when they struggled. In one case he stole a woman's mobile phone to call her mother and tell her: "I have just raped your daughter." He has been called the "trophy" rapist because he takes items, often clothing, from victims. Last week his 52-year-old victim, who was attacked in August this year, told BBC's Crimewatch: "I heard him slashing at my clothes and I was just paralysed with fear. I didn't know if he'd slash me, so I just . . .you know, let him get on with it. "I really thought I don't just want to be a dead body that's found on Wimbledon Common." Yesterday Kent's assistant chief constable, David Kelly, who is heading the investigation - Operation Orb - appealed for more help at Hertfordshire police headquarters in Welwyn Garden City. Officers have already received 1,000 calls. "We are appealing to the public to give us a name," he said. "There is someone out there who must know him: a friend or workmate. He may well be living on his own now; it may be that he doesn't have close friends; but there will be people that associate with him, even if that's just having a drink with him. "We're also appealing to professionals within the criminal justice system, as from our psychological profilers' input we believe this character is probably dysfunctional, has probably been in touch with the police before and has a criminal record which may or may not be for sexual offences. He may have received [psychiatric] treatment." The man told one woman: "I don't want to get caught again." He grabs his victims from behind with no warning and uses violence to stop them looking at him, but police have established that he is a white man aged between 30 and 50 with short, dark hair which is greying in places. He is between 5ft5in and 5ft10in tall and of medium to stocky build. Victims have described his voice as deep or gruff and two suggest he may have a north-eastern accent. Several have described him smelling of cigarettes or alcohol, and one believes he has scars or blemishes just above or below one eye. Police believe his tanned, leathery skin may indicate that he works outdoors. The 14-year-old girl who was attacked near Collenswood school on Friday glimpsed him and told police he had a large nose, green-blue eyes and stubble. She told police that she feared she would die during the horrific attack, but despite her trauma has already given them crucial details. "We anticipate the offender would have been scratched during the attack because he took the victim into close-knit brambles," said DCI Tim Stevens, who heads Hertfordshire's team. "We would be asking people, does your partner or husband have marks that came around Friday night? Did they return home late, marked, or with a change of clothing that was unexpected? There may be things that are on your mind: please contact us." All the attacks have taken place during the week and the rapist appears to be reckless, often grabbing victims in broad daylight. He attacks women in wooded or parkland areas, often dragging them off pathways between residential areas. In two cases he has pulled young girls off bicycles; in others he has attacked women walking dogs, although he ran off after sexually assaulting one, possibly when her dog bit him. "We don't think this is a man who pre-selects victims, but who selects the area and then waits for victims," Mr Kelly said. He added: "I'm always aware of how lame it is to say don't use [these areas]; people do. But if women and girls are using them they should be accompanied. At any event be alert and vigilant, keep looking around and if anything that looks suspicious, run away and call the police." He believes witnesses may have seen the rapist reconnoitring areas in the hours or even days prior to rapes. The offender's DNA profile does not match any samples on the national database, which was only started in 1995, but detectives say it will eliminate innocent suspects as well as prove his guilt when he is finally caught. Psychological profilers also believe that current or ex-partners may help because he is very likely to have been violent in relationships. Police are particularly interested in the apparent eight-month gap between the first attacks. They do not know if attacks were foiled - and urge women who believe they had a near miss to come forward - or if the offender was unwilling or unable to attack women because he was, for example, in a stable relationship, in prison or abroad. After the first attack they suspected he was from the Stanhope estate in Ashford- where it happened - because he appeared to know it. Yesterday they requested information on people who lived on or frequented the estate then and who may have moved to or be working in Surrey. "The offender clearly has the opportunity during the day to frequent different places in Redhill, Woking, Epsom, Wimbledon, Putney Heath and Bracknell," the police said in a statement. "One line of inquiry is to identify people who have unaccounted time on their hands and freedom of movement to travel round from their place of work." But, given his evident mobility, they stressed that he could be travelling into the south-east from anywhere in the UK. The inquiry brings chilling echoes of the hunt for the Ripper, when many women in Yorkshire were so afraid they refused to leave home on their own after dark. "The Ripper inquiry involved far more violence and women were killed, but rape is an horrific offence," said Mr Kelly. "It's about striking a balance between asking people to take sensible precautions without making them too frightened. But the best way we can protect the public is by arresting this man".