Labour's deputy leader, Harriet Harman, was fined £350 today after pleading guilty to driving without due care and attention when she reversed into a parked car while using her mobile phone.The cabinet minister, who did not attend the hearing at Westminster magistrates court, was also ordered to pay £70 costs and a £15 victim's surcharge, a government scheme recently extended to road traffic offences. Her licence, which already carries six penalty points for two speeding offences, was also endorsed with a further three penalty points. Harman said that she "fully accepted" the court's judgment.Road safety campaigners criticised the punishment as too lenient and a missed opportunity to underline the dangers of using a mobile phone while driving.Cathie Keeler, the deputy chief executive of Brake, said: "If she had got a fixed penalty charge for using a mobile phone while driving she would have automatically got three points, so it's odd that she was only given three points for a more serious charge."Prosecutors decided against charging Harman with leaving the scene of an accident and failing to report it. A second charge of driving while using a mobile phone was dropped.Michael Jennings, prosecuting, said that Harman had been using her mobile phone while trying to reverse out of a parking space in Camberwell, south London, in July 2009, when she hit a car.The owner of the car was watching from a nearby flat and called police. Harman had been visiting constituents who had been made homeless by a fire at Lakanal House, a block of flats in which six people died.Mark Haslam, representing Harman, asked that the court give his client credit for her guilty plea, made as soon as the "other matters" were dropped.Haslam said: "This was a parking manoeuvre. It takes place at a very short timescale and at very slow speed, less than 5mph. There was no injury, no damage and no insurance claim to any vehicle."The Camberwell and Peckham MP was questioned by police after the collision. A witness was reported to have said that Harman had wound down her window after the crash and said: "I'm Harriet Harman, you know where you can get hold of me."A spokeswoman for the Crown Prosecution Service said the mobile phone charge had been dropped because the penalty for driving without due care and attention was greater. Careless driving can be punished with a maximum fine of up to £5,000 and up to nine penalty points. Twelve points can lead to a driving ban.A spokeswoman for Harman said: "Ms Harman fully accepts the court's judgment. Ms Harman is pleased that it has been established that this was not a 'hit and run' accident as portrayed in some media reports. It was a parking incident and no damage was done."Harman, a QC, was solicitor general when the law that banned driving while using a mobile phone was introduced.Her recordJanuary 2003 Banned from driving for seven days and fined £400 after admitting speeding at 99mph on the M4 near Swindon.September 2007 Pleaded guilty by post to a speeding offence. She was fined £60 and given three penalty points for exceeding a temporary speed limit in Suffolk.January 2010 Fined £350 and given three penalty points after pleading guilty to driving without due care and attention.