A teenager, aged only 14 this time, has just been killed on our streets. Another boy is still seriously ill in hospital. Apparently they were involved in a fight between two large groups of boys in the foyer of a block of flats. They weren't out late, it was before eight o'clock, still light, Good Friday evening, a beautiful day in London, still warm. In my part of town, I'd seen the kids in their summer clothes, the girls hoping to be chirpsed - flirted with - in the park, the boys on their bikes.I'm the mother of a 15-year-old and before this tragedy, I had written a piece about how young teenage boys are being excluded from gigs, how they have a far rougher deal than their female friends, who can always get into over-18 venues, even when the members of the bands they want to see are their school friends, and way under the age limit themselves.Although it might seem like a world away from the poor boys in the news this weekend, I don't think it is. It's another symptom of how this age group is being neglected and marginalised by mainstream society. I'm not suggesting they have nothing to do; in London, there are so many free activities if you know where to look.But a lot of young people don't want 'activities', they want access to safe, unstructured places to hang out. That's why they're in the launderettes or on that bench by the shops or in the park over the road or in the foyers of blocks of flats. But these places aren't safe and we don't want them there either.Adults are scared of teenagers, maybe because we don't know their parents or where they live. And boys especially are caught up in a kind of macho culture in which what seem like minor slights and dirty looks can escalate into tragedy.But it's not just posturing. What we forget is that a lot of our youngsters are just as scared of other teenagers as adults are.Last week, before this latest incident, I spoke to a group of around 25 teenagers at my local library in Hackney.These were lovely, sparky kids - mostly girls but some boys, too - and they told me they hated the way teenagers are portrayed as rude and aggressive. So I asked how they felt when they came across a group of young people they didn't know on the street or in a bus acting, or even just looking, a little lairy.They admitted being scared, too, so they have strategies for avoiding trouble, ranging from crossing the road or turning back to marching straight through them, eyes forward with tons of attitude, or walking - and I am quoting here - 'in a trampy way so they don't think nothing of me'.The way to solve these problems? That's a hard one. Money is power and if you don't have money, then you had better have a very big stick. Society is blinkered if it thinks our young don't see how it works. It's not Blue Peter out there, it's The WireWe need to talk to our teenagers more. When my son was three, he was at nursery school in Hoxton. It was a very mixed council school with fantastic staff. One day, when I went to pick him up, I came across a teacher pulling two three-year-olds apart in the sandpit. She spoke calmly and softly: 'Use words, boys, use words.'· Catherine Johnson is a children's author and co-wrote Bullet Boy