A coroner yesterday called for the rule book on police chases to be torn up and rewritten after a 24-year-old man died following a pursuit at up to 124 miles per hour in a built-up area in London. Lexy Williams is among 151 people to have died in police-related accidents in the past five years - 79 as a result of police pursuits. The inquest into his death heard a catalogue of failings and weaknesses in the regulations governing police pursuits. Some of the officers giving evidence said existing guidance was cumbersome and confusing.Mr Williams was riding a motorcycle and failed to stop when PC Darren Baxter signalled him to do so in north London on 22 January 2007. He was chased for several miles along one of the capital's busiest roads - the north circular - before coming off his bike and suffering multiple injuries. He died later that night. PC Baxter denied he had been driving in a "red mist" - a state of rage and excitement that overcomes some police officers when they are chasing a vehicle.Yesterday, at the conclusion of the inquest, the coroner, Andrew Walker, said: "What comes out of this inquest is that the regulations are complex, contradictory and unworkable and must be discarded in favour of a new version that sets out a threshold test. I think this will save many lives." In a narrative verdict, Hornsey coroners court criticised the police behaviour during the chase and said the pursuit should have been discontinued as soon as it became apparent that the police air support unit was not available. Jurors said the continuance of the pursuit had resulted in Williams falling from his motorbike, and concluded that the police received insufficient training in implementing the regulations.In 2007 the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) produced a critical report about police chases, which said more people were being killed as a result of accidents with police cars than from shootings. It called for an end to pursuit of motorbikes unless police had evidence of serious crime and there was a police helicopter to track the motorcyclist.The former Metropolitan police deputy assistant commissioner Brian Paddick has criticised police car chases, saying they are part of "the police macho culture". Mr Williams's mother, Kim, condemned the actions of the police and said she hoped that the tragedy would bring about changes in police behaviour. "I don't think the public are aware of how often these deaths as a result of police chases occur."A spokesman for the Met said an IPCC-managed inquiry had found there was neither a criminal nor a misconduct case to be answered, but the police would consider the jury's comments.