Two teenage boys were tonight charged with the murder of 15-year-old Zac Olumegbon, who was attacked as he arrived at his school.The boys, aged 16 and 17, are accused of attacking Zac, from Brixton Hill, south London, at the gates of Park Campus School in West Norwood last Friday.The boys, who will appear before Sutton youth court magistrates today, are also charged with grievous bodily harm against Zac's 14-year-old friend, who was stabbed in the arm. The accused are both in custody.Zac was confronted by four youths at the gates of his school. He was stabbed several times and afterwards fell into the arms of his teacher. Confirmed dead shortly after arriving at hospital, a postmortem examination found the cause of death was stab wounds to the chest.Zac's companion ran back to the school to seek safety after the attack, but was also stabbed in the arm in the school grounds.Zac's mother Shakira Olumegbon, 53, said her son, an aspiring actor, had performed at a conference the day before he was murdered. She said the night before he died he was "full of hope".His brother Debo said Zac was always the centre of attention."If he was in a room talking, everyone would stop and listen to what he had to say," he said. "He was really funny. When we talked to each other we just laughed. When I talked to him and he told me he wanted to be an actor, his enthusiasm was great. He really wanted to do it."Zac's sister Tayo, 28, said: "He was bright and funny. He was small for his age but he had such a huge presence. He had a beautiful smile."Tributes to the dead teenager were left at the scene and on microblogging site Twitter and social networking site Facebook, where more than 3,000 people joined a group called RIP Lil Zac.Zac was the 13th teenager to be killed in the capital this year. Park Campus was opened two years ago and hailed as the first school of its kind in Britain, aimed at getting young people back into mainstream education. But residents said the school had developed a reputation for trouble since it opened.