One of the men at the centre of the Victoria Beckham kidnap trial which collapsed last week said today the plan was "just a joke" and he was the victim of a "set-up".Adrian Pasareanu, 28, said he intended to sue for compensation after being imprisoned for 220 days after the News of the World wrongly named him as part of the kidnap gang.The trial of Mr Pasareanu and four other men accused of conspiring to kidnap Mrs Beckham collapsed last week when the crown prosecution service said it could no longer offer evidence because the main witness, Florim Gashi, had been paid £10,000 by the News of the World."I don't know who pulled the strings, it was obviously not Gashi. Everyone was laughing at him, he used to be a clown."To put this kind of plan together, to prepare and deal with four or five people, no, it's a kind of mastermind. I'm sure [Gashi] was just a puppet," he told Radio 5 today.Mr Pasareanu, a Romanian asylum seeker, said his co-defendants were merely acquaintances whom he met every week "for a couple of beers and to play pool".He came to Britain last October and had only been in the country for three weeks when he was arrested by the police. He was released from prison late last night having been held after the Beckham trial on an outstanding immigration charge. He is the first of the defendants to be freed.Mr Pasareanu said he always felt that Mr Gashi, a Kosovan parking attendant, was "a puppet" and somebody else had "masterminded" the whole operation.The alleged plot to kidnap Mrs Beckham and her two children was splashed across seven pages of the tabloid last November. The dramatic denouement of the newspaper's investigations involved the Metropolitan police's firearms teams and specialist kidnap unit dramatically swooping on the suspects in the car park of a Docklands hotel on November 2 - just hours before the tabloid's deadline.Mr Pasareanu said he had never met Mazher Mahmood, the News of the World's investigative reporter who revealed the sensational news that an alleged gang was planning to kidnap Mrs Beckham last year.He alleged Mr Gashi first suggested the Victoria Beckham kidnap idea when he visited Mr Pasareanu to drop off a car he was buying. Unbeknown to Mr Pasareanu his visitor was wearing a wire and camera for the NoW. "When he came he was anxious, agitated. Something had changed... He started saying 'have you ever thought about making some money?'. I said 'let's talk about the car', but he said 'have you ever thought about kidnapping Victoria Beckham?'."I looked at him and thought he's not drunk, is he on some kind of medication? Everybody laughed and I said, 'let's talk about the car'."I laughed the first time but I reproach myself now because if I had called the Romanian I knew I would have found out he had said the same thing to him and I would have run a million miles away."He said Mr Gashi always tried to turn the conversation to the plot, even though Mr Pasareanu made it clear he did not want to discuss the matter.And he added that if he had known what Mr Gashi was involved with, he would have run a "million miles".When his co-defendants were arrested in a car park, he was "miles away" and had did not know of any arrangements to meet there.In fact, the first he knew of any police investigation was when he went home one afternoon with his girlfriend to find armed police with alsatian dogs at his door."On that Saturday I was coming home with my girlfriend after a late breakfast in the afternoon. I was miles away from the car park. "I found out [about the car park meeting] in prison. I didn't know. No way. [Gashi] rang me 10 times but I didn't answer the phone because I consider the relationship finished, closed."My first image was when I opened the gate and two German shepherds were there looking at me. I froze, my girlfriend froze and armed police were screaming at me. They said 'you are charged with possession of firearms' or something like this."He added that he had tried to explain to police that the plan was a joke: "I tried to explain that it was not my fault, that it's Gashi's fault, it's a joke."Mr Pasareanu said he believed he was entitled to be compensated for the ordeal and intended to sue. "I was in prison for 220 days. Seven months and 10 days. Justice has been done, finally, even if it was slowly. Nobody believed in our innocence."I was fooled. I should have realised I was being set up if I was close to my co-defendants, but there was no connection. They were people I met [in England], I used to meet them once or twice a week to talk and play pool. I never realised the gravity of the situation. I think I'm entitled to some compensation," he said.Since the collapse of the trial the News of the World has mounted a vigorous defence of its scoop, branding the Crown Prosecution Service "tawdry" for trying to shift blame on to the newspaper for the collapse of the trial.In a full page leader last week it denied "cynically setting up" the kidnap plot and said it had been open about the payments to Mr Gashi from the outset. It said the Mr Pasareanu's father has already said he will be suing the News of the World for libel.He told the BBC that he was "not ashamed to say that I was naive" to believe that justice would have been done earlier. "Nobody believed I was innocent."Bob Satchwell, of the Society of Newspaper Editors, said he did not think it was necessary to introduce new laws to ban papers paying for stories. "On occasion, it's the only way to get information, to get someone to talk. It's not just journalists, it's not just tabloids who pay for information, the police often do it too," he said.The News of the World was unavailable to comment about the Radio 5 interview.· To give MediaGuardian a story email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857