A murder inquiry was launched today after two children died in a suspected arson attack on a north London pub.The victims, brothers aged five and 10, were asleep in the flat above their parents' pub, the Prince of Wales in Nevill Road, Stoke Newington, when the fire started just after 5am.They died later in hospital. A third brother, aged three, was reported to be in a critical condition.Two 11-year-old girls - one a cousin of the boys and the other a friend - were also injured. The children were asleep as a small family gathering took place downstairs, police said.A man in his 30s was critically wounded as he rushed through the burning building to try to rescue the children. He is thought to have thrown them to safety from a first floor window before jumping out himself.Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford, who is leading the investigation into the blaze, said: "This was a ferocious fire which swept through the pub and resulted in a tragic loss of life. The fire started at the bottom of the public house just inside a doorway and was channelled up the stairs. "We are treating this as murder. I think we've got to look at all the circumstances but while we have an open mind, elements disturb me." Mr Shatford said of the injured man: "On the face of it he has done something brave, he's gone in and rescued the children. "We don't know if he was in the pub before the fire started or not. He went upstairs and threw some of the children out of the window. He's now in a critical condition at the moment." The identities of the injured and dead have not been released.A neighbour who witnessed the incident said: "The fire very quickly spread upstairs within two or so minutes. One of the blokes went back in but I didn't see him jump out."Regulars from a nearby pub praised the man for helping to rescue the children. One man in his 40s said: "This man's a hero. What he did should be recognised, and what is terrible is he's got a three-week-old baby boy with his partner. She will be devastated." Teams of forensic officers were conducting fingertip searches in the area surrounding the pub. The four-storey building has been cordoned off by police.Mr Shatford said it would take time to sort through the damage and debris left by the fire but appealed for any witnesses to come forward. "I want to know if any members of the public saw anything suspicious. I want to hear from people coming home from a club or 24-hour minicab drivers or people working late." He said he also wanted to hear from anyone who saw something suspicious at petrol stations, especially if people were purchasing petrol around the time the fire started. Anyone with information is asked to call the police incident room on 020-8345 1594 or Crimestoppers on 0800-555 111.