Tony Blair last night suffered his third rebellion in less than two weeks when 34 Labour MPs voted against the government's plans to curb the right to trial by jury.The Labour rebels supported a Tory amendment to scupper plans to restrict the right to jury trials where there is a danger of jury tampering. But the government defeated the amendment by 304 votes to 223, a majority of 81.In an earlier vote - to block a bid to restrict jury trials in complex fraud cases - 33 rebel Labour MPs supported another Tory amendment. But this was defeated by 299 votes to 227, a majority of 72, Labour's third smallest majority since 1997. Tory MPs were delighted by the small majority after scores of Labour MPs abstained. The most prominent of these was Clare Short, who resigned last week as international development secretary. Vera Baird, the leading QC who led the Labour rebels, warned the government last night that it would be defeated when the criminal justice bill goes to the House of Lords. The bill would allow judges to try up to 100 cases a year on their own - either lengthy and complex fraud cases, or cases where a defendant attempts to "nobble" the jury. The reforms mark a significant watering down of the plans by the former home secretary Jack Straw to curb trial by jury in thousands of cases a year. This did little to impress Labour backbenchers, who accused the government of attempting to destroy ancient liberties. Ms Baird said after the vote: "People do not want the criminal justice system to be run by the judiciary and to exclude the public. This is the thin edge of the wedge. Soon it will be clear that it is cheaper and quicker to do it by judges alone." David Blunkett, the home secretary, offered a concession to backbench critics by saying that a judge should stand down if he decides that a defendant has attempted to nobble a jury. "If a trial has materially been interfered with ... it would be sensible for the judge to recommend that a further judge sit alone," he said. But he stood by his reforms, insisting that they would strengthen the criminal justice system. "I would make the case very strongly that actually protecting the integrity of jury trials by not allowing others to destroy that integrity, by not allowing others to undermine confidence in jury trials, by not allowing others to use manipulation and interference to damage jury trials, we are actually strengthening the credibility, the wellbeing and confidence in both jury trials and the criminal justice system." His remarks failed to sway the veteran Labour MP Gwyneth Dunwoody. "What we are suggesting is taking away from people an ancient right to be tried by however motley a crew is gathered in a court and giving it to one person, professional though they may be. Is it not the principle in this house that we do not make laws which rely almost entirely on either exceptions or the convenience of the executive?" Oliver Letwin, the shadow home secretary, echoed the fears of the Labour rebels. "I believe there is an intrinsic superiority to [trial by jury] ... the point about trial by jury is that it involves the participation of the ordinary citizen in the business of the law, and it thereby prevents the court becoming a matter of the state opposing the citizen." The votes last night followed a 63-strong rebellion against foundation hospitals on 7 May and a 27-strong rebellion the next day against measures to impose a settlement in the firefighters' dispute.