A 21-year old man was charged yesterday with the murder of Harry Potter actor Robert Knox, 18, after a weekend of violence among teenagers in London. Unemployed Karl Bishop, 21, will appear at Bexley magistrates court today, charged with murder and five counts of wounding with intent. Knox, who had recently finished filming his part in the forthcoming Harry Potter film, was killed outside a bar in Sidcup early on Sunday, becoming the 14th teenager to be murdered in London this year. It was one of a spate of violent attacks involving young people in and near the capital at the weekend.A 19-year-old man was in a critical condition in hospital yesterday after being stabbed on Sunday night. He was found slumped at East Ham tube station by British Transport police. A second man, also aged 19, was arrested after being found with head injuries in a road nearby. Detectives believe there was an altercation near the station between the two men, believed to be Sri Lankan or Tamil. The station was closed yesterday as police search teams combed the area. Two 17-year-old youths were critically ill in hospital after being shot in north London. One was found in Archway after being shot in the stomach early on Friday. The second was found shot in the head two miles away, in Camden, on Saturday night. Police were investigating yesterday whether the second shooting was revenge for the first. Both incidents are being investigated by Scotland Yard's Operation Trident, which deals with gun crime in the black community. Essex police said yesterday that four men and a woman were being questioned after an 18-year-old man was left with a punctured lung after being stabbed in Heybridge, near Maldon, early on Saturday morning. A police spokeswoman said the man was in a stable condition in hospital in Chelmsford. A youth worker yesterday called for zero tolerance on knife crime in the wake of the recent stabbings and shootings. Uanu Seshmi, of the From Boyhood To Manhood Foundation, a charity which works with young people to stop them committing crime, said: "We have to take drastic steps, because otherwise we are just giving the young people free rein. There must be zero tolerance on this. Young people must understand that no one who carries out this kind of gang behaviour will be tolerated. There needs to be drastic measures taken. If that means we need to have curfews, let it be. If that means we need to have more stop and search, let it be."On Sunday the family of Robert Knox called for an end to the knife crime epidemic. Colin Knox, Robert's father, said: "With knives there are no winners and only losers. If you are a person who carries a knife, think about the consequences before you carry the knife."