A group of teenagers killed a mother when they started a fire by pushing a lit firework through her letterbox during a bullying campaign against her and her son, a jury heard today.Mary Fox, 59, died in a fierce blaze at her home in Bodmin, Cornwall, after helping her 17-year-old son, Raum, to escape through an upstairs window.The attack, which happened on bonfire night last year, had been intended to frighten Fox and Raum, who was teased because of his acne and dress sense. After the attack the three teenagers "laughed and joked" about the blaze, Truro crown court heard.Owen Hewitt, 18, of Bodmin, and a 17-year-old boy who cannot be named, deny manslaughter, and arson being reckless as to whether life is endangered.The jury was told another 18-year-old, Ryan Croft, had admitted both charges.Opening the case, the prosecutor, Paul Dunkels QC, said: "On 5 November last year, three young men were wandering around Bodmin with a large quantity of fireworks. They took a rocket, lit it and put it through the letterbox of the home of Mary Fox and her son, Raum."The trio had snapped the balancing stick off the Silver Dart rocket so it would "skip around" when it hit the floor and let off a shower of sparks to cause maximum damage, the court was told.Fox had sealed both of her garden gates and the front door because she was frightened of attacks. The letterbox into which the rocket was posted had also been blocked from the inside, but only with cardboard.The jury was also told Fox's hallway contained old clothes, books and toys, which caught fire as the firework showered sparks around.Dunkels said: "Raum was able to escape by jumping out of the first floor window. Mary Fox could not get out. She was overcome by fumes and smoke from the fire, and died.""Raum Fox used to be bullied at school. He had bad acne on his face, and used to dress differently to other children."Because of the bullying, Mrs Fox used to follow him to and from school. Unfortunately, the protection served to mark him out for more bullying. At times he would be pushed, struck and verbally abused."Dunkels said Fox, a mother of nine, was sometimes considered eccentric and was the target of verbal abuse by young people around the Berryfields estate. He said the group did not intend to kill but had wanted to give the occupants a "fright".He said the three knew where the Fox family lived and targeted the house "knowing that Mrs Fox and/or her son would be inside, intending to frighten them". He added: "The prosecution say it was chosen because of who lived there."Unaware of the extent of the blaze, described by fire crews as the "most intense" they had experienced, the three teenagers went on to a firework display, Dunkels said.Later, news of the blaze spread around the town. Dunkels said: "The three of them were laughing and joking about the fact that it was the house of the woman whose son they used to bully."Dunkels said all three had played a role, with Hewitt supplying the firework, the 17-year-old lighting it, and Croft and the boy pushing it through the letterbox.He said it was a joint enterprise, and they were all equally responsible for Fox's death.The trial continues.