Being the mother of a murdered child must be the most difficult job on the planet. What makes it worse is knowing that I reached out for help and that others could have saved my son, Breck Bednar.Breck was groomed and murdered by a psychopathic, narcissistic paedophile he met in an online gaming forum. When I phoned the police two months before Breck’s murder, the call handler and call closer failed to understand the signs of grooming, owing to either a lack of training or care. But even worse is the fact that they were too negligent to check the police national computer (PNC) databases, even though the call handler said she would. I have since been told that this would have been a relatively simple task.I couldn’t save my child from being killed by an online predator This is truly a lesson for all police forces to train and appreciate the good staff they have. This predator, who was 18 when he killed my son, had been known to the police for previous allegations of rape against a 15-year-old boy, as well as other charges of having indecent images of young boys on his computer. A warning should have flashed up on police computers when his name, Lewis Daynes, was entered.Nothing I said or did could convince Breck, who was 14 when he went to stay the night at Daynes’s home and was killed in February 2014, that this was not a person to trust. He and the other boys who had been interacting with Daynes were manipulated, controlled, lied to, brainwashed and groomed over months, and even years in some cases.Surrey police this week apologised for failings in their duty of care towards my son, who was buried exactly two years ago on his 15th birthday. Nothing will bring him back, so for me this is just another step on a horrendous journey. Getting through the trial, sentencing, the Independent Police Complaints Commission report – which criticised the call handler and her supervisor, and said they would have had a case to answer for misconduct had they not left the force – and now this apology are all part of the process of trying to put this misery behind me.I created the Breck Foundation and the hashtag #playvirtuallivereal to attempt to get something good out of all this. Our aim is to open people’s eyes to how dangerous the internet can be. As parents, we are literally allowing strangers into our homes, though their interaction online with our children. Breck spent time socialising and gaming in the safety and comfort of his own room, and yet this modern stranger danger took his life.This week’s apology didn’t feel real to me. But why would it? This whole episode of my life has felt unreal, and at times I feel like a robot going through the motions when I might rather die or hide in bed, as I did for the first year after my son’s death.Breck Bednar's mother says killer has blogged from prison But through all the support and appreciation shown, I have gained the strength to carry on. Had I heard someone like me speaking about these issues prior to Breck’s death, I would then have known what to do: contact the police’s child exploitation centre (CEOP) or charities, such as the NSPCC, Childnet and ChildLine.Through visiting schools, we have learned that up to three-quarters of primary-age pupils raise their hands when asked whether they interact online with people they do not know in the real world. This is the reality. We must not be fooled by the idea that these individuals are friends of friends. After all, Breck was invited to join the forum where he met Daynes by friends he had known since Year 4.The BBC3 documentary Murder Games, which told the story of Breck’s grooming and murder, was screened in January, and has since been used by teachers to show children the dangers they face. I have heard about schools where lesson plans have been torn up and replaced by our true story.What still scares me about all this is that lessons will be learned temporarily; but somewhere, in another county, at another time, an unappreciated, underpaid, uncaring or overwhelmed employee will receive a call from a mother like me but will not have seen the news or had the training or have the common sense to recognise the danger.There will always be some predatory people who attempt to manipulate and control our children, to gain their trust and to find their vulnerabilities in order to sexually and violently exploit them. So it will be a constant battle for parents, schools, social workers, police, elected representatives and children themselves to be aware of the dangers online so that they can protect themselves by making the right choices.