A mother who killed her son with a salt overdose because she wanted attention was jailed for five years today at the Old Bailey.Petrina Stocker, 42, of Romford, Essex, was found guilty of her son's manslaughter at Great Ormond Street Hospital, central London, in August 2001. Health and social services chiefs and police all admitted mistakes in their handling of the case in which Petrina Stocker spiked her nine-year-old son's hospital drip with 18 teaspoonfuls of salt. Judge Gerald Gordon told Stocker she would have to live the rest of her life with what she had done. "Public revulsion at behaviour such as this means that a custodial sentence is inevitable. You deliberately caused to be fed to him a substantial quantity of salt at a time when I accept he was seriously ill," he said."There has to be some force, incomprehensible to me and most people, driving a mother to behave towards their own child as you did to David." The boy had been in hospital for several months with his mother at his bedside while doctors struggled to establish out what was wrong with him. But Stocker became worried that staff, who suspected her of tampering with his feeds, would soon part them. So she poured salt into two milk feed bottles, hoping a downturn in his condition would prevent him being moved. David collapsed and died after being given a feed containing excessive amounts of salt. She was said to be suffering from fabricated and induced illness (FII), a disorder previously referred to as Munchausen's syndrome by proxy. She had in the past pretended to be ill and poured acid on herself in order to get attention. David, who had been a healthy karate champion, was in and out of hospital for five months. He was treated in Great Ormond Street and Oldchurch Hospital, Romford, with his mother keeping a constant bedside vigil. He had loss of appetite and lethargy, but doctors were unable to determine what was wrong with him. In addition to interfering with his intravenous drip, Stocker put blood into urine samples and manufactured vomit samples. Nicholas Hilliard, prosecuting, said: "The episode of salt poisoning was the last in a series of acts done in an attempt to fabricate aspects of David's illness and to produce manufactured or misleading symptoms." Despite Great Ormond Street nurses watching her actions, Stocker managed to enter the ward kitchen and doctor the feeds in a fridge where they were stored. Great Ormond Street's chief executive, Dr Jane Collins, said there was deep regret that David had died while under their care. "Our surveillance policy can be considered lacking in some ways. What we didn't do was to make sure everything going into David, ie the feeds, could not be tampered with in any way whatsoever." A review of the case recommended that feeds must be tamper-proof and fridges lockable. Marilyn Richards, the executive director of social services for the London borough of Havering, said: "I would openly acknowledge that at the time we made a serious mistake in that we didn't complete an assessment of David when we were required to do so, after the strategy meeting in April/May time. "We had expectation that social workers would have contact with David. That didn't happen, these were mistakes which took place at my agency," she said, adding that the shortfall had now been rectified. Detective Chief Superintendent Peter Spindler, the head of child abuse investigations for the Metropolitan police, said: "Our officers were working in the normal way with both health and social services, but I accept we were probably not robust enough in the way we managed that investigation." The agencies said new measures had been brought in to protect children, which included requirements such as ensuring all staff focus on the child and offering them their advocacy and help.