Britain's strategy to tackle internet paedophilia is being seriously undermined by a lack of funding, senior police officers have warned.The Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) has asked for more cash to fund a national strategy against child abuse on the internet.Senior officers argue that some forces lack the funds to properly investigate and bring to justice suspected paedophiles operating on the internet. Their warning follows an FBI investigation that snared up to 7,000 suspected paedophiles in the UK, discovered to have downloaded images of children being raped and tortured. The details of British suspects were passed on to the UK six months ago, and officers launched Operation Ore to catch the culprits. But individual forces, some with few resources, were left to investigate each suspect. A report by the BBC claims hundreds of paedophiles have since been arrested by British police, but hundreds more are still free because police do not have the resources to make arrests. The deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Carole Howlett, said: "I have no doubt that in the future there are going to be operations of a similar scale and nature to this [Operation Ore]. "We need to be properly resourced in order to deal with that. "And I think a key issue for me therefore is that child protection becomes a ministerial priority nationally." The BBC report claims 95% of the paedophiles arrested were previously unknown to the police and were mostly middle class professionals. Significantly one in five is accused not just of viewing indecent images of child abuse, but of physically abusing children. Senior officers believe a lack of resources is hampering the inquiry and they fear child protection is not being made a priority. The government has rejected the claims - but gave no promise of extra funds after ACPO's appeal. Home Office minister Hilary Benn, who chairs the government's taskforce on child protection on the internet, said: "Protecting children, on and offline, is a high priority to the government. "We fully support effective intelligence-led policing. That is why we have already provided an additional £25m over three years to tackle hi-tech crime, including internet child abuse, above existing funding for forces. "By setting up the national criminal intelligence service and the national crime squad we have established a separate funding stream to focus on these issues. "ACPO has submitted an application to the Home Office for additional funding for a national strategy for combating child abuse on the internet. "This is in addition to general police funding which provides for the policing of all crime, including child protections issues, on and offline. "No decisions have been taken. We will respond in due course in the context of the wider Home Office spending decisions and the publication of our proposals for legislating on sex offending and sex offences." The FBI last year traced 250,000 paedophiles around the world through credit card details used to pay for downloading child porn. Suspects were traced through the Landslide website, a gateway to an international collection of child pornography sites. Thomas Reedy, who ran the website and made millions of dollars from it, is now serving a sentence of 1,335 years in the US.