Major insurance companies are denying home insurance or refusing claims to households where somebody has a criminal conviction, according to a new study.Five out of six leading companies approached by a researcher posing as an ex-offender - with a conviction for assault rather than fraud or theft - refused him building or contents cover because of his criminal record. Direct Line and Lombard Direct said they could not offer cover until 10 years after the conviction; Egg and Churchill would only offer cover after five years; and Eagle Star said it would not offer cover under any circumstances. The only company which accepted the application was Endsleigh, which said it would refuse cover to ex-offenders if their conviction was for arson or fraud. Although the Prudential was not approached for the study, a spokesman told the Guardian it would be unlikely to offer cover if an ex-offender lived on the premises. The Association of British Insurers said companies treated "each application on merit". The research was carried out by the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman Mark Oaten and the ex-offenders' charity Unlock. Last night, Mr Oaten called on the industry regulator to intervene. He said: "It is a strange state of affairs that we continue to punish offenders by denying them that security. For ex-prisoners trying to go straight, this attitude by the insurance companies must be a real kick in the teeth." Bobby Cummines, director of Unlock, said the charity's files were filled with cases of people being refused insurance, or worse still, having their claims denied. He said that in many cases, the insurance company had not asked the question until a claim arose. "It is shameful that companies grab the monthly premium without going into clear details, but when it comes to a claim they refuse to honour it." One case handled by Unlock involved an ex-offender in the West Midlands, who had two convictions for dishonesty. Since leaving prison for the last time eight years ago, Andrew has held a responsible job with the same company while living with his partner, Louise, and their three children. Two years ago, their house suffered flood damage, so Louise asked about claiming on the insurance policy in her name. Louise told the truth about Andrew's past. The company - one of the top six in the field - cancelled the policy. Unlock put them in touch with a firm of brokers which organised insurance - but their premium has more than doubled.