Tomorrow the supreme court will begin ruling on a legal challenge to section 60 – a controversial power for police officers that has been widely used to stop and search for knives without the usual requirement for “reasonable grounds”. In the run-up to the judgment Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, announced that stop and search is about to increase. It has been claimed by senior officers, who may be trying to send a message to the court, that recent efforts to restrict the use of the tactic resulted in a rise in violence and stabbings this summer. But their figures are based on a highly selective use of statistics, and any increase in stop and search seems destined to repeat past mistakes, and deepen old wounds.The problems with stop and search have been well-documented. More than 30 years ago the Scarman report concluded that the 1981 Brixton riots were essentially an outburst of anger over a heavy-handed stop-and-search operation known as Swamp 81, which had a disproportionate impact on black residents and lacked local support.Section 60: a most draconian stop-and-search law that plays to police prejudice | Rachel Taylor Anger over stop and search was again implicated in the outbreak of rioting across the country in 2011. This time, though, it seemed that lessons were finally being learned. Theresa May, the home secretary, declared that the misuse of stop and search was an “affront to justice”, noting that it was especially unfair to young black men – who, at the time, were five times more likely to be stopped than their white counterparts. In an effort to improve relations with ethnic minorities, Hogan-Howe announced that use of stop and search would be dramatically reduced.Recent figures released by the Metropolitan police confirm that use of stop and search has fallen by almost 75% since January 2012; the arrest rate has more than doubled over the same period, meeting a newly introduced target of 20%. (Previously nine in every 10 people searched were not carrying anything that warranted an arrest.) Other targets have not been met, however, including the attempt to focus officers’ attention on weapons and other “key crimes”. Drugs still dominate, accounting for around 60% of stop-searches. And black Londoners are still being stopped and searched at three times the rate of their white counterparts.But claims that knife crime is now increasing are based on a notoriously unreliable source – police-recorded crime statistics, no longer designated as national statistics because of concerns about data integrity. Even if we take the figures at face value the apparent increase is illusory. The number of knife crime offences recorded by the Met did increase by around 18% between July and August 2015, but this is misleading because the figure for July was unusually low – if we take the average for July and August, it is well below the average for the previous three months and almost identical to the average for 2014-15.Police stop and search 'not cutting knife crime', new figures suggest In fact, recorded knife crime has actually fallen in step with reductions in stop and search: incidents recorded by the Met in July and August 2015 were down by a quarter compared with the first three months of 2012.It’s merely wishful thinking to believe that stop and search is effective in tackling knife crime. An official evaluation of a government programme to tackle serious youth violence from 2008 to 2010 found that the tactic had no measurable impact. This is hardly surprising given that section 60 searches, which were central to the programme, had a tiny success rate: fewer than one in 200 resulted in arrest for possession of a dangerous weapon. What possible deterrent can there be when the risk of detection is so low and young people rarely see anyone getting arrested for carrying a knife?Hogan-Howe has talked about a more selective use of stop and search, targeting gangs in high knife crime areas. For all that he has tried to distance this approach from past ones, it is strongly reminiscent of Operation Blunt 2 – an anti-knife-crime initiative launched across London in 2008 amid fictitious claims about a murder epidemic. Section 60 searches increased massively and were hugely disproportionate in their focus on black and minority communities.While holding out the promise of reductions in violent crime, these initiatives impose a double burden. They offer little by way of meaningful protection, leaving impacted communities vulnerable; yet they carry significant costs, humiliating and traumatising young people and their parents; criminalising already marginalised populations; and destroying trust and confidence in the police. Today’s police chiefs have a historic opportunity to break this damaging cycle. Having gone part of the way, it would be a tragedy if they turned back now.