Sally Clark, the solicitor jailed for life for murdering her two baby sons, walked free from the court of appeal in London yesterday after three judges quashed her convictions.They ruled the convictions were unsafe as medical evidence that might have cleared her was kept secret during her trial. They also criticised the use in the trial of a statistic putting the chance of two babies in the same family suffering cot death at one in 73 million as "grossly misleading". Mrs Clark, 38, had served three years of a life sentence following her conviction in 1999 for smothering 11-week-old Christopher in 1996 and shaking eight-week-old Harry to death two years later. She has always maintained that they died of cot death syndrome. But Mrs Clark, whose husband Stephen has always insisted that she was innocent, said that the decision was "not a victory". "There are no winners here. We have all lost out," she said as she left court. "We simply feel relief that our nightmare is at an end. We are now back in the position we should have been in all along and plead that we may now be allowed some privacy to grieve for our little boys in peace and try to make sense of what has happened to us." The judges at her first appeal in 2000 described the evidence against her as "overwhelming" despite accepting that the one in 73 million figure was wrong. But last year the criminal cases review commission, which reviews potential miscarriages of justice, referred the case back to the appeal court after it emerged there was clear evidence of an infection that had spread as far as Harry's cerebral spinal fluid. Mrs Clark was arrested after Harry's death, as experts had assumed Christopher died of natural causes. Clare Montgomery QC, acting for Mrs Clark, had told the court that Mrs Clark and her advisers had believed there was no evidence of infection. In fact, it appeared that the evidence had been known to prosecution pathologist Alan Williams - but not to other medical witnesses, police or lawyers - since February 1998. Lord Justice Kay, sitting with Mr Justice Holland and Mrs Justice Hallett, ruled that Mrs Clark's trial had not been fair because the jury were unable to hear medical evidence that might have influenced them. "This resulted from the failure of the pathologist to share with other doctors investigating the cause of death information that a competent pathologist ought to have appreciated needed to be assessed before any conclusion was reached," they said. They stressed that they were not suggesting Dr Williams had acted deliberately. Lord Justice Kay added that the one in 73 million statistic was "grossly misleading", because the jury started from the incorrect assumption that dual cot deaths in a single family were extremely rare. Experts now believe the risk could be anywhere between one in 100 and one in 8,500. He added: "This is not like other cases where there is clear evidence of baby shaking or striking." Mrs Clark appeared tearful as she emerged from the cells and shared a long embrace with her husband Stephen. Thanking her family, friends and legal team for their "unwavering and unconditional support", she said that the couple hoped for privacy to rebuild family life with their four-year-old son. The prosecution said it would not ask for a retrial because additional medical tests which would be pertinent could no longer be carried out and because there had been so much publicity that a fair trial would be impossible.