The plan to enact a full-blooded new criminal statute on corporate killing had the backing of the Law Commission and the endorsement of the 1997 Labour party manifesto; but ministers are still resisting the idea. There will now be a new bill, replacing the current largely unworkable corporate manslaughter law, but big business has won a major concession: directors of companies that cause fatal accidents through mismanagement will not, as Labour originally intended, go to prison. Directors who are at pains to explain how crucial their role is in the management of their firms in any row over excessive pay deals, suddenly are equally fervent in arguing they are not responsible for any mismanagement of safety regulations that lead to death. They cannot have it both ways.A succession of horrifying fatal accidents in the late 1980s led to sustained calls for reform of the law: the Zeebrugge ferry that capsized killing 187; the Piper Alpha oil platform which killed 167; and the Clapham rail crash that killed 35. In 1996 the law commission, the official law reform body for England and Wales, declared companies that caused death through gross carelessness should be liable to prosecution for corporate killing. At the time of its report only one firm, a Lyme Regis canoeing company involved in the deaths of four teenagers, had been successfully prosecuted for corporate manslaughter. Four other cases had failed because responsibility in big companies was too diffused. An alternative option, bringing a manslaughter charge, is equally difficult. The health and safety executive can refer cases to the crown prosecution service to pursue manslaughter. Yet of the 125 cases which were referred this way between 1992 and 2001, prosecutions were initiated in only 34, and guilty verdicts secured in just nine. The need for reform has become more acute since the 1999 Paddington train crash that killed 31 people and last year's Potters Bar crash which killed seven. In a move to defuse growing backbench criticism, the home secretary signalled on Tuesday he would publish a draft bill. So the battle has not been lost. The draft will provide an opportunity for clarifying directors' responsibilities and crown immunity. It will also allow reformers to insert an important principle: if directors can be sent to prison for cooking the books, then the same penalty should be available for directors who are responsible for killing staff or customers.