The home secretary, David Blunkett, has agreed to pay compensation to the wife and stepdaughter of businessman Richard Watson after they were wrongly charged with his murder.Sussex police have also made an unreserved apology to the women and acknowledged their complete innocence of all charges. Mr Watson was murdered by a gunman in the drive of his home in East Grinstead, Sussex, as he returned home from work on December 10, 1996. Linda Watson, 48, and Amanda Williams-Gater, 27, were in the house at the time. The police immediately regarded them as prime suspects. They were prosecuted for murder on the basis that they had hired the unidentified gunman. Both women spent time in Holloway prison awaiting trial, and were vilified by the media. The case collapsed in June 1998, on the morning the Old Bailey trial was due to start, when the Crown offered no evidence. The judge said the pair left court without a stain on their character. Mrs Watson and her stepdaughter then asked the Police Complaints Authority to investigate and the resulting report is perhaps the most strongly worded ever. The independent investigation, supervised by the Metropolitan police, considered the prosecution "ill-founded" and said the police had "failed to keep an open mind". Its conclusion was that officers "failed to properly investigate the murder of Richard Watson and this arose from a systemic failure by Sussex police". "I'm relieved that at least now we have been given official recognition that we are innocent," said Linda Watson. "But at the same time I'm deeply saddened that it's taken six years, because truths that were so obvious were so deliberately misconstrued." The women have each been awarded £25,000 as interim compensation. The payments are made under the home secretary's scheme for miscarriage of justice. Their solicitor, Lawrence Kormornick said: "Ex gratia payments are rare and my clients welcome the decision. The amount of the interim discretionary payments indicates the seriousness of the matter. We look forward to a final decision on the level of compensation that will reflect the distress my clients have suffered over the last six years." The ultimate level of compensation will be determined by an independent assessor, currently Lord Brennan QC. A decision is not expected until December next year. Although the central recommendation of the PCA report was that the Watson murder should be reinvestigated, no one has yet been charged.