Cocaine, the former PR guru Tim Bell was once alleged to have observed, "makes a good man great". That was back in the 1980s when the drug enjoyed a fashionable image and was associated with dynamic industries such as advertising and the financial services.Stories of coke-fuelled excess were rife, and although they were usually couched in the language of moral outrage they also possessed an air of hedonistic chic. As Robin Williams joked, cocaine was God's way of telling you you've got too much money.Three decades on and cocaine has made another of its periodic claims on the headlines, but this time round not even the most generous interpretation could divine any suggestion of glamour. First there was Rob Ford, the morbidly stout Toronto mayor, who admitted he smoked crack cocaine during an amnesiac alcoholic binge. If that wasn't unedifying enough, one of his aides told police that Ford had snorted cocaine with a prostitute during a St Patrick's Day party.Then came allegations that the former chair of the Co-op Bank, the Rev Paul Flowers, was recorded buying cocaine and also had a recreational interest in horse tranquillisers, crystal meth and rent boys. It's debatable whether Ford and Flowers are good men, but there's certainly nothing great about the effect cocaine has had on their public lives.As has been noted, Flowers, the so-called crystal methodist, bears a resemblance to Uncle Monty, the lecherous eccentric in Withnail and I, and together with Ford the two men have arguably done more to de-glamorise cocaine use than any number of public health campaigns.It's true that last week the more photo-friendly figure of Nigella Lawson was the subject of allegations in court relating to cocaine abuse, claims that the prosecution called scurrilous. But as the setting was a court and the background a bitter divorce, that story was no more alluring.As one ex-user recalls, the drug used to trade on a more elitist cultural profile. "When I started taking cocaine," recalls Zac [not his real name], a leading figure in London's restaurant business, "it was all about Studio 54 and staying up all night. And it wasn't that easy to find. Now you can buy it in your local pub."But while Britain has the highest levels of cocaine use in Europe, and it's the only major drug whose use has increased overall since 1996, according to the most recent government crime survey, consumption has been falling since the economic downturn of 2008, particularly among the young.Cocaine use has apparently halved among 16- to 24-year-olds since a 2008 high that saw more than 6% of that age group taking the drug. But among older people, the decline has been much less steep. The downward trend can doubtless be attributed to factors such as increased job instability and decreased disposable income, but the greater fall among the young also points to a widening gap in generational attitudes.For younger people, who have grown up in a more relaxed drug environment, it's likely that the widespread availability of cocaine has diminished its subversive appeal. Whereas, for older users, the drug may still retain the whiff of mystery formalised in its rituals of ingestion: the furtive nod, the rolled-up banknote, the invitation to the bathroom."It's ridiculous," says Matthew, a 49-year-old corporate lawyer. "I've been at parties when there have been more people in the bathroom than outside it, yet this strange etiquette is still upheld. I think it's partly about exclusion and inclusion – who's in, who's out, who's cool and who's not. It's remarkably childish, but if you're a middle-aged professional who doesn't get out much, then that bathroom can seem like the hottest ticket in town."The drug works by amplifying the neurotransmitter called dopamine (a naturally occurring brain chemical). A build-up of dopamine in the synapse causes a sense of euphoria. However, the effect dwindles with repetition and the initial exhilaration is often followed by depression. Nevertheless, that first high can be intensely pleasurable. As far back as 1884, Sigmund Freud wrote to his fiancée of the experience of taking what he called the "magical substance". He said that "a small dose lifted me to the heights in a wonderful fashion". For the next 12 years he was a regular user and, it seems, abuser of cocaine. Although he quit before he began outlining his theory of psychoanalysis, some biographers believe it played a role in shaping Freud's beliefs about the workings of the human mind.The irony is that the psychotherapeutic heirs to Freud are now seeing many victims of the drug that inspired the godfather of the "talking cure" to write Über Coca, his essay in praise of cocaine.Nicholas King, an addiction counsellor in north London, says that his clients come from all ages and social classes. "It's the most prevalent illicit drug in my counselling experience," he says. "It's often taken with alcohol, and I've heard alcohol described as the taxi cab for cocaine."That was the case for Zac, before he finally quit nine years ago after his wife, from whom he is now divorced, called the police in the midst of a violent argument. "It was a mask for the alcohol. I could drink much more when I was on coke. The thing about coke is excess. It gets out of control very quickly. There's a cycle of shame. Take it, behave shamefully, and then take more to stop feeling ashamed."Aside from the psychological problems that often stem from prolonged or excessive cocaine use, there are also physical dangers. It's estimated that the risk of heart attack can increase as much as 20-fold and there is a greater chance of suffering a stroke.Long-term users seem oblivious to the health risks, says King, a point echoed by the leader of a recent study highlighting the correlation between cardiac arrests and cocaine use."Despite being well-educated professionals, they have no knowledge of the health consequences of regularly using cocaine," says Dr Gemma Figtree, associate professor of medicine at Sydney Medical School. "It's the perfect heart attack drug."But as Matthew puts it: "I know smokers who have contracted lung cancer, but I've never come across a cocaine user who has had a heart attack. I've met plenty who fear they might be having one, but it can make you paranoid about anything. I don't doubt the risks, it's just that it remains abstract until you have some experience of it yourself."In the meantime, public discussion of drugs in general and cocaine in particular, especially in the media, could do with a little more maturity and a little less hypocrisy. In the case of Ford and Flowers there's a strong argument for exposing the misdeeds of public officials or people in influential positions of power. Yet if you examine the surveys and polls and anecdotal evidence, it seems our shock at their antics can't be that profound, because many of us have done similar things .Five years ago a poll commissioned by the Observer found almost half of those in the 16 to 34 age group had consumed illegal drugs. If those statistics are reasonably accurate, then it makes you wonder who the alarmist headlines and scurrilous stories are aimed at. And given they're produced by an industry that is not exactly immune to cocaine use, perhaps a more sober analysis would profit all concerned.By and large, people don't take cocaine to ruin their lives. They take it to enhance their experience of life. The problem is that what starts out as vivid and exciting and social can quickly deteriorate into something that is dull and sordid and alienating.As Matthew says: "When you're not able to sleep because you've got a head-full of negativity, when you begin to get selfish, hiding it from your partner, and the bad temper the next day, then buying in bigger loads to make sure you don't run out, and the late nights putting off the cliff drop: all of that's to be avoided. But in moderation it can be a civilised pleasure."While acknowledging the appeal, Zac says there's no such thing as moderation. "I look at people taking coke now and it's like those Gerald Scarfe cartoons of people with lizard faces. But that's what coke does. That's the high that people are seeking. The reality is actually horrible."With its hubristic highs and punishing lows, its narrative of sin and redemption, cocaine acts as a moral, or rather immoral, touchstone. But it's just a chemical that has certain physiological effects. Unfortunately, none of them makes a good man great. That's just an excuse to start acting bad.