Crime is the politician's most flexible friend - or foe. No issue is more conducive to the stirring of mob feeling, to the converting of bleak emotions into votes. No statistics are more amenable to distortion by scuffling office-seekers as those compiled on villainy. With law and order topping Londoners' list of anxieties, a repertoire of evasions and misrepresentations has already been deployed in the dust-up over who'll be the capital's mayor. Leading candidates have been up to no good. Should you buy a crime policy from any of them?Where crunched numbers are concerned, Liberal Democrat Brian Paddick has come cleanest. It's what you'd hope for from an ex-policeman - 30 years with the Met before stepping down following a falling out with Sir Ian Blair over the shooting of Charles De Menezes - and he's got Ken Livingstone bang to rights. Criminologists and the Home Office agree that the British Crime Survey (BCS) compiled from the public's doorstep answers to questionnaires, gives a more accurate picture of long-term offending trends than do the recorded crime data assembled by police. That's mostly because victims of crimes don't always report them. Last week, the capital's constabulary produced figures showing a 6% year-on-year fall in the total number of offences brought to their attention. Livingstone claimed them as a vindication. Paddick rightly questioned their validity, BCS has revealed no change in overall crime levels in London throughout Livingstone's second four-year term (see the comparison between 2005/06 and 2006/07 here (pdf)).Ken looks shifty on this subject. During London ITV's recent three-way debate he dismissed the BCS method as mere opinion polling; as soggy stuff compared with the real deal from the Met. Yet as Paddick has pointed out, some of his regime's own literature (pdf) has endorsed the BCS approach. The Labour man has also struck some oddly reactionary notes. The last person I heard dismiss the BCS as market research was that moral conservative of the deep pessimism school, Peter Hitchens. And Livingstone's line on crime has harmonised with that worldview at other times, citing the bad influence of video games and films on the young. That's all part of the story, but smacks of seeking easy scapegoats. Maybe it will strike a chord with voters. To me, though, it sounds discordant coming from Ken.What's falling from the back of Boris Johnson's lorry? In my last piece on the London campaign, I criticised the The Blond for dog whistling. I stand by that, but have a caveat or two. Interviewed on BBC London, Johnson argued that, no matter what anyone's statistics say, Londoners feel unsafe on the streets and public transport and that that alone is a good enough reason to do more to put them at ease. To that end he's produced a list of small, practical proposals, adding that he suspects many victims of crimes have given up on reporting them to the police - a charge levelled by Paddick too.Which mayoral runner's hand would you shake without counting your fingers afterwards? Each is being a hustler in his own way. Paddick, who launches on online ad campaign on crime today, appears to be the straightest dealer. Yet can his pledge to cut crime in total by 20% over a four-year term be taken seriously? The incidence of law-breaking changes in concert with a range of hard-to-measure social factors, of which policing is but one. And as a social liberal, Paddick must know that mandatory sentences for knife-carrying are a crude way to crack a complex problem. Livingstone's self-defence risks looked dishonest, making Johnson's appear tuned-in by comparison. One stat you can't quarrel with is that teenagers have been slain in the capital at a rate of one a fortnight for a year. Such crimes send shudders through whole communities, the whole city. Johnson's crime appeal targets the gang war nightmare in all our heads, yet those nightmares are rooted in too many Londoners' reality. These need to be kept in perspective and addressed responsibly but never - not ever - complacently.