The Metropolitan police yesterday claimed a limited success in the fight against knife crime, citing a 12% fall in incidents since May, but at the price of long-term resentment over the widespread use of stop-and-search needed to achieve it.Commander Mark Simmons - who is in charge of the Met's Operation Blunt 2, launched in May to tackle knife crime - told a seminar organised by the Commons home affairs select committee that, while they did not give the whole picture, the statistics showed a significant fall: "We think we are on the right track," he told MPs.He said it did not detract from the individual tragedies of the 22 teenagers killed this year to say that the number of young victims of knife crime had fallen by 18% since May.Simmons said 95% of those found with a knife were now being dealt with by the courts rather than being cautioned. He said 420 individuals in 22 south London gangs had been identified as regularly carrying a knife, not for their own safety but to carry out robberies or other serious crimes. One hundred and fifty of them were now in custody. This was significant, he said, as more than half of London knife crime involved robberies.The reduction had also been achieved by targeting hotspots. Simmons said the use of stop-and-search powers had been an "absolutely key tactic" for the police, with 150,000 searches since the campaign started in May. He said there had been 5,000 arrests as a result of the these encounters and that 3,200 knives had been recovered. He defended the use of "section 60" searches under which the police do not even need to have "grounds for reasonable suspicion"; he argued that the power had not been used randomly but had been based on intelligence and profiling about the risks at specific locations at specific times of the day.The seminar - held in Stockwell, south London - heard leading criminologist Dr Marian Fitzgerald from the University of Kent outline her reservations about the use of section 60 stop-and-search powers, which has been authorised in 10 London boroughs as part of a drive against knife crime. She said while young people accepted stop-and-search if there were grounds for suspecting a crime, section 60 did not require the police to have any reasonable grounds for suspicion and in 97% of cases produced no result, with no knives found. This was bound to have a long-term impact on the predominantly young black people who found themselves repeatedly being searched.But the criminologist also questioned whether the Met had the power to use stop-and-search powers in a routine way: "Section 60 [of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994] only allows them to be used in a designated place for 24 hours extending up to 36 hours in exceptional circumstances. I have not heard any explanation from the Met police how they now believe it is possible to use them on an almost permanent basis across 10 London boroughs," she said.She recalled that the Brixton riots in 1980 erupted after the intensive use of stop-and-search operations and warned: "We need to be very careful about this." Keith Vaz, chairman of the home affairs select committee, disputed that there had been progress in tackling knife crime. "It is clearly not being dealt with at the moment with the legitimate, appropriate political solutions. They are clearly not working," said Vaz. Explaining the decision to hold the Stockwell seminar as part of the committee's new inquiry into knife crime, he said: "We want to take it beyond a party political discussion to really gain some important facts and figures to go into the community to find the victims and the perpetrators - and also establish how this matter should be dealt with."Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat MP for Southwark and Bermondsey, said there had been a dramatic shift in the culture of knife crime: "Knives were originally taken because they were seen as cool, then they were taken because young people thought they were safe. But now what most people are doing is taking them because of fear ... We need people to realise that having them makes you much more likely to be a victim."Knife crime in London• Knife crime - ie people using blades - is down 12% this year compared with last year. Young knife crime victims are down 18% and robberies involving a knife are down 14%.• 22 teenagers have died after being stabbed in London so far this year.• 150,000 street searches have taken place since May, with 5,000 people arrested and 3,200 knives recovered.• 420 "dangerous people" involved in 22 south London gangs were identified last year, of whom 150 are now in custody.• Use of stop and search powers under section 60 of the 1994 Criminal Justice Act, under which police do not need grounds for reasonable suspicion, soared by 386% between 2005 and 2007.