Two trials and two appeals later, Barry George has spent eight years in prison.He spent 12 months in Belmarsh prison, south London, which he described as "hell". Continually stared at and heckled, George said he kept his head down, never spoke to anyone and stayed close to prison wardens. He was frightened when inmates spat in his food. He was also placed on suicide watch in a single cell after attempting to hang himself using rope made from bedsheets. The presence of Jeffrey Archer around the same time, he said, took some of the attention away.George was transferred in 2002 to HMP Whitemoor, a high-security prison in Cambridgeshire and home to some of the country's most notorious killers including Kenneth Noye and Jeremy Bamber. He became prisoner FF5227, where he occupied a single cell in C-wing and earned the privilege of a television. In a 2002 Sunday Mirror interview with Don Hale, the journalist who fought to free Stephen Downing, who was wrongly jailed for murder in 1974, Hale said George spent his time reading or watching TV, where his favourite programme was Top of the Pops.But George was convinced he would die violently in prison. He told Hale: "It is just a matter of time before I am killed ... I think I will die in prison. Somebody will have me done away. I never shot Jill, never did it, but I don't think people in authority want to know. They would rather I die and the whole thing go away. I keep telling them that I didn't do it and that somebody in the underworld was responsible, but they just don't want to know or help me."I don't like to let the warders out of my sight ... I feel there is a contract out on my head and one of the prisoners is just waiting for the right time to strike. A few come up to me in the dinner queue and say 'watch your back mate, they are after you'. Lots of the prisoners liked Jill and blamed me for murdering her."George said sometime later he managed to gain some credibility with prisoners who believed Dando was killed by underworld figures. "Lots have come up to me and said 'we know you didn't do it, murder Jill'. They believe me now. Before, I was always getting threatened. They used to call me scum and spit in my tea. Now the other prisoners have been better with me. "George was transferred back to Belmarsh in November last year, where he placed himself on the "vulnerable prisoner" list at the jail, used to keep track of prisoners who are concerned about their safety or are unwell. His family and sister, Michelle Diskin, could not visit while he was on this list. A family member said at the time: "We don't know why he has placed himself on the list."George's final prison stay was at HMP Manchester, to be near his legal team. George's solicitor, Jeremy Moore, said yesterday: "I would be very surprised if there's not a claim for compensation for the eight years of suffering he has had to endure."The Ministry of Justice said: "The secretary of state decides whether compensation is payable. At present there is no limit to the amount of compensation the assessor can award but when section 61 of the Criminal Justice Act 2008 is commenced the limits will be £500,000 for less than 10 years in jail. Previous convictions are not taken into account when deciding eligibility but once eligibility has been confirmed the independent assessor may make a reduction in the compensation award."Should he apply, George will face a wait of nine months to hear if he is eligible for compensation.