Emma Humphreys was 17 when she was sentenced "at her Majesty's pleasure" for the murder of Trevor Armitage. She spent 10 years in prison. Then in 1995 she was released after the court of appeal substituted a verdict of manslaughter. Her case changed the law for battered women who kill. It established that provocation could be cumulative and did not have to occur immediately before a murder to form a legitimate defence.Emma was born in 1967. Within five years her parents had split up. Her mother and stepfather were both alcoholics, and her stepfather violent. From the age of 12, Emma started to run away from home and was drawn into drugs, drink and prostitution. After her death in July 1998, from an accidental overdose, Emma's father produced a suitcase of her belongings from his attic. Inside a diary was found, dating from the three years before her arrest, which is published today in a new book, The Map of My Life, The Story of Emma Humphreys. Had these documents been known about at the time of her trial, they could have provided critical evidence to support her defence of provocation. They provide a fascinating record of Emma's life as a prostitute, of her relationship with her boyfriend, of her growing fear of his violence and her disintegration into alcohol-induced oblivion. The night Armitage died, he was boasting to two friends and his son that they would gang rape Humphreys. Left briefly alone, she cut her wrists. When Armitage returned, taking off his clothes, he taunted her about her wrists. She stabbed him once in the heart. March 1983 My name is Emma Humphreys. I live at Westfield [children's home] in Edmonton [Canada]. I am now in the psychiatric ward of the general hospital. I had run away, I ran home. When the police came to pick me up I locked myself into the bathroom and cut my wrists, they took me to hospital. Dr Blashko wants to move me out pretty soon, but I don't think I am ready because I still think of suicide as the best way out. I am going down to legal aid. I want to take it to court to see if they will let me live with my mom. I think I have a good chance of winning.   March 6   Dear Diary,  Well, I don't think I am doing too good. First they put me in the lock-up ward, but now I'm in the open ward. Al [her stepfather] has taken the kids down to Calgary, without mom's permission, so mom is going to go to court to get temporary custody of the boys. Mom is in real bad shape, she is drinking 24 hours a day and she isn't eating. I am not allowed contact with mom for a while, because she upsets me.   March 9   Dear Diary,  Well, I am back in Westfield again and I want to die. They have cut off all contact with my mom, fuck, that pisses me off. I jabbed a piece of glass into my arms this morning. Also I went rank on my social worker, so the security guards had to come up and restrain me. Same day Well, I'm not dead yet. I think I'm going to give this hole a shot. I just decided if I keep smiling and kiss ass all the time I will probably be off CS [Close Supervision] by the weekend.   July 24  Why couldn't I have died when I slashed my wrists? Who the hell wants me to live? Why are there never any answers? I am sure that even if I live and go back to England to live with my dad, by the time I am 21, I will have done everything I have ever wanted to do. And it will be up to me then. I think I will be so lonely, bored and angry that I will take my own life. Am I different than normal people, am I going to end up a schizophrenic, a murderer, a drug addict... am I going to live my whole life in institutions and hospitals or will I some day find someone who really cares about me and start a family of my own? Or will my life repeat over again with my husband, and I will be in my mom's shoes next time?   October 10  Dear Diary,  I just got up from a good visit with Debbie. We talked about pregnancy and abortions because she is pregnant. I asked if she knew anything about Al being in jail and she said yes, that once mom had gone down to pick up the kids when Al had kidnapped them. The police that went in to get them said that Al had a very bad criminal record. So when mom came back and was drunk and phoned Debbie, she told Debbie that about two years ago Al was charged with attempted murder and assault. So that's pretty wild. Same day I never had a mother-to-daughter relationship with my mom. I remember when I started my periods I told my mom and she sent me to my older sister, and when I was having trouble with my ovaries and I was in hospital I told my mom I was told I may never be able to have kids. She said that was better because I would probably end up being knocked up 20 times before I was 19. That really made me feel good!   November 17  Dear Diary,  Emma's gone away! She's cold, lonely and ready to give up on life. She's upset, shaking. She's falling apart because of all of the suspense, she thinks people are going to lock her away where people don't care. She's old and baggy- looking. Six weeks till Christmas, that makes her scared, how could her passport be ready in six weeks? Why is she throwing it all away? Don't let them win, Emma. Come back and start to fight again. It's a long, hard game but you can do it, don't give in. She feels dirty. Emma's crazy, Emma's crazy, Emma's crazy. No. Emma needs security, reassurance, space, warmth and love. She keeps coming back but she slips away, right away.   November 27  Dear Diary,  I'm so frustrated I feel like I'm going to blow. I have been holding it in, and pretty soon I am going to flip. I need space, somewhere alone and quiet. Please will someone listen? She is so confused. She's scared of leaving to go to her dad's, she's been hurt so many times before and she doesn't want to hurt any more people.  Back in England, Emma has moved out from her dad's home. She is now living with "Nana" - her mum's mother - also in Nottingham.   March 26 1984   Dear Diary,  Mom phoned at 7am... Mom, do you remember the time when you put myself, Abigail and Rebecca [sisters] into a taxi, kissed us all goodbye, so you could take an overdose and slash your wrists? Mom, so clearly now I can see you standing at that cab door; you were sending us to Nana's, and on the way I can remember a corner of a street we drove through. What's happened to us all mom? Why? Mom. I see you committing suicide, but please mom take me, Adam, Simon [her half-brothers], Rebecca, and Abigail with you please. Good night mom, I'm too upset to write any further.   July 23  Dear Diary,  I'm not doing too badly. I'm seriously considering going back to the streets. I need money just so I will have my own place. I need to be in control again.   August 1  Dear Diary,  About two years ago when we were living in Edmonton, I remember Abi, Rebecca and I had been out somewhere, and when we returned home, all we could hear was mom screaming. We looked at Al, and could tell he was drunk. We asked him where mom was, but he wouldn't answer so we went looking. We finally found my mom sitting in the corner of the storage room. Al had beaten her up and then put her in there and shut the door, and mom had been too scared to move.   August 2   Dear Diary,  We had all gone to bed when the phone rang. It was my mom. Mom: Oh it's you, bitch, where is your Nana? Emma: I beg your pardon? Mom: Where's your Nana? Emma: In bed sleeping. Mom: At this time of day? Emma: Yes, it's night-time over here, that's when people go to bed. Mom: Oh don't give me that Canadian accent, you fat bitch. Emma: Laughed. Mom: Hung up.   August 20  Dear Diary,  Nana and I aren't talking again. Fuck, I wish she would just quit being so judgmental towards me.   September 10  Dear Diary,  I'm back working the streets on Forest Road every night. I'm moving into Trevor's pub. Trevor was one of my tricks, but now I go to his pub every night. I've lost some more weight, but I'm not trying to. It's fucking cold outside, standing there for a couple of hours. I've had no problem with the cops out there. I get a lot of compliments from everyone 'cause of my legs.   September 25  Dear Diary,  About a week ago I moved in with Trevor. I'm happy staying here, but I'm drinking all day. But it helps to make work a little better when I'm pissed. I met another guy. So most nights in the middle of working I go down to the pub for a drink with him. Dad phoned me last week; he asked me what I wanted for my birthday. Yes, I'm 17 in 35 days, god I don't want to grow up 'cause it scares me. I think Trevor is sick of me already. Every time I fuck I get a brownie coloured discharge, but I'm scared to go to the doctors in case it's something I don't want. So at work I just do oral even though I hate it. I had a guy last night that didn't pay. Trevor doesn't believe me.   October 22  Dear Diary,  I'm so scared, please help me, I'm gonna do it but I don't want to, please help me. He hurts me and I don't know why, I try to be good, he never thinks I'm working, but I do, I try. A guy phoned and wanted three whores for 9 o'clock, so I took a taxi down to work and tried to look for some decent whores. There wasn't any, not even ugly. So I came home and told them it was off. So then I took another taxi back to work and did two and came home.   October 25  Dear Diary,  My god, what a hell of a couple of hours. I'm stunned. He's calling me a liar. I'm scared to death again. He is convincing me I'm lying. My god, everything worked out perfectly for him to hit me. God, how I just want to pack and go, I don't want to be beat anymore, and how I'd do anything to have the guts to kill myself. Maybe if I drink the rest of the bottle I'll do it.   October 30 - her 17th birthday  Dear Diary,  Well, here I am in the same state again. It seems to be becoming a regular thing. Jesus Christ, why the hell don't you talk back to me? Well, I was physically OK until about an hour ago. I wasn't mentally OK, but now I'm fucked up to the roots of my hair. If this headache doesn't go away I'll drive a knife through it; why does he always hit me? Now it's getting worse, and the awful thing is that afterwards I get convinced it's all my fault, but no, I know it isn't. Anyways, business the last two nights has been the shits.   November 17   Dear Diary,  Quite a lot has happened. I left Trevor yesterday, and this time I am not going back. I just got so fed up of his jealousy and ugliness and he was always hitting me. I decided enough is enough. So I am staying in a hotel. I met another guy; his name is Anthony, but it seems like he just wants to pimp me. On the night of my birthday I went to stay in a hotel, because Trevor had given me a black eye and I didn't feel like getting another beating over nothing. Anyways, I got picked up by the law a couple of weeks ago and got a caution for soliciting and loitering, I got another caution, then a £50 fine which I guess isn't too bad. I also got raped at scissor-point by three deaf-and-dumb black men. I couldn't report it because I went into the flat willingly, supposedly for business. Well, that's the only boring, wonderful news I have for you lately.   December 14   Dear Diary,  I got kicked out of a few hotels since I last wrote, and Anthony has left me but I don't know why. I'm still working every night, but I got picked up two nights ago for the third time so I have to go to court on January 17 for a fine, I think.   January 3 1985  Dear Diary,  Hello, well here I am, pissed again. I don't know where to start. Well, I went back to Trevor for one night, then the next night Toni [Anthony] came over. Toni and I got put in Hucknall cells for a couple of days 'cause I smashed up Trevor's house. I haven't seen Toni since. So, Xmas day Vicki and Franklyn came to the Peeham hotel. But in the end I assaulted the hotel manager and a police officer and ended up at Radford Road cells. I'm in a hostel until I go to court.   January 19  Dear Diary,  I'm still here and not in Risley [prison]. I went to court on Thursday and pleaded guilty to the four charges, so I got bailed back to here for five weeks. I don't know what will happen next. Yesterday I decided to try to kick the drink, so I haven't bought a bottle since the day before court, but I feel so fucked up. Love you and leave you. That was the last but one diary entry. On February 21 she was released into Trevor Armitage's "care". She was arrested for his murder four days later, on February 25 1985.· To order a copy of The Map of My Life, edited by Julie Bindel and Harriet Wistrich, for £14.99 with free UK p&p, call the Guardian book service on 0870 066 7979. Published by Astraia Press.