The jury has returned its verdict in the final trial of the 21 young people charged with murder at London's Victoria station in March 2010. The prosecution had no clear evidence of who struck the fatal blows, so they relied on "joint enterprise", the controversial legal doctrine which can make a group liable for a crime committed by one of its members. It works like this: when A, B and C participate together in one crime, during which A commits a second crime which B and C have foreseen he might intentionally commit, joint enterprise makes them all guilty of it.Proof of being jointly liable for a crime is not usually problematic: Norris and Dobson were found guilty in 2012 of the murder of Stephen Lawrence without proof that either of them actually stabbed him, but because they were part of the small group that included the killer, and they were all in it together. Evidence of the victim's blood and hair on their clothes showed that they must have been extremely close to him when he was stabbed. There was no innocent explanation.The difficulty arises when the participants are more diffuse. Take a fight between two gangs of youths, which ends in a fatal stabbing. One person may have murder in mind, some just a fight, others may have joined in casually with no clear idea of how events would unfold. If those at the fringe are guilty of, for example, affray (fighting in public), and there's evidence that they knew or found out that some of their mates were armed with knives, the jury may think that at some stage they foresaw that the knives would be used to kill or cause really serious harm. The jury must convict them of murder, even if they played no direct part in the killing, and may have been some distance away. Normally the prosecution must prove intent to kill or cause really serious harm to secure a conviction for murder. But under joint enterprise, a marginal player can be guilty without himself intending to kill or seriously injure anyone.This can be a cause for concern. It is akin to the infamous use "common purpose" by the South African authorities used under apartheid to criminalise individuals regarded as politically suspect, and whole groups taking part in protests. It has its roots in English law and was routinely misused by the repressive South African state. It reared up again briefly in August 2012, to justify the arrest of hundreds of strikers at the Malakana mine.Our joint enterprise law doesn't require a common purpose – just that those committing the first crime foresee that the second crime might be committed. It places an unusually heavy burden on a jury by obliging them to convict people who they may well think are barely involved. In some cases they may even defy the law and acquit people who they feel uncomfortable about convicting, even if all the legal boxes are ticked. A different jury, on similarly tenuous facts, may take against a defendant and convict. Especially for young people, even time in custody on remand is acutely difficult and damaging, if they are eventually acquitted.Genuine anxiety about gang violence lies behind this use of joint enterprise. There is a tenable view that if you join a gang, you must take responsibility for what other gang members do. But joint enterprise can work like a drift-net, drawing in people who on a commonsense view are too remote from the killing to share responsibility for it.The result is an increased risk that the wrong people end up with convictions for murder. A remedy would be to differentiate between degrees of murder with corresponding sentences, to reflect different levels of involvement. The Law Commission made proposals for reform in 2006. But politicians won't have it.