The trial of Francisco Arce Montes, accused of murdering the Cornish schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson, was briefly adjourned yesterday after he broke down in tears on hearing a statement made to police by his mother.Apparently already shaken by DNA evidence that there was only a one-in-a-thousand-billion chance that the sperm found on Caroline's body was not his, Mr Montes wept as a judge read out testimony from his mother, Benigna Montes Moro. The trial in Rennes was suspended for 30 minutes.Recalling her only son's childhood in Gijon in Spain, Ms Moro said in testimony from 2001: "Something like an allergy always stopped me going into his room. I always felt a certain repulsion there. I didn't want to risk going in there, even if he was going away for a week."Mr Montes, a 54-year-old itinerant waiter accused of molesting and suffocating the British teenager in the Pleine-Fougeres youth hostel in Brittany on the night of July 17 1996, admitted earlier this week to sexually assaulting Caroline, but swore that he had not intended to kill her.The fourth day of his trial for voluntary homicide was mainly aimed at providing the jury with an insight into his personality and past.The suspect, who faces life in jail if found guilty, refused to answer any questions, repeating in Spanish: "I don't know. I have nothing to say."Pressed to comment on the details of his past, he said: "I understand the seriousness of what I did. I know that the Dickinson family will never forgive me, and I know that from the moment their daughter died, their life was totally different. But I have nothing else to say."Undeterred the judge, Fabienne Doroy, read aloud from statements Mr Montes made to an investigating magistrate after his 2001 extradition to France from Miami, where he had been arrested for lewd behaviour. The judge also read from statements by the Spaniard's sister, Bianca.He emerged as a disturbed loner, unhappy at home and at school, who left Spain to go travelling in Europe."My mother never loved me," he told the magistrate. "I didn't have a happy childhood. My friends made fun of me."His sister, who is nine years older, said in her statements that Mr Montes was compulsive about hygiene. "He was always washing his hands and preparing his meals himself," she told a magistrate in 2001.The court heard that at the age of 21 Mr Montes had spent several days in a psychiatric clinic, where he would not allow anyone else to do his laundry and demanded a sheet of paper to turn the light on and off, so as to avoid direct contact with the switch.Notes from an early consultation with a psychologist for this compulsive behaviour spoke of a "sad, anxious man" for whom "everything is a source of worry".Further medical reports revealed schizophrenic and depressive tendencies.Mr Montes's statements also referred to his relationship with Christine Lemenes, a French woman he said he met in a youth hostel in the Netherlands when he was about 29.With the consent of the presiding judge, defence lawyers and the public prosecutor, Ms Lemenes testified behind closed doors late yesterday.Mr Montes insisted that Ms Lemenes had invited him into her room in the hostel. "She might have said I wanted to hurt her, but this is her imagination," he said in his statement. The couple had a son, born in 1982, but the mother refused to allow him to see the child after their affair ended.He has claimed it was his failure to see his son in July 1996 that pushed him into the depression that later led to Caroline's death.Earlier Marie-Helene Cherpin, the head of the French police's scientific laboratory in Paris, and another DNA expert, Olivier Pascal, said there was "no discrepancy whatsoever" between traces of sperm found on Caroline's hip and in her vagina and the genetic profile of Mr Montes.They said the norm was for 10 DNA "zones" to be tested, but that in Mr Montes's case they had tested 16. The margin of error was in the region of one in a thousand billion.Ms Cherpin said a programme of mass DNA testing had been carried out for the first time in France during the inquiry into Caroline's death, and this had undoubtedly led to the establishment in 2000 of a centralised French DNA database that now holds 20,000 records.