On Sunday night I was happily dreaming that I had overslept, when I was woken by seemingly incontrovertible evidence of a break-in: a burglar noise. The problem with noises that wake you up is that you hear them while you're asleep, making rational assessment impossible. Was that the sound of breaking glass, or of rain gently spattering the pane? At four in the morning, the former always seems more likely.I wouldn't normally describe this as "Fear of crime" - I don't see what good it does to break down my "Fear of Everything" into little sub-categories - except it happened in the wake of the annual crime statistics being released. We all know what to expect by now: overall crime down, violent crime up, fear of crime remaining, in the words of Charles Clarke, "still too high". It is unclear when, if ever, we will get to a point where fear of crime is "just about right".Am I under some sort of obligation to worry about crime in a manner that corroborates the most recently available figures? I hear burglar noises most nights of the week. On Sunday it happened twice. Later on, while dreaming that I couldn't get back to sleep, I heard a noise that could have been either the report of a pistol or the cat flap snapping open. Eventually I convinced myself that the lack of follow-up noises ruled out any kind of forced entry and drifted into unconsciousness. Then I woke up to discover we had been burgled after all. Everything was gone. Why did I ignore the noises? Looking around room after ransacked room, I wondered if I could cope this time, if I could yet again face the grim task of clearing up, dealing with the police, reassembling our fractured lives, the next pointless security upgrade, the futile attempts to replace what was lost. I didn't even have the energy to cry.It turned out that this was a dream as well. There were some obvious clues - in real life, even the most heartless burglars don't usually bother to take the wallpaper - but my initial relief was tainted by a realisation of how far out of kilter my anxieties had shifted. I no longer dream about the violation of a one-off burglary, but about the sense of grinding despair brought about by repeated break-ins. In fact, we've never been burgled, although it took me about an hour to remember this. Someone tried to kick in the door once, about 10 years ago, but they didn't get in; they just wrote off the front door, which turned out to be the most expensive thing we owned anyway. And I slept through that, so it wasn't exactly a chilling experience.So how precisely does Charles Clarke plan to reduce my fear of crime to match the most recently recorded figures? Is he going to send me to a psychiatrist? I don't mind going if the Home Office thinks it will help, but I should warn them it's liable to get messy and expensive. All in all, I'd rather they spent the money catching the yobs who pulled the wing mirrors off my car.· Steve Bell's new book The Apes of Wrath is published by Guardian books at £12.99 plus p&p. To order telephone 0870 836 0749