He said campaigners were too ready to attack govern ment policy without recognising that crime and anti-social behaviour affected the liberties of the poor, the young and the elderly. They were always prepared to criticise without suggesting positive solutions, he added.'Sometimes the human rights movement is like my daughter when she was three years old,' Puddephatt told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. 'I tried to offer her tea and she just kept saying "no" to every option without ever telling me what it was she did want.' He added: 'The human rights movement often appears to be understandably concerned with the government's abuses of its power and its authority in dealing with these problems. It does not seem to be addressing, in public anyway, the concerns people have about the nature of these problems.' His comments were timed to coincide with the Liberty annual meeting, where members voted to continue criticising the orders, which restrict the movements and actions of people who have consistently acted in a way likely to cause distress to those around them. Critics say the orders are often used as a way of avoiding the full criminal process. Shami Chakrabarti, the present Liberty director , said it would continue to attack what it saw as serious infringements of civil liberties. She told the 200 members present that she would address Puddephat's attack head-on: 'I will never on my watch allow this to become an excuse for piping down. Human rights are for everyone, and everyone includes the demonised minority.'She admitted the current erosion of 'precious, precious human rights' meant there was a danger that campaigns alienated some people. 'Sometimes we do get pushed into that because we are reacting to these terrible broadsides on things like the presumption of innocence.' She insisted, however, that Liberty was building a cross-party alliance to try to embed human rights. The meeting passed a resolution condemning Asbos. It said they were 'an attack on the human rights of marginalised communities' and themselves a 'major cause of such anti-social behaviour'.