The home secretary, John Reid, is to tighten up the parole system in the wake of a series of revelations about released criminals and angry exchanges on the issue between David Cameron and Tony Blair today.A Home Office spokesman said: "The home secretary is reviewing parole arrangements and we believe that a further strengthening of the system will be necessary." He was unable to say whether changes would be made to the way the Parole Board decides whether criminals should be freed, to the conditions imposed on offenders, or both.The announcement came after Tony Blair had earlier blamed the conservatives for introducing sentencing rules which resulted in 53 life sentence prisoners walking free from jail after serving less than five years in prison.On the defensive after a series of revelations regarding "lenient" sentences Mr Blair angrily turned on David Cameron during prime ministers questions saying the "vast bulk" of the 53 lifers released since 2000 were let out under rules introduced by the Tories. Mr Cameron had said a controversial reduction of a peodophile's sentence was down to the Sentencing Guidelines Council "that the Prime Minister introduced".In some of the rowdiest Commons question time exchanges in months, Mr Cameron accused Home Secretary John Reid of blaming judges, civil servants, and trying to "blame the public" for shortcomings in the Home Office. "Will you tell him to stop trying to blame everyone else and get on with his job," he demanded to loud Tory cheers. But Mr Blair hit back, accusing the Tories of "talking tough in the media" but "voting soft in Parliament" on criminal justice issues. Amid mounting uproar, Mr Cameron demanded: "Why don't you understand the reason criminals aren't let out two-thirds of the way through their sentence now is because under your legislation they are let out half way through?"In the last 40 days the home secretary has blamed the judges, blamed the civil servants, tried to blame the public. "Will you tell him to stop trying to blame everyone else and get on with his job." But Mr Blair said the Tory leader was wrong again. "Since April 2005, 1,000 indeterminate sentences have been given, six have been considered for parole, none have been paroled. "On all these pieces of legislation the Tories have either voted against them, dismissed them as gimmicks, or refused to support them and tried to dilute them." He said Mr Reid would be bringing forward "further measures" and added: "Then we will have a chance to see whether you and your colleagues are prepared to back their tough talk by changing the habits of opposition and voting for the legislation that actually does the job." The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said: "The fact that these offenders have been released into the community after only a few years in prison is a direct consequence of government policy. "It is no good ministers trying to blame the judiciary or parole boards for decisions which fall squarely with the government itself. "We have long argued that sentences for serious offences should be more consistent and rigorous. This latest revelation merely undermines public confidence in our sentencing system even further."The Home Office released figures yesterday showing that 53 prisoners sentenced to life since 2000 have already been released on licence, fuelling concern over the minimum tariffs being set by the courts. But recent prison service figures show that the average time spent in prison by mandatory lifers is now 14 years - far higher than a decade ago.This revelation came after Downing Street publicly backed the home secretary, John Reid, in his row with the attorney general over the sentence passed on a convicted paedophile who kidnapped and sexually assaulted a three-year-old girl. Mr Reid had called on Lord Goldsmith to appeal the sentence of given to Craig Sweeney, on Monday, which could see the child sex offender leave jail under license after only 6 years.The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, was said to have considered Mr Reid's intervention "not helpful" and warned it might jeopardise the case as the move would be seen by the courts as political pressure on an impartial legal figure. The case is expected to accelerate a review, chaired by the lord chief justice, of the sentencing rules that permit judges to give a discount of up to one third in sentencing offenders who plead guilty at an early stage. It is expected to say that in cases where the prosecution evidence is overwhelming or the defendant was caught red-handed the discount should be cut.