By 2020 the skilled British thief will be more interested in stealing somebody's identity to gain access to various cyber-services than in breaking into homes to lift their compact disc player, says a Whitehall thinktank report.The Department of Trade and Industry "Foresight" crime prevention panel has told ministers that a national strategy to combat e-crime, or electronic crime, needs to be established within the next two years if law enforcement agencies are to keep pace with the speed with which sophisticated criminals are learning to use the new technologies. The report said that in future thieves will not be targeting hardware such as videos, televisions and mobile phones, but the spoils of e-crime - internet services, intellectual property, knowledge and data. The writers of the report, Just Around the Corner, predict that science and technology advances will lead to a sharp drop in property crime as the use of electronic "chips", coatings and tags, make it possible to brand an owner's identity on to all sorts of goods, including antiques and jewellery. In future, the authors suggest, new technology will allow thieves to take advantage of their relative anonymity to strike through the internet quickly and without trace. Their favourite targets will be not "hot property" but "hot services", particularly those which cannot be terminated by the legitimate supplier once stolen and which can be sold on to others. Electronic services, such as pre-paid no contract mobile phones, are already fitting this description. But the Whitehall panel engaged in this "blue sky" research exercise believes that by 2020 there will be more violent crime as the kind of services that criminals are interested in become harder to use for those without legitimate access. Individual victims will find themselves targeted for their pin numbers, passwords or credit card details so that thieves can get access to their electronic services. The panel, which included police officers, criminologists, scientists, and academics, says that new laws are already needed to tackle some emerging crimes. The report points out that defacing an individual's website is not a criminal offence despite the amount of damage it can cause. They also warn that it is not against the law to obtain a service by deceiving a "machine" - so there are difficulties in prosecuting those thieves who use other people's credit cards to order goods and services over the internet. The panel came up with a number of innovative ways by which science and technology could help law enforcement agencies. Among the suggestions were: • "Propinquity tags" worn by dangerous offenders released on licence. Sensors near certain locations would alert the authorities and potential victims; • Technology adapted to respond to chemical emissions to help in the detection of illegal drugs manufacture; • Alternatives to glass in doors and windows to provide intruder-resistant glazing; • A single property database on the internet, to identify stolen goods; • Dipstick devices to help people avoid drinks spiked with drugs. "If new technology offers a larger window of opportunity for crime and thereby a larger number of people who might offend, we must equally deploy new technology to reduce those opportunities," the report concludes.