A retired businessman is believed to have murdered his wife and left her body under the Christmas tree before killing himself.Detectives launched a murder investigation after Susan Goswell's body was discovered at the couple's home in West Sussex on Sunday evening.Officers had gone to the £700,000 bungalow in West Chiltington after her husband, Roger, drove his Smart car into a tree half a mile from the couple's home. When there was no answer they forced their way into the property and found the body of the retired teacher surrounded by presents and tinsel. Police yesterday refused to comment on a suggestion from neighbours that Mr Goswell - a keen golfer - may have used a golf club to kill his wife. But a spokesman confirmed that they were treating Mrs Goswell's death as murder, adding that officers did not believe anyone else was involved.A source close to the investigation said: "We are working on the assumption that the husband killed his wife and then killed himself by driving his car into a tree."Officers initially went to the address to inform the occupants of the road traffic accident, but upon arrival they found a car in the drive but no answer at the door, so officers forced entry and found the body among Christmas decorations." Yesterday a single floral tribute lay at the entrance to the couple's home.A card attached to it read: "To a loving and dedicated mother from all your children. We love you Mum x"Neighbours have expressed shock at the death of a "kind and friendly" woman.Eileen Rogers said: "It is terrible to think that this has happened just before Christmas. Susan was lovely."I didn't know Roger very well, but Susan was great fun. I can't believe it really. To have such a horrible thing happen on your doorstep is truly numbing."Other neighbours described Mr Goswell as a regular golfer.One, who did not want to be named, said: "Roger was a very keen golfer and was known at several clubs in Sussex. He could have used one of his clubs to kill his wife."Police say that Mr Goswell, who is believed to have retired about 10 years ago, appears to have attempted to kill himself by driving his car into a tree near the couple's home at about 8.50pm on Sunday. However, he survived the initial crash and was cut from the car before being taken to Worthing hospital. He was pronounced dead at about 1am on Christmas Eve.A Sussex Police spokesman said postmortem examinations were being carried out on both Mrs Goswell and her husband."The first, on the 66-year-old man who died following the road collision, took place on December 24," he said."The second, on the 63-year-old woman believed to be his wife, will take place on Boxing Day. Her death is being treated as murder."