The husband of special constable Nisha Patel-Nasri yesterday denied any involvement in her stabbing on the doorstep of their home which led to her death. Fadi Nasri, 34, is accused of arranging his wife's murder because he was having a "passionate" affair with a Lithuanian prostitute and wanted to cash in a life assurance policy because of spiralling debts. He denies murder.He told a jury at the Old Bailey that both his limousine hire business and his wife's hairdressing business were not in financial trouble, and that they were earning far more than they declared to their accountant to avoid taxes. His business earned £150,000 in the year up to April 2006, and hers made £60,000 a year. Nasri, who is on trial for murder with three other men, said he had been paying Laura Mockiene for sex, but that had turned into a relationship three months before his wife's death. He said he loved his wife and he denied killing her because he wanted to be with his new lover.He claimed that his wife had taken out their life assurance policies.The couple only declared part of their income so they did not get hit with a large tax bill, the court was told. Nasri said: "We felt that we should declare a certain amount and keep the rest back for things like holidays." The court has heard how in the months leading up to her death Nisha considered divorcing her husband. But the couple had celebrated their third wedding anniversary the night before her death. Nasri said he was in contact with his co-defendant, Rodger Leslie, 38, because he provided him with car valeting work after they met in a pub. Leslie is alleged to have orchestrated the hit. Calls between the two were simply about business or "just to see how I am", Nasri said. Five days before Nisha was stabbed, she had confronted strangers with a knife after they came to her door while she was at home alone. Nasri, who was at work that evening, said Nisha had heard the letterbox rattle as she cooked dinner and saw two men through the porch glass. Nasri said: "She was very brave in that respect. It didn't surprise me she would go out and see who was there." The prosecution allege that this was a dummy run for the killing.Nasri and Leslie, from Barnet in north London, Tony Emmanuel, 42, from East Ham, east London, and the alleged killer, Jason Jones, 36, of Manor Park, east London, all deny murder.