An emergency summit has been called by police forces involved in recent high-profile child murders to discuss the future conduct of investigations and the possible establishment of an FBI-style National Murder Squad.The summit will include officers from Sussex who solved the murder of eight-year-old Sarah Payne, detectives from Surrey still investigating the disappearance of teenager Amanda Dowler, and Cambridgeshire police working on the Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman case. Police from Essex, who have significant experience of missing persons inquiries, will also be invited.Home Office sources have told The Observer that a National Murder Squad is one option it is considering. Some sceptical senior officers believe that another new squad would amount to little more than 'rearranging the furniture' without an injection of the sort of resources enjoyed by its counterpart in the United States. The FBI has a budget of $4 billion. The British police already have the National Criminal Intelligence Service and the National Crime Squad, which were set up in the 1990s to combat serious and organised crime. Officers involved in murder inquiries also have the National Crime Faculty, which advises on investigative techniques. It was set up after the review of the Yorkshire Ripper inquiry in 1995.A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers said the organisation would keep an open mind about a National Murder Squad: 'Acpo's position is not to be against anything that is going to help. But we believe it is important to use the benefits of local forces as part of a national framework.' The four forces at the summit will urge the Government to set up a national register of missing persons, which would combine information stored in the Police National Computer and the National Missing Persons Helpline. Detectives are concerned that the present system makes it difficult to share and cross-reference information between forces. Experts believe there is a 'golden' 24-hour period after which it becomes increasingly unlikely that a missing person will be found. The summit will also look at the way the police deal with the media. It will discuss how the police should adapt to the 24-hour news culture and the growth of the electronic media without wasting valuable time. During the height of the Holly and Jessica story, Cambridgeshire Detective Chief Inspector Andrew Hebb was working full-time dealing with the media.