Police chiefs want doctors to break medical confidentiality and report patients they treat who have suffered knife or gun shot wounds, the Guardian has learned.The proposals are set to be handed to ministers by police chiefs as part of an intensified new response to tackling youth gang and gun crime.The proposals have caused concern among doctors and civil rights activists, who argue that confidentiality is the cornerstone of the doctor-patient relationship.Public and government attention refocused on the issue of gun crime after 11-year-old Rhys Jones was shot dead in Liverpool in August. Police say that Rhys's killing caused a spike in public anxiety about gun crime; the murder is still unsolved.The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) will tell the government that law enforcement alone cannot tackle the problem and that other agencies must help by changing the way they work.They also want social workers and schools to tell them of children who are, or they suspect may get, involved in gang or gun crime, and take steps to divert youngsters away from trouble.Senior police officers will argue that doctors should inform the police about patients with knife or gun wounds, even without the victim's consent.An officer involved in drawing up the plans told The Guardian: "Doctors should have a duty to inform the authorities, to have the same degree of responsibility as other citizens. You're into a tough ethical area but it needs to be done."Doctors fear such proposals would go against patient confidentiality, which is at the centre of their medical ethics. A spokesperson for the British Medical Association said: "If the victim wants the police to be called, they will be called. We don't want to see a blanket rule that a doctor should report something to the police. People won't go to hospital if they fear the first thing a doctor will do is call the police. And that won't help the police."The senior police source said: "If your ethics are about the preservation of life, then there should be at least the possibility of you telling the authorities if somebody walks in with a gun or knife wound."Police chiefs have already had initial talks with government officials.The senior police source said: "We are saying there is scope in the Hippocratic oath to inform the authorities. If there are data protection issues, the government can resolve them."But the source said police suspected some shootings would go unreported.At least 50 teenagers have been murdered in Britain this year; 11 were shot dead and most of the others were stabbed. And ministers have been told that there appears to be a ready supply of young gang members, and that victims and perpetrators of gun crime are getting younger.The senior source with intimate knowledge of Acpo's thinking and the proposals which will go to ministers within weeks said: "The problem of young people shooting other young people is the problem of somebody else other than the police. We take one out but then they are replaced. This is about more than enforcement. Those doing the shooting and those getting shot are getting younger."Acpo will also ask that social workers and schools assess which youngsters are involved with gangs or may fall into gang or gun violence.A spokesperson for the British Association of Social Workers said: "You have to take it on a case by case basis. There will be times a social worker will engage with the police."Shami Chakrabarti, director of the civil rights group Liberty, said: "It's high time that child crime initiatives moved away from pure policing and back to social services - but forcing doctors to inform on patients is madness. British teenagers should never have to treat their own gun and knife wounds for fear of being reported to the police."