With uneasy calm established and last week's cops-and-robbers narrative at last being intruded on by reality, London, like other riot-hit English cities, can start wondering where in heaven's name it's heading and how to reverse the advance of urban hell.Mayor Boris Johnson, speaking to me last Friday, agreed that the issues raised were "not simple" and could not be neatly ascribed to "wanton criminality", "Tory cuts" or anything else. "There's less excuse for averting our gaze," he said, from social troubles that have been with us for some time. A "big flat rock" had been turned over, creating an opportunity to "look at the creepy-crawlies" more closely.The stakes are high. With a mayoral election coming, every candidate will need to build recognition of the impact of the burning and looting into their visions for the capital. Johnson's promised fuller analysis is now in development, with a Telegraph column suggesting that something subtler than police "sjambok drubbings" may be required.Past form suggests a warmed-up fricassee of masculinist interventions and tellings-off for "political correctness", though it could prove to be more nuanced and nourishing. What of his main rival, Ken Livingstone? His initial statement on the riots was eagerly misrepresented by his usual foes, yet Labour's man struggled in media appearances to find a convincing synthesis of causal analysis and condemnation. Haven't we all? But he'll need to do better soon.The London of the royal wedding and the coming Olympics, a thriving metropolis relatively unscathed by the recession, has long had a subterranean flipside. This has now burst, chillingly, into public view, highlighting uncomfortable issues in its wake. Police handling of large disturbances has been questioned since the G20 demos. Respect for the Met has been besieged on many sides, with the phone-hacking scandal, resentment of stop-and-search and the deaths of Ian Tomlinson and Mark Duggan all playing their parts.Meanwhile, the poorer parts of my profoundly unequal city are marked by long-term and deepening unemployment, ruthless, territorial criminal subcultures and a sense that the London of boom and regeneration has passed them by. At the same time, those living there are being required to pay for the delinquencies of the London of financial powerhouses, an imposition that hardly strengthens respect for authority. Housing shortages and overcrowding remain entrenched. Violent offending against young people has risen in the past three years, whatever the mayor claims to the contrary.The riots will, I hope, supply the bitter consolation of obliging London's politicians to acknowledge more candidly that the great megacity has failed a great many who live there. Which of them will adjust most vividly to the new mood in the capital and devise policies that capture it? Can the Liberal Democrat candidate, once chosen, or the Green Party's Jenny Jones do better? There is an opportunity for all, not least because of the historic similarities between the two big beasts vying for command of City Hall.The characterisation of Ken versus Boris as a bedrock struggle between extremes of left and right has always been a distorting oversimplification. The constraining powers of the job limit the scope for such a polarisation and, anyway, there's significant common ground. Both men hold to the conventional view that more police equals less crime, believe uncritically in the Giuliani "miracle" and support stop-and-search. Both are evangelists for the grand projet of the Olympics. Both are fervent champions of growth.The differences between Johnson's newly published London Plan, the capital's master document on spatial evolution, and the Livingstone one it has replaced have caused a distinguished London academic to note that in some ways "Red" Ken seems the more pro-business and development.It suddenly feels as though a whole dimension has gone missing, one that gives due emphasis to the need for a megacity to be tranquil as well as productive if it is to truly succeed. Reflecting on the UK riots, planning expert Wouter Vanstiphout wrote last week:"Urban politics … are too often treating the city with ulterior motives, instead of actually working for the city itself. The city has become a tool to achieve goals, political, cultural, economic or even environmental … But, if we imagined another kind of urban politics, one that does not take into account a marketable image of the city, but the reality of the entire community, it would probably have entirely different priorities."London must stop planning simply for growth, for efficiency or for aspiration. It must start planning for serenity too.