The family of a murdered black musician were furious last night at the police complaints watchdog's revelation that just two junior Metropolitan police officers would be informally rebuked over the bungled investigation into the man's death.Michael Menson, 30, the son of a Ghanaian diplomat, was set alight by a racist gang in north London in 1997. He died two weeks later. A Cambridgeshire police investigation found that the initial Met investigation was "unprofessional, uncoordinated, in part negligent, at best inept". The inquiry also found that despite evidence to the contrary, the Met insisted for 18 months that Mr Menson, who had a history of mental illness, had set himself alight and altered witness statements to back this theory. David Petch, of the Independent Police Complaints Commission, said yesterday: "A number of officers prematurely reached the conclusion [that] self harm rather than assault was the cause of death. This thesis was stubbornly maintained even when subsequent evidence suggested it might be mistaken."Officers failed to follow up important forensic material, missed chances to interview the victim, and did not record the attack as possibly racist until two months later.The duty officer did not attend and supervise the scene of the attack on the night, and police liaison with the Menson family was very poor. Four men, one of whom had fled to northern Cyprus, were eventually convicted, one of murder, two of manslaughter and one of perverting the course of justice, but only after a fresh inquiry was launched. According to a report by the Police Complaints Authority, a Met officer referred to Mr Menson as a "fucking black schizophrenic" while talking to a pathologist during his inquest, and Cambridgeshire police said there was evidence to suggest officers were swayed by racial prejudice.Yesterday, the IPCC, which replaced the PCA, agreed there had been serious failings in the investigation. But it said there was insufficient evidence to conclude that the inquiry was affected by racism and it ruled that two officers were to be "admonished". The IPCC admitted that a further seven officers, including two senior officers, were at fault, and said it would have pushed for a disciplinary hearing against four of them, but all had now retired or left the police force. Mr Menson's brother, Kwesi Menson, said his family had waited seven years for an answer as to why the police had been so determined to deny Michael's murder. "Instead of acting on the evidence, they concocted a suicide theory, tampered with evidence and had us, the family, investigated by special branch," he said. "Senior officers were allowed to retire even though they were under investigation." Tony Murphy, the Menson family's solicitor, said: "It is an indictment of the police complaints system that senior officers can still evade accountability by retiring on a full pension." Mr Petch said: "I appreciate how painful the memories must be for Michael Menson's family as I take this final decision. Had it not been for their resilience after the inquest verdict of unlawful killing, the case might not have reached a proper conclusion." The Met issued a statement yesterday saying that the police force of today was very different from that of 1997. It had introduced large-scale procedural changes with regard to dealing with racist incidents, murder investigation and family liaison. But Deborah Coles, of the campaigning charity Inquest, said it was "obvious that Mr Menson's colour had influenced the Met inquiry". She added that it was particularly disturbing that police officers who had been accused of the most appalling negligence remained unaccountable and unpunished by a supposedly independent police complaints system.