The Glasgow journalist who suffered from a torrent of abuse after editing a book about Rangers football club has spoken of the bizarre and vicious reaction to her work.In a Sunday Herald interview, headlined "'I am a victim of anti-Irish racism,' says Scots writer", Angela Haggerty reflects on the hatred exposed by the incident.Here is the sequence of events: Haggerty edited a book entitled Downfall: How Rangers FC Self-Destructed by the Irish-based journalist Phil Mac Giolla Bhain, which was published in September last year.Despite its factual nature, some Rangers fans regard any critical analysis of the club's affairs as unacceptable and used social media and blogs to launch personal attacks on both Mac Giolla Bhain and Haggerty.Much of their bile exhibited both racial (anti-Irish) and religious (anti-Catholic) prejudice. And one of those fans, David Limond, used a podcast on his Rangers chat website on 20 September to refer to Haggerty as "Taig of the day" with several expletive-laden epithets and a call to his listeners to "hit her with all you've got."Within minutes, Haggerty began receiving abuse tweets calling her a Fenian and a Provo. The Scottish police were slow to act, but eventually Limond was arrested and charged with "sending a threatening communication aggravated by racial and religious prejudice." He was found guilty of the offence at Ayr sheriff court last month and last week was sentenced to six months in prison. Sheriff Scott Pattison told Limond his broadcast was "not only vile, it was racist and religious".Most of the Scottish mainstream media ignored the story when it broke, but the jailing of Limond has awakened an interest, as the Sunday Herald interview with Haggerty illustrates. It has also referred to the anti-Irish nature of the abuse, something of a first for a major paper in Scotland.Haggerty is quoted by the paper as saying of the podcast and the following tweets:"It was vicious. You suddenly feel very isolated and targeted, that there is a group of people out there that have a genuine hatred for you and that's quite intimidating. Downfall was the first real professional work I had done and I was really proud of it, and really excited about it, so to suddenly have all this was a shock to the system."She also pointed out that many fans have refused to back down since Limond was sentenced:"They responded bizarrely and continued to call me names... There was even a 'Free Limmy' hashtag... as if people think there's been some great injustice done to him and I've played the victim card."Haggerty, who works for The Drum website magazine, also said, most notably: "There's a reluctance in Scotland to talk about anti-Irish racism - everything gets lumped under the sectarian banner when it's not actually tackling the problem."I know this was a podcast called 'Rangers chat', but this wasn't about Celtic or Rangers. I don't think anything in that podcast was related to football other than the fact I'd edited the book on Rangers. It was about how I looked, it was about my religion, it was about my ethnic background - those kinds of things."Haggerty is descended from Irish immigrants to Scotland on both sides of her family.Source: Sunday Herald