A coroner said today that he would widen his inquiries to examine allegations that "failures in the system" allowed an obsessed stalker out on bail to shoot dead a London beauty consultant.Westminster coroner Paul Knapman ordered further inquiries into the killing last year of Clare Bernal, 22, at the Harvey Nichols department store where she worked in south-west London.Ms Bernal was shot dead in September by Michal Pech, who she had briefly dated, after he crept up behind her at one of the store's beauty counters. Pech, a 30-year-old with dual Czech and Slovakian nationality, then turned the gun on himself. Dr Knapman said he would write to four public authorities asking them to answer criticisms raised by Ms Bernal's mother, Patricia. He would ask the Metropolitan police service, the Crown Prosecution Service, HM Revenue and Customs and the Department for Constitutional Affairs to explain the alleged failures in the system that allowed Pech to kill. At a hearing in November, Dr Knapman recorded a verdict of suicide on Pech and adjourned Ms Bernal's inquest until today. There is a dispute between Ms Bernal's parents about whether the inquest should be extended. Westminster coroner's court today heard that the murdered woman's father, Martin Bernal, was opposed to the extension.In a letter to the coroner he said: "I strongly urge you to close the inquest as soon as possible for the sake of my two sons, James and Phil, myself and all of Clare's family and friends, who are grieving her loss and who would like early closure in order to try to move on."After submissions from barrister Joshua Dubin, who is acting on behalf of Ms Bernal's mother, Dr Knapman agreed to widen the scope of his enquiry."With no enthusiasm whatsoever, and with my apologies to Mr Bernal and his two sons, I shall reconvene this inquest after I have contacted various public authorities and made inquiries from them."Having allowed sufficient time for their replies I will contact the interested parties." At the hearing in November, Ms Bernal had said she was concerned the police may have overlooked vital evidence about the state of mind of her daughter's killer.She said that authorities may have been negligent in failing to stop him importing a handgun. "I thought the police had it in hand and that she was safe," Ms Bernal told the coroner in November. "That was my mistake."Pech, who worked as a soldier before coming to the UK, was high on cocaine when he walked into the Knightsbridge store and shot Ms Bernal. The first shot hit her in the back of the head. As she lay on the floor, Pech fired three more bullets at her. One hit just below her eye, another on her left cheek and the third at the point of her chin. He fired another shot into the ceiling before putting the Luger pistol to his own right temple and pulling the trigger.Ms Bernal's relationship with Pech, who was working as a security guard at the store, lasted for three weeks at the start of last year. But after they split, he became obsessed and started stalking her. On April 4, he was suspended from his job and two days later he was arrested but released on bail after the CPS decided not to charge him. A few days later he turned up outside Ms Bernal's house in breach of his bail conditions and was arrested and charged with harassment. He spent eight days in Belmarsh prison before being bailed again on April 19 with conditions which included not contacting his ex-girlfriend. Pech's case was put off for 18 weeks but his passport was not taken away and at the end of April he went to Slovakia where he legally applied for a gun licence and bought a Luger pistol on July 20. He returned with the pistol by coach on August 11, but customs failed to pick up that he had a weapon. The coroner said today he would be asking HM Revenue and Customs what actions were taken to prevent weapons being brought into the country by coach.After returing to the UK, Pech attended Tower Bridge magistrates court on August 31 and pleaded guilty to harassing Ms Bernal. But he was bailed again, until September 21, while a pre-sentence report was prepared. Eight days before that he committed the murder. The inquest into Ms Bernal's death was adjourned until May 8.