The chief inspector of probation has called for the five separate inspectorates of the criminal justice system to be merged into a single body. Rod Morgan said that the inspectorates covering the police, courts, probation, prisons and the crown prosecution service were too often seen in Whitehall as "lumbering carthorses" often outmanoeuvred by the "racehorse" of the audit commission. "We have not been the best communicators in the world," Morgan said in the annual Bill McWilliams memorial lecture, the principal such event in the probation calendar. "Our reports are too long, technical and prolix. They look old-fashioned. We are not smart communicators. The audit commission does it better." Although the inspectorates' reports might be read in detail by the senior managers of the units and areas scrutinised, they did not make any great impact on the public at large or ministers in particular, Morgan argued. "With the backing of a ministerial nod and a wink, the audit commission had moved into criminal justice territory and 'outsmarted us by undertaking intensive, rapid, thematic reviews to which can be attached much greater publicity, resources and flair'." The suggestion of a merged criminal justice inspectorate is bound to prove controversial. Morgan envisages a body that would take on the relevant role of the audit commission, as well as the roles of the five inspectorates, along the lines of the new healthcare and social care commissions. With 200-300 staff, he said, it could provide a rigorously independent check even if it meant unpopularity with its political masters. The first joint criminal justice inspection will take place in Gloucestershire this autumn, looking at the way the system operates "across the piece". Other joint thematic exercises are to follow. But the current structure does not allow that approach to be replicated nationally. "I think it is unlikely, in the short term at least, that my arguments for a single criminal justice inspectorate will be widely supported," Morgan conceded. But he added: "It will undoubtedly stir up controversies, but perhaps we should hang on to some of my propositions."