Five men have now been sentenced for their part in a major terror plot, following an extensive investigation by the Metropolitan police codenamed Operation Crevice. One mystery, however, remains: why, of all the potential names for a major operation, choose "Crevice"? By what system does the Met select these appellations?It's tempting to believe that each name is somehow significant: that "Crevice" refers to the location of a particularly uncomfortable bugging device, or that Trident (gun crime) and Maxim (human trafficking) were picked to highlight some privately relished irony. One might imagine there is good reason why the Met's investigation following the poisoning of the Russian dissident Alexander Litvinenko was christened Operation Whimbrel (a bird of the curlew family), but divining any sort of pattern is impossible, not least because we don't know the names of all the operations in operation.From the available evidence, it seems unlikely that a repeating alphabetical system, like the one for naming hurricanes, is used. While a degree of secrecy may sometimes be the object, the obscurity of the name is not always a good indicator of an operation's status: Operation Vaniah (in the Bible, one of the sons of Bani, who makes a single appearance at the end of the book of Ezra) is an initiative aimed at reducing vehicle crime in the Sutton area."We have a unit that works through various words, from Greek gods through to dictionary words," says a spokesman from New Scotland Yard. "The key thing is that we try not to use words that are offensive."He goes on to say that the unit seeks out words that are "appropriate", though not necessarily linked to the nature of the investigation - sometimes deliberately so, because the operation is secret. Could anyone from this mysterious Unit for Operational Nomenclature shed more light on the process? "No, not really," says the Met. "I think that's as close to an answer as you're going to get, I'm afraid. We've never really discussed it in the past." One is made to feel that one has wasted enough police time for one day.