The widow of murdered headmaster Philip Lawrence today spoke of her "extreme upset" at being asked to apologise to her husband's killer.Frances Lawrence, a 51-year-old mother of four, told how a probation officer rang her at home and said that Learco Chindamo, the man who killed her husband, was "upset" because she had criticised his apparent lack of remorse on a television programme. Mrs Lawrence said that the officer claimed an apology would make Chindamo "feel happier" when he came before his parole board. Mr Lawrence was stabbed to death in 1996 by Chindamo, then 15, outside his school, St George's RC comprehensive school in west London. Mr Lawrence was trying to help one of his pupils, who was being attacked. Chindamo was jailed for life at a subsequent trial. The Home Office said that the actions of the probation officer had been "entirely inappropriate". Mrs Lawrence said today: "I was very shocked after I heard the whole thing and it was very surreal. She [the probation officer] said it was because he [Chindamo] would be very upset at his lifer board." She added: "I was shocked and I said that I was not going to say anything to her and would take the matter further, which I did." Mrs Lawrence said the probation service was distressed that the incident had occurred and had apologised. She expressed the hope that this kind of practice had not happened to anyone else. Mrs Lawrence added: "She [the probation officer] left a message on the answering machine for my children to hear which I was not happy about at all. She was direct and very cross with me on the phone." She said: "I was very much alarmed by the request rather than thinking about my actual response. I was extremely upset." She told the Daily Mail she had raised the matter with the home secretary, David Blunkett. "I was happy with his response. There will be a change in organisation and guidelines that will stop this happening to other people," she told the paper. A Home Office spokesman said: "The national probation service places great importance on its duty to victims. However this contact, which took place over six months ago, was entirely inappropriate. "The chief probation officer of the area concerned and a representative of the national probation service have since visited Mrs Lawrence to apologise for this mistake. An internal investigation was conducted and appropriate action was taken with regard to the officer concerned."