Five men who raced along a residential road at up to 60mph were today found guilty of the manslaughter of a bank worker who was thrown from his bicycle and killed.Graham Thwaites, a 51-year-old father of two, was yards from his home when he was knocked into the air by a Mitsubishi Shogun driven by Andrew Carlisle.The vehicle had careered out of control after being shunted by a Vauxhall Vectra which had been "jostling" with it along the road in Orpington, Kent.Mark Heywood QC, prosecuting, said there had been a "great deal of animosity" between the occupants of the two cars. Carlisle later told police the animosity had been caused by a dispute over the price of a rottweiler.Thwaites, an administrator at the Lloyds TSB headquarters in the City of London, suffered "catastrophic" injuries after being thrown against the car before hitting a garden wall in September 2008, the Old Bailey heard.He was riding back from Petts Wood railway station to the home where he and his wife, Hazel, had lived for 23 years when he was hit by Carlisle's vehicle.Carlisle, 35, of Mottingham, south London, was found guilty of manslaughter along with Shane Webb, 24, of Dartford, Kent, who was driving the Vectra.Webb's cousin, George Webb, 27, of Orpington, William Dennard, 24, of Darenth, Kent, and David Cook, 24, of Orpington, who were passengers in the Vectra, were also convicted of the charge.Heywood told the court: "These five men played out the grievances between themselves on the public highway in two powerful motor vehicles."The court heard the two vehicles had driven for about three-quarters of a mile at up to 60mph along the "leafy residential road", where the speed limit was 30mph."They jostled for position in the road," Heywood said. "They paid no heed to other users of the road. They were interested only in their own immediate purpose."Those in the second car drove so hard and in such a way that the front of their own vehicle hit the back of the one they were following."They hit that car not once but twice over that short distance of three-quarters of a mile. All of this ended, as it was bound to end, in tragedy. It ended in death, but not for them."The man who died didn't know them. He had never heard of any of them. He knew nothing of their fight or petty grievances. It is probable that he didn't even see them coming."Jurors agreed with the prosecution's allegation that all five men were criminally responsible for his death, either by their own driving or by encouragement.There was a scuffle between Carlisle and the other defendants as they were taken down after being remanded in custody by Judge Brian Barker, the Common Serjeant of London. Sentencing was adjourned until 15 July for reports.The victim's widow was in court with her children Nick and Laura as the verdicts were returned.She said: "This senseless act of driving cost Graham his life. He is missed by all of his family and friends."Detective Inspector Mark Cam said: "Mr Thwaites lost his life because Carlisle, Dennard, Cook and the Webbs were intent on airing their personal grievances out on a public road."They all drove dangerously, recklessly, above the speed limit, and without any consideration for members of the public."This wasn't simply a case of bad driving, it was manslaughter, and I am pleased with today's verdicts."I hope it goes some small way to providing comfort to Mr Thwaites's family, who have acted with great dignity throughout this investigation."