A British pensioner was yesterday convicted of trying to pull off one of the biggest frauds in history, using $2.5 trillion worth of faked US government bonds.Graham Halksworth, 68, who has 45 years' experience in the forensic science industry, was paid to authenticate bonds he knew were fake, Snaresbrook crown court was told. Also convicted was a former Yugoslav secret agent, Michael Slamaj, 56, who was part of a ring of criminals who used the fake bonds to obtain credit. The two were warned by the judge they faced "substantial custodial sentences" at the sentencing on October 31. The scam was uncovered after police received a tip-off from the Hong Kong authorities that Halksworth was churning out certificates authenticating the fake bonds from a central London office. He was arrested after detectives raided a vault he kept at the HSBC bank in Holborn Circus, central London, and found more than $2 trillion worth of bonds. The pensioner from Mossley, Manchester, claimed the bonds were genuine and were secretly issued by the US in 1934 to fund covert operations. Slamaj, a self-confessed conspiracy theorist, said the prosecution was a US plot to ensure the treasury would never have to redeem the bonds. Both he and Halksworth insisted that Washington had sent the bonds to the anti-Communist Chinese leader Chiang Kai-shek in the 1940s. They said the plane crashed in the Philippines and the bonds lay undiscovered in the jungle for decades, not surfacing until Slamaj made a trip there in the early 1990s. But a host of American and British experts dismissed the conspiracy theory. "There is no way the United States issued these bonds," said a US secret service agent, Lorelei Pagano. The court heard that the plot was riddled with mistakes. Some of the bonds were printed with the words 100 million dollar, rather than dollars, and the postcodes on them had never been issued. Experts testified that they were printed with ink-jet printers in the 1980s. A British solicitor, Michael Segan, contacted police after Slamaj asked him to sell the bonds at a knock-down rate. "As soon as they mentioned the figures involved I realised that this would have bought the planet twice over, and I knew they were conmen," he told the court. Police arrested Slamaj but released him on bail. He immediately went to the Metropolitan Safety Deposit Box Ltd in Belgravia and tried to persuade the safekeeper, retired army major John Llewalan-Davisto, to help him drill into the safe, telling him he had lost the key to his deposit box. Unknown to him the police were already there, trawling through $150bn of bonds he had stashed there along with various incriminating papers. He was immediately arrested. Slamaj was found guilty of one count of conspiring to defraud between June 2000 and March 2002, and one count of possessing faked bonds with intent. Halksworth was convicted of conspiring to defraud but cleared of a separate charge of knowingly inducing somebody to accept the bonds between January 2000 and August 2002. In his forensic career, Halksworth has authenticated 5,000 historical documents for clients including the Chinese and German governments. He also helped to issue bonds for the HSBC bank and the Bank of England. Postponing the sentencing for reports, the judge, William Birtles, granted bail to Halksworth, who was said to suffer serious health problems, but remanded Slamaj, a resident of Vancouver, in custody.