London's pervading knife culture is rapidly turning into one of the capital's worst crime problems, the outgoing Scotland Yard boss Sir John Stevens has warned.The Metropolitan Police commissioner said the growing fashion for carrying knives was "extremely worrying" and that police must tackle it head-on. Met figures revealed an 18% rise in knife-related crime last year. Knives were used in 6,600 crimes in London in the 12 months to May 2004, 80% of which were carried out by teenagers. Officers have already conducted planned searches with large walk-through scanners, but Sir John is keen to introduce smaller hand-held scanners for use in schools, outside pubs and clubs, and in trouble hotspots. "The key to this is our neighbourhood policing teams," he said. "It's not quite Dixon of Dock Green, but it's certainly more akin to the type of policing I remember when I started on the beat in 1962." The Guardian spoke to Sir John before his retirement from the top job in British policing next Monday. He will be succeeded by his deputy, Sir Ian Blair, and Lancashire's chief constable, Paul Stephenson, will move into the deputy commissioner's seat. Sir John said the biggest change in policing since he began his 43-year career was the huge increase in accountability. But the man credited with dragging the Met out of the gutter, where it lay when he took over as commissioner five years ago, battered by charges of institutional racism in the wake of the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence, said there was still a long way to go. "We were the first organisation in the country to be found guilty of institutional racism and gross negligence in a murder investigation, but everyone accepts we have moved on light years from Lawrence," he said. "We've doubled the number of ethnic minority officers in the Met in last four years - to almost 7%. But no one can be satisfied with that. We need to get it up to 15-20% as soon as possible, and we have enough people wanting to join the Met to do that. When I became commissioner five years ago, we could only recruit 60 people a month. Now it's 60 a day." Sir John, a jovial, no-nonsense "coppers' copper", is widely recognised as having heralded a highly successful morale-boosting era at Scotland Yard, characterised by an overall fall in crime and a rise in the number of murders solved. But if institutional racism was the dominant theme of the start of his tenure, international terrorism is surely that of its close, and he is convinced it will remain so for many years to come. He has "absolutely no regrets" about his dire warning last March that a major terror attack on London was "inevitable". "I told it as it is," he says. "There can be no complacency. Our job is to thwart these attacks and the fact that we have stopped eight potential atrocities demonstrates how well we are doing." The most poignant memory of his time as Met commissioner came at the memorial service for the 67 British victims of the 9/11 attacks. "We were in Westminster Abbey when I decided to count the relatives and friends of the dead as they filed past," he says. "I lost count at 950 when I turned to Dave Veness [Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad chief] next to me and said 'That's how important our job is. One mistake and see how many people suffer'." Sir John has trodden a difficult path, trying to keep the trust of the Muslim community, which has been badly shaken by high profile terror arrests. He faced more criticism this week when his officers arrested four Guantánamo Bay detainees on their return to the UK. But he insisted the Met's relationship with British Muslims was largely positive and that only a very small minority did not support the police. "I've spent time visiting mosques, meeting local representatives, and it's essential that my successor continues this," he said. While he will no longer be involved in day-to-day policing after his retirement, Sir John will continue to work on the inquiries into Princess Diana's death, and security force collusion with terrorists in Northern Ireland. Policing has been a job he relished from the off, despite the misgivings of his father, an airline pilot. "I've had 43 glorious years, despite more than a few sleepless nights," he says. "I remember my first arrest: three men who molested a young woman on the Tottenham Court Road. I lay awake all night before I was due to testify against them, but they pleaded guilty so I needn't have worried. "When I started, my only ambition was to make detective and join the flying squad. I never in my wildest dreams thought I'd end up in this [commissioner's] office." Now, at 62, Sir John is still reaching new heights. He intends to join another elite flying squad and follow in his father's footsteps - by qualifying for his commercial pilot's licence.The CV Born  1942 in Kent  Education  Leicester and Southampton universities  Career  1962 joined the Metropolitan Police, rising to detective chief superintendent 1986 assistant chief constable, Hampshire 1989 deputy chief constable, Cambridgeshire 1991 chief constable, Northumbria 1996 HM Inspector of Constabulary 1998 deputy commissioner, Metropolitan Police 2000 commissioner, Metropolitan Police and received knighthood