A unified, national 'corrections service' is expected to be set up by David Blunkett, the home secretary, following an internal government review being considered by ministers.Ministers intend to bring together the London headquarters of the Prison Service and the National Probation Service, but keep apart local prison and probation services. The joint Downing Street, Treasury and Home Office review team is also believed to have concluded that jail should be reserved for serious and dangerous offenders. The team recommends more extensive use of electronic tagging and tracking for persistent offenders involved in minor crime, with the more serious offenders facing intensive probation rehabilitation programmes, and low-risk offenders made to pay fines. However, the government says it does not intend to publish the report by the review team, which was chaired by the millionaire businessman Patrick Carter, who insisted the controversial report be classified "private advice to ministers". Mr Blunkett will instead announce his response next month without making the report public. The home secretary's criminal justice bill, which is about to reach the statute book, urges the courts to make much greater use of community sentences for minor offenders as an alternative to ineffective, short jail terms. The Probation Service is therefore facing a period of rapid expansion. The review report is expected to say that a new structure is needed to "deliver high-quality services, with better value for money, and "create the right incentives" for innovation. Home Office officials have already started looking for an alternative to the prison and probation services' headquarters at Cleland House and Abell House in Westminster. Martin Narey, the former director general of the Prison Service, has been appointed to a new post - commissioner for correctional services - overseeing policy in both areas with the rank of permanent secretary in the Home Office. The Carter review comes as the problem of overcrowding in jails continues unabated. Inmate numbers have soared again, to more than 74,300, and budget cuts have led to governors being asked to consider charging visitors for using car parks, cutting down on conferences, and even saving money on supplying postage stamps to prisoners. For the first time reconviction rates for women match those for men, with a majority, 55%, returning to crime within two years of release. A report from the Fawcett Society, to be published this week, is expected to conclude that women are increasingly turning to serious and violent crime because they have been brutalised by violence. The inquiry, led by the Labour MP and barrister, Vera Baird, says there has been a sharp increase in convictions for robbery and violence, with the number of women serving 10 years or more, but short of life, rising sixfold in the past 10 years. Reportedly half of these offenders said they had been violently assaulted by their partners and a third said they had suffered sexual abuse.