An eight-month investigation into the controversial Metropolitan police commander Brian Paddick that was sparked by allegations of drug taking ended yesterday with the officer being ticked off for a minor flouting of police rules.The announcement from the Metropolitan police authority means that Mr Paddick, 44, has been cleared of any serious wrongdoing by three different bodies - the MPA, the crown prosecution service and the police complaints authority.Mr Paddick, whose supporters say he has been the victim of a homophobic witchhunt, said yesterday he had been needlessly put "through eight months of hell". The MPA announcement came after it decided against convening a disciplinary panel to consider claims made in a tabloid newspaper that Mr Paddick had smoked 100 cannabis joints. It ruled there was no evidence to substantiate the allegations which were made by his former partner James Renolleau, who sold his story of their life together to the Mail on Sunday for £100,000. The MPA was also considering whether to take action against Mr Paddick for his failure to tell senior officers that Mr Renolleau was smoking the drug. His former partner was on bail facing criminal charges when they first met seven years ago, a fact Mr Paddick should have reported to his superiors. But the authority concluded that Mr Paddick had not behaved in a way that "justified the imposition of a sanction". Instead the MPA has warned him informally that if he finds himself in this position again, he should "seek guidance from a senior officer". "The case will not be referred to a tribunal hearing," an MPA statement added. "The MPA has provided feedback and comment to Commander Paddick. [He] has been advised about his future conduct in respect of the issues raised in the [PCA] report. The matter is now closed." Yesterday's decision ends a desperate year for Mr Paddick, who consistently protested his innocence. "The police authority has said that even if any of the matters were proved against me, they would not have justified the imposition of any sanction, not even a reprimand," he said yesterday. "Why have I been through eight months of hell, if that is the case?" The Mail on Sunday's "kiss and tell" story led to Mr Paddick, the Met's most senior openly gay officer, being moved from his post in Lambeth, south London. As borough commander, he pioneered a "softly-softly" ap proach to cannabis possession, arguing that arresting offenders was a waste of resources when the borough had a serious class A drug problem. But critics of the policy questioned his judgment, sparking a national debate that raged until the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced that he intended to downgrade cannabis from class B to class C. A modified form of the Lambeth experiment has now been extended across the capital. Mr Paddick further riled his detractors by frequently contributing to a radical online website, urban75, which is based in Brixton. This earned him a rebuke from the commissioner, Sir John Stevens. But it was the far more damaging claims of Mr Renolleau that threatened Mr Paddick's career. He alleged that the 44-year-old commander had smoked cannabis on 100 occasions at the flat they shared in Westminster. But when Mr Renolleau, a former male model, was interviewed by the police complaints authority, he offered no evidence to support his claims that Mr Paddick used cannabis. The crown prosecution service ruled last month there was insufficient evidence to charge Mr Paddick with using the drug, and said it would not be in the public interest to prosecute him for allowing cannabis to be smoked in his home. Yesterday's MPA announcement means Mr Paddick has been cleared of any serious wrongdoing, although the Met decided last month that he would be moved to a job within a new intelligence unit. In an email to supporters Mr Paddick hinted that if he was not returned to Lambeth he might consider legal action.