Less than a fortnight ago, the Lord Mayor of Belfast - a Sinn Fein councillor and former Republican prisoner - announced that in spirited defiance of the economic downturn, 2009 would be "a year like no other in the city's history". Huge development of the area in recent years - amounting, Tom Hartley said, to £500m of investment - had turned it into a "vibrant city, fully of opportunity, creativity and change".Nowhere is Belfast's self-styled reinvention from sorry, fire-damaged shell to glamour destination more apparent than at Victoria Square, the enormous monument to retail glee that opened less than a year ago in the city centre. Belfast residents who remember the dark old days still blink that they live in a city flashy enough for this kind of place - or that anyone would ever build a structure here using so much glass.But at 4pm yesterday, even with the schools having already spilled their teenagers onto the streets, there was little vibrancy. The shopping centre was conspicuously empty, its canned music echoing around cavernous corridors.For William Moore, a 21-year-old from Antrim, shopping with his younger brother Andrew, one explanation was obvious. The pair don't come to Belfast often, he said, and feel nervous being there, but three murders in as many days had intensified their unease. "People are scared. We're scared," he said. "Nobody wants to go back to the Troubles."To the Good Friday generation, with little memory of Ulster's once exhausting bloodshed, the killings have been incredibly shocking, said Andrew. "A lot of people would think this would be quite normal years ago, but I have just been blown away by it. It's horrific." Driving through Antrim town, scene of the barracks attack, late on Saturday night, his first thought, when confronted with road blocks and dozens of police officers, was that someone famous was in town. To three 16-year-olds in Cornmarket, it all seemed a little too surreal to take in. "It's bad," said Eadaoin. "But I don't think it will get as bad as last time." Why not? "Because we don't want it to." "My mum told me stories about it," said her friend Orlaith, "One time she was in town and a bomb went off near her and there was rubble all over the road."But for all those still young enough to be shocked by murder, there are plenty for whom the language of violence remains all too familiar, and yesterday they dusted off the rusty phrases - "tit for tat", "reprisal" - to express their own nervousness about the apparent vulnerability of Belfast's peace swagger."If they don't get a quick result this could escalate very quickly," said Michael, a taxi driver from east Belfast. "It could slowly slip ... not back to where we were. I don't think it will go back to where we were. Mind you, I've been wrong before. I hope it won't go back to what it was."The most persuasive argument against such a collapse, he said, was the shiny structure in front of him. "Look at this street. It was nothing 10 years ago. Nobody wants to go back."A hundred yards or so away, a police Land Rover was attracting occasional glances from shoppers. The three officers alongside it were wearing flak jackets, each with a handgun at their hip. Inside the van, however, was a weeping, tracksuited boy of about 12, while one of the policemen was helping an elderly man with breathing difficulties to walk. For the time being Belfast was managing, just, to hang on to banal normality.