Home Secretary David Blunkett yesterday launched an inquiry into the release from prison of a burglar shot in the leg by farmer Tony Martin.Supporters of Martin, who has become a cause célèbre for anti-crime campaigners, claimed that the early release of Brendon Fearon, 33, last Friday was part of a vendetta against the farmer by the prison and probation services. Blunkett's intervention came against a backdrop of increasing bitterness surrounding the release of the 58-year-old Norfolk farmer, who was jailed for life for the murder of 16-year-old Fred Barras. Barras broke into Martin's Fenland farmhouse with Fearon in August 1999. The conviction was reduced to manslaughter on appeal. Martin is due to be released tomorrow after serving three years of a five-year sentence. Martin's MP Henry Bellingham said it was 'grossly insensitive' to release Fearon just three days before Martin was due to leave prison. 'Every obstacle has been put in Tony Martin's way at a high level in the prison and probation service because he has struck a chord with the wider public,' he said. Bellingham demanded an assurance from the Home Secretary that the timing of the two releases was a coincidence. Blunkett has asked Prison Service chief Phil Wheatley to provide a report by tomorrow showing how Fearon's date was calculated, and whether the timing of Martin's sentence was taken into account. Fearon left Ranby prison, Nottinghamshire, after serving less than a third of an 18-month sentence for heroin dealing. He was released under the government's Home Detention Curfew system, designed to reduce the rocketing prison population by releasing minor criminals early on electronic tags. Fearon now plans to sue Martin for damages for lost earnings using the Legal Aid system. Prisons Minister Paul Goggins said last night: 'I have absolutely no reason to believe that the Prison Service acted improperly, but in view of the high-profile nature of this case I will be asking the head of the Prison Service to report to the Home Secretary on Monday on the detailed circumstances.' While Fearon walked free last Friday, Martin was being moved from Highpoint prison in Suffolk to a secret location, thought to be a police cell. The farmer's supporters argue that while Fearon was released at the earliest possible moment, Martin was refused parole six months ago for failing to show remorse. Peter Sainsbury, general secretary of the POW Trust, a charity supporting Martin, said: 'If it is a coincidence, it seems incredible. Tony Martin has been denied basic human rights like home visits and parole, and now he has been taken away. That does not happen to other high profile prisoners.' Meanwhile friends and neighbours have dropped plans for a welcome home party amid fears for his safety and doubts over when he will finally be allowed to return. His friends had wanted to hang banners from a bridge in the centre of Wisbech near his home at Emneth Hungate and line the roads with yellow ribbons. But plans have now been scaled down, said Malcolm Starr, Martin's biggest supporter. 'I have been approached by people across the country wanting to send donations for one large celebration,' he said. 'But we simply don't know when he'll be back.'