A British man arrested over the murder of his American wife and baby daughter agreed today to be extradited to the United States.Neil Entwistle, 27, an unemployed computer programmer originally from Worksop, is accused of shooting his wife Rachel in the head before turning the handgun on nine-month-old Lillian at their home in Massachusetts three weeks ago. At Bow Street magistrates court in central London today, Mr Entwistle's lawyer said his client wished to be returned to the US "as soon as possible". Mr Entwistle, who wore grey tracksuit bottoms and a black sweatshirt in court, listened carefully as district judge Anthony Evans told him that his decision to waive his right to extradition proceedings was irrevocable. "You are agreeing to be sent immediately to the US," the judge said.Mr Entwistle nodded and replied: "That's right, yes."No application for bail was made, and Mr Evans said: "I remand you in custody pending your removal to the United States." Mr Entwistle was arrested yesterday in central London by officers from Scotland Yard's extradition unit. He is also charged with illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition.Prosecutors in Massachusetts speculated yesterday that the killings had been part of an intended murder and suicide by a man with serious financial problems. It is alleged he shot his wife and daughter before fleeing to Britain. He did not attend their funeral last week when they were buried together in a single coffin. After his arrest, detectives from Nottinghamshire police searched the home of his parents, Cliff and Yvonne Entwistle, where he had been staying.The family of Rachel Entwistle said yesterday that "Rachel and Lillian loved Neil very much" and added that they found what had happened "incomprehensible". The bodies of Rachel and Lillian were found on January 22 after Rachel's family became worried because she was not answering the door. An initial search by local police failed to find the bodies, which were covered by bedding and pillows. Rachel had been killed by a single shot to the head and Lillian by a single shot to the abdomen."At this time, authorities believe that Neil Entwistle shot and killed his wife and daughter in the house that they were renting in Hopkinton," said a statement issued by the local Middlesex county lawyer, Martha Coakley.Ms Coakley stressed at a press conference in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that Mr Entwistle was innocent until proven guilty, but outlined what the prosecuting authorities believed might have happened."Some of the background to this may be that Neil Entwistle, having entered into some debt obligations in England, having moved to this country with his new wife and child intending to start businesses, which as many of you know were not effective ... may have found himself in financial difficulties."It was believed that Mr Entwistle had used a firearm belonging to his father-in-law, Joseph Matterazzo and that he might have intended a murder-suicide, she said. It was thought that he had returned the gun to his father-in-law's home and prepared to leave the country, though he had difficulty in getting the money to do so, she added. He flew out of Boston's Logan airport on a one-way ticket.Since his return to the UK, Mr Entwistle has stayed with his parents but has been in touch with the US authorities, who were aware of his whereabouts. He attended an interview at the US embassy in London last week.While the US authorities have always described Mr Entwistle as a "person of interest", Nottinghamshire police said last week that he was regarded as a potential witness and was not under arrest when they accompanied him to the US embassy.Britain does not extradite citizens if they could face the death penalty, but Massachusetts is one of a minority of US states that does not have capital punishment.