Heartwarming news about the Chinese premier Wen Jiabao. He has urged Cambridge University to forgive the German pathology student Martin Jahnke for hurling an athletic trainer at him and calling him a dictator while he was giving a speech last week.No one seems to have been pleased with poor Jahnke. The audience shouted "shame", some of his fellow students wanted him dismissed, the university has apologised, Jahnke has apologised and gone into hiding - and his trainer missed Wen by about a yard. Perhaps he should have stuck to his important research into debilitating diseases."Education is the best help for a young student," Premier Wen now says, sensibly. "It is hoped that the university will give the student an opportunity to continue his studies ... As a Chinese saying goes, it is more precious than gold for a young person to turn himself around to redress mistakes." Spot on. If only the British prison system felt the same and all inmates were educated and turned round. But lucky Jahnke probably won't get near a prison. Shoe- throwing over here is only a public-order offence, maximum penalty six months and a £5,000 fine, and today he'll be appearing at Cambridge magistrates court. But what about that poor fellow, Muntazer al-Zaidi, who threw a shoe at George Bush in December? He's due to face trial next week for assaulting a foreign leader, maximum possible sentence 15 years. Will Bush follow Wen's shining example and be urging forgiveness?I'd have said no. December was a long time ago, Bush wasn't particularly bothered about the shoe-thrower then, so why now? He had no hard feelings about the incident, said a White House spokesperson; he thought, "It was just a shoe; people express themselves in different ways." And Bush is a busy man now. He's about to move into his new 8,501-sq-ft Dallas home with its cabana, storage building, detached garage and detached servant quarters at 10141 Daria Place, Preston Hollow. He and Laura will be backwards and forwards between there and their Crawford ranch - and, don't forget, they've both got memoirs to write; and Dubya has his permanent office space to sort out not far from former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Roger Staubach, who he might want to play with; then another neighbour has invited him over for trout fishing; and they'll both be dashing into Pershing Elementary school near the new mansion, to talk with or read to students.So someone might have to remind the ex-pres about al-Zaidi, and mention Premier Wen's magnanimous gesture, and give him a little prod in the right direction. Of course, it's much harder for George. His shoe was worse than Wen's. It was the first insulting shoe, payback for Bush's calamitous legacy in Iraq, for tens of thousands of dead Iraqis. The shoe-thrower is now a hero, promised free shoes for the rest of his life. Then Jahnke threw his; then a 35-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman threw a shoe and a book at the Israeli ambassador to Sweden, Benny Dagan, who was lecturing at the University of Stockholm; meanwhile, the web is stuffed with throw-shoes-at-Bush games. In the face of all this, will Dubya be able to show similar humanity?I reckon not a chance in hell, but then people are always telling me I'm wrong about George W. "He's not as stupid as you think," they say. "He's not that bad." So I ask my American Cousin. She ought to know. And yes, it's good news. Don't give up yet Al-Zaidi, there is hope. She thinks Bush may want to clear off without stinking up the air. He was so gracious and accommodating at the presidential handover, he may want to continue to be seen as gracious and accommodating by urging Iraq to forgive Al-Zaidi for throwing that shoe. So go on, George. Prove my Cousin right. It was only a shoe. For one whole country.• A little dream of mine has come true. Mr Z-Un Noon has been paid£20,000 by Tower Hamlets council for the emotional distress he had suffered, caused by four parking penalty charges. Fabulous news. I knew this would happen one day. Someone would realise that penalty charges cause mental breakdown, and now they have.Because it isn't just the actual ticket that does it. That might be the final straw, but it's the long build-up that weakens you and grinds you down - the worry that every time you leave your car, you may somehow, despite your best efforts, have done something wrong: filled in the wrong day, not scratched the ticket clearly, placed it upside down. Or the wind may have blown it out of place as you shut the door. Or you may have done nothing wrong at all, but the warden thought you had, or pretended that you had, or you hadn't spotted the secret parking-suspension notice hidden in the trees, so that every absence from the car is filled with anxiety, until the day - and there may be several such days - when you get an unjust ticket, and that will tip you over the edge.It did me. There was my mother, dying at home with something horrible called terminal itching, when the itch becomes so bad that it turns to pain, so I had driven to the chemist for some soothing cream, ran in, got it, ran out, in three minutes. Ticket. I fell on the pavement wailing. I appealed. I lost. And I have heard far worse stories than mine. So I am thrilled to hear of Mr Noon's success.Sadly, Tower Hamlets has appealed, and won, but Mr Noon has spent all the money. I hope they never get it back. But whatever happens, it's a step in the right direction. I'm hoping that millions of distressed motorists will sue councils for trillions in damages for giving them tickets that have nothing to do with keeping the traffic moving and parking under control, and everything to do with trickery and greed.This week Michele saw Danny Boyle's Slumdog Millionaire: "Best film I've seen for years. It deserves all its Baftas." She is reading Perdita: The Life of Mary Robinson, by Paula Byrne: "It isn't always sensible to be the Prince of Wales's mistress."