Police were questioning a man last night after a five-year-old girl was killed in a hit-and-run incident as she walked home with her parents following a Christmas play in which her father played Santa Claus.Charlotte Adams died in hospital after a BMW mounted the pavement and hit her near her family home in Lower Clapton, east London, on Thursday shortly before 9pm. Charlotte's mother, Jean, was also hit by the car and is seriously injured.The two had been returning home from a Christmas play at a nearby school with Charlotte's 15-year-old sister, Bernadette, and father, Martyn."We were coming down the stairs outside the estate, more or less home, and the next thing I hear a crunch. I look back and there's a car," said Mr Adams, who had played Santa Claus on stage."I see that my wife has gone flying and Charlotte disappeared," he told the Press Association. "She was under the car somewhere. I could not see her. My wife has six broken ribs and she's in intensive care."My wife was at the side of the car. She was unconscious. Charlotte had just disappeared, and I realised she was gone."Charlotte was taken by ambulance to Homerton hospital where she later died. Mrs Adams, 39, remains in a serious condition in intensive care with chest and shoulder injuries. The two occupants of the car ran off after the crash. Police said last night that one man had been arrested and was being questioned.At the scene of the accident yesterday, flowers had been laid by well-wishers. One tribute, which included a teddy bear holding a red rose, read: "Charlotte, with a great smile. Will be sadly missed. Love Tom, Paula and Ben."In a statement, the Adams family said: "Charlotte is an adorable girl. We used to get stopped in the street by people telling us how adorable she is. She is polite and loving, cheeky and cute. It didn't matter what she had done; one smile from her and you couldn't stay angry at her."She was a keen Chelsea supporter and watched matches at home with her dad," the statement said. "This has ruined our lives. We will never be the same again no matter how much time goes by. We appeal to anyone who can help the police catch the people who did this to come forward and help ease our pain."We thought we were home, we thought we were safe and then this car took away our precious baby and almost her mother too."The car that hit Charlotte and her mother was a J-reg BMW 520SE. The passenger was described by police as black, 6ft 3in and well-spoken. The driver was also believed to be black.Sergeant Jim Mills, from the collision investigation unit, expressed astonishment that the perpetrators had fled the scene of the incident. He appealed to the occupants of the BMW to "do the right thing" and give themselves up to police.· Anyone with information is asked to contact police on 020 7321 9913.