The family of an SAS fantasist whose belongings were found beside a decomposed body in Belgium have said they believe he could have faked his death and still be alive.Police in Antwerp found documents belonging to Philip Sessarego, 55, in a rented garage in Antwerp beside a corpse that had apparently lain undiscovered since the summer. Using the pen name Tom Carew, Sessarego wrote an account of what he claimed was time served with Britain's secretive and elite Special Air Service, training the mujahideen to fight the Soviets during the invasion in the late 1970s. The book - Jihad! - was exposed as fiction.Detectives will fly to the UK in the coming days to take DNA samples from the two children from Sessarego's first marriage, Claire, 30, and Paul, 27."Police are not 100% sure it's him," Claire said last night. "That's what they keep saying to me. They wouldn't believe it's him until they had the DNA." Asked if she thought he could be alive, she replied: "Nothing would surprise me to be honest."Instead of serving with the regiment, he spent two years with the Royal Artillery, having twice failed the SAS's stringent entrance test, although he did spend some time in Afghanistan.Disgraced after BBC Newsnight revealed the fakery behind his book, Sessarego moved to Belgium using the name Philip Stevenson. His belongings were discovered beside a corpse in a lock-up garage in the Ekeren area of Antwerp beside a small cooker and a bed a few weeks ago. He had enemies among ex-SAS soldiers and mercenaries. He is also believed to have attempted to fake his death in Bosnia in the 1990s. Sessarego's ex-sister in law, Alison Fermin, said the family would remain sceptical until there was conclusive evidence the body was his. "Because of how well we knew him, and what he used to get up to, we have thought of different scenarios," she said. "Has he topped someone off, thrown them in there, and left his belongings? Or has somebody killed him? We've thought of all the options but we just don't know."Until the police got in touch with my sister a few weeks ago, we didn't even know he was still in Belgium. He's been through too many scrapes in the past, someone would have to put him in front of me for me to be sure."Sessarego boasted of 20 years' experience with the Hereford-based SAS, even wearing a fake bleeper and desert boots to add authenticity to his image. Under the pen name Carew, he gave interviews to the media following the September 11 attacks, posing as an expert on Taliban strategies.In Jihad!, he claimed to have been the first British soldier to be sent into Afghanistan to assess the mujahideen's capabilities and train them. Describing how he killed Soviet soldiers, he wrote: "The butt of my deadly Kalashnikov pressed into my shoulder as I let go a long, vicious burst of fire. A Russian special forces soldier and two Afghan regular troops clambering over the wall only noticed me as they were poised in mid-air. By then it was too late. My weapon bucked and climbed as it spewed out bullets. They had no chance ... All three were dying as they flopped awkwardly into the dust."