A new police squad targeting the UK's illegal trade in pirated DVDs, which is estimated to earn criminals £300m a year, was launched today.Hawkers of pirated DVDs - some of Hollywood movies still showing in cinemas - are an increasingly familiar sight in pubs and at markets. There is also a growing illegal internet market in pirated DVDs. Experts say that, until around a year ago, the DVDs were mainly being made in the Far East and shipped to the UK. However, it has now become easier to create counterfeits using DVD burners on personal computers. Some of the pirated films are of very poor quality, having been filmed on digital camcorders inside cinemas. The legitimate film industry - which loses huge sums because of piracy - is backing the crackdown.Police said the new unit, which will at first run on a 12-month trial basis at a cost of £400,000, will target the criminal networks behind the trade. It is a joint initiative between the Metropolitan police and the Federation Against Copyright Theft (Fact), which represents the film industry and broadcasters.A Fact spokesman said some of the criminals involved in piracy were also in "other nasty business", and that the illegal market cost jobs in the film, broadcasting and retail sectors.He said the pirates had links to wider organised crime and that the trade was associated with "benefit fraud, holding offensive weapons and the exploitation of children". Some raids on premises linked to film piracy have uncovered firearms.The new unit will attempt to track down the pirates and seize their profits, using similar methods to those employed in tackling drug dealers. The Fact spokesman said film piracy was seen by many criminals to be more profitable and less risky than drug dealing, with discs costing a few pence to make being sold for £4 or £5. Scotland Yard said investigators would target the affluent lifestyles of criminals making money from piracy, and confiscate the funds they used to create counterfeits under the Proceeds Of Crime Act 2002.Assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur said film piracy was wrongly seen as being "victimless". Home Office minister Andy Burnham said the new unit would "cut crime and deliver justice not only by dismantling the criminal networks behind film piracy but also by using the Proceeds of Crime Act to take away their profits".The new unit, part of the Met's Economic and Specialist Crime Command, will employ five senior detectives specialising in financial investigations. Anyone with information on film piracy is urged to call the police or contact Crimestoppers anonynously on 0800 555 111.