The home secretary, David Blunkett, today pledged "reform or bust" to tackle the spiralling number of prisoners with a new emphasis on clearing jails of more non-violent inmates to make room for dangerous criminals.In another sharp reversal of the policies of his predecessor, Jack Straw, Mr Blunkett intends to allow some prisoners to work from home during the week, and send home some prisoners three months early at the end of their sentences.To balance the proposals, the home secretary also promised to crack down on gang crime in cities, particularly south London, by threatening tougher sentences and harsher prison regimes. Non-dangerous inmates who have been carefully screened will be released three months early, rather than the current two months, under the home detention curfew. The scheme sees offenders under curfew for up to 12 hours a day currently by electronic tagging which could be expanded to use new technology such as voice recognition, Mr Blunkett said."We have taken the decision it is reform or bust," he told the prison service annual conference in Nottingham. The government will develop a new "menu" of tactics to deal with sentencing, including elements from last year's Halliday report, which could be published by spring or summer, he said. He said: "Those who commit murder, violent offences and dangerous hijackings will actually get even tougher and longer jail sentences in more difficult conditions - then we will be able to stamp on the outbreak of activity, particularly in south London that we have seen in recent weeks. "We seem to have copycat crime at the moment. "We have got to break the gangs and those who are bringing guns into the country." On mobile phone robberies, for which the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, urged tougher sentences last week, Mr Blunkett said: "If we can smash it, not least by a major strike on the streets by police and by getting the industry to play its part, which it singly needs to do in the same way the motor industry did, then we can make a very big difference." He added: "We need to get the message across that not only will they be caught and sentenced but the sentence will be tougher and harsher and that will be balanced by what we will do with non-violent offenders in terms of rehabilitation." Mr Blunkett gave further details of his plans to expand open prisons and weekend jails which allow inmates to stay at work and keep the family links. "There's no reason why we shouldn't have hostels on and off prison premises," he said. "There's no reason why we shouldn't develop 'light touch', reasonably secure facilities outside cities and towns. The facilities are available on RAF bases and other stations." His emphasis on out-of-town sites could avoid disputes with local residents and planning permission problems which have blighted earlier schemes for new jails. Mr Blunkett added he was still negotiation with the chancellor, Gordon Brown, for the funds to put his schemes into practice.As a concrete break from the "prison works" mantra of the former Tory home secretary, Michael Howard - which was not disavowed by Mr Straw - the plans were welcomed by some in the sector.The director general of the prisons service, Martin Narey, said the jails were in crisis and welcomed Mr Blunkett's initiative to reduce prison numbers. He revealed he was currently talking to the Treasury to secure funds for "thousands more additional prison places". "I have told the home secretary that if we cease to build prisons as fast as we can, but if the population continues to mushroom despite these new measures, there will be a point at which I will say we are full and in the interests of dignity and basic decency we cannot take more prisoners," he said. The service was struggling to cope with the "insanity" of a prison population that has risen from 44,000 in 1991 to 68,000 today. The number in prison may top 70,000 by the summer, said Mr Narey. He said: "I believe the measures the home secretary has outlined will work. "I believe the third way between community sentences and prison will work and I am an enthusiast for the potential of weekends or midweek imprisonment."Mr Blunkett's ideas could have a "huge effect" on the prison population, particularly the number of women in jail, he added. The prison service already has new jails under construction which could see the capacity grow to 74,000 inmates, he added, but said: "We can't forever continue building and building prisons." Mr Narey said: "What the home secretary is offering today is a choice between community sentences and prison and that's what gives me a lot of hope. "The prison population could plateau out and we can concentrate on running decent prisons."