The men who became two of the highest-paid solicitors in Britain by mishandling the claims of almost 100,000 sick miners will be struck off after being found guilty of misconduct yesterday.James Beresford and Douglas Smith, partners in the South Yorkshire firm Beresfords, took advantage of vulnerable miners by putting their own commercial goals before those of their clients, the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal found. The company earned more than £115m under a government scheme for compensating miners with health claims, and Beresford himself made more than £16m in one year.Eight out of 11 allegations of serious professional misconduct against the pair - including acting in a conflict of interest, failing to give adequate advice and information to clients and creating fee arrangements which were not in their best interests - were proven against them, the tribunal said."If ever there was a group of persons who needed the full care and attention from solicitors, it was these miners," said tribunal chairman David Leverton, adding that the miners had been vulnerable because of their "understandable inability to appreciate legal documents".Miners and their relatives approached Beresfords to claim compensation for chronic lung problems and vibration white finger, a hand condition caused by working with vibrating machinery. The firm, based in Doncaster, advertised its services to miners and their families, distributing a yellow flyer across coalfields. It handled 97,651 claims under a scheme agreed by the old Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) to compensate miners for health problems caused by work for British Coal since the 1970s.But while the firm earned millions, the miners it represented won relatively small compensation payouts, averaging just over £2,000."This has turned out to be a bonanza for solicitors," said Geoffrey Hopkinson, son of miner George Hopkinson, who died of a lung obstruction after years of inhaling coal dust in the mines. Hopkinson, whose claim was handled by Beresfords, said his family received £549.38, which he described as "derisory".The tribunal heard how the scheme, which was agreed after a high court case established British Coal's liability in 1998, allowed legal costs to be claimed from the DTI, leaving the full amount of compensation for the miners themselves.Yet Beresfords failed to inform miners they were entitled to the full amount, and deducted up to 30% as fees. The practice of charging additional fees in these circumstances was "unacceptable", said Tim Dutton QC, the barrister for the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA), which brought the claim. Beresford and Smith denied the charges, arguing that there was "absolutely nothing wrong" with earning substantial fees from the cases. Delivering judgment yesterday, Leverton dismissed this argument, and said the evidence of Beresford and Smith was "not always believable".The SRA described the result as "excellent". "The public are entitled to rely upon their solicitor to act in their best interests. Solicitors who compromise their clients' interests will face prosecution by the SRA," said chief executive Antony Townsend.Questions are still being asked as to how the government allowed more than half the money paid out from the £6.9bn fund to go to law firms. "Were the government aware that this [compensation scheme] would lead to the purchase of new offices, classic cars and an executive jet, plus mansion-like houses for Beresfords directors?" Hopkinson said.