A Thai court yesterday sentenced to death two fishermen for raping and murdering Welsh student Katherine Horton at the resort of Koh Samui after they had confessed to the crimes and pleaded guilty.The three judges said they were imposing the maximum penalty on Bualoi Posit, 23, and Wichai Somkhaoyai, 24, in addition to 20 years' imprisonment each for the rape.They said the sentence would send a clear message to both Thai society and the international community, after the "brutal and inhumane" attack which the authorities admitted had sullied the country's reputation and threatened its lucrative tourism industry."The crime they committed has terrified people," said one judge, Chamnong Sutchaimai, on reading the verdict. "To prevent others from committing similar acts, the court rules that the two defendants be sentenced to death."If the sentence is upheld on appeal, which is an automatic process under Thai law, it will be carried out by lethal injection. The police expressed satisfaction at the sentence but the defence lawyer, Amarin Nuimai, described the sentences as "extremely harsh".Nisit Rabeibtham, the senior prosecutor, said he was taken aback by the imposition of the death penalty. "I was surprised because I'm a humanitarian and under the constitution everyone has the right to life. There's a chance it could be reduced to life imprisonment on appeal."Prior to the 60-minute hearing in the Surat Thani provincial court, the chief judge, Pongsak Tragulsilpa, rejected widespread speculation that he and his colleagues had been influenced by the prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra. The prime minister had called for the defendants' execution and said the case should be expedited as quickly as possible to end the bad publicity."I don't feel intimidated by [Mr Shinawatra's] statements because under Thai law our powers are separate from his," the chief judge told reporters in an unexpected briefing to explain his decision. "[This trial has] happened very fast because it's the start of the year and there haven't been any other court appointments yet." Mr Tragulsilpa said the call by the victim's mother, Elizabeth Horton, that the men be given life imprisonment had made no difference."We listened to that but we have to make our decision based on the evidence and the circumstances of the case," he said.Posit and Somkhaoyai said they attacked Ms Horton, 21, on the evening of January 1 on Lamai beach while she was talking on her mobile.The student from Cardiff, studying at Reading University, had been speaking to her mother on the phone. The men swam ashore from their fishing boat after becoming aroused following an evening of drinking alcohol and watching pornographic films.Posit grabbed her from behind while Somkhaoyai hit her over the head with a wooden stake. They dragged her to some secluded rocks where they both raped her then dumped her in the sea to die. A jet skier found her floating in the sea two miles away the following morning.The judges said the defendants, who wore prison garb, handcuffs and leg chains and had their heads shaved, should be executed partly because of the "brutal and inhumane" way they acted after the rape, which outweighed the mitigating impact of their confessions."[The victim] was a foreigner who had less ability to recognise local people and given the fact she was seriously beaten before being raped, the chances of her being able to identify the culprits was minimal," the verdict stated. "So the culprits could easily have remained at large, but decided to drag her to the sea and drown her."[Another factor was] they boasted about their crime to others as if it was a normal thing to do."Posit said: "I accept [the sentence]. I'm sorry for what I did."It is unclear whether the poorly educated defendants, who grinned as they were led into the courtroom, really understood what the judges had said."They don't understand the sentences," Mr Nuimai said after speaking to them. "They were confused. They asked why they got a 20-year jail term if they've already been sentenced to death."Posit's education level is so low he could not sign his name on the court attendance form and registered with a thumbprint. Court officials said that Somkhaoyai's mother was at the court yesterday but left in tears.In a statement, the Horton family declined to comment on the sentence, saying: "We reiterate that we do not want to be involved in the criminal and political processes of another country." They thanked the Thai authorities and the Welsh police for their work.