A British man has been shot dead in Kenya after disturbing burglars ransacking the dream retirement home he built overlooking the Indian Ocean.Graham Warren, from Northampton, and his wife Christine are believed to have surprised a gang when they returned to their home in Watamu, 150 miles north of Mombasa, after dining out with two guests from England on Friday.The thieves, said to have been armed with sticks and at least one gun, are understood to have ordered members of the party to lie on the ground. Graham Warren, who was in his 60s, was then shot, and he died at the house one hour later.The murder was not thought to be linked to protests in other parts of Kenya. Five people in a refugee camp in Kenya's Rift Valley were killed on Saturday by opposition supporters in the latest flare-up in one of the regions worst hit by ethnic killings since the disputed election three weeks ago.Nearly 700 people have been killed since President Mwai Kibaki claimed victory in the election, mostly in police actions against banned protests and attacks on tribes seen as backing him.The Warrens retired to Kenya three years ago after falling in love with the country and its people during several holidays.They sold their large detached home in Northampton, along with Mr Warren's business, GS Signs. They bought the three-acre plot of land, between Malindi and Watamu on the Kenyan coast, and began building the retirement home. Warren, who was a keen angler, also bought a share in a fishing boat.Friend and neighbour Steve Curtis, of the Watamu Residents' Association, said: 'It is a great shock. He loved Kenya and spent two years building his house.' Warren loved to fish in the area, and had spent Friday out fishing with his guests just hours before his death, Curtis added.Damian Davies, another neighbour who was one of the first on the scene after the shooting, said: 'It's a terrible shock. He was a wonderful man who lived for Kenya. 'The couple's daughter, Sam, who is in her 30s and lives with her husband in Duston, Northampton, was yesterday said to be too upset to talk. She and another relative were due to arrive in Kenya this morning.Restina Pembroke, who with her husband bought the Warrens' home in Weedon Road, Northampton, in 2004, said: He was such a nice guy. He was a big jovial man, about 6ft tall, and stocky. He struck me as a very honourable man and wanted everything sorted out properly when we bought the house.'Watamu is a quiet, idyllic area on the north-east coast of Kenya, which has escaped the post-election upsurge of violence. At least 60 British guests are staying in hotels in Watamu, with none reporting any security problems.A spokesman for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said that the High Commission in Kenya was in contact with the family and providing assistance.