Significant moments in British history have a habit of appearing under homely names, like the Rebecca Riots or the War of Jenkins's Ear. Is Steve's Spaghetti Tin, a 92p can of ready-cooked bolognese, going to signal the final end of jury trial for petty thieves? Steve Phillips's bit of shoplifting on Tyneside came at just the right moment for those who argue that a £10,000 hearing for a man with 30 similar convictions is an abuse of civil rights. As Phillips had his day in Newcastle crown court, where his peers took only 32 minutes to convict him of theft, campaigners for change were on the lookout for just such examples of justice with a ludicrous bill.Phillips, a 23-year-old with family problems and a transient life between Sunderland and the Tyne, exercised a choice which has infuriated government accountants, many politicians and some lawyers since at least 1977. That year, the James commission on legal reform recommended that the right to have a jury instead of summary trial by magistrates should be denied to petty thieves, as it had been for other "minor" offences. But what is "petty"? To Phillips, the yellow-and-red Heinz tin was anything but. He maintains that confusion over what he was going to have for tea was genuinely to blame. Distracted by his problems - and, like many shoppers, by the range of goods on offer at South Shields Co-op - he picked up first one option and then another, including the 400g can which he absent-mindedly put in his pocket. "I was going to have bolognese on toast but I changed my mind because I remembered I had some eggs," he said. "I was going to buy some nice bread to have eggs and soldiers or scrambled eggs for breakfast. It might seem like I thieved it but I had no memory that it was in my pocket." For his counsel, it was a good line to put to 12 ordinary people landed with jury service, some of them no doubt wondering about family supper and how they were going to fit in a trip to the shops. But Phillips might have had less worthy reasons for choosing jury trial: his crime last October only came to court in April - six months for the crown prosecution service to think: "What the hell, let him off with a caution." And the chances of acquittal, many defendants reason, are better in crown court. Also on his mind might have been the notorious inequalities between magistrates' sentencing, which prompted a mordant comment this week from one of Phillips's friends. It was the day Ronnie Campbell, the Labour MP for Blyth Valley who raised Steve's spaghetti in the Commons as a national scandal, was up before magistrates a few miles north of Newcastle charged with drunkenly punching a man in an Indian restaurant. "So how's Ronnie going to feel when he's finished with the bench," wondered the friend. Conviction and an expensive appeal would make the MP's attack on Phillips look daft. But the storyline backfired. Cleared of common assault and harassment - which many would regard as much more serious than spaghetti theft - Campbell was able to leave the court praising magistrates' abilities to deal with things cheaply and efficiently. He was helped by another coincidence: the most newsworthy case of the month was decided at the same magistrates court in Bedlington on the same day. In the courtroom next to Campbell's, after a complicated three-week hearing, the foot-and-mouth farmer Bobby Waugh was convicted of nine counts of animal mistreatment and mismanagement and acquitted of seven others. Waugh didn't have the jury option because his offences were not in the "either-way" category, the battleground for those who want summary trial for petty theft. His crimes fell into the "minor" category which can only go to magistrates courts, just as serious crimes like murder must go to juries. All forms of theft are in the middle, where - alone among jurisdictions - England and Wales allow defendants to choose between 12 peers or the magistrates. The category of either-way offences has been eroded since the James commission. Assaulting a police officer in the course of his duty, drink-driving and driving while disqualified no longer carry the right to jury trial. But theft has stayed in there, whatever the value of the property, because of its special slur on your reputation. Theft is a word that employers hate. Courts see the link between crime and unemployment every day and don't lightly put people out of work. And defining "petty" is the slipperiest of slopes: James suggested a demarcation, setting the dividing line at under £20, but by 1992 the Magistrates Association was recommending under £200. Former home secretary Jack Straw failed twice to push through bills curbing the right to choose jury trial in either-way cases. Since then, Lord Justice Auld, the appeal court judge charged by the government with producing a blueprint for change, has endorsed the move. Now the government is dropping loud hints that it no longer wants to pursue this agenda, but the Labour peer Helena Kennedy QC, one of the chief opponents of the reform, is not so sure that there won't be another attempt to dejurify petty theft. She sees as particularly ominous last week's appointment of Lord Falconer as minister of criminal justice in the wake of the post-Byers reshuffle. "Falconer's a skilful and persuasive advocate. The government will see him as just the person to take on the 'liberal lawyers'," she says. In the latest issue of the Spectator, Lord Bingham, the senior law lord, turns Steve's spag bol into a flitch of bacon: "There are compelling reasons - of expense and so on - for a change. When I was lord chief justice, I went to Liverpool and tried a man who had 60 previous convictions for shoplifting. He called for a jury trial and, at considerable expense to the taxpayer, it had to be decided whether or not he had taken bacon off the shelf. Of course he was convicted." Sir Louis Blom-Cooper QC agrees, delighting in the word "abominable" for virtually all juries, not just with reference to their use in petty theft. He says: "I'd abolish them tomorrow. Evaluating evidence is a skilled exercise to be performed by professionals. Juries are the apotheosis of amateurism." But so are many JPs, whose social background is also a source of traditional suspicion. On such grounds, Sir Louis is sceptical that the home secretary could be lucky third time round. In fact, he doubts whether David Blunkett will even try - except that Phillips's cropped head and photos of spaghetti tins in many newspapers give a flicker of hope. The headlines, he thinks, including the absolute discharge handed down by Judge Tony Lancaster on May 22, could help dent the popular preference for juries over magistrates. "No, no," says Kennedy. "The crux of cases like this - which are very rare, hence the headlines - is: why prosecute at all if the theft is only 92p?" You can't make much of a case for Phillips's reputation, with his other shoplifting convictions - three of them since the spaghetti incident. But such reasoning insidiously undermines justice. "Removing either-way choice from people with previous convictions is one of the ideas being bandied around," says Kennedy. "But it would be a licence for the police to pull people in and tell the magistrates: we know this one, he is a recidivist, he's always thieving." Phillips's opting for jury trial just on his spaghetti, and not on all his other thefts, helps the point. Was this one occasion when - struggling to make a go of the community rehabilitation order that he is still serving - he was unjustly nailed by the store detective? "We could be sowing the seeds of social instability here," says Kennedy. "You can see young black boys being hauled in before magistrates again and again. It is very dangerous to categorise people and say that they are not entitled to the legal Rolls Royce like everyone else." Blom-Cooper, meanwhile, hopes that the fuss may promote one curiously missing factor in the debate: more evidence. Like most lawyers, he applauds the rigorous analysis of jury history, myth and romance in chapter five of Lord Justice Auld's report on the criminal justice system. Notably, it draws on research into jury behaviour and argument in the United States and New Zealand, but not in Britain, where the sanctity and secrecy of juries (including their social makeup) is absolute, making them the only British institution whose workings we take on trust. Yet the answer to the question: Was the 92p worth £10,000? may lie in the 32 minutes of discussion on the quayside by the Tyne.