Three of the oldest Victorian prisons in England and Wales - Brixton, Holloway and Wandsworth - face the prospect of being closed down and sold off for development under a "new for old" scheme floated by the home secretary yesterday.David Blunkett is to prepare a detailed investment case before opening talks with the Treasury over a plan to build a new generation of larger prisons funded by selling off old and unsuitable jails. The scheme follows a recommendation from the government businessman troubleshooter, Patrick Carter, that there is a case for replacing these old jails, but that each would need to be justified by a detailed business case. The closure of the three Lon don prisons named by Home Office sources yesterday would mean the end of three of the most famous names in the British prison system, which date back to the 1840s. They each lie in prime locations that have benefited from the capital's house price boom. Mr Blunkett will have to persuade the Treasury not only that it will be worthwhile to sell these sites, but also to provide the funds necessary to first build the new jails. The overcrowded prison system means there are no spare places to transfer the 2,000-plus inmates of Brixton, Holloway and Wandsworth once they are closed. Mr Carter said in his report that some of the most unsuitable prisons in England and Wales actually dated from the 1960s and 1970s. Less robust building techniques mean that some of these modern prisons are in a far worse state of repair than their Victorian counterparts. Responding to Mr Carter's report, published yesterday, the Home Office said it believed "there is an excellent value-for-money case for a replacement programme to create a new generation of larger prisons with the facilities needed to deliver effective programmes designed to reduce reoffending. "New large prisons could provide economies of scale which would allow us to close smaller prisons and redirect resources to community punishments." Mr Blunkett already has Treasury funds to build two new prisons at Ashford and Peterborough which will help to provide 80,000 places by 2006, but beyond that it is all subject to negotiation in the spending round. The current prison population stands at about 74,000. The women-only Holloway prison in north London is the most likely of the three earmarked jails to be closed. It was built in 1851 and took on its women-only role in 1901. The entire prison was rebuilt in the 1970s and the 1980s and no trace of the Victorian building remains. Brixton and Wandsworth, however, still retain many of their Victorian buildings. Wandsworth was built in 1851 to a utilitarian design by Jeremy Bentham as a replacement for Brixton, which had opened 30 years earlier. Wandsworth housed the gallows which were used by Albert Pierrepoint, the state executioner, to hang William Joyce, known as Lord Haw Haw for his radio broadcasts from Germany during the second world war.