The murder of Jill Dando was a moment when the perennially rickety barrier between reporting and emoting collapsed. Kate Adie stood outside Dando's Fulham home and told viewers of her feelings on covering the death. Her respect for the memory of her friend then led her to assure the nation that 'Jill had no enemies'. However well-meant the tribute was, it was a disputable description of a woman who had been shot a few hours earlier.Back in the studios, Martyn Lewis said television journalists 'are used to preserving an air of detachment', but neutrality would be strained for a day or so. An ITN reporter told Trevor McDonald: 'In many ways Trevor, there's an empty chair beside us.' The Kosovo conflict was at its height but all the papers and TV stations tore up their news lists to concentrate on a sensational killing.It isn't original to say that the death of a celebrity is more important than a death in the Balkans or even a death in the family. (The wailing that followed the martyrdom of St Diana reached a lachrymose climax when one Michael Davies from Leeds told Radio 4 listeners: 'My wife died in April and I've shed far more tears for Diana than I did for my wife - no disrespect to my wife.') More interesting was the BBC's response to complaints that it had abandoned its treasured objectivity. The corporation accepted that its staff had said what they felt rather than reported what they knew, but this was a natural and human response to a horrible shock and no one should think the worse of them for that. The BBC is no different from the rest of the dominant culture. From Britart to the daytime chatshows, from the demands that the victims of crime should have a say in determining a court's sentence to identity politics, authentic feeling is preferred to cold thought. The BBC was right in one respect: this is a time you brand yourself as inhuman and unnatural if you master your grief. The insistence that feeling trumps thought and that loss and victimhood confer authority on the sufferer has many snares, not least for the criminal justice system. Tomorrow, Barry George will ask the Court of Appeal to overturn his conviction for Jill Dando's murder. The evidence which sent him down for life wasn't so much slender as anorexic. There was no murder weapon, no confession, no connection to Dando and no motive. George was the local weirdo who lived alone in great squalor. He had an old conviction for attempted rape and secretly photographed women in the streets of Fulham. He also yearned for celebrity by association. He'd variously claimed to be the cousin of Gary Glitter and Jeff Lynne. (NB younger readers and judges: Lynne was the lead singer of a Seventies combo, the Electric Light Orchestra.) George took Glitter's real name (Paul Gadd), then changed it to Steve Majors in honour of Lee Majors, star of The Six Million Dollar Man (another Seventies smash, kids) and then pretended to be Freddie Mercury's cousin. You wouldn't want him as a neighbour, particularly if you were a woman and you didn't need to be Sherlock Holmes to work out why the police were suspicious. Yet all they had to present to the Old Bailey was a tiny fragment of gunpowder which may have got on to George's coat during some very sloppy forensic work. His flat was filled with rotting rubbish. He and it stank. The man who never cleaned was, none the less, meant to have cleaned off all other forensic traces of the murder. Apart from dodgy forensics, there was contestable evidence from identity parades, and that was it. The jury, the police, much of the press and, for understandable reasons, Nick Ross and other friends of Dando were adamant that George had been proven beyond reasonable doubt to be guilty. The feeling that a shocking crime must have been solved was irresistible. In 1980, the innocent Birmingham Six tried to sue the police from their prison cells. Lord Denning said that if he accepted that the police had beaten confessions out of them, the men would have to be released. 'This,' he said as he threw out the case, 'is such an appalling vista that every sensible person in the land would say, "It cannot be right these actions should go any further".' In his retirement, the old brute mused that the campaign which freed the Birmingham Six years later wouldn't have pummelled his and the law's reputations if the men had been hanged on conviction, as they would have been in the good old days. Judicial murder, he said, would have 'satisfied the whole community'. 'The community' will doubtless be satisfied if the Court of Appeal upholds George's conviction. Brian Cathcart's account of the affair - Jill Dando, Her Life and Death (Penguin £7.99) - describes how the police were desperate to remove the stain of incompetence left by the inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence and how hard officers worked. How many Londoners want to believe that the Met hasn't reformed itself? How many would feel comfortable knowing that a killer could execute one of the most famous women in the country - on a public street at 11.30am - and laugh when an innocent man took his place in the cells? Denning expressed a cowardly popular desire frankly. There's much 'the community' doesn't want to know. The community will still pay a price if the judges don't act. The main grounds for George's appeal is that the Dando trial began to reverse a century of legal reform which had imposed ever-tighter controls on identifying suspects. Only one of the dozens of people who were in the west London street on the day of Dando's murder put George at the scene. She said she saw him hours before the killing. He was wearing a black suit. Two of Dando's neighbours saw the gunman within seconds of the killing. They said he wasn't wearing a suit but a long coat and didn't identify George. To plug the gaping hole in their case, the prosecution relied on three other witnesses who had seen a man in the street two hours before the killing. They had been shown videos of George standing in an identity parade. They sort of picked him out and sort of didn't. One, Charlotte de Rosnay, asked to see two faces again. One was George's. She thought and thought until she was asked if she could make a positive identification. She couldn't. Her mother-in-law, who had been staying with her at the time, lingered on the same two faces and said she had a 'gut feeling' that George was the man. She, too, couldn't be positive. The third witness was also interested in George, but couldn't be sure. The prosecution was allowed to use witnesses who hadn't identified George as being in the street on the day of the killing to support the one witness who had. As Cathcart says, by the time they gave evidence to the jury they knew that George was the suspect. As is natural and human, they sounded far more certain in court than they had when they looked at the line-up. The defence will argue tomorrow that the Dando trial overturned safeguards in the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act and the codes of conduct governing identity parades. The police and prosecution were allowed to turn the failure to identify a culprit into the positive identification.In the past, a positive identification meant a witness looked at a line-up and said: 'Yup, I'm sure that's him.' After the Dando case, a positive identification is: 'I feel in my gut it could be him, but my head tells me I can't be sure.' If feelings are allowed to replace thoughts, many innocent members of the community will be locked away. n.cohen@observer.co.uk