A coroner is seeking permission to open inquests into the deaths of 23 suspected victims of the serial-killing former GP Harold Shipman, it was announced today.South Manchester coroner John Pollard said he had written to the home secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday seeking permission to open the inquests into the deaths of 23 elderly female patients. Shipman was jailed in January at Preston crown court for the murder of 15 of his women patients by lethal injection of diamorphine. The CPS has decided not to proceed with charges on the 23 suspected victims, because Shipman could not be guaranteed a fair trial.Mr Pollard said he decided to write to the home secretary after speaking at length to the investigating officers about the deaths in question. "It is my understanding that the families and relatives of these deceased are anxious for the evidence related to their deaths to be heard and tested by way of inquest," he said."Any coroner's inquest is a court of inquiry and not one of determining blame or liability, be that either criminal or civil," he added. The evidence that he would call, Mr Pollard stressed, would merely be to establish who the deceased were and how, when and where the deaths occurred.Mr Pollard said that in the course of the investigation into the deaths of Shipman's patients, he had ordered a number of exhumations to take place. Nine of those formed the basis of charges against the GP.But there were three other cases where bodies were exhumed and the police and CPS had decided not to proceed to charge. These three cases were the deaths of Sarah Ashworth, Alice Kitchen and Elizabeth Mellor.Inquests were opened into the three deaths in 1998 but were closed for further investigations to be carried out. Mr Pollard said the police and CPS "do not intend to issue any criminal proceedings flowing from the deaths of these three ladies and I am therefore in a position where I now intend to resume the inquests touching their deaths".He said he would be listing the cases for inquest as soon as possible and would be notifying witnesses. He added that he would inform Shipman of his right to attend the inquests, providing prison authorities were willing to let him do so.Shipman has been investigated in relation to the suspicious deaths of nearly 200 patients. In February, police said they had enough evidence to prosecute him for the deaths of 23 more patients, but the CPS advised them not to bring further charges against him. At the time, the director of public prosecutions, David Calvert-Smith, said: "There is sufficient evidence to proceed against Harold Shipman but I have reluctantly concluded that it would be wrong to proceed to a second and possibly third, trial in respect of 23 further alleged murders."Mr Calvert-Smith said he had had to take into account the effect the enormous publicity might have upon any further trial, and that Shipman had already been sent to prison for the rest of his life. An independent inquiry, which will be held in private, is due to begin hearing evidence in Manchester at the end of May. The inquiry will examine whether anything could have been done earlier to stop Shipman, and will report to the health secretary, Alan Milburn, in September. But families of Shipman's victims and alleged victims have been angered by the decision to hold the inquiry in private and plan to take court action to make sure it is held in public.