The family of Derrick Bird said today that they had no idea what drove him to carry out the murderous rampage that left 12 people dead.Bird's sons, Graeme and Jamie, said they were devastated by the death of their father, describing him as "the nicest man you could ever meet".Speculation in the aftermath of Wednesday's shootings has centred on Bird's financial situation and his relationship with his family.But, in a statement read out by the Reverend Jim Marshall, curate of St Michael's Church in Lamplugh, his sons said they were at a loss to explain his actions and that the father known to them was "not the person they saw on Wednesday".Marshall added: "If they had the strength to do it, they were the sort of people who would have gone round to each one of the people killed and wounded to apologise. That is the strength of their feelings."He said Bird's mother, who has been unwell in recent years, knew about what had happened on Wednesday but "may not know some of the details".The statement from the two sons said: "We are utterly devastated about the death of our father Derrick Bird. To us, he was the nicest man you could ever meet. He was a loving dad and recently became a grandfather."We would like to say that we do not know why our dad committed these horrific crimes. We are both mortified by these sad events."Dad was a loving and cheerful character and was well-known throughout the local community and in the areas where he worked. He will be missed by us, his family and friends."We would ask that we be allowed to mourn the loss of our father. We would also like to send our condolences to all the other families and people involved in this tragic incident. Our thoughts are with them."Marshall also read a statement on behalf of Brian Bird, brother of Derrick and of David, who was shot dead by his twin.He said: "My family and I are extremely saddened by the events on Wednesday. The loss of both my brothers is devastating."They were both very caring, family people. They were well-known and respected in their local communities."My family and I are saddened at the loss of life and woundings and can only offer our condolences to the families concerned."We appreciate what they are suffering at this time. We cannot offer any reason why Derrick took it upon himself to commit these crimes. We are in shock and dismay."Marshall said Bird's mother discovered what had happened when she switched on the TV on Wednesday lunchtime."She was horrified, she was astounded," he said. "She was just stunned and still can't take it in."That is the last time she watched the television. She doesn't want to turn the TV on now."