A 12-year-old girl pleaded guilty today to causing actual bodily harm to a five-year-old boy who was hung from a tree.The girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, injured the boy in woodland in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, on May 31, after he had gone missing from the back garden of his home. Today, appearing before magistrates at Dewsbury youth court, the girl also admitted a charge of perverting the course of justice. The five-year-old was found wandering alone with serious neck injuries after being hung from a tree with a piece of string in a wood known locally as Devil's Ditch, which is around half a mile from his home. At an earlier youth court hearing, home office pathologist Christopher Milroy said the boy had escaped death by only a matter of seconds. Mr Milroy, who examined the injuries, said that "firm pressure" had been applied to his neck and throat with a length of string. He told the earlier hearing: "If applied for a few seconds longer there is a strong likelihood that [the boy] would have died."At the same hearing, prosecuting counsel Mr Mehran Nassiri said both the boy, and the 12-year-old girl who attacked him, had given conflicting accounts of what happened in the woods.Initially the girl blamed the attack on other children and gave police four different names. "That information led to the arrest and detention of people for a significant period," Mr Nassiri said. In total, five children - all aged between 11 and 12 - were arrested in the course of the inquiry, which detectives initially treated as an attempted murder. The other children eventually gave "foolproof" alibis that proved their innocence, Mr Nassiri said. The 12-year-old initially faced the more serious charge of causing grievous bodily harm but this was later reduced to causing actual bodily harm.In one interview the girl claimed the boy had followed her. She claimed she was with friends who put the rope around his neck and pulled him up. She was just watching, she claimed.The boy was interviewed in short bursts by specially trained officers who tried to gently coax information out of him. He gave a series of confusing and at times bizarre accounts of what happened.In one account he said he was strung up and beaten with sticks and nettles. At some point a rope was wrapped around his neck, stomach and genitals, the court heard.In another interview, the boy said he thought he was in the jungle, with monkeys surrounding him and a pair of scissors were used to cut him down.Eventually the girl confessed she was the only one present in the woods and was responsible for the attack. She told officers: "[The boy] was behind me. I didn't ask him to come with me. I was angry with him. I put a rope around him and put it around a tree."Magistrates were told the boy was found in the early evening by his 22-year-old cousin, who went looking for him after his mother had realised he was missing from the garden. He was discovered outside a chip shop "scared and crying", the court heard.The case was adjourned until September 5 for the completion of pre-sentence reports.Magistrates granted the girl conditional bail and told her "all options remained open" in regard to sentencing. One of the main reasons for writing the reports was to determine if she was "a dangerous young person", the court heard.