A father was today being held by police on suspicion of murdering his daughter and son in their home in a north Wales village.Officers found five-year-old Caitlin Samuel and three-year-old Aidan at an address in Bodelwyddan, Denbighshire, at 11pm yesterday. They were treated before being taken by ambulance to nearby Glan Clwyd hospital, where they were pronounced dead. The police later confirmed that the 35-year-old man they are questioning is the children's father, named locally as Perry Samuel.He was arrested after calling 999 and being discovered alone with the two children when officers arrived. Detective Chief Inspector Dave Jolly who is working on the case said: "We are keeping a completely open mind about the cause of the deaths and we are pursuing a number of lines of inquiry."He refused to confirm reports by local people that the siblings were drowned in a bath. The results of postmortems on the bodies will be released tomorrow."It would be completely wrong to speculate about the cause of death at this moment," DCI Jolly said.The family of the two children described them in a statement today as "little angels" and said they were "grief-stricken" at the deaths.Earlier, Detective Superintendent John Chapman said that officers had been called to house shortly before 11pm last night. He said: "Once at the property, officers searched the house and discovered two children. The children, believed to be a five-year-old girl and a three-year-old boy, were given immediate medical attention. "The ambulance service were alerted and the two children, who were brother and sister, were taken to Glan Clwyd hospital. "They were both pronounced dead at the hospital less than an hour later. A 35-year-old man was arrested at the property on suspicion of murder and currently remains in custody awaiting questioning." The family home, a red brick end-terrace on Coronation Close, was cordoned off by police tape today. Two children's bicycles lay discarded outside the front door, alongside two deckchairs and a drink can. Flowers and soft toys, including a Winnie the Pooh bear, had been left by wellwishers. A card read: "Two beautiful angels. Your beautiful smiles will be so sadly missed but will never be forgotten." Neighbours said the two young children were well known in the area and often played in the street. The children were described as "bright, popular and happy" by the headteacher of their school. "Our whole school community has been deeply shocked and saddened at this tragic loss," said Martin Edwards, the head of Faenol school. "The two children were bright, popular and happy pupils and will be very sadly missed by their classmates and the staff at the school. Our thoughts and condolences are with the family at this time." The Rev Berw Hughes, of St Margaret's church in Bodelwyddan, said the village would be "hit hard" by the tragedy. "This is a very close-knit, community-oriented place," he said. "Of course, something like this would be difficult wherever it happened, but it will hit this community very hard because it is the sort of place where people still know and talk to each other. "We will do all we can to help. I will offer my help, if they would like it." Mr Hughes said the village was a popular place to live, with many of its residents working at the Glan Clwyd hospital or the nearby Hotpoint factory. It has a population of around 2,000 and is five miles inland from Rhyl, a popular holiday destination on the north Wales coast.