A man has been charged in connection with the murder of a woman who was found dismembered at a flat in south Wales. Christopher May, 50, will appear at Pontypridd magistrates court on Monday in connection with the murder of Tracey Woodford, 47. Woodford, from the Pontypridd area, was last seen by family at about 12.45pm on Tuesday and was reported missing the following day. A police officer searching a flat on Rickards Street discovered her dismembered body just before 3pm on Friday.Woodford’s family paid tribute to her on Sunday. Relatives described her as a gentle person who would not hurt anyone. Earlier, officers confirmed that her body had been dismembered.In a statement her family said: “Tracey was liked and loved by all of her family and friends. She was very kind-hearted and a selfless person who would go out of her way to help anyone.”They said that she would be dearly missed by all who knew her, adding that they were thankful for all the support they had received to date.The family asked people to respect their wishes for privacy.Police believe that Woodford left the Skinny Dog public house with a man on the evening of her disappearance.Her body was found by a police officer searching a nearby flat on Friday afternoon and a man was arrested on suspicion of murder. He remained in custody on Sunday afternoon after police were given a further 36 hours to question him on Saturday evening.A postmortem was due to be carried out on Sunday.South Wales police described the incident as “serious and traumatic”.A spokesman said: “The suspect’s address – and other identified scenes – are now subject to the police investigation and subsequent searches.“The victim’s family is receiving support from specially trained officers and South Wales police has a team of detectives and the support of specialist resources working on this inquiry.“South Wales police would like to reassure the community that this is an isolated incident and we currently have an individual in custody.”The force said it was still seeking to establish Tracey Woodford’s movements during the days leading up to the discovery of her body.DS Paul Hurley appealed for anyone who was at the Skinny Dog pub between 9pm and 11pm on Tuesday to come forward. He said: “We would like to speak to anybody who thinks they may have information that can help our investigation. No matter how insignificant the information may seem, we would like people to contact us.”Police described Woodford as “around 5ft 7in tall with shoulder-length ginger hair. She was wearing a black cardigan at the time she was last seen”.A spokesman for South Wales police said on Sunday that officers were waiting for the results of further forensic tests to determine the cause of Woodford’s death.South Wales police appealed for witnesses, asking anyone with information to call the force on 101, quoting reference 140670; or to contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.