 5.09pm BST Summary of press conference• The identity of Saad al-Hilli as the murdered driver of the BMW was officially confirmed. The public prosecutor, Eric Maillaud, told the press conference that four-year-old Zeena said she was with her mummy, daddy and sister but said that she did not know the other woman (believed to be her grandmother) very well.• Each of the four dead people was shot at least three times, once in the head and at least twice in the body. Maillaud said 25 cartridges had been found (10 more than had been identified yesterday).• The cyclist, an ex-RAF officer, who discovered the bodies, saw a green 4x4 and a motorbike. Maillaud cautioned that "everyone" has 4x4s in the area and described media reports about sightings of a white vehicle as "Chinese whispers", despite a woman claiming to have seen a white Peugeot. He said the cyclist did not hear anything before discovering the bodies.• Saad al-Hilli's brother went to see British police to deny that he was in conflict with his dead sibling after press reports suggesting there was a rift, Maillaud said. He said that British police had told their French counterparts of reports of a family conflict. But there was no reason the brother should be the "number one witness", the public prosecutor said.• British police are directly involved in the hunt for the killers, he said. "It's a Franco-British investigation," he said.Updated at 5.54pm BST 4.53pm BST ZainabThe public prosecutor says it is not possible to know whether the murderer(s) knew that seven-year-old Zainab was alive before the killer(s) fled.There are various hypotheses, says Maillaud. The killer(s) could have run out of cartridges, might have run out of time or thought that Zainab was dead.Updated at 5.54pm BST 4.48pm BST 'At least three bullets for each person'The public prosecutor says all of the four dead were shot not less than three times. They were all shot once in the head and at least twice in the body.Investigators do not know in what order the people were shot and Maillaud says that personally he does not expect that they will ever know.He does not know where the shots were fired from. Updated at 5.55pm BST 4.40pm BST Reports of family conflictBritish police have passed on information about a conflict between two brothers of the Hilli family to the French police, says the prosecutor.One of Saad al-Hilli's brothers went to see British police yesterday to get news about him, he says. The brother went back today after hearing reports of the family conflict and told police there was no disagreement or conflict. Just because there was a conflict between the two brothers does not mean the surviving brother will be the "number one witness", says Maillaud.  4.30pm BST 'Investigation is confidential'About 25 cartridges have been found, the public prosecutor said. Some were outside the car, some were inside and some were in the bodies of the victims, he says.He says he will not tell the press what weapon was used, the calibre of the bullets or how many people were involved. He seems exasperated with the media, insisting that the investigation is confidential and that they will not share the details with the press.There are no external witnesses.Updated at 5.56pm BST 4.24pm BST Cyclist saw green 4x4 and motorbikeThe cyclist, an ex-RAF officer, who found the bodies said he saw a green 4x4 (media reports suggested that it was white) and a motorbike.The prosecutor says reports of a white car may be "Chinese whispers". "Maybe some people saw Martians, I really don't know," says Maillaud.He says "everyone has a 4x4" in the region, whether for work or leisure.The cyclist did not hear anything, says the prosecutor, but Maillaud says he does not know whether that means a silencer was used.Updated at 5.57pm BST 4.19pm BST Zeena to return to UK 'soon'Zeena al-Hilli did not "say anything special … really she doesn't bring anything to the inquiry", says the prosecutor.He says she is likely to return to the UK "soon".Her seven-year-old sister Zainab is still under medical protection and they are awaiting the green light to question her, says Maillaud.He says he hopes that she will be able to say what she saw, give descriptions, were they men or women, colour of skin etc.Zainab is still in an artificial coma "which allows the body to recuperate".Updated at 5.57pm BST 4.16pm BST French press conferenceLocal prosecutor Eric Maillaud starts by saying "there is not a great deal of new information" but that he has some details to share.He confirms the identity of the driver of the BMW as Saad al-Hilli. He says the four-year-old girl, Zeena, confirmed that she was with her father, mother and sister, thus confirming the identity of three of the people. But she said she did not know the other woman – who had a Swedish passport and is believed to be her grandmother – very well.Updated at 5.58pm BST 4.08pm BST Motorbike seen near sceneThe cyclist who discovered the bodies said he saw a motorbike as well as a 4x4, police sources have told a French TV station.From France 24: Police sources have told [French TV channel] M6 the witness, a former officer in Britain’s Royal Air Force, gave key descriptions of a scooter and a 4x4 vehicle both seen on the road leading to the secluded car park where the four victims were gunned down. “He kept a clear sense of observation. This could greatly help us,” a source close to the investigation told M6. 3.57pm BST 'More than one killer' likely - prosecutorProsecutor Eric Maillaud believes more than one person was behind the murders. He told France 24: It seems humanly difficult that so many shots could be fired by one man. Instinct tells us there was more than one suspect.France 24 says Maillaud has also revealed that 25 shots were fired at the victims rather than 15, as was reported on Thursday.He told the local newspaper Le Dauphiné Liberé that the “case looks more and more like an ambush".Updated at 5.58pm BST 3.52pm BST French police to examine Hilli houseCiting a source close to the investigation, Le Dauphiné Libéré reports (French link)  that three more French police officers will be travelling to London on Saturday, one from Annecy and two from the police judiciaire in Paris.It reported earlier that a police officer from Chambéry would be going to London.Le Dauphiné Libéré says the tasks of the police officers will include examining the Hilli family house. "You can find in the house a number of explanations that can lead us on the trail of the killers," said the prosecutor Eric Maillaud.Updated at 6.01pm BST 3.36pm BST 'Position of bodies vital'Speaking about the autopsies, French gendarmerie general Jacques Hébrard said: The positioning of the bodies is very important. It will tell us where the shooter is positioned, whether they were close to the car or not.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  3.17pm BST Murders look like 'professional assassination'French investigators say the murder of a British man and three others on the edge of a secluded Alpine forest bears the hallmarks of a “professional assassination” as they revealed that they are investigating allegations that there had been a “money dispute” in the family.The increasing belief among investigators that Saad al-Hilli was targeted means that attention will focus on his private and professional life as they search for clues to any motive for the massacre.French investigators say one line of inquiry is an alleged family dispute, said to have involved a wrangle over property. French officials stress this is one line of inquiry among others.A French gendarme was due to fly to London on Friday afternoon to co-ordinate the inquiry with the British authorities.The dead man’s brother Zaid al-Hilli was reported by AFP to have gone to a police station.French media reported the brother called Zaid had contacted British police and denied any involvement. French investigators have stressed that even if there was a family dispute, it is a considerable leap to link that to the cold-blooded killings of three adults and the violent beating of a young girl at a mountain beauty spot.“We received information from the British authorities about a money dispute between two brothers of this family,” state prosecutor Eric Maillaud told Reuters. “It’s an interesting line of investigation, but one among many.”Updated at 6.02pm BST 3.09pm BST Prosecutor hopes sister can helpThe local prosecutor, Eric Maillaud, has expressed his hope that seven-year-old Zainab al-Hilli, who is still in hospital, will be able to help them obtain a "first lead". He said: We are waiting for the ballistic team's report and, when possible, a hearing with the eldest girl. Maybe she can give us information on the number of people present for example, or the colour of their skin, and other elements of description that might allow us to consider a bit more seriously a first lead. Medical staff have not yet given us access to the girl, we are waiting for their decision.Zainab was shot in the shoulder and violently beaten, suffering a fractured skull. Maillaud said of Zainab's four-year-old sister Zeena: She is a little girl who was hidden. It's not her who will help us progress the inquiry.Updated at 6.03pm BST 3.00pm BST Crime scene photograph  Police surround the car at the scene of the shooting. Photograph: Roland Hoskins/SOLO SyndicationUpdated at 3.01pm BST 2.49pm BST Shooting theories examinedThe Guardian has been examining some of the theories put forward by various sources to explain the killings, which remain unexplained. Below is an extract.RobberyEarlier this year the Foreign Office warned tourists of an emerging "pattern of incidents" in this part of France, after gangs appeared to be targeting foreign-registered cars on highways.National securityThe nature of the killing has given rise to speculation about who might be able to dispatch an assassin to the French Alps. Three of the four killed were shot through the middle of the head, and initial details of the shooting seemed to suggest a degree of control to the massacre. It was not someone spraying bullets around.The theory was kept alive when the Daily Mail claimed Mr Hilli had been placed under special branch surveillance during the second Gulf war, in 2003 …Even if security officials did monitor the Hilli family during the second Gulf war, this may not mean in itself that Hilli was necessarily seen as a threat …The picture painted of Mr Hilli so far by friends and neighbours is of a hard-working family man with a love of caravanning who was a respected member of the suburban Surrey community he made his home – less James Bond, more Terry Scott.Family feudFrench police confirmed on Friday morning that this was one of the theories they were investigating and that they were working with their British counterparts on this. It seems extraordinary that a family dispute could erupt in such a fashion – with the deaths of so many family members and witnesses in a foreign country.The idea could be that there may have been a paid assassin involved. However, few currently available details back this up.Racist killingThe theory of a lone killer driven by psychopathic, religious or racial hatred is, perhaps, one of France's worst fears in the aftermath of the Annecy shootings.It would take the country back to the dark days earlier this year when Mohamed Merah, who claimed links to Islamic extremism, went on three separate killing sprees in and around the south-western city of Toulouse.Updated at 6.04pm BST 1.53pm BST British ambassador rejects criticism of French policePeter Ricketts, the British ambassador in Paris, has rejected criticism of French police over the failure to find four-year-old Zeena al-Hilli for eight hours. He said: I am not critical of the French [investigators]. I think they came across this scene and they didn't know of the existence of the other little girl. They were keen not to disturb the murder scene until the forensics people got there. The terrible thing was this little girl was silent for hours and was not noticed. I think the French were as professional as they could be. It's just a terrible, terrible thing to have to happened for a tiny one like that.Ricketts, who travelled to Annecy to meet the French prosecutor, said he was confident there was 100% co-operation between the British and French in the inquiry. It's a French murder inquiry: they lead and we support and will do whatever they need. I was there to make sure there was no blockage or misunderstanding and there are not [any]. It's early days and everyone must let the police do their job. It doesn't help to speculate.Updated at 2.20pm BST 1.26pm BST Police lift roadblockFor the first time since the shootings took place, French gendarmes have lifted a roadblock nearly two miles away from where the murder took place, the Press Association reports.  At the scene, a few pebbles spotted with blood, small shards of glass and tyre marks could be seen on the ground. There was a dent in a bank of dirt and vegetation at the back of the car park which the family's BMW estate hit during the attack.Updated at 2.20pm BST 1.05pm BST French police heading to UKA French police officer involved in the investigation into the murders is to travel to the UK to meet his British counterparts, the French website ledauphine.com reports (French link). Updated at 2.20pm BST 12.39pm BST Police 'seeking driver of Peugeot'Police are looking for a "man in a black shirt" seen driving a white Peugeot 4x4 away from the murder scene at speed, the Evening Standard reports. It says that the ex-RAF officer who discovered the bodies said he saw a white 4x4 and a woman has come forward to say that she saw a "white Peugeot 4x4" that she had to swerve to avoid. She said it was driven by a "man in a black shirt".  11.50am BST Sisters' relatives to head to FranceRelatives of the two young girls who survived the slaying of their parents and grandmother will be brought to France to be reunited with them, authorities have said. From the Press Association: Peter Ricketts, the British ambassador to France, said the elder girl was still "seriously ill" but in a stable condition in hospital. He said both sisters would be looked after by British consular staff until members of their family could be brought to France. Ricketts said: "We're all determined to get to the bottom of this as soon as we can."Everybody shares the same determination that the perpetrators of this awful crime are brought to justice as soon as possible. This is particularly violent and brutal, but also has this heartrending dimension of the two small girls. It's a unique case in my experience."  11.40am BST Elder girl 'out of danger'The health of the seven-year-old girl found lying in the road close to the car is improving, the public prosecutor Eric Maillaud has said. He told AFP: She was operated on again. She is doing well. Her state of health is no longer causing much worry. She is out of danger.She was shot in the shoulder and was violently beaten, suffering a fractured skull.Updated at 12.26pm BST 11.17am BST   A police officer places a candle from a wellwisher next to floral tributes at the house of the Hilli family in Claygate, Surrey. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesUpdated at 11.21am BST 11.00am BST French interior minister rejects criticism of policeFrance's interior minister, Manuel Valls, has rejected outright any criticism of French gendarmes for not finding four-year-old Zeena al-Hilli in the car for eight hours after her parents and grandmother had been shot dead. Valls insisted there had been "no fault" by investigators. He said: I'm not taking part in this kind of useless or unjustified polemic. They [investigators] must get on with their work; I don't believe there has been any fault. I should remind you that this little girl was found alive.Updated at 11.16am BST 10.57am BST Four-year-old girl "shocked and traumatised"Sir Peter Ricketts, the British ambassador in Paris, told French TV that consular staff had spoken to the four-year-old girl who hid for eight hours under the bodies of her murdered relatives. He said: The little girl who was not physically hurt was nevertheless shocked and traumatised. Consular staff have been able to speak to her and we will support her until the family arrive. We're there with her. The other child is still seriously injured and we cannot see her. But the moment she is able to receive people we will be there for her too.Ricketts also said investigators had been able to speak to the four-year-old through English translators. She has spoken of hearing "a lot of noise and cries".Updated at 2.33pm BST 10.35am BST Authorities will do 'utmost to find the perpetrators'   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  10.29am BST French police searching for leadsPolice are continuing to investigate the murder of three British holidaymakers and a French cyclist in the French Alps. As yet, no arrests have been made, police do not know the motive and have not recovered a weapon. We will be providing live updates on developments through the day. Here is an extract from the latest story by the Guardian's Kim Willsher, in Annecy: French forensic and ballistic experts are to examine the 15 bullet casings found at the scene of the French Alpine murder of three British holidaymakers and a French cyclist to try to identify the killer's DNA and weapon.Postmortem examinations will also be carried out on Friday on the four victims, three of whom were shot in the head with a semi-automatic pistol. The results are expected late on Friday or Saturday ...Detectives have admitted they have many theories but no leads in the killings. Between 60 and 100 investigators are working on the case, described by the local prosecutor, Eric Maillaud, as "extremely savage". He urged journalists to let investigators "do their job".Friday's tests were expected to reveal whether there was more than one killer and if the victims were killed with the same weapon.