It was 9am on a cold, October morning at Charmartin train station in Madrid. After travelling on the overnight train from Paris, I was looking forward to picking up the hire car and heading south towards the sun and sea for the children's half-term break.Charmartin station is a charmless place and the Hertz car rental office is a tiny pre-fabricated hut, tucked under a flyover on the edge of a busy main road. The office was packed and I volunteered to stay outside with the luggage and children while my partner organised the car. Not being at my best in the morning, I was half asleep when a well-dressed young man tapped me on the shoulder and pointed at my eldest child. I saw a whitish liquid splashed over the back of her jacket. From his gestures, I gathered I also had something on the back of my coat and, bless him, he handed me a paper tissue to mop up the mess. I took off my coat - placing my handbag on the floor beside me - and five seconds later realised the man had disappeared. So had my bag. I was horrified. The first day of the holiday and I had no money, credit cards, driver's licence or mobile phone. When my partner realised what had happened he set off in hot pursuit, but returned empty-handed. I suspect my handbag and its contents had already travelled a long way from the scene of the crime. The police later told us these sorts of crimes are carried out by organised gangs and it's best to leave them well alone. Hertz staff informed me that, yes, indeed, this was a popular spot for these crimes and I could report the theft at the police station, next to platform one. The police could not have been more helpful and 10 minutes later I had completed the paperwork and cancelled my cards. But, as we once again crossed in front of the car-rental office, another well-dressed man had already taken up position just waiting for the next unsuspecting person to pass. A complaint to Hertz, pointing out that staff in the office at Charmartin station are well-aware of the dangers for customers at this particular office, elicited a lukewarm response. A spokeswoman said the company was reviewing security around the office. This might include a notice warning clients to be vigilant in the case of thieves operating in the area.