The declaration by the home secretary, Theresa May, today that it is now time to "move beyond the asbo" scuttles the flagship of Tony Blair's "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" approach to law and order.Conceived in 1996 when Blair was shadow home secretary, antisocial behaviour orders were among the first of many pieces of New Labour crime legislation. The idea was to combine banning orders – imposing curfews and bans on visiting specific estates or shopping centres – with parenting programmes that would tackle the roots of yobbish behaviour. They were issued by the courts and lasted a minimum of two years.They did not initially prove popular with either the police or local authorities of whatever political complexion, and only 300-400 a year were being used until Labour's second term, when Blair placed them at the centre of his "respect" programme. As out of control "hoodies" filled the television screens of Blair's Britain and the whole mythology of "asbo kids" took hold, Labour councils began to compete over the number of asbos they issued. The numbers soared from 427 in 2002 to 3,479 in 2004 and reached a peak of 4,122 new orders issued in 2005.As they became more popular, so the conditions attached to them became ever more imaginative. In one case, teenage boys in Manchester were banned from wearing one glove because it was a symbol of gang membership. Other teenage boys were banned from playing football in the street, and an 87-year-old man was given an asbo after being abusive to his neighbours. In one extraordinary case, a woman was forbidden from making excessive noise during sex anywhere in England.While pollsters found that the idea of asbos was overwhelmingly popular with the public, only 39% of people believed they were effective in curbing antisocial behaviour. The tide started to turn as the police found other ways to deal with the problem. Research found that asbos were being used against people with mental health problems and a 2007 National Audit Office report found that a third of asbos had been breached five times or more. The Whitehall spending watchdog pointed out that warning letters and acceptable behaviour contracts were cheaper and more effective.Critics condemned asbos as "emblems of punitive populism" and warned that they were creating an "asbo culture" that encouraged children into crime.In 2008 the Home Office confirmed this picture when it revealed that the breach rate for asbos issued up to December 2007 had soared to 61%, and many offenders saw them as a "badge of honour". Jacqui Smith tried to bury them while she was home secretary and instead urged expanding early intervention programmes. But after the case of Fiona Pilkington, who killed herself and her disabled daughter after years of living under siege from local youths, and in which the police were accused of not taking antisocial behaviour seriously, Gordon Brown tried to breathe new life into the asbo. His home secretary, Alan Johnson, claimed Labour had been "coasting" on the issue. But his drive appears to have yielded few results.The latest asbo figures, published today, show that the number issued has continued to fall from the 2005 peak of 4,122 to 2,027 in 2008, the latest figures available. The home secretary today indicated that she believes the rate has continued to fall since then and breach rates have risen even further, with 40% being broken more than once.The final scoreline shows that a total of 16,999 orders were issued between April 1999 and December 2008, of which more than 9,300 were ignored. No wonder May was able to argue today that they did little to rehabilitate offenders and simply criminalised many young people.