Harold Shipman, Britain's most prolific serial killer, today was struck off the medical register with immediate effect after being found guilty of serious professional misconduct by the general medical council.The action came after the GMC's professional conduct committee held a full disciplinary hearing into the case of the general practitioner who has been dubbed Dr Death. Jailed for life last month for killed 15 elderly women, Shipman could face further charges as police believe he may be behind another 175 deaths."We have been urgently working to bring forward the hearing," the GMC said in a statement. Under English law the GMC must give a doctor six weeks notice of a public hearing but Shipman's lawyers waived the notice period.The British medical establishment came under fire after the general practitioner from Hyde, near Manchester, was sentenced. Angry relatives of the dead have demanded to know why the GMC did not take action against Shipman earlier. He was a known drug addict and had been convicted in 1976 of forging prescriptions for his own use for the pain killer pethadine.Despite the conviction he was allowed to continue to practice medicine and ran his own one-man clinic with more than 3,000 registered patients. He was a popular doctor and even received flowers from patients after his arrest. The government announced an official inquiry earlier this month to find out why Shipman was able to kill for so long without being detected. The GP injected his victims with lethal doses of morphine.The Shipman case has rocked the medical profession and the GMC has introduced wide reforms to regain public confidence. Among some of the measures to be introduced will be a dramatic increase in the proportion of lay members of the GMC's disciplinary committee from less than a third now to 50%. Two reviews of the way the council operates were also announced.Shipman first came to the attention of the GMC in 1976, after he had been convicted of falsifying prescriptions to obtain morphine for his own drug habit. Following advice from psychiatrists, the GMC let him off with a warning letter. In 1998 officials were told that Shipman was being investigated for murder and then that he had been charged.The GMC's lawyers advised the council that its regulations would not allow it to suspend Shipman from the medical register while a criminal investigation was under way. Shipman was moved on Monday to the top-security Franklands prison in Co Durham after prison governors learned that the mother of two warders at Manchester prison may have been one of his victims.