Cherie Booth, the Prime Minister's wife, will face fresh accusations of dabbling in politics tomorrow when she backs a major inquiry into the treatment of women criminals, which is expected to push for fewer females to be locked up.The investigation, headed by a Labour MP, will look at why the female prison population has more than doubled in the past decade. It comes as new research suggests that, rather than being due to more women committing worse crimes, the courts are losing sympathy with female defendants as the traditional perception dissipates of women being gentler and more law-abiding. In her only appearance in her own right on the Labour Party conference fringe in Blackpool this week, Booth will unveil the report of the Commission on Women and the Criminal Justice System, set up by think-tank the Fawcett Society. Her declaration of interest in prison policy, which follows her attack last week on the Government's record over children's rights, may raise eyebrows. She visited jails during her training as a part-time judge and friends say she has developed a close interest in female inmates. She believes too many women are behind bars, and that this has damaging effects on their children. 'Women's crimes are quite different from men's. They tend to be either economic crimes or narcotics-related,' said Katharine Rake, director of the Fawcett Society. 'We are not asking for preferential treatment. But some evidence suggests that if women transgress the socially accepted norms, they tend to be sentenced quite harshly. The move to incar ceration can be quicker than for men. 'A lot of women are in on very, very short sentences and I think there are big issues there about whether incarceration is the right method of treating these relatively minor offences.' The commission, to be chaired by Vera Baird, MP for Redcar and a leading criminal barrister, will look at how the system treats women as vic tims of crime; ways of raising low conviction rates for rape and domestic violence; and increasing the number of women judges and lawyers. More controversially, it will study women as offenders, including whether those serving sentences of less than six months should be in prison at all, particularly if they have children. Research by Carol Hedderman of London's South Bank University, who is now working for the Home Office, shows that while the sentenced female prison population doubled between 1992 and 2000, the pattern of female offences hardly changed. The number rose from 1,659 women prisoners to 4,195. Magistrates appear to have become tougher, with the proportion of cases in which they ordered custody growing fivefold over the eight years. A Home Office study in 1997 found that magistrates were more sympathetic to women, viewing them as often motivated by 'need not greed' - for example, shoplifting children's clothes or food - and more respectfully behaved in court. The commission will work closely with the Home Office, which has already signalled that it wants to see an alternative to custody in order to ease overcrowding. It is also expected to look at the one in seven female prisoners who are foreign nationals, largely 'drug mules' sentenced for smuggling heroin and cocaine. Booth, who recently gave a lecture on prison overcrowding in memory of prison reformer Lord Longford, visited drug mules imprisoned in Jamaica during the Prime Minister's official visit to that country last year. 