The wife of the murdered Scottish banker Alistair Wilson told of her torment yesterday as hundreds of people gathered in the Highland town of Nairn for a memorial service.It is three weeks since the 30-year-old father of two was shot on his doorstep in a killing that horrified the community and continues to baffle police. Yesterday, Veronica Wilson, 33, who answered the door to her husband's killer, said her life and the lives of her two sons had been torn apart. In a statement she read out following the service at St Ninian's church, Mrs Wilson said the family needed to know who had killed Mr Wilson on the night of November 28. "Our lives since then have been an emotional rollercoaster, every day we are asking who, we are asking why, and we are asking what for?" said Mrs Wilson. "These questions will haunt us for the rest of our lives. "Al and the boys had a great Christmas last year and I wish I had known it was to be our last. I don't know what the next few days will hold in the run-up to Christmas, as it couldn't be further from all of our minds... I pray the police find the man who did this to my family, only then will our questions be answered." Mrs Wilson and the boys have been staying at a secret location and officers from Northern Constabulary were on patrol around the church during yesterday's service. The two boys, aged four and two, did not attend the event. Mrs Wilson thanked local residents for their support and asked to be left alone to try to rebuild her life. The hunt continues for the stocky man in a baseball cap who knocked on the family's front door and asked to speak to Mr Wilson, who was putting his sons to bed. A short conversation took place between the stranger and Mr Wilson, who then returned into his house with an envelope. He spoke to his wife and went back outside, with the envelope still in his hand. Seconds later, Mrs Wilson heard shots and found her husband dying in the doorway. Police confirmed last week that a handgun found in a drain not far from the scene was the murder weapon.