Youth crime has emerged as a major battleground in the run-up to May's Holyrood election after the Scottish National Party pledged to introduce new specialist courts to deal with family issues.The SNP's Shadow Justice Minister, Roseanna Cunningham, today reveals the party's intention to reform the current legal system to launch family courts that will also deal with divorce, adoption, custody and access, and domestic and child abuse. The announcement followed an escalation of cam paigning by the party yesterday. A series of leaflets were unveiled which portray First Minister Jack McConnell as a cigarette being squashed into an ashtray, along with the words 'One resolution you must stick to... quit Labour'. The move drew accusations of negative campaign ing from Labour, but Nationalists were keen to stress their proposals to reform the legal system. The SNP believes that courts where specific judges are assigned to particular families would gain a deeper understanding of their problems. For persistent young offenders, the Family Court would provide a better environment in which to proceed than the current children's hearings system, according to Cunningham. She said: 'Family life in Scotland is in crisis. The divorce rate continues to be high, domestic abuse plagues far too many homes and youth crime, particularly by persistent offenders, has become a real problem.'The SNP is committed to reforming the justice system to allow it to deal with these issues sympathetically, consistently and, above all, effectively. Family courts are already operating from Japan and New Zealand to Canada and Ireland. They offer a way for the system to deal with the complex problems that often arise within families. 'A family court has the chance to see beyond the immediate issue before it and deal with the underlying causes rather than just the symptoms. The system allows the court to see the connections between a family's situation and the immediate reason for a case being brought before it.' The SNP's election campaign co-ordinator, Nicola Sturgeon MSP, said: 'This year is important for Scotland and we are determined to show the Scottish public the differences between the SNP and Labour and how our policies will make Scotland a better place to live and work.'