A man who stabbed his partner of 30 years to death was jailed for four years and eight months today after a judge ruled he had snapped after years of "severe conduct" from the dead woman.Dennis Long, 59, was cleared of murder at Newcastle crown court and convicted of manslaughter on the grounds of provocation after killing Judith Scott, 60, in March by stabbing her in the arm and twice in the chest.The killing, said Judge John Milford, "has to be seen against a background of 30 years' severe conduct by the deceased and some physical abuse as well". The court had heard that during the relationship Scott had repeatedly beaten Long with an ornamental poker, nagged him and on one occasion broken his thumb.Sentencing Long, the judge told him: "You are a placid, unassertive, rather weak man." He said the defendant was "full of genuine remorse" and was a hard-working man of previous good character. He said Scott had subjected her partner to "cumulative provocation" over three decades.The court heard that Long had killed Scott, who was a grandmother, at their home in North Shields, North Tyneside, after she had called him weak, a "pansy", a "poof" and told him she should wear trousers and he a dress. He had told Scott he had been abused on the way home from the pub by a local bully, but would not report it to police.Immediately after the attack, he rang 999 and told the call handler: "I just lost it – she gave me grief so I knifed her."As Long was led away, the judge paid tribute to the dead woman's daughters, Kerry and Paula, who were brought up by Long and who both made statements saying they could not hate him, even after the killing."I would like to express my appreciation for their dignified behaviour throughout and my admiration for their candour," he said. "In the fullness of time there will be healing of the wounds that they suffered through the loss of their mother."Long had told the jury he had left his partner on occasions but had always returned because he loved her.Paula Scott's victim impact statement was read out in court before the sentencing.It said: "When I now look back at what happened, I cannot understand why Dennis did what he did. All I can think is something inside him must have snapped. I also feel guilty that I do not hate him."Knowing Dennis as I do, I also believe the guilt for what he has done will live with him for the rest of his life. Dennis has done the worst thing in the world to us – he has taken our mother. But I cannot hate him."He has been the only dad I have ever known and I still think of him as my dad. He has always provided for us and been there to support us. He was the nicest man you would ever meet and he hated violence and swearing, which is why I find it so hard to understand what he has done."