Norval Morris, who has died in Chicago aged 80, was the most influential American criminologist of his time. His enthusiasms never abated and, at the time of his death, he was still busy working on a further book, "Murderers" Among Us, the stories of men wrongfully convicted of homicide in whose exonerations across five decades, and on two continents, he played a role.Born in Auckland, New Zealand, Morris went to schools in Australia, France, and England, and saw war service with the Australian army in the Pacific, from 1941 to 1945. He received his LLB (1946) and LLM (1947) from Melbourne University, and his PhD in law and criminology from the London School of Economics (1949). After a year lecturing at the LSE, he returned to Melbourne University in 1950, founded its criminology department the following year and became professor in 1955. He was then dean of the law faculty at Adelaide University (1958-62), chairman of the commission on capital punishment in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka, 1958-59), and founding director of the UN's first criminal justice agency, the United Nations Institute for the Prevention of Crime and Treatment of Offenders, in Tokyo (1962-64).In 1964, he was appointed Julius Kreeger professor of law and criminology at Chicago University, a position he held for 30 years, continuing as emeritus professor till his death. From 1975 to 1978, he was dean of that university's law school. Morris lived long enough to ensure that most active criminologists never heard him speak or read his works when they were ahead of their times. At his peak, in the 1970s and 1980s, he was regarded by leading criminologists as the most eloquent speaker and most gifted writer of them all. He is best known for The Honest Politician's Guide To Crime Control (1970), his classic The Future Of Imprisonment (1974), Between Prison And Probation (1990), The Brothel Boy (1992), The Oxford History Of The Prison (1995), and Maconochie's Gentlemen (2001). The Brothel Boy and Maconochie's Gentlemen are works of historical fiction, the first a series of short stories about Eric Blair, later George Orwell, when he was a police magistrate in Burma in the 1920s, and the second about the life of Alexander Maconochie during the 1840s, when he was superintendent of Australia's Norfolk Island prison colony. Both examined penal policy ideas, both had hard times finding a publisher, and both proved immensely successful. These books alone - less than half those he wrote - would be testament to a productive career, but in Morris's case, they give an incomplete picture. He was an institution-builder of unmatched influence, and his ideas about punishment have transformed the ways people think. The Melbourne criminology department is the world's longest-lived. He founded the UN institute in Tokyo in 1963. Two years later, he established the Centre for Studies in Criminal Justice at Chicago. In the early 1970s, he was the moving force behind the National Institute of Corrections, an American federal agency that helps state and local prison and probation systems. In 1977, he co-founded Crime And Justice: A Review Of Research, generally regarded as the world's leading criminology journal. In the early 1980s, he persuaded the MacArthur Foundation to sponsor the Programme on Human Development in Chicago Neighbourhoods, the largest and most expensive research project ever undertaken in criminology. All these institutions thrive today. In the mid-1950s, Morris offered three big ideas, 20 years before the policy and scholarly worlds were ready for them. All challenged, and eventually undermined, the individualised and indeterminate punishment systems that were then ubiquitous. Rehabilitation and crime prevention, not retribution, was the governing premise; judges and parole boards were expected to make individualised decisions about offenders' rehabilitative prospects and successes; and prison sentences were indeterminate, in that their lengths could not be known at the time of sentencing, but were decided by a parole board when the prisoner was adjudged to be rehabilitated. The first of Morris's ideas was that considerations of justice forbid depriving people of liberty, or extending deprivations of their liberty, in order to change them. By the 1980s, it had become conventional wisdom across the political spectrum. The second was that the criminal law's insanity defence is hypocritical, because problems of mental illness and disability are pervasive among offenders whom the defence does not reach, and unjust because the criminal law ignores numerous other influences on behaviour as, or more, powerful than mental illness. By the 1980s, many US jurisdictions had abandoned the insanity defence. The third - and most influential - was his theory of limiting retributivism. This includes two core propositions. For every crime, there exists a range of "not undeserved" punishments; a sentence above the range would be unjustly severe and a punishment below would be unduly lenient. Always, however, a principle of parsimony requires the imposition of the least severe applicable punishment, unless good reasons exist for doing more. When limiting retributivism was first offered, its message was drowned out by rehabilitative and other utilitarian ideas that underlay indeterminate sentencing. When indeterminate sentencing foundered in the 1970s, limiting retributivism was drowned out by retributive ideas about just deserts. Today, limiting retributivism is the prevailing normative theory of punishment in most western countries. "Pass it on, pass it on." With these words, in Chicago on October 4 2003, Morris ended his last major public talk. "It" is the belief that what we do to offenders and prisoners matters, that the prison is a microcosm of the social world we inhabit, that how we respond to the suffering of those inside tells us more about ourselves than about them, and that knowing these things makes us better people. Morris is survived by Elaine, his wife of 57 years, and three sons. · Norval Morris, lawyer, criminologist and novelist, born October 1 1923; died February 21 2004