It's a great pity and a social disaster in the making if the National Treatment Agency really has been bullied into proposing "strict limits on how long drug addicts are allowed to stay on heroin substitute methadone" (Drugs agency proposes limiting access to methadone, 19 July). The NTA knows the evidence as well as anybody, but let's put it so simply that even a government minister or policy adviser can understand."Clean" of drug use is very good. It is what we aim for with our patients. It is achieved, if at all, through steps of getting progressively clean-er, and maintaining those steps. Every step gained is a benefit, both to the user attempting stabilisation and to society. Engaging with a methadone service and using, say, one to two "bags" of street heroin every two to three days is a hell of a lot of progress from no engagement and using four to five "bags" daily: safer for the user, less crime caused in the process of scoring, reduced risk of increasing the amount of hepatitis B and C or HIV in the UK population and so on.Working with the user to eliminate any street use is even better. A person getting more stable on a prescribed heroin substitute escapes the 24/7 maelstrom of petty crime, and scoring and using drugs, freeing time and energy to attempt to rebuild themselves, their families, work – all the things that drug addiction consumes. Arbitrary time limits on the process of recovering from addiction can only lead to more failures. Recovery is a complex process, in which there may be false starts and relapses. The "maintenance" medication is only one component, albeit a key one for most users.You cite 200,000 people "maintained … at a cost of £300m a year". But let's also have some figures for the dividends of maintenance – the crimes not committed, the children better looked after, the police and criminal justice resources not consumed, the transition process from societal problem to productive citizen. The £300m is not a cost, it's an investment. It doesn't pay off for every person every time – investments can go down as well as up. But without investment, the dividend is zero. At best. The only beneficiaries will be the importers, distributors and sellers of street heroin.Dr Gary ReynoldsGP, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire • The Centre for Social Justice advocates replacing methadone with residential rehabilitation. It has previously estimated that residential treatment is 13 times more expensive. It has not said how we are to bridge the huge gap between the costs of these two forms of treatment. Of course we need to help dependent drug users move towards employment, stable housing and loving relationships. But arbitrary, ideological limits on methadone are likely to have the opposite effect, driving people back to a life of street drugs and crime.Dr Alex StevensUniversity of Kent 