A government trial introducing part-time prison into British jails looks as though it could prove an expensive flop after inspectors found that a purpose-built pilot unit with 18 staff and space for 39 inmates only had one prisoner in residence.Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, says the scheme has potential but when she visited Kirkham prison, near Preston, last December she found that there were plenty of prisoners locked up at the weekend but the cells were virtually empty for the rest of the week. The prison population in England and Wales is at record levels with more than 76,000 people locked up. The "intermittent custody" scheme was introduced in January last year with the aim of enabling prisoners to keep their job and family ties. Those with jobs are locked up at weekends while unemployed offenders are supposed to serve their part-time sentence during the week. "At the time of this inspection there was only one weekday intermittent custody prisoner. The most there had been was three," says the chief inspector in her report published today. The scheme is being tried at Kirkham and Morton Hall women's prison near Lincoln. A Prison Service spokesman said that so far 179 offenders had been sentenced to a part-time prison term at Kirkham and 65 at Morton Hall. But they had nearly all been weekend prisoners. Only 32 of them were told to serve their sentences during the week. "Weekday custody for who did not have employment worked much less well, mainly because they were unable to retain their benefits while they were in prison," Ms Owers says. "As a consequence the unit was virtually empty during the week. We were told this problem was being addressed. The barriers to full and effective use of the intermittent custody scheme need to be tackled." Welfare rules mean that jobseekers have to be available for work to claim benefits which bars those who are locked up for four days each week. She adds that the rehabilitation programme was largely irrelevant for weekend prisoners because it was aimed at improving their basic job skills when most of them were already highly skilled. Both prisons have purpose-built units where conditions are good. The Kirkham unit consists of 39 rooms on two floors with a classroom, association and group room, interview and treatment rooms and and a communal dining room. It is also well staffed with two senior prison officers, six prison officers, six operational support staff and one administrative officer. These were supplemented by the efforts of a probation officer and two community service officers. Although the unit was meant to be separate from the main prison the governor had resorted to using half the rooms for overflow inmates from the rest of the jail. Peter Atherton, deputy director general of the Prison Service, said the figures for weekday custody had been disappointing but he was confident they would grow as the number of courts involved in the scheme increased. A Prison Service spokesman said the benefits problem had been circumvented with the agreement of the Department for Work and Pensions pending new legislation. But Cheryl Gillan, the Tory party prisons spokesman, said it was scandalous that the government's answer to prison overcrowding was to allow prisoners to serve their sentences part-time: "It beggars belief that this flagship part-time unit is only holding one actual prisoner - with places going begging." Juliet Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust said the scheme was in danger of proving too costly. The government should either forget about it and use more effective community penalties instead or lift the benefits ban for those in weekday jail.