The number of women in prison in England and Wales has more than doubled in the last six years, according to Home Office figures published yesterday. Home Office ministers admitted that the increase from an average daily female prison population of 1,560 in 1993 to 3,392 in 1999 indicated there was discrimination against women within the criminal justice system. This rise compares with an increase of 43% in the numbers of male prisoners over a similar period. The official report, Women and the Criminal Justice System, says that women tend to have shorter criminal histories than men and "grow out" of crime earlier, but were more likely to be arrested for less serious offences. It confirms overwhelmingly that the reason why women are sent to prison is for shoplifting and other forms of minor theft. In 1999, some 2,100 women were imprisoned for shoplifting, 440 for wounding offences and 360 for drug dealing. The report also confirms that the sharp rise in the number of women in prison is mainly a result of the courts passing tougher sentences, and particularly highlights the fact that teenage girls are less likely to be given a community sentence, such as probation, than teenage boys. The new figures challenge the idea that many women are in prison for failing to pay court fines. More than 200 women were sent to jail for defaulting on fines last year but the average sentence only lasted five day. In the overall daily prison population, fine defaulters accounted, on average, for five out of the 3,392. The research also reveals that more than half of the women in prison, 55%, have a child under the age of 16, and more than a third have a child under five, while a higher proportion of the women prison population comes from minority ethnic groups (25%) compared with male prisoners. The report confirms that men are much more likely to be involved in crime and the proportion of known criminals who are women stayed at about 17% throughout the 1990s. The Home Office minister Charles Clarke said: "Lack of knowledge about child care provisions may exclude women from consideration for a community sentence. Research also shows that the provision of safe and secure accommodation for women pre- and post-trial is patchy. "We need to investigate these types of inequalities and look at ways of providing better provision for the future." He said that a new think-tank was being set up with the Fawcett Society, which campaigns for women's equality, to investigate the problem. The Howard League for Penal Reform said: "Women haven't got worse, the system has got more punitive towards them...We would like to see all women's prisons closed down."