Use of firearms by the police has reached a record high level. Armed response vehicles are attending more incidents than ever before, prompting fears that police are being armed 'by stealth'.According to new Home Office figures, the number of operations in which firearms are issued to police officers rose between April 1999 and March 2000 in 21 constabularies, doubling in four. Police operations in England and Wales using armed response vehicles (ARVs) reached an unprecedented high nationwide, doubling in seven constabularies. MPs expressed concern at the rise, saying it jeopardised the 'principle of an unarmed police force'.Last year Nottinghamshire police became the first force to routinely arm police on foot patrol in a controversial pilot scheme to reduce drug crime. Since then, eight other constabularies have made inquiries to Nottinghamshire to ask how best to implement the scheme.The rise in firearms use will increase pressure on Home Secretary David Blunkett to crack down on it. Blunkett has expressed concern at the recent killings of Andrew Kernan, shot brandishing a samurai sword in Merseyside last month, and Derek Bennett, killed on a Brixton estate while holding a gun-shaped cigarette lighter. In both cases lethal force had been used when a non-lethal alternative could have been available.Last week the Metropolitan Police announced it was to arm officers with 'stun guns' to protect them and the public from the increasing risk of knife attacks.Police increasingly use firearms because of the greater threat of gun crime and the prevalence of imitation firearms. When the public report the possible use of a gun in a crime, the police arrive armed. Ministers are alarmed at the use of replica guns, and want legislation to combat the threat.The figures reveal the deployment of ARVs by the Metropolitan Police has reached a record high, doubling from 790 in 1996 to 1,812 in 1999. ARV use in Greater Manchester has quadrupled in a year, to 173 occasions in 1999-2000, and risen threefold in Lincolnshire to 141 incidents last year.While the number of operations in which firearms were issued to police doubled in Cambridgeshire, Cleveland, Surrey, and South Wales, the number of officers trained in firearms has dropped in Cambridgeshire and South Wales and risen by one per cent or less in Surrey and Cleveland.Police spokesmen put the deployment rises down to a change in tactical procedures: forces used to prefer to train fewer officers in using firearms to a higher standard.Recent workplace legislation has heightened concerns over the health and safety of officers. Chief constables, responsible for enforcing firearms policy under regulations from the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO), now face prosecution if their staff are harmed at work through their negligence.The figures showed a minor decrease nationwide in the total number of operations in which firearms were issued, from 10,928 between April 1998 and March 1999, to 10,915 for the same period last year. But in the same period ARV deployments rose to a record 8,276, as opposed to 7,544 two years ago.Deborah Coles, co-director of Inquest, said the majority of victims of police shootings were posthumously recognised as no real threat to the public. 'These deaths are not subjected to scrutiny by a public inquiry, and so the lessons are not learned and police feel they can act with impunity,' she added.Criminologists said more armed police would force criminals to carry guns. 'The evidence and research universally suggests the more armed the police become, the more dangerous it becomes both for the police and the public they serve,' said Professor John Benyon, a criminologist at the Scarman Centre at the University of Leicester. 'There is a growing air of inevitability among chief constables, not apparent 10 years ago, that the British police will become a fully armed force in a matter of time.'Simon Hughes MP, Liberal Democrat spokesman on home affairs, said: 'The fact that so many forces have seen significant rises in firearms use should be viewed with concern. We really do not want to get into a culture where all police carry guns.'We need to see serious national debate and to hear the police justify this drift in policy and look at the alternatives available to firearms. The principle of an unarmed police force looks increasingly at risk.'Paul Acres, Chief Constable of Hertfordshire and chairman of ACPO's police use of firearms committee, said: 'Every operation we conduct is risk assessed. Thirty years ago, the public would not fear firearms, but today they are more alert to it.' He said the chief police officers were keen to see legislation making it a criminal offence to carry an imitation firearm, placing the burden of proof on the individual to show he had 'good cause'.nick.walsh@observer.co.uk