When Chris Langham was questioned by police shortly after his arrest he compared himself to Charles Dickens. In a prepared statement which he read to detectives he said he had downloaded the graphic images of child abuse because he was an artist "condemned to feel the pain for all of us and try and express it".At the time, Langham's 30-year showbusiness career had been scaling new heights. After years as a jobbing writer and actor, the 58-year-old's performance as put-upon government minister Hugh Abbott in the BBC satire The Thick of It had seen him win a string of awards and accolades.But yesterday a jury at Maidstone crown court found him guilty of downloading 15 videos and pictures of child abuse, sealing a fall from grace that began just two days after he picked up the best TV actor award at the British Comedy Awards in December 2005. It emerged that he had been arrested over child pornography allegations.During the three-week trial the court heard that detectives had raided Langham's home in Golford, Kent, in November 2005 after a tip-off that his credit card had been used to access child pornography websites. They had removed three computers and police experts found a series of graphic images including some rated level 5 by child protection officers.Last night Ken Gross, the crown prosecution's solicitor in the case, said the most serious clips included "sadism and penetrative sex between children and adults". "These were not 'child pornography' images, they were very serious child abuse images and anyone who downloads this sort of thing is responsible for the suffering of real children."Langham also faced other charges. A teenage girl he had befriended at the stage door of London's Palace Theatre on Shaftesbury Avenue when he was starring in Les Miserables in 1996 had accused him having sex with her while she was underage.DownloadingDuring two days the witness box the woman, who is now 25, told the jury that the actor had showered her with gifts, taken her to expensive restaurants and then, during an acting lesson in his dressing room, kissed her. She told the court that a few weeks later, when she was still 14, he took her to the Royal Garden Hotel in Kensington where they had sex.The woman, who came forward after the reading press reports about the child pornography allegations, claimed that the pair had sex up to 100 times in the next two years in hotels, the Palace Theatre dressing room and Langham's car. The court heard she suffered from mental health problems and under cross examination she was labelled a fantasist. Yesterday the jury found the actor not guilty of six counts of indecent assault and two counts of buggery.During the trial, Langham admitted he had sex with the young fan, but not until she was 18. He never denied downloading the images or having them on his home computers. Instead he put forward a series of explanations and repeatedly insisted he was not a paedophile.In the 11-page statement he read to the police he said he was following in the footsteps of some of the UK's greatest literary figures and that as a writer he wanted to "dig a little deeper into the darker and more fundamental places".Research"I think it has been a common experience for writers down the ages to feel that they live in times that are too comfortable and apathetic, that they have a duty to locate the source of pain in society that can become for them the engine room whose emotional charge can power the creative process ... The artist acts as a conduit for the shared guilt of society."The jury also heard that he had downloaded the images as part of his research for a sex offender character called Pedro who was due to appear in the second series of the hit BBC comedy Help which he was co-writing with fellow comedian Paul Whitehouse.But that theory was given short shrift by Whitehouse, who appeared as a witness for the prosecution telling the court there was no need for Langham to have looked at any child pornograpy.When Langham took the stand he put forward another explanation for the videos - breaking down as he told the jury it had been part of an attempt to "reach something that I was blocking out".Fighting back tears, he said: "There is a room inside me that is locked. There is an eight-year-old boy in there and I don't know how to talk to him."Questioned further by defence counsel David Whitehouse QC, Mr Langham said: "There is something in the room that I can't look at ... There is a guy with no face ... a guy sodomising me in a tent when I was eight.""I got taken sailing by a bloke at a lake in Ontario," he said as he sobbed. "There were tents I stayed in a tent with this guy, I don't remember his name. I remember he had red hair. I remember he had red pubic hair ... I don't want to get into details if you don't mind."However, the jury took just two hours to find him guilty, siding with prosecuting barrister Richard Barraclough, QC, who told them: "The statement he made to police was nothing but hypocrisy and cant. Each of his statements is a lie. He downloaded these images. They didn't happen automatically; he chose them. That makes him guilty in law. It doesn't matter why he did it."