Medical services in jails are in crisis, with prisoners denied effective medicines and governors interfering in doctors' clinical judgments, according to a report published today. Experienced prison doctors are deserting the service and the profession is experiencing recruitment problems because of low morale and poor resources, the British Medical Association study found. The crisis will rebound on the general public because prisoners with serious problems such as mental illness and HIV are simply being returned to the community without support or treatment, the BMA says. As doctors called for extra cash to fund healthcare in jails, the government unveiled details of a £60m investment programme to improve health services in prisons in England and Wales. The report was written by Dr Patrick Keavney, chairman of the BMA's civil service committee, and covered prison services in England and Wales. There are just 230 prison doctors, of whom 135 are directly employed by prisons, while the rest are GPs contracted to work part-time from the health service. Dr Keavney said even though prisoners have much higher rates of mental illness, drug and alcohol problems, doctors working in the service have less support and fewer resources. Prison governors are too concerned with bureaucratic processes and cost-cutting rather than focusing on the medical needs of prisoners, he claims. His report says: "Much of the difficult working environment for prison healthcare staff stems from the lack of co-operation, and in some cases active opposition, of prison administrators, particularly certain prison governors. "Many of the complaints made to the BMA from its own members who are prison doctors concern unacceptable interference by prison governors in their doctors' clinical judgment about the needs of their patients. "Structural changes in the service in the 1990s also increased the status of governors relative to prison doctors and further undermined clinical independence." Prisoners are denied effective drugs such as migraine medicines that are available in the NHS as a whole because of cost-cutting in jails, the report says. That was leading to more ill-health in jails and undermining trust between doctors and prisoners, who realise they are being denied effective drugs. Prison doctors are also being excluded from decision making among jail bosses on which medicines and therapies should be available. The lack of other staff such as psychiatrists, health workers and substance abuse counsellors is also contributing to the problem. The report says: "Failure to support prison doctors will inevitably affect both prisoners' health and the wider public health in the long run. "People who come out of prison after serving their term, if they are still suffering from inadequately diagnosed or insufficiently treated conditions, will inevitably affect the wider public health. "Many prisoners also contract HIV or other communicable diseases while in prison, which could be treated much more quickly and effectively in prison." The government's £60m cash boost will be used to repair or replace prison healthcare centres, improve staff training, tackle infectious diseases and set up new drug programmes. More than half of the total, £35m, will be for healthcare centres including the building of new ones at Pentonville and Chelmsford prisons. Another £10.5m will be spent on building and running drug units. which will cope with 4,000 prisoners a year on top of the 18,000 already going through detoxification annually. Around £14m will be spent on staff training and fighting infectious diseases, including offering vaccination against Hepatitis B to all prisoners when they first enter the prison system. Prisons minister Paul Boateng said: "Historically, healthcare provision in prison has fallen short of the service provided by the NHS and on too many occasions has fallen short of basic decency." Health minister Lord Hunt also announced details of new NHS teams to support specialist mental health services in prisons. The NHS-funded mental health scheme, which aims to have 300 new staff by 2004, will be piloted in prisons at Birmingham, Brixton, Chelmsford, Eastwood Park, Holloway, Feltham, Leeds, Leicester, Pentonville, Wandsworth, Winchester and Wormwood Scrubs.