Scotland Yard yesterday launched a major crackdown on drunken troublemakers causing havoc in London suburbs at the weekends.Operation Optic will deploy 78 officers from the Metropolitan police's territorial support group (TSG) in three roving teams, swooping on problem hotspots in six boroughs on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights. The Met would not reveal the names of the boroughs, but they are thought to include Kingston, Ealing, Romford and Croydon, where 12 people were arrested during a riot after the England-France Euro 2004 football match last week. The TSG will help local officers arrest troublemakers, who can be detained in vans for up to six hours and fined £80 for creating a public nuisance. Serious and repeat offenders will face the courts and possible custodial sentences. An extra 800 police officers were on duty in London last night in case of trouble after the England-Portugal game. Police will also take a harsh stand against pubs, clubs and off-licences they suspect of selling alcohol to under-age youths, running irresponsible drinks promotions and serving those who are already drunk. They will carry out covert tests, shutting down premises for 24 hours if licensees defy police advice. Violence and anti-social behaviour, fuelled by binge drinking, has become a big problem in many towns and cities. Sir John Stevens, the Met commissioner, said that on weekend nights some parts of London were full of drunks shouting, spitting at police officers and terrorising the public. "We need a concerted effort to tackle the sort of behaviour we see on our streets," he said. "Londoners are sick of it. Let me make it absolutely clear, we are not going to put up with it." He is concerned by the 141% rise in minor assaults on police officers in the past year. Incidents such as pushing and shoving rose from 1,156 in 2001-02 to 2,796 in 2003-04. "We're taking the brunt of anti-social behaviour on the frontline. We're arresting more people than ever before and we're having to increase cell capacity and the number of custody officers." The government hopes new laws allowing pubs and clubs to serve alcohol 24 hours a day from next summer will spur a more moderate continental European-style drinking culture. Some senior police officers have reservations. But Tim Godwin, the Met's assistant commissioner, who heads territorial policing, said it was up to licensees to make it work. Police would take a more robust attitude to temporary closures of pubs and clubs, he said. "Closing people down even for 24 hours can cost them a lot in revenue," he warned. Sir John said the Met was considering other measures, including a knife amnesty.