Forgive the revivalist tone, but let me paint a picture of the future of criminal justice in Britain. We will have sparkling new courthouses rooted in their local communities. Concerned groups of residents will liaise closely with the court, bringing specific problems of criminal and antisocial behaviour to its attention. The court will be approachable, understandable and anything but remote. At the helm of each will be a charismatic judge who knows the area, the people and the offenders - someone who is not afraid to get involved in helping offenders with dysfunctional lives and multiple addictions. Think Judge John Deed of the eponymous TV drama, but perhaps without the knighthood or the sex.He or she can deal with cases quickly and efficiently because, in the new courts, every conceivable agency involved in the criminal justice process works together under one roof. Probation, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), Victim Support, the local housing trust, and agencies offering advice and support for drug and alcohol addiction are all on site. There is even a mentoring scheme. Troublemakers can be punished in the area where they live and have offended, doing highly visible community work that enables local people to see them making amends for what they have done.Up and runningThe future is already up and running at the North Liverpool Community Justice Centre (NLCJC), where I recently spent time observing this new kind of justice in operation. As a barrister, I have trudged around many magistrates courts, frustrated by the lack of joined-up thinking and the inability of different agencies to work together to get cases dealt with more quickly and comprehensively. So the NLCJC was a revelation.It was inspired by an experimental American court set up in 2000 in Red Hook, an area of Brooklyn plagued by unemployment, poverty and crime. It created a one-stop shop, handing out non-custodial sentences where possible, together with drug and alcohol therapy. Classes were set up at the court to help people get high school diplomas and to apply for jobs. Soup was even handed out in the arraignment room.The aim was to break the cycle of low-level offending that had created a "revolving door" for people sentenced time and again for the same relatively minor offences. Lord Woolf visited Red Hook in 2002 and was mightily impressed with what he saw. He urged the then home secretary, lord chancellor and attorney general to consider something similar in the UK. The home secretary visited Red Hook and it was decided to test some of the community justice principles in North Liverpool.How is it different from a run-of-the-mill magistrates court? After all, they too are supposed to be local courts serving their immediate area. First, there is the physical environment. The NLCJC is set within its community, among houses and shops in a beautifully refurbished local primary school. It is a big building, but with only one courtroom. The other rooms house agencies that would normally be off-site or holed up in tiny spaces that were never meant to be offices or meeting rooms. Like so much of Britain, many magistrates courts have 19th-century facilities to deal with 21st-century problems.Each morning before court, the CPS, police, probation and the court clerk get together to go through the day's cases, which does not happen in the normal courts. They can anticipate problems and deal with them before the offender sets foot in the court. It helps to reduce the delays and adjournments that plague the traditional courts. Once an offender is in the dock, Judge David Fletcher can constitute the court as either a magistrates or crown court, enabling him to deal with cases more speedily. He can also refer offenders to the numerous support services in the building.Lives can be turned around. I met John, a 44-year-old man with a horrendous story of childhood abuse, drug and alcohol addiction, and offending. He had been forced to live in a garden shed from an early age by a mother who didn't want to know. He had fallen into crime and every kind of substance abuse. Twenty years of his life had been spent in prison. When he appeared before Fletcher, he was withdrawing from drugs and alcohol and could not stand up in the dock. He begged to be sent to prison for a short period to get clean.When he came back to the court, he was given help with his addictions and in finding accommodation. He has been clean for 10 months and has the fervour of a man saved. His praise is unbounded for the first court that he claims actually listened to him.There are concerns that community justice might amount to injustice. If a judge is aware of a particular local crime problem, might he or she be tempted to sentence in order to clear it up, rather than on the basis of the offender and the offence alone? There will remain a risk of this, but I found no evidence of it.What is certain is that the government is very excited about community justice. Speaking to an audience of criminal justice professionals, Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs minister, said recently: "They [the community] know it works. You know it works. I know it works." Curiously, his firm belief is not underpinned by any formal study. Anecdotally, results do seem good. Local police reported a 25% fall in crime in December, compared with the same month the previous year - though there could be many reasons for this.So far, so fabulous. Falconer has announced a roll out of community justice to 10 new areas, and he has a vision of community justice principles operating across the country. There is a problem though. NLCJC is fabulous for a reason: it cost £5.4m to set up and has a £1.8m annual running cost. The model being rolled out is based on a separate project in Salford, which cost £100,000 to set up and runs on an annual budget of £150,000. As they say in Red Hook: "Do the math!"Apply principlesGoing from North Liverpool to Salford is like going from the Savoy to a B&B. No new courthouse, no specially appointed judge, no support agencies on site. The Salford court gets merely a special sitting in the antiquated magistrates court and is a 10-minute drive from the area it covers. The idea is that Salford and the 10 new areas apply the principles of community justice with a fraction of the funding and infrastructure.Andrew Keogh, a solicitor, handles cases at the Salford court, and he is highly sceptical. "To pretend that lay justices can reach out to the community and make a deep impact with the resources that they have is quite simply not true," he says. "It's not achievable on that model."So, if community justice North Liverpool-style is as effective in dealing with crime and social problems and as good at breaking cycles of offending as Falconer believes, why is he rolling out a cut-price model? · Clive Coleman is a barrister and presenter of Law in Action on BBC Radio 4. He reports from the North Liverpool Community Justice Court in a Law in Action special on Tuesday at 4pm.