There we were. A group of white men wearing suits and ties, sitting in awkward silence. In front of us, in a semicircle, six black students. The teenagers seemed a bit nervous, but gradually found their voices as they explained, in a matter of fact way, what life was like for them. How it is, how it was, and how they expected it to be in the future is defined by a single, ugly word - racism.Stop and search? "Where do I start?" said Daniel. "I get it all the time. I was thrown against the wall once, when I was 13. It's not right... I'd done nothing wrong and I've never had an apology." For Joe, everything changed at secondary school. Before that, he hadn't been aware of any prejudice. As he got older, he was embarrassed and irritated to find that he was being picked on simply, it seemed, because of the colour of his skin. Maxine, an older woman, had had a petrol bomb put through her letter box and "nigger" scrawled on her house. Would any of them think of joining the police? They laughed and laughed. The joke was not lost on the men in suits who were all - apart from me - in the hierarchy of the country's biggest force. Hearing the students speak so dispassionately about their experiences, and so disparagingly about certain officers, was a slap in the face, one of several during a two-day course designed to challenge racism and other intolerance within the Metropolitan Police.Introduced following the Macpherson inquiry into the death of Stephen Lawrence three years ago, the course, the only one of its kind in Britain, has been a source of huge resentment to some, particularly among the junior ranks. A few have assumed that being ordered to take part is tantamount to being branded a bigot. On previous courses officers have grudgingly turned up, but their attitude has quickly betrayed the racism that the force is desperately trying to challenge. "I've had officers not say a single word to me in two days," said Tony Warner, an independent consultant who is one of the course teachers. "You can feel the hostility. They are looking at you thinking: 'Why is this black man lecturing me?' Some have not looked at me at all." His colleague, Laurie Young, a sergeant who helped devise the programme, recalls how one officer told him flatly: "Stephen Lawrence gets on my nerves." Another demanded that Britain's "Sikhs should go home". "When I asked him about this, I realised he didn't know the difference between a Sikh and a Muslim. There is a tremendous amount of ignorance and anger out there." But the two teachers insist that these people and their extreme, racist views represent a very small minority. For most Met officers and civilian staff - more than 40,000 have been involved - the course is a humbling, occasionally shocking, experience. Feedback suggests it is the most valued the Met has ever undertaken. No "outsider" has ever been allowed to observe the training and the Met was not going to bend the rules for the Guardian. Instead, the force insisted that if we wanted to see how it worked, I should take part. Other members of the group were not to be identified, for fear that this would prevent them from being open and honest about their attitudes. It began at 9am on a Monday in a conference room at the University of Westminster. Eighteen Met officers and managers had been expected, but six dropped out when they were told that the Guardian was coming along. Four others didn't turn up on the day. Warner and Young asked us in turn to describe who we were and what experiences we had of different races and cultures. We all mentioned something - trips abroad and friends were the most common. But most of our answers to a cultural quiz (see below) soon after put all this combined knowledge in rather shameful perspective. None of us was absolutely sure about anything in the few minutes we were given to choose. Put on the spot, we got in a tangle over even the simplest questions. The largest ethnic minority group in London? Well, it isn't Afro-Caribbean, or Indian or Pakistani. It's Irish. I got three of the five pillars of Islam but was guessing over the main Hindu castes, and symbols of Sikhism. We all were. And rather than make an idiot of myself, I kept quiet when I wasn't sure. We all did. This meant that there were awkward, near excruciating silences when Warner asked us what we thought. If the point of the exercise was to highlight our collective ignorance, it worked very nicely and left us a little subdued. Not a bad time, then, for Warner to tell us that racist paranoia about the country being "swamped" by blacks and Asians has been around for centuries. Queen Elizabeth I, apparently, said in 1596 that there were "too many here and they should go back where they came from". The Daily Mail has been running scare stories about asylum seekers since the 1900s, he says. (Obligingly, the Mail's front page headline the following day screams: "One in every 20 people living in London is a refugee or an asylum seeker.") Warner reminded the group that racism in the police is nothing new, either. We were shown a video of the former Labour ministers James Callaghan and Roy Jenkins describing how the police managed to exempt themselves from the provisions of the 1976 Race Relations Act, which meant that they were not bound by law to behave in a non-discriminatory way. Jenkins recalled a meeting of the Metropolitan Police Board at which he was roundly booed and heckled for suggesting that the police should be included. Callaghan admitted that the government caved in to the bullies, and was wrong to do so. Police are now subject to the act - but it took the Brixton riots, the Scarman report, the stabbing of Stephen Lawrence, Macpherson's inquiry and 24 years of prevarication before a Labour government was prepared to force the issue two years ago. We were left to mull over this during lunch, then Young delicately steered us towards more sensitive waters. Assess your life and background, he asked. Take a hard look at the behaviour, attitudes, beliefs and values of your family and friends. "My dad was a desert rat in the second world war, he said. "I remember sitting in front of the television and him laughing at Alf Garnett. That kind of stuff is going on around us all the time. It must have an effect. Do you know your prejudices? Everyone in this room has them, even if they are in our subconscious, where a lot of our memories are stored." I was pretty sure Young was telling us that we were all likely to be racists. This has nothing to do with working for the police and everything to do with living in a society that has consistently discriminated against ethnic minorities. The second day began tensely. A detective chief inspector, who had been with us the day before, had had to pull out because his son was ill. And at least two of the remaining members were unhappy - not about what they had heard but, if anything, that the course was not tough enough. "It could be more stimulating," said Phil, who has worked for the Met for more than 30 years. Everyone thought it was pitiful that so many people - the DCI excepted - had dropped out. One of them, they had learned, had gone to the wrong place the day before and decided not to come late, an excuse they considered pathetic. And they worried that some of the Met's most senior people pay lip service to fighting racism and that meaningful change will only come when these officers stop worrying about how they can advance their own careers. "There is a small circle of influence," said Steve. "And we're not in it." The teenagers who came to speak to the group knew exactly how they felt, but their experiences were far more profound and suggested that the force - for all its strides in recent years - still has some way to go. The youths, who are volunteers, are struggling to trust the police. They complained of rudeness and bad attitude and had a constant fear of being victimised. Yet they showed no anger. They didn't believe that racism was solely a problem for the police, or that all officers are racist. They didn't even want to believe that those in uniform with prejudices are incapable of change. "It might just be ignorance and fear," said one hopefully. "Maybe they don't realise how much their attitude offends black people." Maxine took a harder line. She said that she hadn't noticed any changes on the street since the Macpherson report, and that a two-day race awareness course wasn't going to solve the problem. "This is brushing the surface." The afternoon finished with a gallop through the low points of Britain's racist past, which Warner hoped would help us understand why people from ethnic minorities "feel the way they do". How many people were taken from west Africa to the Caribbean on slave ships? "Between 10 and 12 million. When slavery was abolished in the mid-19th century, the plantation owners received £20m in compensation from the government for loss of their cheap labour." And he asked whether anyone remembered the campaign slogan of Peter Griffiths, a prospective Tory MP in the Midlands who fought - and won - a seat in Smethwick at the 1964 general election with the slogan: "If you want a nigger for a neighbour, vote Labour." Mal Hussein's experiences in Lancaster, where he and his wife own a corner shop, provided the gruesome finale. In nine years, Mr Hussein was subjected to more than 500 racist incidents, including being shot at, yet the police and the council failed to protect him. In a moving video interview, Mr Hussein broke down in tears. It was a powerful end to the two days and the group broke up without much chat. Warner was quite pleased; he thought it had been a good course. Nobody said anything racist or balked at any of the ideas. But everybody had left saying that they had learned something. And though the teenagers couldn't see an end to the discrimination they face, they were encouraged that the Met wanted to listen. "At least they're trying to do something about it," said one of the boys. "This isn't a problem for the police. It's a problem for society. But who else is making the effort?"Test of faithSome of the quiz questions that the police have to answer on the course... 1 The following beliefs of the Islamic religion are true... a) Men and women are equal b) Women have a right to independent ownership of property and income c) Men are superior to women d) Islam is not a religion, but a complete way of life (all are true, except c) 2 To gesture with one's finger as a way of beckoning or asking someone to come to you may be particularly offensive to which of the following groups. a) African/Caribbean b) Somalian c) Hindus d) Sikhs (Somalian - it is the way that they call their dogs to heel) 3 True or false? a) The caste system has close links to a person's occupation b) Muslims are required to eat halal meat but can also eat kosher meat in extreme circumstances... c) Sikh men may carry a kirpan (dagger) in public as long as it is accompanied by the four other symbols of Sikhism d) Muslims who have died must normally be buried within 48 hours of death? (a) True b) True c) True d) False - it's 24 hours)