The parents of Stephen Lawrence made it painfully clear yesterday that the euphoria surrounding the publication of the Macpherson report cannot hide the truth of racism in Britain. Speaking at a press conference at the Home Office, Neville and Doreen Lawrence looked drained and their message was bleak. The report had taken a first step to tackling the problem, but no more. Perhaps surprisingly, neither called for the immediate resignation of Sir Paul Condon, and talk of suing the Metropolitan police was dismissed.  'Black people are still dying on the streets and in the back of police vans,' said Mrs Lawrence, sitting in front of a colourful portrait of her son which was emblazoned with the words 'Remember Stephen Lawrence'. Neville Lawrence added: 'A lot has been said about what we would like to come out of the inquiry. We have only got a small amount of it.' The parents had had two days to digest the report they were given an early read on Monday and Mrs Lawrence's statement had obviously been carefully worded. But with the cameras trained on her she became nervous and stumbled over her words. 'I was looking forward to the report as being a watershed, but it has only scratched the surface and has not got to the heart of the problem. My feelings about the future remain the same as it was when my son was murdered. Black youngsters will never be safe on the streets. 'The police on the ground are the same as they were when my son was killed... nothing has changed.' Mrs Lawrence, with the family lawyer, Imran Khan, at her side, said the proposals to change the national curriculum were important. 'If those who had murdered my son had been better educated in knowing who had helped to build the society we live in, they would have realised that everyone in this country, and black people, played a part in it. We have earned our place to live and not to have our children killed in the way that Stephen was.' In previous interviews Mr and Mrs Lawrence, who have separated since the murder of their son, had called for Sir Paul to go. Mrs Lawrence was more reticent yesterday. She said the black community had lost faith in Sir Paul, but stopped short of demanding his resignation. 'It is for him to examine his own self and to see whether or not he will have the support of all the community. If he feels that his conscience allows him to stay then that is up to him.' There was more passion in her voice when she remembered the night her son died. 'What I want to know is how my son bled to death while police officers stood by and watched. What was it that prevented police officers from giving my son first aid as he lay dying? No wonder that we are in the position we are today, that no one is serving time for the murder of my son.' Mr Lawrence, who sat on the other side of Mr Khan, started by thanking the team of lawyers and advisers that had helped them during the past six years. 'I would also like to thank the Home Secretary for allowing us to have this inquiry. We need to take what we have got and try and go forward and do something about the problems we have got. For the very first time people are now aware of the situation and we hope that people will now use this opportunity to go forward and try and do some good in the name of my son.'Earlier, Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen on the night he died, spoke movingly about his friend. 'Racism killed my friend Stephen. It also stopped officers administering first aid while he was lying on the pavement. It also allowed the officers investigating the case to treat me like a suspect, not a victim. It also rubbished our chances of convicting those killers of the murder of Stephen Lawrence.' Mr Brooks, who has been suffering from post traumatic stress disorder, said he was pleased that the inquiry had found 'without any doubt whatsoever' that the Metropolitan police was racist. 'The way I was treated by the police was down to me being black.' Mr Brooks said Stephen would have been happy with the day's events. 'Happy that his parents have tried their best and have struggled all this way for justice... and he would be happy that me and all his friends have continued with our lives and have not allowed his murder to destroy us completely.'