From failing to ensure decent hygiene among her children to her tendency to put her own messy love life above their needs, the serious case review provided a glimpse into the chaotic household kept by Karen Matthews.In a family "largely characterised by neglectful parenting", Shannon lived with so-called "low-level" problems on a regular basis: the poor conditions in the house, the hygiene issues and the way Matthews constantly failed to get her children to medical appointments and school.Then there were the times when the concerns of social workers escalated. In 1996, her first-born was put on at the at-risk register over evidence of neglect and concern about the baby's physical safety and wellbeing. At first Matthews failed to comply with the child protection plan, and the youngster was frequently left with adults deemed as posing a risk. He was not removed from the register for some 20 months.Another period of heightened fears came in 2002. Worried that Matthews was letting Shannon and her first-born spend time with people who might abuse them physically or sexually, not getting them to school and ignoring the necessity of providing them with secure parental relationships in favour of her own desire for liaisons with a number of men, social workers deemed both children at risk. An as yet unborn sixth child was also put on the child protection register; although all were later removed.Matthews's relationships with men emerged as a consistent problem. Twice diagnosed by psychologists as having a borderline learning disability and described in the report as "emotionally vulnerable", her choice of partners – in a string of relatively short-lived affairs – was judged to have distracted her from putting her children's needs first. Craig Meehan, the 22-year-old fishmonger she was living with at the time of Shannon's disappearance, was later found guilty of having child pornography on his computer.The coming and going of men in her life – she had seven children by five different fathers in nine years – added to the disruption in the Matthews home. One period of falling standards of care came in 1998, when Matthews separated from the father of her second child.Although health visitors discussed family planning with her on numerous occasions, Matthews was expected to make her own arrangements. In 2003, after the birth of her sixth child, a health professional visited her at home to prescribe contraception.There was further evidence of a lax attitude to her own and her children's health. Matthews was found to have discharged herself from hospital against medical advice frequently throughout her pregnancies, and on some of the many occasions when the children were brought to A&E, they left before they could be properly assessed.The report also revealed outside pressures on the family, who were said to have had trouble getting adequate housing. In 2002 their home was vandalised and they faced intimidation from members of the local community.