Long-term trends in crime broadly mirror economic and social trends. At their simplest, the main statistical models agree that property crime will rise during a recession but violence will tend to fall. Yet political parties continue to promise the electorate that their criminal justice policies uniquely hold the key to controlling crime. Heeding neither the economists nor the legend of King Canute, governments overstate claims of success when crime is falling; but this can leave them cut-off once the tide starts to turn.The New Labour government started out by setting ambitious targets for all police forces to reduce domestic burglary and motor vehicle crime. Falls in both, as the most common types of recorded crime, would enable the government to claim that it had reduced crime overall. In addition, for just five forces, it set a target for reducing robbery.Subsequent falls in domestic burglary and motor vehicle crime, though, were not mainly due to increased police efficiency or to a buoyant economy. Both were already in decline when New Labour took office, due in part to improvements in security. At the same time, new, alternative opportunities for property crime were being created by developments in communication and technology. Identity theft, especially using plastic cards, was starting to take off on a large scale; but, as victims mainly reported these offences to their card issuers rather than the police, they hardly affected the recorded crime statistics. Ironically, though, developments in technology – in particular, the sudden widespread ownership of mobile phones by young people – also started to drive the figure for recorded robberies way off-target.Meanwhile, Home Office ministers added to the public's growing mistrust and confusion over government statistics by introducing major changes to the rules for police crime recording so that – as one officer put it to me – "looking for trends in the police figures is now a bit like trying to read tea leaves." This enabled them to persuade sections of the media that the Home Office's British Crime Survey (BCS) was the only definitive measure of crime. Yet the BCS also had limitations – especially with regard to crime among young people in the most deprived inner-city areas; and it was completely ignored by Tony Blair when, in 2002, he made it his personal mission to get street crime down in the light of soaring police figures but at a time when the BCS was showing no increase in the problem.By the government's second term in office, ministers were becoming increasingly frustrated by the public's refusal to believe them when they said crime was going down and they launched new measures to counter this, setting the police targets for increasing detections, pressing for an increase in asbos and enhancing the police presence on the streets to "reassure" the public. What they failed to recognise was that public fears are not related to property crime so much as to crimes of violence, especially serious violence, which had been showing an unexpectedly steep increase since the early 90s. Yet, because serious violence is relatively rare, it did not affect the overall fall in the crime figures; so the government effectively ignored the problem until it had been in power for nearly 10 years and this long-run trend started to claim the lives of young people.Last week's publication of the annual crime statistics suggests that the recession is starting to have its predicted impact. Both the BCS and the police statistics show a slight increase in burglaries; the BCS says acquisitive crime overall is up by 11%; and the police have recorded a 10% increase in cases of shoplifting. In addition, figures provided separately by the UK Cards Association confirm that the ongoing rise in card fraud makes this now by far the most common type of property crime in the UK. Overall violent crime, though, which is closely associated with the night-time economy has, predictably, begun to fall.What, though, of the most serious forms of violence?Statisticians responsible for the published crime statistics for 2008-09 have taken the unprecedented step of omitting the "most serious violence against the person" category, now they have seen the impact of further government changes to the counting rules. For, had this category been included, it would have given the impression that serious violence had increased by nearly 150% on the previous year.The new home secretary has conceded that "People are entitled to doubt the statistics," but still claims that "reductions in crime are being maintained and the risk of being a victim is still historically low." Meanwhile, the Conservatives, predictably, are depicting the rise in acquisitive crime as an indictment of New Labour's criminal justice policies. Yet, if the recession continues and they are in office two years from now, they will be no more able to turn the tide. But they will no doubt be sure to claim – however spuriously – that they have succeeded in reducing violence.