I love the Today programme. Throughout my adult life it has provided my wakeup call – I mean that literally, not in the usual journalistic sense. I think of it as a guardian of public accountability, skewering interviewees who are evasive or self-important. But this week it was also the guardian of something else – public prejudice against the mentally ill.Researchers on Today had found that 116 people had escaped from secure mental health units in 2007, more than 20 times the figure for prisons. Surely the public was being put at risk? The programme quoted commentators who called it horrifying and, yes, a wakeup call to the government. Today made its own survey the lead story yesterday and I was interviewed in its top slot, after the news. But what gave the story its punch was that Today linked it to the case of Darren Harkin, who raped a 14-year-old girl after escaping from a low secure unit. He had been in secure care since the age of 12, when he killed his baby stepbrother.The implication was alarming. There had been over 100 potential killers on the streets last year, when they should have been behind locked doors. The mental health system was failing to protect the public. The Harkin case is truly appalling and there are serious questions about his care – an inquiry is in progress. The main question, though, is why someone with such a history was in low secure care at all – because low secure units are not for people who are a serious danger.The Today team did not seem to know that low secure patients, by definition, do not need intensive security (the clue is the word "low") – they are often people with long-term, low-grade illnesses and a history of minor offences or self-harm. They were much too quick to equate secure hospitals with prison. The crude premise of their report was that the mentally ill escapees were dangerous, though there was no information on whether, having got out, they had committed any offences. It also turned out that their figures were wrong – over 20 cases were included by mistake.In my interview I tried to explain how in mental health, unlike prisons, we have to strike a balance between care and security – against a tide of interruptions, hostile questions and incredulous asides, all the things that are so entertaining when they happen to someone else. What listeners would have concluded from the ensuing row is hard to tell. My nine-year-old said later, "I heard you on the radio arguing with that man." Then he added, "Like you always do."Of course, it doesn't matter if I have an uncomfortable start to the day – if you work with the government, you take the knocks. But it does matter if the country's top news programme presents a picture of mental illness that is harmful and poorly informed. It matters if a publicly funded broadcaster stigmatises a type of illness that affects one in four of the public. And it matters if the media see mental health as important only if the story is violence. Like they always do.