Abigail Witchalls, who was stabbed and partially paralysed while walking with her young son in a country lane, gave birth to a baby boy yesterday.She gave birth nine days after being discharged from hospital following more than six months of treatment for serious injuries sustained in an attack on April 20.A spokesman at St George's hospital, Tooting said yesterday: "Abigail and Benoit Witchalls [her husband] are delighted to announce the birth of a healthy baby boy at 2.30pm today weighing 5lbs and 6oz. The delivery went very well and mother and baby are doing fine."The baby was due around Christmas, but Mrs Witchalls went into labour early on Friday morning, six weeks early. Until her discharge this month she had been treated at the spinal injuries unit of the Royal National Orthopaedic hospital in north London. When she returned to her home in Surrey she had some movement in her right arm, which meant she was able to feed herself. She was also able to breathe and speak.Medical experts said last night that Mrs Witchalls' ability to give birth would not have been compromised by her paralysis.Donald Campbell, a Harley Street consultant neurosurgeon, said: "You can't push because you can't use your abdominal muscles. But the womb itself will contract normally and the baby will be born. Most of it is really a reflex that is not controlled consciously."Mr Campbell said there was no reason she would have to have a caesarean section, although if it was a difficult birth it would be possible the method could be employed or forceps used. Hospital staff would have been on alert to spot any complications she would not have been able to feel.Mrs Witchalls, 26, was in the early stages of pregnancy when she was attacked while pushing her son Joseph in a buggy near their home in Little Bookham, Surrey. They had just left his nursery when she saw a man in a car who had made her feel uneasy. The man reappeared and Mrs Witchalls panicked and ran down the lane, but as she was blocked by a gate she saw her attacker was holding a knife to her 21-month-old son's throat.The man insisted she should approach him and when she did he grabbed her hair, pulled her down towards the ground and stabbed her once in the back of the neck leaving a three-inch wound.Three weeks after the attack a suspect, Richard Cazaly, died in hospital following a paracetamol overdose.Cazaly was a neighbour of Mrs Witchalls. It is thought he had driven to Scotland on April 25 and, at some point, taken a large number of tablets. He was admitted to Raigmore hospital in Inverness on April 28 and later that day transferred to the Edinburgh Royal infirmary where he died on April 30.Surrey police said no one had been charged in connection with the attack and papers had been passed to the Crown Prosecution Service. No decision on the file has yet been made.