Why did the "dreadful story of Soham" become "the biggest story in Britain?" Well, let's stage a tactical retreat from the front line of invective. Let's leave Sir Ian Blair and the media at daggers drawn somewhere between "institutional racism" and congenital stupidity. Let's ask the Met commissioner why Soham continues to be such a profoundly big story three and a half years after those dreadful events?Two and a half weeks ago, remember, Ruth Kelly's job was hanging by a thread. Had her mazy education department learned the lessons of the Bichard inquiry on Soham? Answer: possibly, once you reopen a deep emotional wound, once you raise the spectre of some new sex offender taking two little girls home from school. But the direst failures that Bichard chronicled had very little to do with the DfES.Here, as memory joggers, are just a few things about the police forces involved.Humberside police received nine separate allegations of rape or indecent assault against Ian Huntley but recorded none of them. When Huntley confessed to one assault in 1995, he was neither cautioned nor had his confession entered on national databases. Nobody in Humberside told Cambridgeshire anything - and, alas, nobody put Huntley's established alias, "Nixon", on to police national computer records.Cambridgeshire police, "more likely than not", didn't get round to asking Humberside for the data on Huntley, didn't get his date of birth right when it tapped into the child access database - and used Nixon rather than Huntley as its reference point for another check that ought to have shown a burglary charge from 1995, ruling him out for a school caretaker's job.These weren't standard administrative glitches. They had nothing in common, say, with a junior minister taking expert advice and clearing occasional appellants who'd watched a child porn video to teach again. They were egregious, human failures that cost two young lives. Of course "back in 1992" the 43 police computer systems of England and Wales varied wildly from clunky to state-of-the-art. Of course, invoking Bichard, we needed Impact (yes, it's acronym hour for the Information Management, Prioritisation, Analysis, Co- ordination and Tasking programme) with £50m or so computer investment a year.The Impact show is in predictable time-slip territory. Bichard hoped to see it up and running by 2007. Instead, implementation is rolling mistily on towards 2010. Yet the most fundamental problems are still human.For what went wrong, what condemned those two girls, was simple slop: a birth date unchecked, an alias unentered, a file wiped clean, a reluctance nine times over to take what was said about Ian Huntley and turn it into action. Were those complainants, some of them under-age, making it up? Would they and their parents follow through? It could all be a lot of effort for nothing, sergeant. And nothing was what we got.The chief constable of Humberside, asked to consider his position, rallied his police authority behind him and hung on for a while before retiring early. The chief constable of Cambridgeshire departed only last summer after some "inappropriate behaviour" at a police conference. And meanwhile the debate potters along, wreathed in forgetfulness.Catch Ms Kelly in a tangle and even that nice Mr Cameron begins to bark and bay. But pose deeper problems of police efficiency and the political tune changes in a trice. Charles Clarke wants just 12 police authorities for England and Wales, not 43. He reckons that forces with under 4,000 officers are too small, too local, to meet the demands of the modern job: and he's absolutely right.Small, fragmented forces are like cottage hospitals. They can't afford the full kit. Critically, too, they can't pay for the computer programming expertise they need - or attract good administrative talent. Potential high fliers fly off to big city teams. What's left - though local and much loved by its authority - is hugely unlikely to do the job.There's where "the biggest story in Britain" went: up Acronym Alley, then down Alzheimer Avenue. The politicians moved on to a refrain for bobbies on the beat. Cameron delivered a diatribe against form-filling. We all bashed poor Ian Blair. And the carnival of grief and horror left town for a while. It will be back soon enough: perhaps spelling mere irritation, perhaps bringing more tragedy. But call it "institutional inefficiency" and it's the big, big story that never ends.p.preston@theguardian.com