A couple who helped the killers of the Bristol teenager Becky Watts by hiding her remains in their garden shed have both been given jail terms.Karl Demetrius and Jaydene Parsons claimed they thought they were stashing drugs or stolen goods and had no idea that their neighbours, Nathan Matthews and Shauna Hoare, had killed 16-year-old Becky and needed a place to conceal her dismembered body.But at Bristol crown court on Friday, Demetrius was jailed for two years and Parsons for 16 months.  Becky was killed by her stepbrother Matthews, and his partner, Hoare, in a sexually motivated attack. Her body was dismembered with a circular saw, parcelled up and hidden in the shed of Demetrius, 30, and Parsons, 23.Demetrius and Parsons admitted assisting an offender but said they had not known they were hiding Becky’s remains.  They both apologised after Bristol crown court heard they exchanged messages about getting a share of £10,000 for helping Matthews and Hoare, which they planned to use on a house deposit.Sentencing them on Friday, Judge Neil Ford QC, the recorder of Bristol, told the couple their position was much more serious than if they had been helping a drugs offence. He said: “You both knew Nathan Matthews but neither of you could have imagined that he was capable of the levels of depravity to which he descended.” Opening the case against the couple, Richard Posner, prosecuting, said bags found in their shed in Barton Court, Bristol contained bags and containers packed with body parts, possessions or equipment used to dismember the teenager. Posner said: “Mr Demetrius said that he believed he was hiding cannabis. Miss Parsons ... knew she was assisting an offender, either in an offence of handling stolen goods or drugs.” He added: “Their actions contributed to the delay in finding Rebecca. Their actions certainly didn’t mean that she would have been found alive.” A jury at Bristol crown court heard at the end of last year how Matthews, 28, and Hoare, 21, targeted Becky because they had a shared sexual interest in petite teenage girls and had had discussions on social media about kidnapping schoolgirls for sex. On 19 February last year, they went armed with tape, handcuffs and a stun gun to her family home, where Becky was suffocated and stabbed in the abdomen 15 times after her death.Matthews and Hoare took Becky’s body back to their house and her body was dismembered in their bath. The parts were carefully packed in plastic and preservative and remained hidden until 3 March, when police found them. Messages exchanged between Demetrius and Parsons suggest they expected a payment in exchange for their help. Parsons sent her boyfriend a message saying: “All done? Xxxx,” to which he replied: “Not yet babes.” She responded: “Ah ok, you gonna hide it for him, we could do with the money. Lol. xxx.” Parsons, who is mother to a young child and a 14-week-old baby, later sent another message referring to the fact that Matthews had promised to pay them a share of £10,000, the court heard. It said: “Cool, that’s a deposit on a house. Lol. xxx.” Anna Vigars, for Parsons, said: “It was effectively a preparedness to turn a blind eye. Never in her wildest nightmares did she imagine or contemplate that it was the body or Rebecca Watts that was being hidden in her shed.” She said she had been forced to leave Bristol because of the case. Timothy Rose said his client, Demetrius, “didn’t know what was actually going on”. He added: “I say on his behalf that he made an immediate but dreadful error of judgment, and a dreadful mistake.”The judge said he accepted they had not known they were hiding Becky’s remains and he did not believe they would have helped if they had known. But he added: “Nevertheless, the offences you assisted could have hardly have been more serious.”He continued: “You had unwittingly agreed to the hiding of the body of Rebecca Watts and objects connected to her abduction, killing and dismemberment. You were motivated by money. Those who assist offenders in ignorance of the offence that has been committed take a risk, and the punishment that follows must reflect the offence that has been committed.”Parsons wept as she was sentenced and Demetrius blew kisses to his family as the pair were led to the cells.Mr Justice Dingemans, the judge in the trial of Becky’s killers, broke down in tears when he sentenced Matthews to at least 33 years in jail for murder and Hoare to 17 years for manslaughter in November.