Maxine Carr yesterday won a high court injunction preventing the media from revealing her new identity or publishing her photograph.The injunction, issued as final preparations were being made for Carr's release today, also forbids reporters from soliciting information about her circumstances. Lawyers for Carr and the Home Office argued that the injunction was needed because of "concerns over her health, threats to her safety and the ability of the probation service and other agencies to supervise her case". As well as banning the press and broadcasters from identifying her, the injunction also attempts to stop details about her new life being published on the internet by stipulating that it also applies to internet service providers. The Home Office "categorically denied" rumours which swept Fleet Street yesterday that the whereabouts of Carr, who was secretly moved from a prison in Derbyshire on Wednesday, had already become known. The spokeswoman also denied that the injunction was sought because documents containing sensitive details about Carr's release were stolen from a Home Office official's car earlier this week. She said that though the government had backed the high court move, Carr's legal team had planned it "some time ago" and took the leading role. A full hearing at the court will take place this afternoon at which the media will get the opportunity to challenge the injunction. Carr, 27, has been in limbo since she was whisked out of Foston Hall prison. She remained in the custody of the prison service until this morning when she was to be handed over to probation officers. She will remain in their charge until 2007. Her release was expected to signal the start of a tabloid chase for the first pictures of the woman dubbed the new Myra Hindley by some sections of the media. Martin Narey, the chief executive of the national offender management service, yesterday made a plea for her to be left alone to begin rebuilding her life, shattered after her former boyfriend Ian Huntley murdered the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Speaking during a round of radio and TV interviews he accepted the fact that because Carr is so widely recognisable - unlike other notorious figures who are free such as Mary Bell, who murdered two boys while a schoolgirl, and the then-young killers of James Bulger - and had been subjected to "unusual vilification" a problem had been created. However Mr Narey denied that the theft of the documents had compromised the "meticulous arrangements" which had been made for the release. The injunction bans publication of Carr's new name, address or details which could lead to her "whereabouts, care or treatment" being revealed. It also forbids pictures being published of her or any place connected to her. One of the most restrictive orders prevents reporters soliciting information about her "from any person". It also prevents newspapers and broadcasters from revealing material contained in a report drawn up by a psychiatrist or indeed the name of the psychiatrist.