Why would one consider releasing someone who committed a heinous murder and was subsequently sentenced to life imprisonment? This is not a question that troubles everyone. The prime minister, for example, was quoted on Thursday as saying: "There are some people who commit such dreadful crimes that they should be sent to prison and life should mean life." He clearly supports the current system where, in particularly serious cases, a court may add a whole life order to a sentence of life imprisonment and thus prevent release ever being considered.The question is not so easily dismissed, however. A commitment that we will never consider the release of some offenders serving life sentences, except perhaps when they are at death's door, means that we write them off permanently. It means that we deny that with the passage of time they may change for the better; or that we may change our assessment of their crimes.Worse still, we are denying some fellow humans all hope. In that sense we are putting them in the same position as those awaiting execution on death row.In July 2013, in the case of Vinter and Others, the grand chamber of the European court of human rights explained why it was fundamentally unacceptable for the United Kingdom to deny these prisoners any prospect of release. Its thinking is best captured in the opinion of Judge Power-Forde of the Republic of Ireland:"Hope is an important and constitutive aspect of the human person. Those who commit the most abhorrent and egregious of acts and who inflict untold suffering upon others, nevertheless retain their fundamental humanity and carry within themselves the capacity to change. Long and deserved though their prison sentences may be, they retain the right to hope that, someday, they may have atoned for the wrongs which they have committed … To deny them the experience of hope would be to deny a fundamental aspect of their humanity and, to do that, would be degrading."What the court required was that all prisoners must be given opportunities to improve themselves. It must be clear to them at the time of sentence that there is a review mechanism in place which will in due course consider whether they qualify for release. The court has suggested that such a review should take place after no more than 25 years. This is at the upper end of the average period after which most European countries consider the release of all prisoners serving life sentences. It is also the period after which the international criminal court will review the sentences of offenders sentenced to life imprisonment for crimes such as mass genocide. The European court emphasised that considering release did not mean that the worst offenders could not serve longer, or that dangerous offenders who had committed serious crimes should be released while they posed a risk to society. On the contrary, they could be kept in prison until they died, if this was genuinely necessary for public protection.The United Kingdom is one of the staunchest opponents of capital punishment. Yet it appears to have no moral objection to an irreducible life sentence, which in many ways is simply a delayed death penalty. This must change, not because the European court of human rights says that it should, but because failing to act now is morally untenable.A new form of review should urgently be introduced to re-evaluate in all cases both the initial sentence and the progress of the offender after 25 years. It should sit alongside the present English system, in which for most offenders sentenced to life imprisonment the courts set minimum periods that they have to serve for the purpose of punishment alone, after which they should be released if they do not pose a further danger to the public. This is necessary because minimum periods have become excessive and often block any consideration of release for longer than 25 years. In the recent case of Ian McLoughlin, a minimum period of 40 years was imposed, and the attorney general is now appealing because he considers it too lenient.Instead of suggesting even longer minimum periods or fixed-term sentences of 100 years – which will certainly be treated by the European court as life sentences in thin disguise and subjected to the same review requirements – the government should be honest with the public. It should stress that considering someone for release is not the same as releasing them. It should trust an impartial parole board to reweigh the justifications for continuing life sentences. Above all, it should make clear that even the worst offender has the right to hope, for with hope, a person can change.