There was exasperation rather than anger in Doreen Lawrence's voice when she spoke shortly after the tribunal had made its decision.Her son had been murdered, she said. Six years, a national outcry, one public inquiry and a failed private prosecution later, and her family was still no closer to getting justice for Stephen. Nobody was convicted of the killing and the one officer who faced disciplinary charges for his conduct during the disastrous police investigation had been, in her eyes, cleared of responsibility. The two guilty verdicts were on "very minimal" charges. Detective Inspector Ben Bullock's likely punishment was "a joke." Mrs Lawrence hinted that the family may take civil action against individual officers in the Metropolitan police. "My son was killed for no other reason than he was black. We have been treated like this for no other reason than we are black. Nothing has changed in six years." Mr Bullock steadfastly maintained his innocence, and vowed from the outset to clear his name. Other officers whose conduct was criticised retired, but he refused to consider this option. He said he was being "scapegoated". Mr Bullock originally faced seven charges alleging neglect of duty brought under the police disciplinary code follow ing an inquiry into the murder investigation which was overseen by the independent Police Complaints Authority. He was also admonished in Sir William Macpherson's report into the tragedy for being "passive and not up to his job". Four of the charges were thrown out last week by the three member tribunal chaired by the Met's deputy assistant commissioner, Des Flanders. Yesterday Mr Bullock was cleared of a fifth - failing to respond to evidence from an informant who named three suspects shortly after the murder in Eltham, south-east London, on April 22, 1993. But he was found guilty of a single element of the two remaining charges, which were divided into several parts. The tribunal ruled Mr Bullock was negligent not to fol low up an anonymous letter sent to the police several days after the murder. And he failed to brief police officers properly before they searched the home of Jamie and Neil Acourt, two of the five men who have been branded over the killing. Yesterday's ruling means that Mr Bullock was found guilty on two of the 28 counts which made up the seven charges against him. Mrs Lawrence said: "We should have known nothing was going to come of this. "He [Mr Bullock] will retire with a very good pension, he will never be punished." Imran Khan, the family's lawyer, said the decision bolstered the family's determination to pursue civil action, but he refused to give details. Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said Mr Bullock felt the tribunal had been "scrupulously fair" to all of the parties. He said Mr Flanders, the chairman, told Mr Bullock he had played a minor role in the botched investigation and had not been found guilty of wanton negligence or gross incompetence. Mr Bullock said he was retiring on medical advice two weeks ago. He is suffering from stress. Mr Smyth said Mr Bullock was unlikely to appeal to the home secretary, Jack Straw, against the verdicts.