Every mid-July, the lord mayor of London holds a very posh dinner at the Mansion House in honour of the judiciary of England and Wales. On these occasions, it is customary for the lord chief justice to reveal, on behalf of his judges, what really worries him. The lord chancellor replies, urging him not to worry and explaining how wonderful the government has been in matters to do with the administration of justice.Last week, Lord Judge – in his first appearance in this arena – chose as his main complaint the sheer volume of laws being passed. "Can we possibly have less legislation, particularly in the field of criminal justice?" he asked the lord chancellor, Jack Straw.He provided some stunning examples of the length of recent laws (no chief justice before had dared to introduce so many facts and statistics in an after-dinner speech) and ended with his own calculation "that if every line of recent criminal justice legislation had been guaranteed by a payment to the Bank of England of £10,000 a line, the credit crisis would have been funded".Never mind the fundamental unsoundness of that link. He made his point. Judges are floundering to keep up with, let alone understand, let alone apply, the endless stream of hastily invented, ill thought out, badly drafted, unworkable laws emanating from parliament, especially in the areas of terrorism and sentencing.Straw's defence was twofold. Politicians do not work in a vacuum, he said; "they respond to public concerns and seek to articulate answers to those concerns." But that's been the problem: too much attention has been paid to assuaging such alleged public concerns. At times, it has seemed that crude public opinion was the only propeller of legislation and speed was the main criterion for getting the laws through. The parliamentary standards bill is a current example."Critics charge this government with adding over 3,000 new criminal offences to the statute book since 1997," Straw went on. "What they ignore is the fact that many of these are technical offences, designed to fill a gap in the law, and that many others replace old offences without significantly changing the overall scope of the law." But how much is the "many", a word used twice? More than a few hundred? I doubt it? And so-called technical offences can also be oppressive and lead to injustice.His second point is that "people find it easy to complain in general terms about the volume of criminal legislation, but when they are asked which of the new offences should be repealed, they struggle to find an answer". I haven't noticed such struggling among the lawyers, judges and organisations trying to cope with the avalanche in their daily activities.To be fair, Straw is not one of the main culprits in the government's rush to legislation, nor in believing that the way to respond to front-page allegations in the Daily Mail or Sun is to pass a new law immediately. He should admit that the last 12 years of law-making in the criminal justice field have been touched by excess, over-reaction and incompetence; and then persuade his more trigger-happy government colleagues to slow down, and to think a little more.