The mother of two boys murdered near a Scottish beauty spot has described her sons as "beautiful" and "irreplaceable" children who had been loved by all who knew them.Paul and Jay Ross, aged six and two, from Royston in Glasgow, were discovered dead in a car on Saturday afternoon near a country lane just outside Glasgow and a man believed to be their father was found by the car with very serious burns. He had allegedly tried to set the vehicle on fire.Their mother, Giselle Ross, is understood to be distraught with grief and is being counselled by police family liaison officers. In a short statement issued yesterday through Strathclyde police, she said: "Paul and Jay were beautiful boys who were well-loved by all the family and everyone who knew them. "They did not deserve to die. Paul wasn't even allowed to play outside in case he came to any harm. Both boys loved their mum - they were real mummy's boys. They are irreplaceable and are greatly missed by all the family."Police said both boys, who were reportedly stabbed, had died violent deaths. Their father, named locally as Ashok Kalyanjee, was still in a critical condition with severe burns at Glasgow royal infirmary where he is under police guard. The hospital is a short distance from the boys' home. Police confirmed they were treating the deaths as murder.The brothers were pronounced dead at the scene after paramedics, police and fire engines were called to a layby next to a road between Lennoxtown in East Dunbartonshire and the Campsie Glen, a favoured location for walkers, cyclists and visitors in the Campsie hills. The car was removed from the layby on Saturday evening, while police forensics officers with sniffer dogs searched the surrounding area, before reopening the road and leaving a small pile of charred debris behind on Sunday.Paul had been a well-liked pupil at Royston primary school, said his head teacher, Elizabeth Davidson. "Paul was a lovely, well-behaved, quiet young boy. I'm certain that children who knew Paul and his brother will be devastated when they learn of this tragic news," she said. "The school has been made aware of the incident and will be supporting the mother in any way it can. Our thoughts and prayers are with her at this sad time."The couple are understood to have been separated and Kalyanjee, a former post office worker who was described locally as a taxi driver living in the Cowcaddens area of central Glasgow, had weekend visiting rights to his sons. Friends and neighbours in Royston said yesterday that Ms Ross had been anxious about the boys' safety when they failed to return to the family's flat at Saturday lunchtime. She had asked her mother-in-law, Maya Devi, and neighbours for help finding them. One local shopkeeper said: "Maya came in with another woman who was looking for her children. "She seemed frantic and was very panicked. She kept telling me she needed to find her sons and Ashok. I tried to phone him for her once or twice myself, but there was no reply. He was supposed to be back around lunchtime." Another close neighbour said: "It's just so sad, it's a terrible thing to have happened. I live next door and my heart goes out to them." Another woman, who had visited the boy's grandmother, said: "Maya is just so upset. I think she is losing her mind. She is crying around the clock. She has lost a whole family."Other neighbours said Ms Ross's mother had died a few months ago, making her sons' deaths even more traumatic. One woman, who also asked not to be named, said: "It's just such a shame that this has happened, it's a tragedy. Words can't describe it. "I used to see the mother passing by with the two wee boys, one of them in the pram. I think she must be in a terrible place. We were at mass yesterday and everyone was talking about it. As soon as they mentioned the post office I knew who it was. "I didn't know the family well but I did know the grandmother quite well. They were very close and the boys' mum was devastated when she died, heartbroken. To bury your mum not long ago and then bury your two babies is just awful."