The cracks in the case against the four boys accused of murdering Damilola Taylor became gaping faultlines as the 13-week trial unfolded, compelling the jury to acquit the last two defendants.In one crucial and baffling omission that became pivotal, the police failed to counter evidence that, minutes after Damilola was injured, mobile phones owned by the two 16-year-old brothers were activated almost two miles from the stairwell where Damilola was found. No research was presented to the jury suggesting how long it would take to run or drive the distance - an oversight that led the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, to a stinging rebuke during a private hearing. "Why have you not called any evidence of this? Where is the map and the distance? It's such a simple task and it has not been done... this is not an investigation into a shoplifting." There were other flaws in the prosecution case, notably the gamble to use the testimony of a 14-year-old "eyewitness" who told police she had seen the murder. The teenager's story was pulverised during cross-examination amid claims she was motivated by the £50,000 reward and had been influenced by detectives. The failures provoked Courtenay Griffiths QC, who was defending one of the brothers, to say the "politics of race" had pressured the police into charging the four boys. Officers dared not fail in a case involving the murder of a black schoolboy so soon after the Macpherson inquiry into the racist stabbing of Stephen Lawrence, he suggested, blinding officers to the idea that the schoolboy might have been killed in an accident. The police yesterday vigorously denied the claim and said they had done "the best we could" with the evidence available. Deputy assistant commissioner Bill Griffiths, who is in charge of London's murder squads, said: "Every effort was made, every door was knocked upon and every answer analysed in an unrelenting search for the truth... the message I gave to the investigation was simply to get it right." The clues to why the £2.8m investigation ended in ignominy can be traced to the day Damilola died on November 27 2000. The police were looking for a motive and a weapon. They had neither. The "golden period" for evidence gathering - within 48 hours of the incident - revealed nothing of value. They knew the schoolboy had died from a 6cm-deep cut to his leg that had severed the femoral artery, and that a broken green beer bottle was the likely weapon, but rain and blood that streamed from Damilola's leg washed away material on the fragments of glass that might have offered forensic possibilities. With pressure mounting and few leads, Scotland Yard's inquiry ballooned into one of the biggest in recent history. At its peak, 120 officers were directly involved, with another 200 available. The investigation quickly became a showcase for the reforms of major investigations that were introduced as a result of the 1999 Macpherson report. The Met faithfully followed the new rule book, turning to a pool of independent advisers to help build links with the community, and giving family liaison a top priority. But the new procedures, which helped to generate a total of 5,600 leads, did not provide the team with hard evidence. Instead, officers say they uncovered a gang culture among teenagers that they found almost impossible to penetrate. Their attention was focused on a group of up to 12 youths - including the four original defendants. According to police, they behaved like a "mini-mafia". "They were running a protection racket involving 12- and 13-year-olds," said Detective Superintendent Trevor Shepherd, the senior investigating officer. "They were like East End criminals from the 1960s." On December 14 2000, the four were among a number of boys who were questioned as either "significant witnesses or suspects" - the police privately called the exercise "shaking the tree". Three of the four defendants claimed they were together on the afternoon of the attack at a relative's home in Bermondsey, south-east London. The alibi was a lie. Suspicion about the involvement of the four hardened before Christmas in 2000 when two of the boys, known during the trial as defendants C and D, were arrested and charged for an assault on a Turkish man which left the victim needing 38 stitches to a head wound. One officer involved in that investigation said the youths, who were acquitted on a legal technicality before trial, had set upon the victim "like a pack of dogs". Without evidence to put any of the boys at the scene, the investigation began to stagnate. Then, at 9.30pm on December 23, a girl, then aged 13, rang 999 on her mobile phone. During the call she said that she had been told that the two 16-year-old brothers, known in court as Boy A and Boy B, were the killers, and defendant D was involved, but only peripherally. From the moment police approached her, she proved unreliable and dishonest, weaving stories about who she had seen and what she had done on the day of the attack. Her twin aims seemed to be to save 15-year-old Boy D from being charged with murder - he was a friend - and earning some of the reward. During initial questioning by PC Carolyn Crooks, the girl, known as Bromley, did not give the police any details about the murder that had not been in the media, but detectives remained convinced she knew more than she was telling and tried to coax "the truth" out of her. Though an experienced officer, PC Crooks was not a qualified child witness interviewer and she appeared to lead the teenager, telling her that if she had seen the murder it would "sort out a lot of stuff" and help "save the neck" of Boy D. Eventually, on January 31 2001 - after seven hours of interview in which Bromley at one point sang "I'm in the money" - she described how she saw four boys surround Damilola, then stab him with a broken beer bottle. During the trial, Bromley's credibility disintegrated. She admitted she had not seen Damilola lying on the ground and whimpering after the attack - a crucial part of her third, supposedly truthful statement. This led the judge to strike out her evidence on the grounds that the jury could not possibly rely on her claim that she had witnessed the murder. More likely she had "embellished the story out of her fertile imagination" and may have been "persuaded to tell untruths" by the police. Defence lawyers said Bromley had "taken the police for a ride", pointing to how the teenager had run up a £4,100 bill at the Selsdon Park hotel in Croydon, south London, in just eight days of protective custody. The prosecution's failure to challenge how the brothers could have got from the spot near Blakes Road where Damilola collapsed to Abbey Street in Bermondsey - 1.8 miles away - was another grievous error. According to records, the brothers' phones were activated at 16.47 and 16.50 on the day of the incident. The defence was able to place the calls in the road by analysis of the signal to a nearby transmitter. By the prosecution's own generous interpretation of the data, this would have left the boys only seven minutes to get from Blakes Road to Abbey Street. Though the police knew of the "phone alibi" last October, the jury was presented with no evidence to suggest how the boys could have got from A to B so quickly. This led the judge to another withering attack on the prosecution. He ruled that "no reasonable jury could be sure that it was possible for the defendants to make their way to the area in seven minutes" because this would require "impermissible speculation". A "cell confession" by one of the brothers was also undermined. An 18-year-old youth who alleged Boy A had admitted stabbing Damilola when they were on remand together at Feltham young offenders' institution, was found to have fabricated some of his account. Prison records showed the two boys were not being held in the same wing when the conversation was supposed to have taken place. The police, however, thought they had one final trump card - the evidence of a Feltham social worker, Ann McMorris - who said that Boy A told her: "They think I killed Damilola... we stabbed him, we didn't mean to kill him." But Ms McMorris, who refused to disclose the boy's admission until last month, torpedoed her own evidence by telling the judge that she thought he was too upset to know what he was saying. The judge ruled that the evidence could not go before the jury. The police concede that "everything that could have gone wrong, went wrong" during the course of the trial and that Bromley told "wicked lies" in court. But Det Supt Shepherd said yesterday he still believed Bromley witnessed the murder. "I believe that she was there. The core of what she said has not changed. We were satisfied that this was not a complete fantasy." By implication, Scotland Yard still considers the four defendants were responsible for killing Damilola. Deputy assistant commissioner Griffiths added: "We knew there were vulnerabilities with Bromley from a very early point. After mature reflection we took what we had to the crown. They advised, with reservations, that we could go ahead. Treasury counsel said her evidence would stand up in court. I do not believe that hardnosed professionals who deal with murder inquiries would say 'we'll give it a run'. We do not choose our witnesses." He also dismissed suggestions that witness Bromley had been induced. "There was no under-the-table arrangement," he said.