The parents of a hospital worker whose remains were found at the side of a motorway 13 years after she disappeared have expressed their grief and anger after confirmation that she was murdered and then dumped "like a sack of garbage".Steve and Patricia Hall, whose daughter Melanie, 25, vanished after a night out in Bath in 1996, appealed for help in finding out why she had been killed and who was responsible for her death.Mr Hall said: "Thirteen years ago we had a young, vibrant daughter. Today we have a bag of bones." He said the family had endured "untold anguish. People out there know, they have lived with that knowledge for 13 years. Now is the time to lay that to rest," he said.Hall's parents said they were relieved that at last they could bury their child. They had long thought that she must have been killed because they could not believe she would have put them through the trauma the family has endured.  Melanie Hall disappeared after a night out in Bath in 1996. Bones near the M5 on Monday were identified as hers. Photograph: PAMrs Hall paid tribute to the support she and her husband had received. "I'd like our thanks to go to everybody. Over the last 13 years we've had a tremendous amount of help from the people of Bath."She said there were three things they had wanted to know. "We wanted to know where Melanie was, who was involved and we wanted to know why, what circumstances led up to her murder. It's taken 13 years for us to find her. Now we're relying on the public to come up with information to answer our other two questions, who and why."She said the discovery did not change "an awful lot. Melanie was very much a home-loving person, she lived at home with us. We always believed she had been murdered because no way would she have ever caused us this heartache. It's a relief to know that at least part of her body has been found, we can now bury her properly. I feel very angry that she has been dumped on the side of a road like a sack of garbage but I'm sure I'll come to terms with that at some stage."Mr Hall said: "We are looking at a horrendous crime that has caused untold anguish to myself, my wife and our family, an anguish that will not go away. We desperately need to know what happened to Melanie. We have part of an answer now but it is only a part."Watching this interview probably will be the person or persons involved in Melanie's murder. If not, probably people who know of the people involved. I would like to appeal to everyone to come forward in our hour of need. We need to know what happened to Melanie. We have a part answer now but need to bring this to a finish."Police said there was "clear evidence" that Hall had been unlawfully killed. They believed the remains had been where they were found for a long time.A workman found the bag containing bones while he was clearing vegetation on the M5 slip road at junction 14, north of Bristol, on Monday. On Tuesday police showed the Halls, who live in Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire, a ring they had found with the bones. It was a family heirloom, made from gold with an ivy-leaf pattern, that was worn by Hall's great-grandmother on her wedding day and passed to Hall by her grandmother.Hall's identity was formally confirmed yesterday through dental records. Police are continuing to carry out checks on other objects found at the scene.Hall spent a night out at Cadillacs nightclub in Bath on 9 June 1996 with friends and her boyfriend of three weeks, Philip Kurlbaum, who left the club "upset" after seeing her dancing with another man.Hall, a psychology graduate who worked as a clerical officer in the orthopaedic department at Bath's Royal United hospital, where she met Kurlbaum, was last seen sitting on a stool near the dancefloor shortly after 1am.Thousands of nightclubbers and taxi drivers were interviewed in an investigation involving 60 officers, and there were several searches of the river Avon, but no trace of Hall was found.In 2003 police arrested two men in connection with her disappearance but they were released without charge after police searched buildings and a field near Bath.At an inquest held eight years after her disappearance, the Avon coroner Paul Forrest said circumstances surrounding the case suggested she had been unlawfully killed, but a lack of evidence forced him to record an open verdict.The police case was never closed and detectives have looked at possible links with the case of the estate agent Suzy Lamplugh and that of the "Batman rapist", a serial sex attacker in Bath who has evaded capture for years.