Courtenay Griffiths' manner is as polished as his solid desk in chambers. Leather-bound volumes line the shelves and a pinstripe jacket hangs from his chair as he rocks back on it to contemplate a question. With his charm and urbanity, the QC seems the epitome of a traditional British silk. It is hard to believe that his neatly cropped hair was once a mass of dreadlocks, ska meant as much to him as the Bar, and his spare time was spent DJ-ing on sound systems rather than chairing committees."I had a year out after school and we set up a youth club where the Specials and the Selecter (the best-known British 2-Tone bands) started," he recalls. "I was the only one who could read sheet music, because my mum had scrimped and saved to send me to piano lessons, so I used to play keyboards with them. They weren't even a group at that point, just a bunch of kids who'd mess around in the cellar. Lo and behold, as soon as CG goes off to university - there go the Specials and the Selecter. Bang. There went my chance of fame." Not quite, as it happened. Griffiths has filled numerous column inches for his successful defence of "Boy A" in the Damilola Taylor murder trial. His aggressive questioning of the chief witness - the 14-year-old girl who claimed to have seen the attack - drew acres of implicitly disapproving coverage. But it worked. The judge ruled that her evidence was "demonstrably wrong", "embellished with lies" and, therefore, inadmissible. From then on, the prosecution case seemed destined to fail."To my mind that was the right verdict," says Griffiths, who believes the trial was driven by the "politics of race". "Questions have to be asked as to the propriety of bringing this prosecution based on the evidence they had. The officer in charge of the investigation said he couldn't discontinue the case because it would have a damaging effect on the Met. That has to be a reference back to Stephen Lawrence: they couldn't have another unexplained death of a black child in south London. This was their opportunity to redeem themselves." The QC's words are unlikely to win him friends in a country still shocked by Damilola's death. But that doesn't appear to perturb him. At 47, Griffiths has grown used to commanding attention, and perhaps acquired a taste for it; he has a hint of the showman, and his impeccably cut suit conceals skull-and-crossbones braces. As one of a handful of black QCs, his presence inevitably stands out in courtrooms where black people are still more likely to be in the dock than on the benches. "There's a degree of uniqueness - not a uniqueness that I particularly favour, or that I think will remain - that comes with being a black silk at this particular historical juncture. It gives you a certain cachet," he says. "One of the reasons my appearance in this trial was given so much publicity is because, in the lead-up, the message was that this was a racist attack on a young black child - so what was this big, burly, black man doing representing one of those charged with the offence? Subconsciously, that's why the press has given me such attention and not the other advocates." A cynic might suspect he was hired in the hope that jurors would not believe a black man would represent a guilty white defendant. "No. It wasn't that at all," he says firmly. "It's a solicitor I have often worked for. When I started out, a couple of solicitors called me up to represent people charged with offences with a clear racial element. I didn't do it. I believe a barrister should do any work that comes across his desk, but I don't like being exploited." These days Griffiths is booked up a year ahead, thanks to his reputation for succeeding in cases which even instructing solicitors describe as "unwinnable". He is skilled at wrong-footing witnesses and, more notably, talks to judges and witnesses with equal ease, combining the eloquence of a private education with down-to-earth directness and a vocabulary including phrases such as "bigging himself up". He ascribes this ease to his back ground: his parents moved here from Jamaica when he was five, and faced entrenched racial prejudice as one of the first black families in Coventry. When he won a scholarship to an independent school - where he was the sole black pupil - prolonged bullying followed, at least until his older, harder-hitting brothers intervened outside the gates. But his education led him to the Bar, a world away from his father's job as a carpenter. "It's provided me with an insight many of my colleagues don't have," he muses. "If I can put defendants at their ease by talking to them on their level, instead of talking down to them, it helps to break down the barriers. It's not something that comes from going to courses to learn to speak like the working classes. It's something I know because that's where I'm from." Until he read law, he says, "My experience of the law was always at the sharp end; [defending] was a political decision. I was coming out of the experience of black youth, with police raids on venues, and stop and search in black communities. As a black person, the law was something constantly used against you." That experience, coupled with the environment of the Bar - he was made very aware of the rarity of his class and colour there - persuaded him to take a stand about the work he did. "I think it was the right one," he says. It helps to explain his involvement in high-profile cases: two years ago he acted for Randolph Johnson when the "M25 Three" successfully appealed against their murder convictions after spending 10 years in prison. But long before that he was junior (to Michael Mansfield QC) for one of the defendants accused of the murder of PC Keith Blakelock during the Broadwater Farm, Tottenham, disturbances of 1985. That trial was a turning point, he says, as he saw Mansfield confront the social issues and police tactics that led to the riots, while Barbara Mills QC (later Director of Public Prosecutions), acting for Winston Silcott, focused on the paucity of evidence. "In such trials you are not merely speaking about the evidence on which the jury decides the issue of guilt or innocence. They have an overlay of politics which the advocate has to address in the courtroom to be successful, and I don't think Barbara Mills did. Winston Silcott was always going to be made out to be a great black ogre. You have a very large, six-foot-plus black man who looks quite frightening, and a white officer who's the father of children. You have to grasp the nettle and deal with that." Griffiths found support for his approach at 2 Garden Court, which began life in the 70s "as a so-called radical set of chambers, if that's not a contradiction in terms," he says. "We were seen very much as pariahs. Thirty years on we're one of the most established sets in the Temple. So a set of chambers which is now establishment has a joint head who's black (Griffiths is replacing Ian Macdonald QC). To my mind that's progress. "Whereas I was exposed to blatantly racist and discriminatory attitudes when I entered the profession, to claim that that has been the case in the last 15 years would be a lie. I wouldn't be chairman of the Bar's Public Affairs Committee if it were so. I feel part of it - and I'm very much pleased to be so." If that sounds complacent, his absorption into the establishment remains partial. His comments on the recent furore over criminality among young black men, which erupted after the editor of the black newspaper The Voice urged the police to extend their use of stop and search, are carefully worded but caustic. "There are issues to be addressed around crime within black communities, and I think those black communities are starting to throw up these questions themselves," he says. "But throw into the equation David Blunkett's plans for reforming the police and you can perceive why a police force which sees itself as being under attack sees an advantage in creating a moral panic to keep their political masters off their backs." He is just as critical of his own profession, which, he warns, must become more diverse to remain relevant. "Not enough is being done about the Bar as an institution and there is a tendency to say, 'This is the way we've always done things,' when those ways could be discriminatory," he says. "I'm not asking them to change from altruism; it's to their economic advantage. Things are changing and the legal profession had better wake up and smell the coffee."