Police investigating the murder of an 84-year-old woman at her home and the stabbing of a nine-year-old boy in a skate park say they are investigating another incident in which an eight-year-old girl was chased through her garden near the murder scene.The third element in the fast-moving case in Shipley, West Yorkshire, was revealed by Det Supt Lisa Griffin at a press conference as she appealed to local people to continue coming forward with information. Police say they have already been inundated by calls.Extra police patrols are being organised in the town over the next few days as officers try to reassure the public.Five men are in police custody in connection with either the murder or the attack on the boy, and the police say they are not looking for anybody else. They have also cordoned off 10 areas in the town and recovered a knife.A police statement said: "At this time we do not believe that the nine-year-old boy and the 84-year-old woman are related or known to each other. The 84-year-old woman is related to the 26-year-old man arrested on suspicion of murder and attempted murder."The woman, who has been named as Louisa Denby, was discovered with "numerous stab wounds" in the upstairs bedroom of a house in Prospect Mount just before midnight on Monday by officers conducting inquiries into the stabbing of the boy at Carnegie skate park in the town that afternoon. The road and the park are reportedly only about 300 metres apart.The boy, named by local media as Jason Darcey, suffered chest and arm injuries and was airlifted to Leeds General Infirmary, where he is expected to undergo surgery on Tuesday.The incident involving the girl came 10 minutes after the attack on the boy, said Griffin, who also confirmed that a knife had been recovered and that a 26-year-old man arrested on suspicion of murder and attempted murder was related to Denby."The nine-year-old boy was out playing and was returning home for a drink when he was approached by a male and with no prior warning and for no reason known to us at this time he was attacked with a knife – a single stab wound [sic] causing him injuries to his chest and his arm," she said.The detective said 10 minutes later the girl was playing in her garden on Prospect Grove "when a male approached and tried to draw her attention, chased her through the garden and she went into her home address". She said no contact with the girl was made by the man and no weapon was seen."Nothing untoward happened to her. As the inquiries continued in the afternoon and evening yesterday, we were taken to an address on Prospect Mount where we discovered the body of an 84-year-old woman," said Griffin, who believed all the incidents were linked."I make that assertion on the basis that the description of the suspect tallies with the two incidents involving the children."We've made that link and we're appealing to the public to give us information about the person responsible. We've had lots of information, which has led to a number of arrests."The man arrested on suspicion of murder and attempted murder had been spotted in nearby Idle, a village near Bradford, by a member of the public at about 4.10am on Tuesday.A second man, also 26, has been arrested in connection with the murder, while three others, aged 18, 24 and 29, are being held in connection with the incident in the skate park.Earlier, Griffin told the Yorkshire Post: "We got a good response from the public. The victim has not yet been interviewed. He went to hospital for treatment."The first account was all we took from the child. He gave the account but the priority was to get him to hospital."All our available resources were used. It was a very serious incident and we took it very seriously. We were concerned he might try to attack other children."We brought in additional staff, all available staff were deployed, and our air support. It was everyone we could muster. It paid off because local people were spoken to and a name was suggested."A local shopkeeper, Chandrika Patel, said parents would stop their children playing in the park following the stabbing."He's such a good lad," she said. "He's always playing outside and sometimes comes in here. Everyone's shocked by it all. It's a friendly area."Denby's neighbour, Jackie Smith, said: "She was my husband's schoolteacher and then, when she moved in, she would say: 'Hiya, Michael, I remember you.' She was absolutely lovely."Smith said she grew worried for Denby's wellbeing late on Monday. "Last night I could hear them [the police] breaking her door down – I assume because there was nobody answering."That's when I really thought Mrs Denby was in trouble and I just felt so sorry for her, I really did. I just can't believe it. It's just awful.David Jacobs, who also lives near Denby, said the "terrifying" incidents of the last 24 hours had left people shocked."My son said: 'Dad, Dad! Someone's been stabbed and an old lady's been murdered.' My heart went – you worry straight away."I know the little boy because he plays with my son. It's tragic. He's a very nice, normal lad who likes to play on his scooter and at the park and play on his bike. You can't understand why someone's done that to a little lad like that."The police were at school today and we had to go to school with our children today. People are scared to let their kids out. They're all going to keep them in tonight."