The first thing you notice about Dave is that he's a big lad. Six foot three inches and 17 stone of solid Merseysider. You wouldn't mess with Dave if you had any sense. This was the lesson learnt by his family during 20 years of mental and physical cruelty inflicted behind closed doors.Like most perpetrators of domestic violence, Dave did not think he was doing anything wrong, even when he was arrested, charged and convicted. 'It was just a way of life,' he says. 'I felt I was the boss. I'd walk in the house and my family would fall silent, they were so scared.' It all came to a head for Dave two Christmases ago. He woke up and found two of his four daughters, aged 17 and 21, fighting on the landing of their Birkenhead home. The older one was home on leave from the Army. The seasonal tensions were beginning to show. When Dave pulled them apart, they turned on him, swearing, scratching and spitting in his face - violence runs in the family. 'I grabbed hold of the younger one by the neck, pulled her into the bedroom and threw her on the bed and stormed out of the house.' he says. Later the fight continued, his wife joining in after Dave threw a cup of scalding hot coffee at one of his daughters. He evaded the police for two weeks before he was arrested in Manchester. The court said he had to go to prison for two years, or go to a self-help group for men as part of a probation order. 'There is no way I would have gone for help unless I'd been forced to,' he says. 'When I introduced myseIf to the group, I said: "My name is Dave. I don't understand why I am here".' It has taken two years' counselling and the ever-present fear of prison to convince him he was a violent criminal. At 52, he feels he has finally grown up: 'Now I know that my persona can be threatening. And when a man my size grabs a 17-year-old girl round the neck, obviously it hurts her.' Dave is one of a tiny number of men who claim to have been 'cured' of violent behaviour. The scheme he attended, run by Merseyside Probation Service, claims a 60 per cent completion rate and a significant effect on reoffending among men over the age of 40. But Home Office analysis of other treatment programmes across the country has shown that only around a quarter of the offenders who take part finish them, and there is, as yet, no real evidence that they cut crime. Certainly, the figures do not suggest that domestic violence is becoming a thing of the past. Police forces across Britain are being forced to recognise what feminists and women's groups have been telling them for years: domestic violence is the most serious single criminal justice issue facing them today, but one that used to go largely unreported. In Avon and Somerset, these crimes have more than doubled in a year, from around 4,800 to nearly 10,000. In the West Midlands, over the past four years, they rose from 14,000 to 25,000. It is estimated that one in 10 women has experienced domestic violence in the last year and one in four at some point in her life. On average, Women's Aid receives a call to its helpline (open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year) every two-and-a-half minutes. This epidemic will be reflected in this week's crime figures, which will show the second rise in violent crime since Labour came to power in May 1997. Until now, women's groups and the police have assumed that a quarter of all violent crime is domestic. The latest figures from the Metropolitan Police Racial and Violent Crime Task Force, set up in the wake of the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry, show that the proportion is at least 40 per cent in London and probably higher, especially as the police accept that at least 35 offences of domestic violence are committed before one is reported.Opinion on how to tackle the problem is split. In January, a Home Office briefing note written by domestic violence experts Audrey Mullender and Sheila Burton said one of the main reasons why programmes such as the one Dave attended were controversial was 'the fear that they will fail and leave survivors in greater danger'. Professor Elizabeth Stanko of Royal Holloway College, London, who advises the Metropolitan Police on such issues, says money would be better spent on identifying the scale of the problem: 'We don't need to throw money at treatment that doesn't work. In the entire country there is data on about 100 men. To its credit, the Government has said it will remove funding from projects that don't prove themselves.' But Paul Wynn, who runs the perpetrator scheme which Dave attended in Liverpool, says society must not give up on violent men: 'The Home Office has to give these programmes time to work. They can change men's lives and those of the people around them.' Some police forces are now becoming more proactive in their approach, which may explain some of the rise in reported incidents. In London, violent crime that is domestic, racial or homophobic in nature is now referred to Community Safety Units, set up in each London borough under specialist officers and run by the Met task force.. The police are given intensive forensic training to build up 'state prosecutions' in cases where the victim is too scared to come forward. Police in London are now given cards carrying indicators of abuse, advice for victims, action to take and a list of contacts. John Godsave, Chief Superintendent with the task force, says: 'As a copper of 30 years, I now believe family violence is a reality, not just an invention of the feminists. It is a serious concern that we may have wasted a lot of time by ignoring the family. This may be the answer to a lot of problems in other areas. A lot of burglary, assault and even racist extremism begins behind closed doors.' Neil Blacklock of the Domestic Violence Intervention Project in west London, which works with violent men, believes there must be a shift in the way crime risks are seen: 'People are almost certainly wrong if they believe they are more at risk of attack on the streets than in their own homes.' Dave has now gone two years without reverting to his old ways. Since he left home, he has seen only one of his daughters, but she was still too scared to re-establish genuine contact. He has a new girlfriend who knows of his violent past, and he says he walks away when her teenage son winds him up. 'A lifetime of training made me that way. If I got involved I could see myself reverting to what I used to be,' he says. 'I won't be moving in with the girlfriend for a long time, because there is still that one per cent of uncertainty.'  Catalogue of cruelty• There are 250 refuge groups in England with 6,900 bed spaces. • Of 54,500 annual admissions to refuges, 32,000 are children. • Four-fifths of the domestic attacks on women involved their partner or ex-partner. Domestic violence is estimated to be a feature in as many as one in three divorces in England and Wales. • Fewer than 60 per cent of those experiencing domestic violence tell their friends, family or seek help from an agency. • Every year one in 10 women in Britain experience domestic violence, and one in four suffer at some point in their lives. • There are only 319 bed spaces in 39 affiliated refuges in Scotland. Scottish Women's Aid logged an annual increase of 19 per cent more calls for accommodation. • The number of domestic violence incidents reported to the British Crime Survey more than tripled over a 15-year period.  Source: British Crime Survey  Research by Dorota Nosowicz martin.bright@observer.co.uk