The parents of Stephen Lawrence yesterday begged black militants not to turn the public inquiry into their son's murder into a circus after furious protests by members of the Nation of Islam led to scenes of violence and farce.Doreen and Neville Lawrence had waited five years to see five white youths answer questions about their movements on the night of Stephen's death and their attitude to black people. But within an hour, the cross-examination had been halted amid pandemonium as police fired CS gas on demonstrators outside the building.Gasps and jeers had erupted from the public gallery as Jamie Acourt, aged 22, denied being a racist or ever carrying knives. Within seconds of his cross-examination starting, the inquiry chairman, Sir William Macpherson, warned him against committing perjury, and the Lawrence family savoured a moment that eluded them through five years, two trials and a coroner's inquest.But shortly afterwards, chaos erupted as a group from the Nation of Islam invaded the council chamber, following serious scuffles outside. As the phalanx of militants - wearing dark suits, white shirts and red bow ties - marched down the room, Acourt was bundled by police out of a back door.The leader of the group, wearing a sophisticated wire radio transmitter, bellowed at Sir William: "This is a sham. You are stopping the people from coming into the inquiry."To the astonished Mr and Mrs Lawrence, they shouted: "You have got to stand firm brothers. Slavery is over."The inquiry was adjourned for three hours, when the Lawrences' barrister, Michael Mansfield, resumed questioning Acourt and two others of the five-man gang.Pressed on evidence that they carried knives in public and were racists, the three were taciturn and hostile.Like his brother, Neil Acourt, 22, said he was unable to remember details. He repeatedly denied being a racist and said remarks made on a secret police surveillance tape were "a joke".He said he was angry at having been accused of Stephen's murder and had been "persecuted" ever since. Fear of attack had forced him to start carrying a knife for protection. "I have never done anything wrong," he said.David Norris, 21, said there was "no evidence whatsoever" against him, and he had been very angry at being accused of the killing.Earlier it seemed unlikely the inquiry would resume following the disruption. CS gas from four floors down floated up the lifts at Hannibal House in London's Elephant and Castle, injuring four security guards. Doreen Lawrence rushed to a microphone in an attempt to restore calm. "At no time have we ever disrupted anything," she shouted. "Behaving in this manner, it doesn't help. Please, please keep calm in order for us to continue. The police attitudes towards us and my family and peoplein the black community have been disgraceful. But for the safety of everybody, please could you keep calm."