Maxine Carr, former girlfriend of the Soham murderer, Ian Huntley, yesterday won a rare lifetime injunction protecting her new identity to safeguard her "life and limb" and "fragile psychological state".The injunction, like those granted to Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, the schoolboy killers of the toddler James Bulger, and Mary Bell, who killed two children when she was 11, will last until she dies unless lifted by the court.The order, granted in the high court in London by Mr Justice Eady, is the first permanent ban to protect someone who was not directly involved in a killing.Ms Carr has been vilified and attacked for providing a false alibi for Huntley when police were investigating the murders of the Soham schoolgirls, Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.The order bans publication of any details which could reveal her new identity, including any description of where she lives and the nature of her work. The application was not contested by the media and Ms Carr, 27, was not present in court.Ms Carr, funded by legal aid, applied for the order under the Human Rights Act, arguing that her right to life was endangered.In December 2003 she was convicted of conspiring to pervert the course of justice with Huntley, who was found guilty of murdering Holly and Jessica. She lied to police about her whereabouts on the weekend in August 2002 when the 10-year-olds were killed.She was released last May after serving half of her 3-year sentence. The judge said: "It is necessary to protect life and limb and psychological health." The media or any interested party could ask for the order to be lifted if circumstances changed, he added.The application was backed by the Home Office, the probation service and Humberside police, and not opposed by the attorney general. Ms Carr's QC, Edward Fitzgerald, told the judge earlier that there was an "overwhelming case" for granting the injunction. There was "a real and significant risk of injury or of worse - killing - if the injunction is not granted," he added.The court had a psychiatrist's report which concluded that, without the injunction, the risks to her fragile state were very high, said Mr Fitzgerald.The unanimous view of the police, probation service and Home Office that there was "danger to her life and limb" was backed by compelling evidence, he said.There was evidence of persistent threats from one particular source, but he would not go into the details. There was also evidence of actual incidents of harassment and threats. There had also been incidents involving people mistaken for Ms Carr who had been abused. He read out a sample of comments and threats from internet chatrooms, such as: "This bitch should be dead and I believe she will be, if there is any justice in this life, by the end of the year." Mr Fitzgerald told the judge that press allegations that Ms Carr told Huntley to burn the bodies or tried to conceal evidence, or had been writing love letters to Huntley were untrue. So were reports that she was seeking to profit by selling her story for publication, had been living a pampered lifestyle, and had been rescued by a helicopter from a baying mob.Mr Fitzgerald said: "When one sees the remarks made on internet chatrooms, one sees them being linked to particular unfounded allegations that have been made in the press."