The trial of the boys cleared of murdering schoolboy Damilola Taylor brought two medical experts into a confrontation about what caused the wound that killed him.Both agreed that a broken bottle, later reconstructed from five pieces found in Blakes Road, Peckham, had been responsible for the gash in his thigh. Pathologist Dr Vesna Djurovic said someone had stabbed Damilola with the bottle - but trauma expert Alistair Wilson said the schoolboy probably fell on it.Mr Wilson, a consultant accident and emergency surgeon who helped found London's air ambulance service, said he had conducted a number of experiments. To demonstrate his theory, he used computer graphics, CCTV film of Damilola falling outside Peckham library and a blown-up photograph of the boy's thigh. Mr Wilson said the bottle neck would have snagged on Damilola's trousers and twisted, injuring him as he fell forward. But unlike the pathologist, Mr Wilson said he had not seen Damilola's body or been given other information about the death. Defence witnesses Anthony Borg, 18, and Melissa Haughton, 19, said they saw a young, black boy picking up a broken bottle as they left a house in Blakes Road. But prosecutor Mark Dennis said Damilola would have had to "take off and fly through the air like Peter Pan" for the doctor's theory to be right. Dr Djurovic discounted the idea and said Damilola was stabbed deliberately in the left thigh, probably while he was on the ground. It had been a thrusting, cutting and twisting motion and had caused a 6cm-deep, S-shaped wound. She had also found a glass marble lodged in Damilola's mouth "like a sweet". The jury watched as she demonstrated with a broken bottle, thrusting it forward, down and then twisting it. Dr Djurovic, who was the pathologist in the Sarah Payne murder case, added: "Bleeding would have been profuse and rapid but not associated with immediate collapse." Asked by defence barrister Courtenay Griffiths QC why a knife he stabbed into a blue adhesive strip did not leave the indentation which she said was on Damilola's leg, she replied coolly: "Skin is not Blu-Tack."