Detectives were inquiring into the personal life of a murdered skydiver, whose parents made an emotional appeal yesterday for Britain's close knit parachuting community to help find his killer.Officers were following fresh leads into the friendships and connections of army cadet Stephen Hilder, 20, whose parachute straps were expertly cut before the final round of a skydiving competition last Friday. The head of the murder inquiry, Detective Superintendent Colin Andrews, flanked by Stephen's parents, Paul and Mary Hilder, said that "interesting facts" had emerged from questioning of the cadet's friends and skydiving colleagues. He added that "a couple of good leads" had come out of inquiries into a fancy dress party at Hibaldstow airfield, near Brigg, Lincolnshire the night before the tragedy. DNA samples were being taken from almost 100 people who were at the former RAF base, whose shack-like huts and cafe are an internationally-known venue for skydiving events. Police officers believe that investigating relationships between the victim and others may be more productive than forensic tests. "Find the motive and find the killer," said Mr Andrews."I believe the person who did this was at Hibaldstow last week. "Whether or not it was through skydiving or through some personal problem we don't yet know. But I believe that Stephen was deliberately targeted and the person who is responsible for killing him has told a third person by now. Something like this is a very difficult secret to keep." Mrs Hilder, 51, who works in a college in Hereford, where the family live, said that she and her husband were certain that someone in the skydiving community could unlock the mystery. "There will be things about his recent life which we don't know, but whatever they are we can't begin to imagine why anyone would want to do this to him," she said. "Steve lit up our lives with his enthusiasm, energy, humour and physical presence. He was an ordinary, infuriating lad, and an extraordinary son. He loved people, but was a very private person." Paul Hilder, also 51, who works at the environment agency in Hereford appealed directly to the 78 people who were at Hibaldstow for the week-long skydiving contest. "Somebody knows what has happened. They have just got to come forward," he said. Stephen died after plummeting 13,000ft after the final skydiving manouevres in the contest, which had seen his team well ahead. Mr Hilder said their son's passion for skydiving began 21 months ago. "One jump and he was hooked. It became his passion, occupying every spare moment of his life." A former Bristol University student turned cadet at the Royal Military College of Science in Shrivenham, Wiltshire, he looked happy and eager on a video of the fatal flight and jump. Police have not released the film, which is understood to include the moment when his main parachute and reserve, both severed from his harness, broke away. But a spokeswoman for Humberside police said that his buoyant mood meant that suicide was "not a path officers are going down at the moment". It also emerged yesterday that the packing shed where more than 40 parachutes were stored on the day of his death, was left unlocked. The sabotaged parachute was a distinctive and expensive South African make which may have made it stand out from the others. Det Supt Andrews said that the shed was not locked because of "the spirit of friendship and trust among the skydivers." He said that it was possible that the disaster may have been a prank which went terribly wrong "In that case, the person responsible should come forward immediately," he said. "This could also have been the act of a lone mad person but I sincerely hope not. That would be the worst case scenario." 