The home secretary, David Blunkett, is tonight due to launch a US-based reform agenda for policing and the criminal justice system that could see communities electing local police boards and district attorney-style public prosecutors.He intends to give local communities a say in the way they are policed and introduce new community justice centres as part of a wider agenda for the civil renewal of community life. The plans, intended for Labour's third term, borrow unashamedly from controversial American "communitarian" commentators. In an interview with the Guardian, he defended himself against the charge of following the more "social authoritarian" commentators. "I am looking for harsh reality," he said. "There are dangers in terms of social authoritarianism but this does not rule out that there are major gains in mobilising the community. It is the antidote to selfish individualism and to top-down command programmes for government." The proposals for the future of the criminal justice system are to be outlined in a speech tonight to community service volunteers and detailed in a Home Office pamphlet. Mr Blunkett will also confirm that he is to shake-up the way top police officers are recruited, including hiring outside public service managers. It is unlikely that he would launch such a major initiative if he were going to lose responsibility for criminal justice policy in the impending cabinet reshuffle, although other ministers are also working on third-term policy ideas based on empowering communities. He told the Guardian that together with the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, he had been looking at ways to boost the profile of local senior public prosecutors, including changing the name of the crown prosecution service to the community or public prosecution service, to ensure that communities felt that it was acting on their behalf. Mr Blunkett said he agreed with the attorney general that "the public might have a greater say, and are presented with greater information about the nature of that service and who the chief public prosecutor is". He also wanted to ensure that prosecutors could command the kind of community standing enjoyed by American district attorneys, he said. "I merely make reference to the fact that in the United States they elect the district attorney," he said when pressed. Mr Blunkett said he wanted to go ahead with similar moves to improve the visibility and accountability of the police in local communities. The early results of new Home Office research showed that few people had heard of local police authorities, or how they held the police to account. He wanted local crime and police performance data for each police division or basic command unit pub lished as part of an "adult education exercise" about crime. New local neighbour consultative panels are to be set up involving Neighbourhood Watch, and other anti-crime groups, that could "buy in" more street patrols, CCTV cameras and other security measures. Local police commanders would get greater powers and annual reports would be published on the state of policing in each area. "I am interested in exploring options for strengthening local accountability, such as whether police authorities have a directly elected element, or even be entirely elected," he said. "I am also interested in whether the neighbourhood panels should have a directly elected element." These schemes to boost community involvement in policing are to be underpinned by new US-style community justice centres operating in high crime areas, to deal with lower level offenders. Mr Blunkett said that, despite police criticism, he was not prepared to back off his scheme for the overseas recruitment of chief police officers, and, indeed, wanted to "widen the pool of those recruited to leadership roles in the police" by also drawing on the expertise of other public-sector managers. They are to be recruited to the middle ranks and their promotion fast-tracked: "I am not talking about parachuting in new chief constables or their deputies."