Alfred Allington lived a luxury lifestyle. He had a box at West Ham football club which he used regularly to entertain people. He holidayed abroad two or three times a year and drove a new Mercedes car. A Guardian investigation has established that while he was making his money, Mr Allington was living a double life as a Customs informant in relation to a series of major alcohol duty frauds.John Early, who was convicted following an Allington/Customs sting operation, said that Mr Allington's warehouses were working 10 hours a day, turning round 20 or 30 lorries a day. Each load lost more than £100,000 in duty to the exchequer. Mr Allington, 43, has never been charged with any offence. He bought his first warehouse, British and Foreign Wharf, in the 1980s and renamed it LCB. By 1996 it had managed to increase business and had a turnover of £3,840,000. But by 1998, business had soared and turnover had more than doubled to nearly £10m. In fact there was so much work from the excise diversions that Mr Allington had the previous year opened a new warehouse which was said to handle only "dodgy deals". By this time, he had a total of 16 warehouses, employed 80 warehousemen and had 12,000 customers.  Secret sting The fraud was based on new EU single market trading rules that meant alcohol could be moved free from one tax-free bonded warehouse to another within the EU. Tax was paid only when the alcohol was sold to the wholesale or retail markets. Local Customs officials whose job it was to monitor LCB and collect revenue became aware of the frauds. But when they tried to stop them to halt the haemorrhaging revenue losses, the collectors were overruled by investigators from the NIS who insisted their secret sting operations took precedence. The emergence of the new evidence about Mr Allington's role comes amid mounting legal concern about methods and working practices at Britain's oldest and most powerful law enforcement agency. The result is expected to be the virtual disbandment of the Customs investigation arm in its present form. The government is expected to announce plans today to set up an FBI-style major crime organisation that will absorb the Customs investigation role, the police-led National Crime Squad, and the National Criminal Intelligence Service.Problems came to a head for Customs when the trial of 15 men at Liverpool crown court collapsed in November 2002. They had been accused of massive fraud and excise duty evasion charges after a series of undercover Customs operations at LCB, Britain's biggest bonded warehouse. But the trial had to be abandoned after evidence came to light showing that a Customs investigator had lied to the court, and important information and documents had been withheld. During a 10-week pre-trial hearing, a senior Customs solicitor turned whistleblower alleged cover-ups by its elite investigation team, then known as the NIS. Gordon Smith claimed he had been forced to leave his job in the Customs prosecution office in Manchester after being "lied to" by some senior NIS officers as he prepared a case involving the black market at LCB. Crooked traders were using the warehouse facilities in east London to drive away lorry loads of duty-free drink supposedly to foreign destinations. The loads were being sold to local cash and carry stores at big profit. Mr Smith said that Mr Allington was being run as an undisclosed participating informant who was told to encourage the frauds to take place. But a decision was taken "at the highest levels" within Customs to allow him to continue to give misleading evidence in trials. During trials throughout the previous four years, defence barristers had made regular and often vigorous challenges about Mr Allington's status. Every time, Customs continued to lie and mislead, insisting he was only a "trade source", a unique Customs term to describe an honest businessman who just passes on occasional suspicious information. But the Guardian document shows that his true status had been registered in July 1994 and his confidential meetings were properly recorded in internal files, signed by at least four officers up to the rank of assistant chief investigation officer. Under strict legal rules governing the conduct of court cases, this information should have been disclosed to presiding judges for them to decide whether to inform lawyers representing the accused. The revelation will also embarrass Mr Justice Butterfield, who conducted an inquiry after the Liverpool debacle into the Customs' handling of the fraud cases. His report was written on the premise that Mr Allington was not an informant. It is believed that the Scotland Yard detectives who uncovered the document immediately informed senior Customs officials of their discovery and advised them that it should be disclosed to the judge in current trials and appeals and to Mr Justice Butterfield. His team was not told about the new evidence until several weeks later, on June 24 2003. That was several days after his final report had been printed. A member of the Butterfield team then went to recover the original registration document from storage at Custom House in Gravesend, Kent. Other documents seen by the Guardian will bring further criticism of the battered organisation's conduct. These reveal that officials at a meeting in February 1998 decided to cover up their own intelligence that Mr Allington was himself corrupt. The meeting was attended by the head of Customs' covert intelligence, who "probably" supplied the information, and the head of fraud investigations, together with officers conducting an operation in Scotland. The only agenda was to discuss "how to deal with AA being corrupt". Despite concern expressed by the Scottish officers, it was decided by the head of fraud at the time "not to tell anyone about the corruption to protect the operation". No notes were taken at the meeting. Yet allegations made six months later that Mr Allington was also defrauding Customs were dismissed by Customs internal investigators as "spurious, unfounded diversionary tactics".  Embarrassment  Another internal investigation into Mr Allington in 2000 into fresh corruption allegations from another alleged fraudster also reported there was no evidence against him. This was despite one officer first writing a report saying he was corrupt, only to change his mind. The latest revelations will be a huge embarrassment for Paul Evans, head of law enforcement, Customs' renamed investigation arm, and a former spy for MI6. In November last year, Mr Evans told the Guardian that six months of his life had been spent "making sure that Butterfield was given everything". He added: "We had a team in place checking rigorously that we had provided everything". Mr Evans was speaking after the collapse of another major Customs prosecution, this time for money laundering. The decision to abandon that trial at Blackfriars crown court in London was followed immediately by the reopening of the Butterfield inquiry into the conduct of Customs operations at several money exchange bureaux. One of the Customs investigators involved in those operations was also closely involved in the LCB operations and the Customs relationship with Mr Allington.