A former US marine was given a life sentence today for murdering traffic policeman Ian Broadhurst, who was shot dead on Boxing Day last year.David Bieber, 38, a bouncer and steroid abuser from Florida who is wanted in the US over a murder plot, was also convicted of the attempted murders of two of PC Broadhurst's colleagues. Jailing him for life, trial Judge Mr Justice Moses told Bieber he had shown "no remorse or understanding of the brutality" of his crime.Bieber shot PC Broadhurst in the head at point blank range as he pleaded for his life. The judge said Bieber continued to maintain a "cool and detached" approach when attempting to explain the evidence against him. He told Bieber: "You must spend the rest of your life in prison."The jury of six men and six women at Newcastle crown court, which retired yesterday afternoon to consider the case, delivered unanimous verdicts against Bieber on all the charges.They were unaware that he was a drug dealer and that he had fled to the UK from Florida, where he was wanted by police over a plot to hire a hitman to kill a love rival. He was also suspected of hiring the same gunman to murder his former girlfriend, but the attempt on her life failed. PC Broadhurst, 34, was gunned down during a routine check on a stolen vehicle in Leeds. His colleagues, PC Neil Roper, 45, and PC James Banks, 27, were shot but survived. During the trial, the jury heard an audio recording from the police car in which PC Broadhurst could be heard begging for his life after Bieber produced a handgun and started shooting. The crown said he killed the policeman with a final shot to his head.Bieber, who was driving the stolen BMW, fled the scene, triggering a six-day manhunt which ended when he was found holed up in a £34-a-night hotel in Gateshead. He had hidden the murder weapon under a mattress. The American, who was using the name Nathan Coleman at the time, tried to convince the jury the killer was a friend - dubbed "Mr X" by the prosecution - whom he refused to name, claiming he was a loyal friend he would not "stab in the back". He was given concurrent life sentences with a minimum of eight years for the attempted murders of PCs Roper and Banks.Afterwards, PC Broadhurst's family said they were pleased with the verdicts and felt they finally had justice."Ian was a loving husband, a wonderful son, brother, uncle and friend .... He lived for his job and he paid tragically with his life for doing his duty," the family said."We have listened carefully to what happened and it is clear that Ian and Neil posed no threat to this man, being courteous, polite and professional throughout. What happened in those final seconds is beyond belief and will haunt us forever."PC Roper also issued a statement in which he thanked well-wishers for their support and praised his dead colleague."Ian, Andy (a colleague of Roper's and Broadhurst's) and myself were a great team and shined when we worked together. Without having to say anything, we knew what each other was thinking and what was expected of each other .... We just clicked together as three friends."What happened that day had a dramatic impact on my life. We left Garforth to do what we did every day and I only wish we had turned left instead of right."