A £60,000 contract has been offered to kill Tony Martin, the Norfolk farmer on trial for the shooting of two burglars, a jury was told yesterday.The source of the threat was unknown but it was being taken seriously by police, Norwich crown court heard. Martin, 55, of Bleak House, near Emneth, Norfolk, wept in court as he began his evidence yesterday, the fifth day of his trial. He said he had felt "blind, terrified, vulnerable" when he heard people entering his home. He admits having fired a gun but denies murdering Fred Barras, 16, and denies attempting to murder Brendan Fearon, 30, both of Newark in Nottinghamshire. He denies wounding Fearon with intent to commit grievous bodily harm, and denies possessing a Winchester 12-bore pump action shotgun with intent to endanger life. He admits possessing a shotgun without a certificate. He told yesterday how he had been asleep in bed, fully clothed, when he heard noises downstairs in his farmhouse. "I just heard a horrendous noise. I thought I was in a horror movie. There was a banging noise. It sounded like somebody coming up the stairs. "I tried to avoid the situation ... and then I had to get down to reality. I had been broken into. I laid there for a while. I did not really want to move. I don't actually think I could move, though I realised I had to move. So I got up. "I decided to go to the landing. I saw a bright light coming up the stairs. I became fearful." He went back to his bedroom where he kept a gun, the jury heard. "I loaded it and stood there with it. I was still hearing this terrific banging. There was a noise downstairs, so I went on to the landing." A light was shone in his face. "I think it was a torch. I had the impression I was on the stairs. The light came from the doorway downstairs. It went straight in my face. I was very frightened. Lots of things go through your mind. Blind, terrified, vulnerable." Martin told the court that he then fired the gun, but he did not know how many times. He aimed below the light and thought he was firing at the bottom of the doorway. Anthony Scrivener QC, Martin's barrister, told the jury that the issue in the trial was self-defence. Martin knew that an unknown number of people had broken into his dark, isolated house. He did not know if they were armed or under the influence of drugs. They had not been put off by Martin's three rottweilers, said Mr Scrivener, and were not bothered about him being in the house. "What would you do?" he asked the jury. "Say 'hold on chaps, can we discuss this rationally?'" Mr Scrivener said that in law any citizen had the right to kill in self-defence if he believed he was being attacked. The judge, Mr Justice Owen, said the jury must weigh up whether Martin believed it was necessary to use force, and whether the force he used was reasonable. Yesterday the judge issued an order preventing identification of the defence's witnesses. Det Sgt Peter Newton, questioned by Mr Scrivener, said that only three or four officers on the case, and Martin's solicitor, knew the address where Martin, who is on bail, was staying. He confirmed the contract threat had been made. Asked if police had advised Martin never to go back to his farmhouse, Mr Newton said that was for him to decide - but police had made it clear to him they could not protect him for the rest of his life. The trial was adjourned until Monday. Meanwhile, police released pictures of inside Martin's almost-derelict house, taken shortly after the shootings. The jurors have been taken to view the house. The prosecution has alleged that the staircase was "booby-trapped" by Martin, with steps at top and bottom removed. In another picture, the window frame wrenched out by Fearon can be seen lying on the floor.