A widow recalled the terrifying moment when three young fishermen armed with a hammer crashed into the cabin where she lay sleeping, before her husband was thrown overboard to his death off the coast of Thailand.Linda Robertson told an inquest in Hastings that she feared for her life, and screamed for her husband, but understood why he didn't come to her rescue.Malcolm Robertson, who was aged 64, and his 59-year-old wife, from St Leonards in East Sussex, were attacked on their yacht Mr Bean – named after his chain of coffee shops – in March this year. The Robertsons, both experienced sailors who had previously made several long voyages, had flown to Malaysia where their 44-foot boat was moored, and intended to work their way around the coast of Thailand, then back to Malaysia and fly home in time for the English summer.On what was to prove their last day they enjoyed what she recalled as some of their best snorkelling ever off the Andaman coast, before mooring at about 6.30pm, having dinner, and then going to bed in separate cabins because it was so hot. She was woken by an odd noise at 12.30am.In a statement to the inquest she recalled: "The noise initially sounded like the buoy we were moored against banging on the hull of our boat."I can't explain this but I thought someone was on the boat. Malcolm sometimes moved around at night but this sound was different. I can only describe the sound as a human sound of movement. I swung my legs off the left side of the bed and stood up to face the doorway. As I stood up three boys came rushing at me."I would describe them as Thai boys who I can only describe as small and young. They were all in just their underpants and the only one I can remember being distinctive was what I would call the middle one who had a lot of tattoos."They smashed a mirror, showering the room with broken glass, then one man stayed with her, while the others ransacked the boat for food and valuables.She heard a muffled sound, and her husband's voice shouting something like "get off my boat", before he fell silent.Malcolm Robertson was bludgeoned and dumped over the side. His body was found a week later by Thai fishermen. Linda Robertson was first tied up and held captive for 10 hours before her attackers abandoned the boat. She told the inquest she once tried to dive off the boat, but was recaptured.At one stage they untied her and made her help run the boat: she felt a thick sticky fluid between her toes, and realised there was blood everywhere.The deputy coroner for Hastings, Joanna Pratt, recorded a verdict of unlawful killing, describing it as "a horrific and terrifying ordeal".Last month a Thai court sentenced three teenage Burmese fishermen to 25 years each in prison for the murder.