Two men have been convicted of killing a Pizza Hut delivery driver in a botched robbery. Ali Qasemi was delivering three pizzas, worth £50, when he was floored with a single punch and hit his head on the ground. He died two days later.Joel Lawson, 25, admitted throwing the punch and pleaded guilty to robbery and manslaughter. His friend Mark Lintott, 29, denied both charges but was found guilty of manslaughter and robbery following a seven-day trial at Peterborough crown court.Lawson, from Norwich, told the court a group of friends had been drinking lager and using cocaine at Lintott’s flat in Peterborough. Lintott phoned Pizza Hut and provided a false address in his street, hoping to snatch the pizzas without paying for them, the court heard. When 45-year-old Qasemi arrived in the early hours of Sunday, 8 May, he was attacked and the pair made off with the pizzas.Lawson, describing the moment when he and Lintott arrived back at the flat with the pizzas, told the court: “Everyone was sort of laughing at the time. Someone said: ‘I can’t believe you’ve done it.’” The prosecution said that although Lawson threw the punch, both he and Lintott were “equally responsible” as they hatched the plan together.Qasemi’s widow, Fawzia, screamed at Lawson as he gave evidence: “Burn in hell. You’re evil.” She was pregnant with the couple’s third child when her husband was killed.Senior investigating officer DI Lucy Thomson, speaking after the hearing, said: “This was a sickening, senseless crime, which has caused misery to Mr Qasemi’s wife and her young sons. “They have lost a loving, devoted husband and father; devastating their close-knit family, all for the price of three pizzas. I and my inquiry team send our deepest sympathy to Mrs Qasemi and the boys at this incredibly difficult time.”The pair are due to be sentenced at Cambridge crown court on 18 November.Karen Russell, HR chief for Pizza Hut UK, said: “We were extremely saddened by the news in May that one of our franchise staff members, Ali Qasemi, had died following an assault. “Since May, we have put in place a number of measures to prevent this happening again, including a new order verification process and a review of delivery driver safety training. “We have also been working closely with our franchisee to support Mr Qasemi’s family, and our thoughts remain with them during this difficult time.”