The minimum term to be served by a murderer sentenced to life imprisonment should be decided "openly, publicly and fairly in court by a judge, not secretly and unfairly by a politician who has never heard the case and is subject to all the inevitable pressures of public opinion", a panel of seven law lords was told yesterday.Edward Fitzgerald QC, for a convicted double murderer, Anthony Anderson, told the specially convened panel that the current regime, whereby the home secretary can fix a "tariff" higher than the recommendation of the trial judge and lord chief justice, violates the European convention on human rights. Fixing the tariff was in reality a sentencing exercise, which the "fair trial" provisions of the convention required to be carried out by a court, Mr Fitzgerald said. The trial judge recommended a 15-year tariff for Anderson after his conviction in 1988 for killing two men in bungled robberies, but the home secretary increased it to 20 years. In a three-day hearing which started yesterday, the home secretary, David Blunkett, is fighting the move to strip him of his power to fix the minimum jail terms for prisoners serving mandatory life sentences for murder. Rulings by the European court of human rights in Strasbourg have already ended his right to fix tariffs for discre tionary lifers - those serving life for crimes other than murder - and for juveniles sentenced to detention at Her Majesty's pleasure, and to keep lifers in jail once the parole board has recommended their release. The Anderson case affects 260 mandatory lifers whose tariffs, set by the home secretary, exceed terms recommended by judges. Those who have already served longer than the judges recommended - between 60 and 70, says the Home Office - could win speedy release if, as expected, Anderson succeeds. A win by Anderson could also pave the way for Myra Hindley to seek freedom. She is one of 23 killers with a "whole life" tariff imposed by the home secretary. For five of the 23, a lesser tariff was recommended by judges. Hindley's situation is more complicated, as the tariff system was not in operation when she was jailed in 1965 for her part as Ian Brady's accomplice in the murder of three children. In 1985, the then lord chief justice suggested a 25-year tariff, but ministers decided to set a provisional tariff of 30 years. In 1990, after she confessed to two further murders, she was given a whole life tariff. If the law lords rule against Mr Blunkett, Hindley, who has served 37 years in jail, could ask to have a new tariff fixed by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf. The basic constitutional principle that individual sentencing was a matter for the courts and not for politicians had already been accepted in Scotland and Northern Ireland precisely to comply with the fair trial principles of the European convention on human rights, said Mr Fitzgerald. The hearing continues today.