John McCarthy, who has died at the age of 74, was a distinguished prison governor whose career was wrecked by an outburst in a letter to the Times in 1981, at a time when he was in charge of Wormwood Scrubs jail in west London.He felt oppressed by the overcrowding at the prison, and a sense of outrage at what he perceived to be the ineffectual efforts of the then home secretary, William Whitelaw, to address the problem. The description of himself as "the manager of a large penal dustbin" in the letter caused a furious public row and, for such a reclusive man, painful, instant notoriety. At the Home Office, the prison section was unforgiving, refusing McCarthy's requests for alternative work, and it was not long afterwards that he resigned, telling the Guardian that "I am unable to come to terms with the present state of the Prison Service and the direction in which it is going." The notorious letter had stated: "I did not join the Prison Service to manage overcrowded cattle pens, nor did I join to run a prison where the interests of the individuals have to be sacrificed continually to the interests of the institution, nor did I join to be a member of a service where the staff that I admire are forced to run a society that debases." This quotation provides the clue to McCarthy's character. He was driven by an uncompromising integrity whatever the consequences, and had produced highly effective results in difficult prisons. He had become, in effect, the Prison Service's healer of sick prisons, and it was a tragedy that the service lost him. The son of a naval architect, McCarthy was educated at Bedford College and Sandhurst. He was commissioned in the Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire Regiment, and served in Egypt and Greece. He retired as a captain, ostensibly because of family responsibilities, but clearly also because he experienced discomfort in the orthodoxy of army life. He joined the Prison Service in 1957 and, from the start, as an assistant governor (or housemaster) at Feltham borstal, in west London, he showed his independence. Within a heavily restrictive regime, he started group counselling. He continued this in the unhelpful atmosphere of a borstal recall centre, but found his true metier as deputy governor of Grendon psychiatric prison, near Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire. There, he was able to exercise his positive intentions, and learnt to involve the staff within the healing regime of the therapeutic community designed by Maxwell Jones. McCarthy further developed this approach within the unlikely punitive regime of a detention centre for young offenders at Latchmere House, Ham Common, Richmond, in 1967, his first post in charge of an establishment. Somehow, he transformed the required and rigid "short, sharp shock" approach, encouraging the inmates to work with physically and mentally handicapped children, and emphasising the opportunity for them to become aware of the gentle and caring parts of themselves. He involved his officers in these exercises, even enabling them to work alongside staff at the nearby Cassell hospital, which specialised in psychoanalytic community therapy. It was a culture shock, but beneficial. The Home Office sent McCarthy to Manchester University on a Simon fellowship and, influenced by Rensis Likert, he refined his management philosophy of high trust, high performance expectation and employee participation. His methods were fully tested when he became governor of Cardiff prison in 1976. Promotion had taken him to the role of deputy director of the southwest region, and it was his uncomfortable duty both to send the incumbent governor home to retire, and to replace him. This prison was suffering the worst of industrial relations; there was a virtual breakdown of the regime and it had recently experienced the first full strike by prison officers. Yet within four years, McCarthy had transformed the place, producing impressive results: there was a dramatic improvement in performance and morale and, most important to him, higher standards of prisoner care. The consequence of success at Cardiff was promotion to Wormwood Scrubs, then suffering a post-riot trauma. At the time, however, few recognised McCarthy's exhaustion, and the greater complexity and depth of this prison's problems exacerbated his levels of intolerance. He was a tough and ruthless manager - participation and devolvement were not soft options - and it was his impatience with others less dedicated than himself that drove him to write his Times letter. His integrity would not be satisfied with less. The essence of his success was his personal loyalty and, for those who knew him well, warmth and a gentle sense of humour. The tragedy was that the Prison Service was deprived of a leader we admired and whom, despite his austere nature, we held in great affection. McCarthy became associate director and head of residential services at the Richmond Fellowship, concerned with those with mental health difficulties. Julie, his second wife, survives him, as do the two daughters of his first marriage, to Gabrielle. · John Scott McCarthy, prison governor, born November 21 1928; died November 13 2003