Robbie Fowler will pay the penalty for his thoughtlesness at the wheel after he admitted in court using his mobile phone while driving.The former England and Liverpool striker, 33, initially denied the offence but his solicitor told South Sefton magistrates court he did break the law while behind the wheel of his BMW X5 last year.Fowler, who lives in Caldy in The Wirral, was caught using the phone as he drove along Netherton Way, Bootle, on 14 November last year.The offence took the striker to 12 points and brought about a six-month ban. He was also given a £150 fine and ordered to pay £100 costs and a £15 victim surcharge.His solicitor Richard Green paid the total of £265 for him. He told the court: "I can afford to pay that now. I couldn't afford much more but I can afford that."Lyn Ingham, prosecuting, said Fowler was spotted last year by traffic officers. She said he was stopped at 2.07pm and spoken to about the offence.He had previously drummed up points by speeding in 2006 and "contravention" of pedestrian crossing laws in 2006 and 2008.Fowler has moved to Australia after signing for North Queensland Fury and did not appear today. Instead he admitted his guilt through Mr Green.When asked about the costs, Mr Green said Fowler was technically unemployed at the moment because his new contract did not begin until 1 April.He said Fowler, whose large property portfolio inspired terrace chants of "We all live in a Robbie Fowler house", was not speaking on the phone when he was caught.His solicitor said: "He is currently in Australia and will be there for two years. I am asking for the court to deal with this in his absence and I can communicate the period of disqualification to him. His position all along is that he was not speaking into the hand-held phone at the time. He accepts he had it in his hand but wasn't using the device to speak into."He had a hands-free kit in the car but I have explained the law to him and he changed his plea. He is out in Australia and is technically unemployed at the time being."