A campaigner against guns and knives was found stabbed to death yesterday. The body of Pat Regan, who crusaded in schools and youth groups after two of her six sons were shot, one fatally, was discovered at her flat in Leeds. Her grandson Rakeim Regan, 20, has been arrested and is being questioned by West Yorkshire police.Neighbours and admirers left flowers and messages yesterday by the rundown flats where Regan lived. Dozens of teenagers scribbled messages such as "Why do bad things happen to good people?" and "You made a huge difference to many people, including us." Their tributes were joined by the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, who met Regan several times to discuss anti-gun crime strategy. Smith said: "I am extremely shocked and saddened. I was greatly impressed with her dedication. She worked tirelessly and achieved a great deal, going into schools and educating young people on the dangers of joining gangs and carrying weapons. Her death is a great loss." Regan's fellow-founder of the pressure group Mothers Against Violence, Dee Edwards, said: "She was the most incredible woman. We just love her to bits - such an incredible lady, I can't take this in. She's open, she's honest, she's got a massive heart. She just helped so many people."Regan, who sat next to the then prime minister, Tony Blair, in Downing Street at a conference on gun crime last year, abandoned her everyday life as a mother and part-time office worker when her son Danny was murdered six years ago. A drug dealer and school dropout, he was shot on his doorstep in St Helen's, Merseyside, by suspected rivals who have not yet been traced.One of her other sons was shot and wounded in a Leeds nightclub, which added to her determination to speak out. She caught young people's attention, lobbied the media and recruited others to MAV by offering sympathy and help to families of other young victims. Her eldest son, Shane, said: "She dedicated her life to stopping violence like this. She was one of the most genuine people you could ever meet. "She died for what she believed in and what she was trying to stop. All of the family helped her out as much as we could, because she was the best. She represented our family and she represented the struggle against violence."A tribute with flowers was left on behalf of another of her grandchildren, Kyle Regan, which said: "My wonderful grandmother. RIP Pat. Love and miss you always. Never forgotten."