A violent gang member who was involved in an audacious robbery at the home of an art dealer specialising in the work of LS Lowry, taking paintings worth up to £1.7m, was jailed today.Casey Miller, 23, was given an indefinite sentence at Manchester crown court following his earlier conviction for robbery. He will not be eligible for parole for a minimum of five years and a month.His victim was Ivan Aird, 42, whose parents were friends of the painter, whom Aird knew as a child. His home in Cheadle, Cheshire, was targeted and among the items taken were Lowry's paintings The Viaduct, worth £700,000, and Tanker Entering the Tyne, valued at £500,000.Miller, who is already serving a four-year sentence for grievous bodily harm after beating a man unconscious outside a pub, was described as "a useful piece of muscle" for the gang by the trial judge. He was given an indeterminate prison sentence for public protection and will remain in jail until the parole board thinks he is no longer a risk to the public.Judge Andrew Gilbart QC, the recorder of Manchester, described him as a ruthless criminal who did not have the wit to plan the job alone."This was a well planned, brutally executed robbery," the judge said."It was a ruthlessly planned, professional crime in which property valued at £1.7m was taken. They will never be available for anyone else to enjoy, apart from your gang's criminal customers." The judge said it was a loss to the wider public, "and especially a loss to this region".Miller, who has 28 previous convictions for violence and robbery, told police he "didn't know Lowry from Adam" and denied any involvement in the raid. He has still not told detectives who hired him, or where the paintings are.The court heard earlier that Aird had become a specialist in Lowry's works. His company, Grove Fine Art, advertised on the internet but he did not publicise his home address because it was in effect a gallery.Miller, from Denton, Manchester, called at Aird's home on the morning of May 3 2007, dressed as a postman in a long, fluorescent orange jacket. Aird's wife, Louise, answered the door with her two-year-old daughter in her arms and was pushed by Miller, who was brandishing a 10-inch chef's knife near her face. He forced her to the ground and threatened to kill her. After he forced his way in, three accomplices, one wearing a balaclava, entered the house.Describing her ordeal during Miller's trial, Mrs Aird said: "It was terrifying, absolutely terrifying. I thought they were going to kill us."She said The Viaduct was leaning on the wall by the living room, where it had been hanging, and she saw one of the men walking past her holding Tanker Entering the Tyne.She told the court one of the robbers asked her: "Where's the big one?" – thought to be a reference to The Viaduct – but her husband replied: "You've already got it." The men also demanded money and access to a safe, but Aird told them there was no safe and he had only £3 cash. The gang then cut the telephone line in the hall and fled.A number of smaller works were also stolen. These included Maryport, A Doctor's Surgery, Bridge at Ringley, painted in 1926 and worth "around £50,000", and Street Market, a line drawing from 1924.A palette with brushes underneath that belonged to Lowry was also taken. It was the only one in existence and had the artist's paint on its surface.None of the items have been recovered.Speaking after the sentence, Ivan Aird said: "God knows where the paintings are or if they even exist. They're worth nothing to anyone – no one would be able to sell them because they are originals and one-offs."Why would any of these people want Lowrys? Everyone knows they can't sell them."He said Lowry had been a friend of his parents and he had seen him almost every weekend."It was always my dream to own Lowry originals. I've always bought the best I could afford to buy. It's all gone now." His greatest fear was that they would be destroyed.Detectives believe the buyer of the stolen paintings, possibly an unscrupulous art dealer, paid the gang to carry out the robbery, then backed out because of the publicity surrounding the raid.