The father of Melanie Hall, whose remains were discovered 13 years after her disappearance in 1996, today urged the family of her murderer to give him up.A year after his daughter's body was found next to a motorway, Steve Hall said the killer was likely to have a family who have lived all these years with a murderer. "The killer is not alone and is likely to have a mother and father, he may have brothers and sisters, he may have a wife and possibly a child or children," said Hall.  Melanie Hall disappeared after a night out in Bath in 1996. Photograph: PA"In a perverse sort of way, we have empathy with these people. As we have to live our lives with the awful horror that our child has been brutally murdered, they also have to live their lives with the horror that comes from sharing their lives with a vicious murderer. A murderer who perhaps not only shares their lives but their home or even their bed – a murderer somebody may call daddy."Hall said he and his wife Pat continue to believe the person responsible for their daughter's death is in Bath or Wiltshire but think fear has prevented the people close to them from coming forward.He added: "We're focused on the task of doing all we can to bring the perpetrator to justice. It is the last thing that we can do for our daughter and we're committed as long as we're alive to hunt down her killer. It remains never too late to rescue what credibility of humanity they have left by coming forward and helping us to discover what happened to Melanie on that fateful night."Hall vanished from a nightclub in Bath in 1996 aged 25. Her remains were found next to the M5 motorway in Gloucestershire last year. She had suffered head injuries.A 39-year-old man from Wiltshire was arrested last month on suspicion of Hall's murder and was bailed. In July a 38-year-old Bath man was arrested on suspicion of murder and was also bailed.Detective Superintendent Mike Courtiour, who is leading the investigation, said: "Over the past year Avon and Somerset police have carried out one of the most detailed, painstaking and frustrating murder investigations in the force's history. One year on we have not yet brought Melanie's killer or killers to justice, but I stress that the investigation is very much active."He added that from police inquiries he strongly believef that a small number of people know what happened to Hall on the night she disappeared. He said: "I also believe that some of these people are shielding the killer or killers. My appeal today is for them to show some decency, some honesty and above all some compassion towards Melanie's parents and family and tell us what they know."