It is not easy to see much that gladdens the heart in the story of Ian Watkins, the former rock star who has had his appeal against his 29-year prison sentence for child abuse thrown out. Yet this case has been significant, and in a highly positive way. In fact, it's something of a watershed.And that is because no one has wavered in giving Watkins the heavy sentence he deserves. Coverage of his case has been prominent and straightforward. Even professional controversialists and contrarians are not minded to suggest that Watkins is anything other than a complete public menace.But even a couple of years back, that wasn't a guaranteed result. Allegations against Watkins and his two female co-conspirators were taken seriously only in the immediate wake of Mark Williams-Thomas's October 2012 documentary exposing Jimmy Savile as a sex abuser. Yet the police had been alerted to suspicions about his behaviour many months before. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the conduct of six officers who handled three reports made to the police between March and May 2012. This in itself signals a huge change in attitudes. Between the spring and the autumn of 2012, there was a paradigm shift.Amid intense hand-wringing about whether too much police and media focus is being placed on historic abuse, the Watkins case illustrates how suddenly and sharply attitudes have been transformed. That's the thing to hang on to. That's the thing that has to be protected and nurtured. It's impossible to rectify all of the hideous mistakes and cruelties of the past. But it is possible to ensure that they are never repeated.It's becoming clear, however, that those who have to cope with the consequences of this sudden change have a bigger task than they can manage. A report commissioned by the London Assembly points out "particularly sharp increases" in reports of sexual crimes in the last year, while earlier this month Dr Noreen Tehrani, who advises child abuse detectives in the south-east of England, warned of the pressure created by the tide of historical abuse allegations. "They are just completely inundated with work. They are beginning to collapse. What I am getting are more and more exhausted officers. There aren't enough officers in these specialist teams and they are overwhelmed," Tehrani said. "I am seeing officers with secondary trauma, with PTSD [post-traumatic stress disorder], with stress. They have to interview vulnerable children or adults, they have to go through all of the physical details of what has happened to them, they have to test the evidence. These are the people that politicians are demanding more and more of, and I don't know how much more they will be able to take."That's hardly surprising. The scale of the depravity and corruption that has been revealed is pretty epic. I use the term "revealed" advisedly. Actually, even in the days when sexual abuse wasn't directly discussed, there was still a sense that it was lurking round every corner.All of us kids, in the 1960s and 1970s, were warned by our parents to beware of what were in those days referred to as "bad men". Indeed, I and my friends did have some pretty nasty encounters with "bad men", encounters we did not tell our parents about, because that would result in us being told not to play in the woods, where attacks most often occurred. "Flashers" and "heavy breathers" were so much a part of the fabric of the culture that they were a running joke, part of "the dirty mac brigade" who were really to be pitied.I even have a dim memory of a public information cartoon that instructed very young children not to go off with strangers who offered them sweets or asked if they wanted to see some puppies. Those cartoon puppies were adorable. You could see it would be hard to resist. Likewise, there was a kind of collective assumption that altar boys or kids at all-male public schools were a bit nudge-nudge, wink-wink. Kids in children's homes, too. That was one of the reasons why they were seen as such awful places.One didn't even notice at the time that this subtle preoccupation always involved boys. Even girls at primary school aspired to having a boyfriend with a car, raising only lazy eyebrows. Being "jailbait" was a bit controversial, but, hey, it wasn't like anyone actually ended up in jail for having sex with an underage girl. It was assumed – known, actually – that pop stars and the like did do that, and weren't they the lucky ones?Tabloid stories abounded about former Rolling Stone Bill Wyman having had a sexual relationship with Mandy Smith since she was 14 (he married her when she turned 18). Wyman recently said he had approached the police, asking if they wanted to question him about the matter. They didn't, he says. Lads' magazine Maxim placed him among their "top 10 living legends of sex" as recently as 2006. Gary Glitter? Jonathan King? Their crimes were viewed as wacky aberrations, like their hit songs.There is shock, now, at the revelation that powerful people – entertainers, politicians, teachers, priests – committed industrial-level abuse unchecked. Yet that sits alongside a culture that saw fit to issue films warning children en masse that they needed to know how to protect themselves against sexual predators, on the same BBC that was validating quite a large number of them. Somehow, our culture conspired to know the dangers, yet also to turn a blind eye to them, simultaneously.Looking back, one sees a casual and pervasive pattern in which the onus of responsibility was placed on children. We had to be aware, to protect ourselves, to be careful and sensible. If we failed to, it was no use complaining. That's an abusive attitude in itself. Any vulnerable child, a child who craved love or attention, a child without a family around them, or a family that placed too much trust in "authority", became, in this climate, fair game. That is precisely what Savile exploited so comprehensively.Any awareness that this stuff was really serious came from the US. The name of Jerry Lee Lewis was mud because he'd married his 13-year-old cousin. (Though my childish understanding, informed by the culture I lived in, led me to believe that "cousin" was the operative problem there.) Likewise, Roman Polanski was notorious because of his assault on 13-year-old Samantha Geimer. Geimer says she had difficulty getting the police to believe her at first, because of the "climate of the time" – the 1970s. It took several more decades for the UK to get even to that stage.But, finally, here we are. The lesson has been fast and harsh. And in many respects we have already learned as much as is needed from the convulsive post-Savile revelations. Even though anxiety about paedophilia has been high for some time, the popular image of a paedophile was as a disheveled and under-educated man, living on the margins, looking for opportunities, as in the awful case of Sarah Payne, or people on the internet, lurking under a pseudonym, who, even when they were brought to justice, got pretty short sentences. The Watkins case is exemplary in that he was not these things, and in that he was stopped, and highly visibly stopped. He wasn't simply brought to justice in the name of former victims. Other potential victims have been saved. He has been locked up, the key has been thrown away, and everybody knows it. That message has until now been sorely missing from our culture.Now we know, thanks to Watkins, what celebrity paedophiles ought to expect post-Savile. Police, prosecutors and institutions know what ought to be expected of them, too. But they need resources that have been denied to them for decades. This is our chance to change the landscape permanently. It should not be missed.