Three young men were found guilty today of murdering Ben Kinsella, the 16-year-old brother of the former EastEnders actor Brooke Kinsella.Juress Kika, 19, Jade Braithwaite, 18, and Michael Alleyne, 20, were convicted by a jury at the Old Bailey in London for the murder of Ben whose mother described as a "wonderful son … [who had] values and respected everyone he met".On 29 June last year he was chased and then stabbed 11 times in five seconds by the three after they believed Braithwaite had been shown "disrespect" by the victim's friends in a pub row in which Ben had played no part.After the verdicts it emerged Kika had been on the run from police for 10 days after a robbery in which a man was knifed on 19 June. All three of the killers had criminal records and were described by police as "depressingly familiar characters".The 16-year-old and his friends had been in the Shillibeers pub in Holloway, north London, to celebrate the end of their GCSE exams when what the police described as a "stupid non-event" started that left Braithwaite's pride knocked. Braithwaite had earlier bragged he would "stab people up" with a weapon concealed in his waistband.As Ben played no part in the confrontation he believed he was safe. When the petty squabble continued out on the street, he and his friends ran away. But Ben lagged behind, and the three men picked him out and chased him.Cornered between a car and a van Ben pleaded with his killers: "Why are you coming over to me for? I have not done anything."But sports coach Braithwaite, whose street name was J-man, bragged, "Do you know who I am? I have got a knife, you don't know what I can do with it," before kicking Ben in the stomach.As he collapsed the trio bent over him and repeatedly stabbed him.The teenager died a short time later despite surgeons' efforts to save him.Ben's mother, Deborah, told the Old Bailey judge of the pain that the loss of her son had caused her family. In a statement she said: "The people who murdered him knew nothing about our Ben, not a hair on his head, a bone in his body, not anything about our wonderful son."They had never met him before or spoken to him, they just cruelly took his life away with knives for no apparent reason. We had brought Ben up to always walk away from trouble. This sadly cost him his life."About 400 people joined the family to march against knife crime following Ben's death.Braithwaite had previously been given a community order for an attempted robbery. Alleyne was a convicted heroin and cocaine dealer who also had convictions for robbery and possession of cannabis. Kika had convictions for cannabis possession, robbery, affray and for restricting or obstructing a police officer.In her statement, Deborah Kinsella said: "We were a big, happy, loving family. We are one down, one missing. We are hard-working and just wanted the best for all our children in life. There are now just three of us at home."We have had to move house because it broke our hearts to not see Ben in his bedroom curled up sleeping and safe in his bed."We so miss Ben's love and laughter and most of all the boy thing in our family. Ben was our precious son that we cherished and were so immensely proud of, and by the way we had brought him up …"No parent or sibling should ever have to go through or see what we have seen with our son. He died in front of us, we then had to visit him in a morgue, the undertakers and finally to bury him. We can now only visit Ben at a cemetery, our beautiful son who so loved life."Sentencing will take place tomorrow.