Relatives of the 52 people who died in the London suicide bombings on 7 July 2005 have expressed dismay that their inquests will be heard at the same time as the four men who killed them.The families discovered, at a preliminary meeting in London with the coroner, Lady Justice Hallett, that the final moments of the victims' lives will be played out at the same hearing as the four Islamist terrorists who blew themselves up in Britain's first suicide attack.Graham Foulkes, whose son David, 22, was among the victims, said he was "shocked and dismayed" at the plan.Foulkes, whose son was killed in the Edgware Road tube explosion, said: "She told us that the inquest will have to include the four bombers because it was the same event. I'm absolutely gutted; I hadn't anticipated that at all and it came as a real shock. It doesn't feel right that we should be in the same room at the same time, or even part of the same process. It was quite upsetting and disturbing."The families are still unclear after today's meeting with the coroner whether the inquests, due to take place next year, would be held in public or in secret. Counterterrorism legislation, passed earlier this month, gives the justice secretary powers to intervene to permit a coroner to sit in secret and without a jury in some cases where the government considers there are issues of national security.Jack Straw, the justice secretary, has said the government wants the option of a secret inquest when evidence of what the security services knew about the bombers is heard.Foulkes said the coroner seemed unclear about the new law. "She was very keen to impress on us that she is her own woman and wouldn't be told how to run her own inquest," he said. "But when we asked her, she said she hadn't read the new bill and hadn't conducted an inquest before."The inquests were opened immediately after the suicide attacks on three London tube trains and a bus, but adjourned until the end of criminal cases linked to the bombings.The families have complained about delays and their requests for a public inquiry have been denied many times, but they hold out hope that the many questions they still have about their relatives' deaths will be answered at the inquest.Grahame Russell, whose son Philip died in the Tavistock Square bus bomb, said he was not surprised that the inquests would be held together."That doesn't mean I'm not disappointed," he said. "I'm aggrieved that the inquest on my son is being shared with the man who murdered him. That hurts and it feels tough that we've got to go through that."A pre-inquest hearing will be held early in 2010, nearly five years after the attacks. It will take submissions from family members and other interested parties on the scope of the inquest.