A young mother who was stabbed to death in a museum as she held her baby son was killed by the child's father, it emerged last night.Merseyside police confirmed yesterday that Kevin Howard, 21, was the estranged partner of Laura Bailey, 17, and that he stabbed her several times before falling or jumping to his death from a balcony inside the World Museum in Liverpool city centre. They have not ruled out suicide.It is believed that Miss Bailey, fearing for her son's safety, handed the one-year-old child to a passer-by. Yesterday the baby was in the care of social services.Police are unsure whether Mr Howard, from Kirkby, Merseyside, and Miss Bailey, from Allerton, Liverpool, arrived together at the museum. However, security cameras are thought to have recorded the knife attack that left Miss Bailey bleeding to death on the same balcony that her former partner later fell from.One witness said: "We heard a terrible scream and then a woman came towards us holding her stomach, which was stained red. There was blood dripping down her on to the floor and it was clear that she had been stabbed. She had a baby in her other arm and someone took the child from her as she fell to the floor."She was screaming 'he wouldn't stop stabbing me'. She was very badly injured and there was blood everywhere but she was conscious until she collapsed and passed out. It was horrific."Miss Bailey and Mr Howard were taken to hospital but they died shortly after the attack on Sunday afternoon. Police are not seeking anyone else in connection with the deaths.The museum was busy with visitors at the time of the tragedy, the second fatal incident there in six months. In May 24-year-old university graduate Alexander Dutton jumped to his death from a balcony, which prompted a safety review. A museum spokeswoman said: "We commissioned a full independent safety review in June and the building meets the requirements of safety legislation ... nevertheless, following this incident, we will be carrying out further inspections."