One of the four youths accused of murdering the schoolboy Damilola Taylor walked free yesterday after a judge's ruling that the evidence of the prosecution's key witness was too unreliable to be considered by the jury.The 17-year-old was formally acquitted on the 18th day of what has been a tense and dramatic trial, moments after the prosecution told the Old Bailey that the case against him would not be pursued any further. The decision came after the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, had said the evidence of a 14-year-old girl who claimed she witnessed the attack on Damilola, 10, in Peckham, south London, on November 27 2000 should be thrown out. Giving evidence from behind a screen, the girl told the jury she had seen four youths surround Damilola and stab him with a broken beer bottle. But under intense cross-examination she admitted she had misled the police on numerous occasions. In a ruling delivered yesterday, the judge said her account was "embellished with lies", "demonstrably wrong" in certain parts, "contradicted by other evidence", and the result of "her fertile imagination". He said she had "lied to make her story sound good". Although Mr Justice Hooper did not directly criticise detectives, he told the jury that only one of the police interviews with the girl had been con ducted in accordance with guidelines on how to deal with child witnesses. He highlighted the "inducements" that had been made to her during questioning and said "the danger that she was persuaded to tell untruths is very real". The court heard that the girl, known as Bromley, had been told by police that she was more likely to get some of the £50,000 reward money offered by a newspaper if she admitted seeing the attack. She was told she could get one of the defendants "off the hook" and that "the nightmare for everybody would be ended". The judge noted that the officer conducting the interviews, WPC Carolyn Crooks, had pointed out on a map where in Blakes Road Damilola had been stabbed before the girl had had a chance to show where she thought it had taken place. The judge concluded there was "no independent support for [her] account that she was there and able to see the incident which led to Damilola's death" and that it was unfair for the jury to consider the evidence. The prosecution case against the 17-year-old depended on the girl's identification of him as one of the boys she saw in Blakes Road. The girl had said she recognised three of the boys, but not the fourth. Although Bromley had failed to recognise the 17-year-old during a video identity parade, she later claimed that she thought he was the boy she had seen. After the jury had been asked to record not guilty verdicts against the youth, the teenager hugged his mother. The trial of the other three boys then restarted. Two 16-year-old brothers and a 15-year-old have denied murdering Damilola. They also deny manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. Outside the Old Bailey, the 17-year-old's solicitor issued a statement: "There are no winners in this case. Unresolved is the terrible loss of a young boy. My client has been separated from his family for the past eight months. The stigma of this trial will remain with him." The trial continues.