Violent crime in England and Wales has fallen by 12%, according to the latest national violence surveillance network figures, based on A&E admissions. In fact, the rate of violent crime in the UK has fallen almost every year since 2001. But why? Is it because TV has got better and alcohol has got weaker? Do today's angry young men prefer to take it out online in Call of Duty, rather than square up for an after-hours brawl in the Royal Oak car park like their predecessors? Experts disagree, but there is no shortage of theories. Here are just a few.1. We removed the lead from petrol  Photograph: AlamyThe theory: Exposure to lead in the womb causes headaches, inhibits IQ and can lead to aggressive or dysfunctional behaviour in later life.Says who? Scientists including Oxford physiologist Dr Bernard Gesch, who has studied the effect of diet and other environmental factors on criminals.Are they right? The posited time lag of about two decades between rising lead levels and purportedly linked rises in crime levels makes the theory plausible – only now, perhaps, are we beginning to benefit crime-wise from going lead-free. That said, in France, violent crime has risen recently even though most of their cars ditched lead decades ago.2. We can't afford to get drunk any more  Photograph: Johnny Green/PAThe theory: After decades of being cheap, alcohol has become less affordable since 2008. And a reduction in disposable income for the people most likely to be involved in violence – those aged 18 to 30 – makes them less likely to be alcohol-fuelled and thus violent.Says who? Professor Jonathan Shepherd, director of Cardiff University's violence and society research group.Is he right? Perhaps. Younger teenagers are less likely to drink alcohol, use drugs or smoke than previous generations. But you can still buy a 15-pack of Foster's lager for 67p a can, so let's not get too complacent.3. Fighting's just not cool these days  Photograph: AlamyThe theory: Culture has shifted and violence has now become less acceptable.Says who? The idea has been floated by the BBC home editor Mark Easton.Is he right? A sceptic might counter that the glut of TV documentaries devoted to cops wrangling Friday-night boozers into vans en route to the drunk tank punches holes in this theory. That said, there is at least a possibility of a new causal factor: if you've seen yourself on telly drunk and offloading air punches shortly before fit, stone-cold-sober bouncers put you on your back, you might become doubtful about the fighting is cool thesis.4. We're too busy playing games  Photograph: Thomas Peter/ReutersThe theory: There is an "incapacitation effect" – if you're inside playing games, you're not outside commiting crimes.Says who? Researchers at the University of Texas and the Centre for European Economic Research.Are they right? Maybe. One objection is that some video games are so violent that they surely create impulses that spill over into real life, but the Texas research suggests that such aggression is short-lived and thus unlikely to prompt one to go Titanfall on anyone's ass, least of all in Yeovil on a Friday night.5. We legalised abortionThe theory: Unwanted babies are more likely to grow up to be criminals. So more abortions equals fewer future troublemakers.Says who? Steven Levitt of the University of Chicago and John Donohue of Yale University, back in 2001. Levitt is co-author, with Stephen J Dubner, of the bestseller Freakonomics.Are they right? The theory has been disputed, not least because Levitt and Donohue made statistical errors that, once corrected, suggested that legalising abortion in the US had no effect on violent crime.6. Crime is harder than ever  Photograph: David Sillitoe for the GuardianThe theory: CCTV and other new technologies have made committing almost all crimes harder.Says who? Various people. The Economist has floated the theory, while futurologists at Fox News predict a policing future that makes Judge Dredd seem positively retro.Are they right? Probably, to an extent, but one would be hard pressed to argue this could account for the full drop.