The controversy over the future of Learco Chindamo, jailed in 1996 for the murder of headmaster Philip Lawrence, has been largely conducted on irrelevant or misleading propositions. I should first point out that the vast majority of murderers and other violent criminals have only one country in which they can live when released from prison - Britain. The Chindamo situation is rare. Most killers would have no option and - more importantly - their victims (or victims' loved ones) would have no grounds to create the kind of fuss that, understandably, Mrs Lawrence has done. Last week's debate concentrated on finding a scapegoat for the possibility - by no means a certainty - that when Chindamo is eventually released (no decision has been taken as to when that will be), he will be allowed to stay in Britain rather than be deported to Italy. The Human Rights Act has, once again, been wrongly fingered as the culprit; a European directive and the parole board have joined the list of suspects.What I find more interesting and relevant - and applicable far more widely than the narrow circumstances of the Chindamo case - is the part played by victims of violent crime in what happens to the assailant when released. Victims' rights are high on the agendas of all the political parties. But what does that mean? I do not believe that Mrs Lawrence's anguish is based on a fear that she personally will be at risk from Chindamo if he's released and lives in England; the prospect of her husband's killer being released is surely traumatic enough. But it does not follow that her views should play other than a minor role in deciding what to do with Chindamo.Many victims of rape and assault have been traumatised by discovering that the person who brutalised them is back in the local community after serving his prison sentence. The authorities are a lot more sensitive than they used to be to ensure that he doesn't return to the scene of his outrages; but his victim cannot - should not - have the right to insist on it. That does not amount to putting criminals' rights before those of victims. They are not in conflict with each other. It is a realisation that our criminal justice system is designed to serve our society as a whole, and not individuals, whether nice or nasty.Pedro Almodóvar's All About My Mother is one of my favourite films of the past decade, and I'm disturbed to see that a play "based on" the film has just opened at the Old Vic. I was equally perturbed when the National Theatre recently put on a play "based on" another film touched with greatness, Powell and Pressburger's 1946 fantasy drama A Matter of Life and Death. Those are not the only examples. I shall not be attending the Old Vic. How dare they take a great work of art and mangle it into some other format, for which it was not designed and envisaged - even if Almodóvar has given the production his blessing? I suspect the very words "based on", so often the precursor of a work that demeans the original.Yet I don't object to plays made into films, of which there are thousands, many of them clearly better in their new guise. Nor do I have any problems with stage musical adaptations of movies. But film dramas turned into plays have, until recently, been uncommon. I wish they had remained so. It is a lazy way out for a theatre. It saves the trouble of commissioning new plays from playwrights. It's probably easier to get the public to come if they have seen or heard of a film than if they're faced with an unfamiliar title and author. But it's also a negation of what theatres are supposed to stand for. I get particularly annoyed when Britain's most eminent theatres - the National (public money) and Old Vic included - stoop to the practice. They, above all, should be dedicated to developing and performing original works by playwrights with their own ideas rather than resort to material from the movies.I spent part of my French summer immersed in the country's best-selling non-fiction book of the season - not history, biography or sport, not even a cookbook or revelations about President Sarkozy. The surprise hit was the Cahier de Vacances pour Adultes (Exercise Book for Holidays, for Adults). The cover urges: "Get a tan while revising everything you've forgotten." It sold 130,000 copies in less than two months; sales would have been higher, but they ran out of stock.The book - in fact, more like a magazine, of less than 50 pages - was nothing more than a collection of quizzes and questions, some of them of the school exam type, others more geared to general knowledge and culture. Quite fun to do, but not more interesting, imaginative or witty than, say, some of those pot pourri quizzes you find at the end of the year in British papers. Certainly I could think of no convincing reason why the book should have had such a success. Then the French press and various experts offered several reasons for the phenomenon. The one I enjoyed most was that the book was a means of adults reliving their childhood. French schoolchildren are accustomed to doing revision during the holidays. By using the Cahier to do their own form of revision, grown-ups could pretend that they were children again.This week Marcel saw the Royal Academy's Impressionists by the Sea: "A pleasant but disappointing collection of paintings of the Normandy coast, not worth the status of a major RA summer exhibition." He also saw director Alain Resnais's film version of Alan Ayckbourn's play Private Fears in Public Places: "Amazing how French Ayckbourn's very English play turned out to be."