Six men were jailed today for taking part in the largest organised dog fight uncovered in England since 1867.A seventh man, a youth at the time of the fight, received a four-month detention and training order.The dog fight took place at a kitchen showroom in Birmingham in February last year. Two pit bull terriers died as a result of the fight. The judge sentencing the men at Birmingham magistrates' court said they had been involved in "an abhorrent activity".The seven defendants, between the ages of 18 and 43, were convicted at earlier hearings. The three-week trial last month heard that 26 men were arrested in total at the fight in Alum Rock. Some of the men who pleaded not guilty claimed they believed the event to be a Blues party, while one said he thought the pit constructed for the fight was a dance floor.Barkat Hussain, 43, of Smethwick, West Midlands; Intikab Hussain, 31, of Ward End, Birmingham; and Ummar Ahmed, 26, of Birmingham, were each sentenced to six months' imprisonment. Sohail Hussain, 28, of Saltley, Birmingham; Zahir Ahmed, 31, of Aston, Birmingham; and Zahoor Hussain, 40, of Ward End, were each sentenced to four months. Waqqas Mughal, 18, also from Smethwick, was given a four-month detention and training sentence. Nineteen other defendants, including 14 who pleaded guilty, were fined between £500 and £1,400 at earlier hearings for attending the event.Sentencing the men today, the district judge, Khalid Qureshi, said: "Dog fighting is an abhorrent activity that is, in my view, so serious that it can only be dealt with by immediate sentences of custody." The dog fight led to the largest number of arrests since 32 people were held after an event in Southwark, London, when Queen Victoria was on the throne. The crowd at the fight was so big that the arresting officers had to flag down a double-decker bus to transport the men to the police station.When officers arrived at the showroom, they found a small carpeted arena ringed by kitchen cabinets and encircled by cameras set up to record the action. Veterinary equipment, a treadmill and sponges were also found at the scene.RSPCA vets treated the two dogs after the fight, but one died within hours and the second had to be put down two days later.