Reluctant as I am to criticise a fellow Guardian writer, I cannot let the piece in today's sport section, by Lawrence Donegan, to pass without comment. In the article, Chairman Blitz hires Hughes and kicks sensitivity into touch, the author criticises the decision by Oldham Athletic football club to sign Lee Hughes, the former West Brom player who was recently released from prison.For those who do not follow football, the background is this: Hughes was a highly rated striker, playing for West Bromwich Albion (then in the Premier League) when, in 2004, he was jailed for six years - and banned from driving for 10 - for causing the death, by dangerous driving, of 54-year-old Douglas Graham. Hughes had crashed his£100,000 Mercedes into the Renault in which Mr Graham was a passenger. The driver of the Renault, Albert Frisby, was severely injured in the crash. He spent five months in hospital and still walks with the aid of a stick. Hughes fled the scene of the crash, but handed himself in to the police 36 hours later. He denied being drunk at the time of the crash, but admitted that he had been drinking.Hughes served three years of his sentence, in closed prisons, and was released from Featherstone Jail last week. Now 31, the player has been signed by League One side Oldham. On leaving prison, Hughes said that he was acutely aware of his actions and that the dreadful mistakes he had made would live with him for the rest of his life. In a later prepared statement Hughes said: "I have served the sentence laid down by the law but nothing I can do or say can change what happened. I can only keep saying sorry although I know that is not good enough for some people."In his article, Donegan attacks the chairman of Oldham for saying that the decision to employ the former prisoner was not a "moral" one. No doubt the club boss can speak for himself; my concern is what Donegan says about the player. He pours scorn on the idea that Hughes would never "forgive himself" for the "despicable conduct" which caused the death of Mr Graham. How does he know whether Hughes is remorseful or not? The offender has said that he is sorry and, in fact, he has gone further. While still in prison, Hughes agreed to meet the daughter of the man he killed. The visit must have been a harrowing experience on both sides. The daughter, Sharon Montgomery told Hughes how she felt when she had to identify her dead father in the morgue. I suggest that it would take a heart of steel to be unmoved by such a confrontation; but clearly, Donegan harbours the notion that we cannot take Hughes' words at their face value.Further down the piece, Donegan points to the player saying that sorry would not be good enough for "some people". Clearly allying himself with the unknown opinions of an unknown number of people Donegan opines - in as many words - that "some people" will think three years in prison was not enough. He suggests that the same "people" would argue that Hughes should pay back his debt to society by spending his next years "coaching football in the inner cities".In fact, Hughes has volunteered - outside of his contract with Oldham - to visit local schools, youth clubs and youth football teams, to warn them against taking the tragic path that he took. I suggest that, by doing that as a local player, rather than an ex (largely unknown to youngsters in the north-west) footballer, his words will have a bigger impact on his audience.Putting football aside for a moment, very few people would argue against the value to society of rehabilitating offenders. Those of us concerned with the criminal justice/penal system are sadly aware that one of the biggest obstacles to putting ex-prisoners on the straight and narrow is finding them a job. We applaud those employers who are willing to give offenders a "chance", and wish there were more of them. It is distressing to read, in this of all papers, outrage expressed at the notion of a newly released prisoner finding himself a job.Only Lee Hughes knows the extent of his remorse; we all know that nothing can bring his victim back to life, or ease the misery of those he left behind. But if Hughes sticks to his promise of telling his terrible story to youngsters, and if just one of them gets the message, then some future good will have emerged from the tragedy of the past.