What's a politician supposed to do when the pack is in full cry, as it is in the Jon Venables case? Give expression to public outrage, thereby hoping to shape and, with luck, modify it? Or stand firmly against mob rule?Buried away in today's instalment of outrage (Bulger killer to face porn charge, says the Daily Mail's front page) is a striking sentence. "While there is no significant public clamour for [Jon] Venables' identity to be disclosed, the decision to withhold from the public the exact nature of [his new alleged] offence ... has prompted outrage."Wow! That's quite an admission from a paper which has run page after page on the case this past week (four today) and even includes a thoughtful contribution by Professor David Wilson, criminologist and ex-prison governor, on the strains of living a double life, as Venables has done.Everyone remembers the blurred CCTV camera image of Venables and Robert Thompson holding little James Bulger's hand as they took him off to his death in 1993. It was a chilling one, most people agreed at the time.But the redtop-led thirst for renewed vengeance after Venables was taken back into custody for unidentified transgressions last week is pretty disturbing too, isn't it? Or am I missing something?Troubling too is the willingness of some politicians to go along with the angry public mood, as they also did in 1993. Prime minister John ("condemn a little more and understand a little less") Major and a young fellow called Tony ("ugly manifestations of a society that is becoming unworthy of that name") Blair were among them.It's that sort of mood which got us all into this mess in the first place.The original trial judge, Mr Justice Morland, succumbed to public pressure and allowed Child A and Child B to be named, despite their being only 11 years old at the time of their very public trial.Michael Howard, the then-home secretary, stoked that mood by exercising his power – since abolished – to raise the tariff on the pair's detention to 15 years after Morland's eight-year minimum had already been raised to 10 years by the then-lord chief justice, Lord Taylor.In her Mail column today, Melanie Phillips, who is careful to condemn mob justice too, complains that Howard was right – and that Venables was let out to face adult life too soon.Public "demonisation" of the pair arises from the deepening fracture within society, says Mel, who is never cheerful for long.Thus the pair hold up "a mirror to society," she argues. No, they don't. They hold it up to a small section of society, which is exploited by not-quite-so-small sections of the media. No names mentioned.In any case, the House of Lords later reduced 15 years to eight. The European court protested at the manner of the trial. In due course Thompson and Venables were able to persuade the parole board to release them on licence in 2001 – after benefiting from intensive rehabilitation therapy instigated by the humane Taylor.Even that detail has prompted claims – I heard it again on the radio yesterday – that, far from being punished, James's killers had been rewarded with "one-to-one tuition". It's easy to see how people from poor communities might see it that way.Saturday's Mail carried the inevitable interview with Denise Fergus, James's mother, who still sounds very angry about the murder of her son but also that she's been wound up about it by the paper.As rival tabloids eagerly scramble to find out exactly why Venables was recalled into custody and – presumably – what his alias is, where he is being held and whether he will be tried for an alleged offence (assault or, as now seems to be the case, for possessing child porn), a different picture was painted by Jamie Doward in yesterday's Observer.Emotionally just as powerful in its own way it suggested that Venables, required by terms of his licence not to return to Liverpool (there are suggestions that he does), is so fragile that he is in "a persistent state of self-disclosure" – telling even strangers who he is.How grim. The burden of a double life must be heavy on someone already greatly weighed down by his past, as Wilson says in the Mail. Only four British criminals (as distinct from threatened witnesses) have been given new identities, the others being Maxine Carr of Soham notoriety and Mary Bell.She strangled two little boys in Newcastle in 1968 and has, we're told, made a proper life for herself, now a grandmother.Venables appears less well-equipped. Always an attention-seeker (says Wilson) he reportedly drinks, takes drugs, gets into fights. Erwin James, convicted murderer turned writer, made a dignified case for rehab, however difficult, in the Observer.A child psychologist friend who knows the case well is outraged at the attempts made by the media to "out" Venables – and puzzled by the authorities having to tell the victim's family ("Remember, we now embrace victims' rights," another chum says) about his change of circumstances.We know why newspapers, TV and even stately wireless (Radio 4 led its bulletins on this tale) behave as they do in these situations. It interests the customers and allows those so inclined to luxuriate in a sense of prurient outrage.On this one, Jack Straw and Gordon Brown are not playing the easy populist card, but saying that justice is best served by respecting procedure.British politicians have been engaged in a bidding war on crime since Blair and Brown took over the Labour party and decided the Tories should not enjoy a monopoly on cheap, populist talk. "Tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime," Blair's slogan for which Brown claimed credit, was always easier said than done.Alas, the prison population has been rising ever since as sentences have been extended. Prison is seriously expensive and in most cases the results don't warrant the cost. A lot of people shouldn't be there. It's time for the politicians to declare a truce.My only previous brush with the Bulger case came during my brief career as an Any Questions panellist on Radio 4. At Derriford hospital in Plymouth we were asked about Michael Howard's upping of the tariff to 15 years. I said politicians should leave that sort of thing to judges.What I should have said was that society should not be afraid of its children. Whatever dreadful things they may have done, they are still children. I still regret my failure.