Detectives are continuing to question a man arrested on suspicion of murdering two teenage girls who died after being hit by a car as they walked home together.Tributes have poured in to best friends Jasmine Allsop, 14, and Olivia Lewry, 16, who were hit by a green Honda Civic car as they headed home after a party.Jasmine died at the scene in Gosport, Hampshire, just a few metres from her own front door, while Olivia was taken to hospital but later died.A 20-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder following the incident, which happened at about 4am on Sunday, and continued to be questioned on Monday.Detective Superintendent Dick Pearson said: "This is an extremely tragic incident which has resulted in the death of two young girls."I currently have a team of detectives and other officers, including expert road collision investigators, working on this case to fully investigate the circumstances surrounding the deaths of these two teenage girls."I would appeal to anyone who knows anything which could help this investigation to contact my team as soon as possible."One line police are looking at is whether the arrested man knew the girls.Friends of the pair described them as happy, fun and friendly. They were best friends and always together. Family friend Victoria Berry, 45, who knew Jasmine, described the teenager as an "absolutely gorgeous girl".She said: "There wasn't a bad bone in her body. What has happened to her and her friend is an absolute tragedy and a huge loss to all that knew and loved her."Jasmine attended a local community school. Berry added: "She was really into fashion, so I gave her my old sewing machine about a year ago and she had lessons so she could learn to make her own clothes. She was a superb seamstress and had a real talent."I saw her wearing some of her own designs and told her how great she looked. It's hard to believe that I'll never see her again."Flowers and tributes were left at the roadside. One said: "Jasmine, memories I had with you was so good! I am going to miss you! Sadly missed! Sleep tight princess! Forever in our hearts, another beautiful angel gained."Another message read: "Olivia, you was a strong little fighter! Such a shock to everyone. Such a beautiful girl, rest in peace, heaven has gained another angel. Love you."Olivia had just begun a vocational qualification at St Vincent sixth form college in Gosport. Principal Di Lloyd said fellow students were being offered counselling and the college would be organising a tribute to Olivia.• The photograph on this article was replaced on 5 November 2013. The original showed Jasmine Allsop, but a second girl pictured was not Olivia Lewry, as the caption said.