The man whose wife and baby daughter were found shot dead in Massachusetts nearly three weeks ago was arrested for their murder in London yesterday and now faces extradition to the US. Prosecutors in Massachusetts speculated yesterday that the killings had been part of an intended murder-suicide by a man with serious financial problems.Neil Entwistle, 27, an unemployed computer programmer originally from Worksop, Nottinghamshire, was remanded in custody at Bow Street magistrates court in London last night after being accused of killing his American wife, Rachel, also 27, and their baby daughter, Lillian, aged nine months, at their newly-acquired family home in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. It is alleged that he shot them both before fleeing the US for Britain. He did not attend their joint funeral last week when they were buried together in a single coffin. He is resisting the attempt to extradite him "at this stage", he said during the hearing, and will appear in court again this morning.Mr Entwistle, who has refused to talk to the media since he flew out of Boston, was arrested by officers from Scotland Yard's extradition unit in London, where he had apparently been visiting friends. Officers acted after the request for his extradition was made. The arrest took place without incident at Royal Oak underground station in north London. He is also charged with illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition.After his arrest, detectives from Nottinghamshire police searched the home of his parents, Cliff and Yvonne Entwistle, where he had been staying.The family of Rachel Entwistle said yesterday that "Rachel and Lillian loved Neil very much" and added that they found what had happened "incomprehensible". They thanked Scotland Yard for their help.The bodies of Rachel and Lillian Entwistle were found on January 22 after Rachel's family became worried because she was not answering the door. An initial search by local police failed to find the bodies, which were covered by bedding and pillows. Rachel had been killed by a single shot to the head and Lillian by a single shot to the abdomen."At this time, authorities believe that Neil Entwistle shot and killed his wife and daughter in the house that they were renting in Hopkinton," said a statement issued by the local Middlesex county district attorney, Martha Coakley.Ms Coakley stressed at a press conference in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that Mr Entwistle was innocent until proven guilty. She outlined what the prosecuting authorities believed might have happened. "Some of the background to this may be that Neil Entwistle, having entered into some debt obligations in England, having moved to this country with his new wife and child intending to start businesses, which as many of you know were not effective, on the internet and on eBay, and also undertaking a lease and other financial obligations, may have found himself in financial difficulties."She added that it was believed that Mr Entwistle had used a firearm belonging to his father-in-law, Joseph Matterazzo."We believe possibly that this was intended to be a murder-suicide but we cannot confirm that," she said. "Obviously the murder was effected and the suicide was not." She said it was thought that he had then returned the gun to his father-in-law's home nearby and prepared to leave the country, having difficulty in getting the money to do so. He flew out of Boston's Logan airport on a one-way ticket.Since his return to the UK, he has stayed with his parents but has always been in touch with the US authorities, who were aware of his whereabouts. He attended an interview at the US embassy in London last week.While the US authorities had always described Mr Entwistle as a "person of interest", Nottinghamshire police said last week that he was regarded as a potential witness and was not under arrest when they accompanied him to the US embassy.Britain does not return citizens to jurisdictions where they could face the death penalty but Massachusetts is one of a minority of American states that does not have capital punishment.