Boy C, the 17-year-old star prosecution witness in the Rhys Jones murder trial, went from suspect to crucial informant, with remarkable ease. He was forthcoming with information from the beginning, even though initially arrested as a suspect.He admitted to police that Sean Mercer gave him the murder weapon - a Smith and Wesson revolver - 20 minutes after Rhys was shot dead. He wrapped the gun in a carrier bag, and hid it under blankets in a dog kennel in his garden. Five days later, it was moved to the loft after the 16-year-old defendant called at his home.He told police he was scared to say no to Mercer "because you think to yourself, 'Well, he might have done that to a little kid, so what could he do to me?'"Five weeks after the murder, while Boy C and his family were on holiday in Florida, police raided his home. A cousin phoned to say police had found two guns, the murder weapon, and a converted imitation Walther PPK blank cartridge pistol. Boy C was arrested at Manchester airport when he returned on 6 October. During 12 interviews with detectives over three days, he gave a full account of the circumstances leading to the firearms being found. He was questioned further in November, January and April.The CPS was originally going to charge him with firearms offences but decided to offer immunity from prosecution provided he complied with conditions, including attending court to give a truthful account. The CPS decided there was sufficient evidence to charge Mercer with murder. In his statement read to the court, Boy C's brother-in-law told of the phone call in Florida. "He came in and said, 'They've found two guns'. Then he physically collapsed on the floor and was shaking. Later, I asked him why he had two guns in the house. He said, 'I can't tell you. I'm too scared'. I asked him if he had anything to do with the shooting of that little lad in Croxteth and he said, 'No, I swear on the baby's life'.In court, an exchange with Tim Clark, cross-examining Boy C, showed how nervous he was. "If you had refused Sean Mercer's demands, I would imagine you would have faced serious retribution?" Boy C: "Yes sir."Clark: "Sean Mercer told you what to do, you were not given a choice were you?" Boy C: "No sir."