One of the longest running claims of miscarriage of justice was comprehensively dismissed yesterday when the court of appeal ruled that there was evidence to show "beyond doubt" that James Hanratty was guilty of the murder for which he was hanged 40 years ago.Recent DNA analysis of garments recovered from the scene in 1961 had provided "certain proof" that Hanratty had killed Michael Gregsten, said the Lord Chief Justice Lord Woolf, sitting with Lord Justice Mantell and Mr Justice Leveson. In their 215-paragraph judgment, they commended Hanratty's family and supporters for doggedly continuing their fight to clear his name, but said the campaign had "failed" and had been pursued "logically, but mistakenly". One of Hanratty's brothers Michael, 63, said yesterday he was "appalled" by the ruling and vowed that the family would fight on. With another brother Richard, 55, standing beside him, he said: "I think the whole case is appalling. "We have to get legal advice. We will fight on to the House of Lords, and then on to the European court if we have to. For 40 years there has been a cover-up." The justices said the DNA evidence "made what was a strong case, even stronger", and described allegations that the police withheld important evidence from the original trial as falling "far short of what is required to lead to the conclusion that the trial should be regarded as flawed". The story of the so-called A6 murder has troubled human rights campaigners ever since Hanratty's conviction. In the late evening of August 22 1961, Valerie Storie, 22, a laboratory assistant, and her married lover, Michael Gregsten, 36, a government scientist, were sitting in his Morris Minor beside a field near Dorney Reach, in the Thames Valley just west of London. Suddenly there was a tap on the window and a masked man appeared, pointing a gun. He demanded Gregsten's wallet and Storie's handbag before deciding to abduct them both. The gunman forced them to drive round the outskirts of London until, in the early hours of the following morning, they were on the A6 heading north. Gregsten, who was driving, was ordered to pull in at a layby on Deadman's Hill, near Bedford. The gunman shot him twice at point blank range then raped Valerie Storie. Storie was made to drag Gregsten out of the car. As she sat beside her former lover's body in the layby the gunman opened fire again. She was struck five times and left for dead. The hunt for the A6 murderer made the headlines for weeks. The day after the killing, the gun was found under the back seat of the top deck of a London bus. In September, cartridge cases from the gun were found in a room at a hotel in Maida Vale. The hotel's register showed that a "J Ryan" had stayed there the night before the murder. Ryan was believed by the police to be an alias of James Hanratty, a petty criminal. Against the odds, Storie survived, paralysed and wheelchair-bound. At a second identity parade she identified the killer as Hanratty, recognising him, she explained, chiefly by his voice. Hanratty was found guilty and sentenced to death on March 13 1962. His appeal against conviction three weeks later was dismissed and he was executed the following day - at 8am on April 4. The night before he died, his father and two younger brothers made a final melancholy pilgrimage to Bedford prison. Separated by a glass screen, the family were not allowed to touch him. "The truth will come out eventually," the condemned 25-year-old promised. On the morning of the execution, the Hanratty family were taken by their priest to the local church. Peter, who was 16 at the time, recalled the moment: "All through the night I had been watching the clock, begging it to go slow or stand still. They stuck the communion wafers in our mouths at 8am, just as he was being hanged." Storie, now 63, remains adamant that Hanratty was guilty. She has said she does not bear his family any ill will but is furious with journalists who have campaigned for years to prove his innocence. "They have built their case on this myth," she told the Mail on Sunday last month, "and it has grown to become pure folklore. What I do find distasteful is that the family's belief in their son's innocence has been boosted by campaigners who have given them false hope." Two prominent journalists, Paul Foot and Bob Woffinden, have written books examining the evidence and proclaiming Hanratty's innocence. Foot defends Hanratty's alibi that he was in Rhyl, north Wales, on the night of the murder. Both believe the defence at the original trial were denied access to crucial evidence which might have prevented his conviction. Woffinden said yesterday the ruling was "distressing and shattering". "I still believe that Hanratty was innocent. The prosecution did not have a coherent case and Hanratty's alibis cannot be dismissed in the way that they have been today. To me, the forensic evidence is incredible. We will investigate this further." Pressure from Hanratty's family and supporters led to a reinvestigation of the murder by the criminal cases review commission, which referred the case back to the court of appeal for a second time. Michael Mansfield QC, who presented the family's posthumous challenge last month, said there were 17 grounds for appeal and alleged there had been 24 incidents of non-disclosure by the police. What followed was "a distortion of the trial process", he maintained, "in large measure due to the actions of the senior police officer in the case, Detective Superintendent Robert Acott". The crown insisted that much of the material was not that important and that, by the standards of the day, Mr Acott's conduct was not aberrant. The officer has since died. But last month's hearing was dominated by examination of the new DNA evidence found on Valerie Storie's knickers and a handkerchief wrapped around the murder weapon. The garments had been lost for 30 years before turning up in 1991. Last year Hanratty's body was exhumed and tests confirmed it was his DNA on the exhibits. More significantly, the crown confirmed no material matched the DNA of an earlier suspect, Peter Alphon. But the appellants insisted the exhibits had become contaminated during the many years in which they had been kept in close proximity with other forensic samples from the case. In their judgment yesterday, the justices rejected the possibility of contamination, saying the notion was "fanciful". "The court accepts the prosecution's submission that the DNA evidence, standing alone, was in fact, certain proof of James Hanratty's guilt in our judgment, the DNA evidence establishes beyond doubt that James Hanratty was the murderer." The ruling added: "Neither the individual grounds [of appeal against conviction] nor the grounds collectively establish that the trial was so seriously flawed or unfair as to make the conviction procedurally unsafe." The justices also fired a shot across the bows of the CCRC. "The court does not criticise the commission, but points out that a case of this age must be exceptional to justify this level of expenditure." Hanratty's family had never ceased protesting his innocence. Michael Hanratty added after yesterday's judgment: "Every scientist who was cross-examined had to confirm that the evidence could have been cross-contaminated."