British politics has never generated a more effective soundbite than "Tough on crime; tough on the causes of crime". Everybody thinks they know what it means. Most people agree with what they think it says. Yet no slogan has been more persistently abused and scorned by both its original Labour coiners and its late-coming Conservative imitators. The twin pressures of new events (ranging all the way from terror attacks and knife crimes to waves of happy slapping and binge drinking) and old politics (press campaigns as well as the usual partisan manoeuvring) have too often turned ministers -and their Tory, though not their Liberal Democrat, shadows - into the followers of punitive populist campaigns and not often enough into the leaders and promoters of the original more balanced approach. In the past 18 months, Labour has repeatedly been shortsighted and inconsistent over terrorism and law and order when it should have been farsighted and consistent. The result has been both a policy and a political shambles that has brought the government nearly to its knees.Yesterday there was a long overdue hint that a kind of balance may at last be slowly returning to at least the counter-terrorism part of this agenda. John Reid's statement to the Commons focused on "hard" issues like terrorist threat levels, which are to be simplified and made public on a permanent basis, as recommended by the intelligence and security committee. This small move towards greater rationality and transparency is welcome. But the more substantial ministerial moves yesterday were the publication of the government's counter-terrorism strategy and, potentially more important still, the publication by the communities minister Ruth Kelly of its plans for combating and preventing extremism. These have been and remain controversial even within mainstream British Muslim opinion, where there is a frustration that its ideas have not been taken sufficiently seriously and that the commitment to engage with the community has not been properly followed through. Nevertheless, yesterday's moves are also a step forward. What is needed now is for this more balanced approach to be carried through in a committed and consistent way. But that is said more in hope than in expectation. The legacy of Iraq remains destructive, while the default instincts of this wounded government remain reactive, not proactive.Yet the lesson of a traumatic year, both in counter-terrorism and in crime and disorder policy more generally, is that knee-jerk repressive responses, however understandable they may sometimes be in immediate political terms, do not work. They make long-term strategies of trust and confidence-building more difficult and yet more necessary. In another part of this large forest, David Cameron was grappling with some of these issues yesterday, not just in his well-trailed speech on youth crime and "hoodies", but also in an evening lecture to the Police Foundation. Taken together, the Tory leader's two speeches are a welcome world away from the reflexive authoritarianism that marked the Conservative response before, during and after the Margaret Thatcher era (and which created the space for Tony Blair's famous soundbite). In combating crime, as with terrorism, there are things which central government, and only central government, can and must do. None of it, though, will be effective unless it is allied to a consistent focus on engagement with communities and people. There the role of central, as opposed to local and neighbourhood, government is necessarily more limited. These things come more naturally to Tory and Liberal Democrat politicians than they do to Labour ones. But people and values, not laws, remain the keys to preventing crime and disorder, just as they are to preventing terrorist outrages of the sort we mark so soberly this month.