Forensic experts have started a fingertip search of charred debris at the block of flats where two leading young jockeys died in a suspected arson attack on Saturday.The delicate operation is expected to take three days as officers sift the wreckage to find where the fire started. The fierce blaze, at about 2.15am, left another teenage rider with burns and smoke inhalation injuries.The team was only allowed into the three-storey building today after structural experts said damaged walls were safe. The remains of Jamie Kyne, 18, and Jan Wilson, 19, were removed from the second floor of the block in Norton, near the North Yorkshire racing town of Malton, where they had been holding a late-night party in their top-floor flat.Kyne had been widely tipped to take this year's apprentice of the year title after riding 29 winners in the season so far. Leading jockeys including Kieren Fallon and Mick Kinane paid tribute to his and Wilson's potential. Wilson had won three races, most recently at Ayr last month.A local man in his 30s has been released on conditional bail pending further questioning by North Yorkshire police. Postmortem examinations are taking place today and police said they did not expect to recover any more bodies.Detectives are preparing to interview others who returned to the flat at Buckrose Court after an evening celebrating the regular payment of pool money by local trainers. Officers know the identities of four of them, including Kyne's and Wilson's fellow apprentices Ian Brennan, 20, who jumped to safety from a window, and Dean Pratt, who is recovering in York district hospital. The names of two others, a man and a woman, have not been released.The alarm was raised when a young woman ran from the flats to the nearby Railway Tavern. The landlord, Steve Kinsella, said he was calling the fire service when the first fire engine arrived. The pub sheltered about 20 people evacuated from the flats.Silent tributes were paid at racecourses across the country over the weekend, and families and friends in Kyne's home town of Galway in Ireland, and Wilson's at Forfar in Angus, Scotland, said everyone locally was devastated.Fallon said: "It is very sad, and my hearts go out to the family, friends and relatives of the poor kids." Kinane said he was "very, very saddened" to hear the news.Kyne, who had just turned 18, was apprenticed with the Malton-based trainer John Quinn, who said: "It is devastating for their families, everyone in the stable and for the whole of Norton and Malton. Jamie had been with us about 18 months. He was a great little lad and a very good young rider who had a great attitude to his work and his riding."He had a good career ahead of him. It is still hard to believe what has happened."Wilson, an apprentice jockey at David Barron's stables in Thirsk, had been due to ride her own horse, Imperial Sword, which won at Ayr, at Thirsk races on Saturday. She was apprenticed as soon as she left school and started at Ferdy Murphy's stables in Leyburn, North Yorkshire, in October 2007 after a nine-week course at the British Racing School in Newmarket.Kyne's parents, his sister and four brothers were being comforted by relatives today. One of his cousins, Jarlaith McDonagh, said: "They really admired him. They always watched him racing on television. They were so proud of him."He had a great love for horses. He had great potential: he was a very brave lad and he was the right size and weight. He would have made a very fine jockey."