A conman has been jailed for life with a minimum term of 27 years after stabbing to death a wealthy woman in her flat, hiding her body in the boot of a car and spending her money.Rakesh Bhayani, 41, was sentenced at the Old Bailey on Thursday for the murder of Carole Waugh. A jury had convicted Bhayani of the murder on Wednesday.Waugh, 49, died at her flat in Marylebone, central London, where she lived alone. Her body was placed in a bag which was carried to a car. The vehicle was initially stored in a central London car park, then left in a rented garage in New Malden, south London.She was said to have been a lonely woman who worked as an amateur escort and who believed Bhayani was her friend. Police described Bhayani as "a confidence trickster who murdered her with the sole intention of stripping her assets and the belongings she had worked hard for".Sentencing Bhayani, Mr Justice Wilkie said he had "ruthlessly targeted" Waugh and "left her body to rot". He said the murder and subsequent dumping of the body had been carried out with "greed, callousness and total lack of any regard" for her.The murder arose out of an argument about money, the judge said, and he described Waugh as a risk-taker who was vulnerable to conmen.He said: "Without a second thought, you calmly and comprehensively set about stealing her identity. You took steps to ensure her body would not be found for a sufficient time."Wilkie said Bhayani embarked on the complete "asset-stripping of her persona".Waugh's family were in court for the sentencing and heard that the murder was not premeditated.Wilkie sentenced Bhayani to life with a minimum of 27 years in jail. He also sentenced him to six years for perverting the course of justice and six years for conspiracy to defraud, both of which will run concurrently with his life sentence.His co-accused Nicholas Kutner, 48, was jailed for a total of 13 years – seven for perverting the course of justice by concealing the death, and six for conspiracy to defraud.The two men showed no emotion as they were taken down after the sentencing.Wilkie said Bhayani was the instigator and chief organiser of the fraud, and the pair had spent Waugh's money on hotels, casinos and escorts. The court heard earlier that Bhayani had a gambling addiction.The judge said Kutner was in the flat when Bhayani murdered Waugh and was then "on board with the actions to conceal her death and thwart the investigation" into her murder. He said the concealment of Waugh's body was a job for two people and they were both motivated by greed.Referring to the pair's previous convictions, Wilkie said the men had appalling records for offences of dishonesty.Before the sentencing, a statement from Waugh's family was read out in which she was described as "loving, supportive and great fun".The statement, signed by her brother Christopher Waugh, spoke of "disbelief, dismay, darkness" as the family had to "face our worst fears" in the wake of the murder."Why did the authorities not take her disappearance seriously?" the statement asked.The court heard that five days after Waugh's funeral, her mother collapsed and later died "broken-hearted", unable to understand how and why the tragic events had unfolded.The statement said the family, especially Waugh's mother, had always looked forward to her visits. "She always had great stories to tell," the court heard.