Members of the Police Federation's ruling council have said they want to consider having the right to strike and accused the government of bullying demoralised officers through a series of swingeing pay cuts. The furious reaction followed a government-commissioned review by Tom Winsor which calls for a raft of allowances and overtime payments to be cut or abolished, and for pay to be frozen.Winsor admitted that four-in-10 officers would lose out by as much as £4,000 a year, but said the rest would gain by up to £2,000 a year.The move further adds to momentum driving police and the government towards a clash, just as ministers rely on police officers to maintain order at protests expected from public sector workers also hit by the cuts.The federation is expected to take to the streets in protest, claiming that members' anger is at record levels as the government cuts police funding by 20% over the next four years. The report from Winsor, a former rail regulator, says that economies of £1.1bn can be found over three years: nearly £500m will be saved and £635m reinvested to "frontline" policing.He calls for measures including scrapping of bonuses and a £60m cut in the police overtime bill, saying that the police are "comparatively well paid – 10% to 15% higher than some other emergency workers and the armed forces".Paul McKeever, the Police Federation chairman, said his members were being bullied because they could not strike.He said the measures meant officers faced "cataclysmic" cuts in take home pay of up to 25%. This follows the Winsor review, a two-year pay freeze and an increase in police pension contributions, due to be announced on Thursday. Figures in the Winsor report reveal this would amount to at least 2% extra from salary.McKeever said officers felt denigrated, upset and demoralised at their "unfair treatment". "This is a major, major turning point for policing in this country," McKeever said.Asked about the right to strike, he said: "Officers are very angry. All options are on the table."In private, other federation officials go further. By law police are banned from taking industrial action. One member of the ruling council said he and others believed the issue of having a right to strike needed to be formally debated: "No officer joined the service to strike. We have already been talking [in private] about the right to strike. If all else fails it would have to be looked at."Echoing a sentiment from Winsor, he added: "Times are changing."The Winsor review maintained a bar on compulsorily redundancies, which makes officers unique within the public sector, but proposes a voluntary redundancy scheme for officers.Two allowances worth a total of £6,000 to some officers will be scrapped, with the aim of money being moved to officers in frontline roles. Officers working antisocial hours will get an extra 10% on their hourly pay for every hour worked from 8pm to 6am, with an allowance worth £1,200 to reward expertise and professionalism paid to most detectives, firearms, public order and neighbourhood officers. Those losing out will be in the "back offices" – working in training, human resources or administration.Winsor said efficiencies could help limit job losses which the Guardian revealed could number 28,000, according to figures from the Association of Chief Police Officers.The Winsor plans are broadly in keeping with government thinking about where the police service needs to go.In April, the plans are expected to be put to the Police Negotiating Board (PNB) and the home secretary, Theresa May, has the power to impose them if she believes arbitration has dragged on too long.May said: "This isn't just about money, it's about reform of our police service. To fight crime, we need a modern and flexible workforce that helps chief constables manage their resources, maximise officer time and improve the service to the public."The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, said: "The government is cutting too far too fast and hitting the police budget hard. Ultimately it is local communities that will pay the price."Dr Tim Brain, professor of policing at Gloucester University and a former chief constable and expert in police financing, said: "Winsor is treading on broken glass, it is going to be very complex to push all this through the PNB."David Cameron knows all too well the scars a government can suffer by trying to reform police pay and conditions. He was a special adviser in the last Conservative government which tried and failed. The Sheehy report was beaten back by police opposition in 1993.Almost two decades on, Cameron is known to be a keen supporter of Winsor's plans.