A terrified mother-of-two told a police telephone operator she had "about one minute before I die" moments before her estranged husband burst into her house and shot her dead, an inquest heard yesterday.Julia Pemberton, 47, died after her husband, Alan, discovered her cowering in a cupboard, phoning for help. The 48-year-old financial adviser also shot dead his son William, 16, whose body was found on the driveway of their home in Hermitage, Berkshire, on November 18 last year. Pemberton then turned the gun on himself. In a 16-minute phone call to police, Mrs Pemberton described how her husband was getting closer and closer to the cupboard. The last words caught on tape before the line went dead are Pemberton calling his wife a "fucking whore". Members of the family, including the couple's daughter, Laura, wept as the transcript was read out by the Berkshire coroner Peter Bedford. Laura was studying at Cambridge University when the murders took place. The inquest at Reading civic centre heard that Mr Pemberton had recently moved in with his new partner, Penny Cook, in Ross-on-Wye, Herefordshire. Ms Cook told the court how, after his death, she had found a farewell letter warning that he was to carry out a "callous" act and speaking of his "overpowering" need for revenge. She said Pemberton had told her that he had threatened to kill his wife when she told him she wanted a divorce. He also told her he had become obsessed by the fact that his wife had accused him of sexual abuse and by his sense of separation from his children. An extract from Pemberton's farewell letter read to the court by the coroner said: "No one quite knows the grief and shock I have suffered as a result of the action of my darling wife, my need for revenge is overpowering, as I discussed I have become obsessed." Ms Cook said she began searching her house, which Pemberton had recently moved into, as soon as she heard about the shootings. She found the gun used for clay pigeon shooting had been removed, and the keys to the cabinet in which it was kept were nowhere to be seen. She later also found a copy of the Newbury Weekly News opened at a page containing a report about a West Berkshire man responsible for a triple shooting. The hearing learnt that Mrs Pemberton had become so afraid after "years of abuse" that she had handed in Pemberton's guns and kitchen knives to police for safe-keeping. She had also taken out an injunction against him. But she refused to move into a safe house and initially turned down an offer of a panic alarm, although she later had one installed. Mrs Pemberton's brother, Frank Mullane, attributed this refusal to a desire to give her children stability, but he said that she had become increasingly convinced she was going to be murdered by her husband. The inquest continues. 'Oh my god help me'This is an edited transcript of the telephone call made by Julia Pemberton to a police operator on the night of November 18 2003 as her husband Alan arrived at the house with a shotgun.  Julia "I'm on Slanting Hill, Hermitage, I've got an injunction. My husband's out there with a gun and my son's there. He's got a gun and let off some shots."  (Silence).   Operator "What is your address?"   Julia "Old Hallowes, Slanting Hill, Hermitage." (Bang followed by cry in the background).   Julia "Oh Jesus Christ he has hurt my son. Oh my God, he has come through the window with the glass. My son is 16."  (Silence).   Julia "Please come quickly."  (Loud bang and scream from Julia).   Operator "I have got officers on the way."   Julia "He's breaking down the door."  (Silence).   Julia "Please come quickly, he has let off shots and fired through the window."   Operator "Where is he now?"   Julia "I don't know - I'm hiding in a cupboard." (Repeated several times) ... "He's killed my son - oh my God."   Operator "We have got people coming up."   Julia "He's coming through the door - oh God. I've got about one minute before I die - please."   Operator "Just stay where you are - keep hidden."   Julia "Oh my God help me." (Two loud bangs are heard).   Operator "Are you upstairs?"   Julia "No, I'm hiding in the store room, he will catch me, he's coming. Here he comes."  Julia says that she is unable to lock the door from the inside.   Julia "He's coming now."  (There is a sound of a door opening).   Male voice "You fucking whore."  Julia cries out. The line goes dead.