A Polish man who was attacked and knocked unconscious while talking on the phone to his wife may have been targeted because of his nationality, police in Lancaster have said.The 37-year-old from Morecambe had been fishing with a relative on a canal towpath near Lancaster when he suffered the “serious and unprovoked attack” around 12.35pm on Sunday. He was taken to the Royal Lancaster Infirmary where he was treated for a neck injury. Officers from Lancaster CID expressed concern that the man had not reported the attack for several days, suggesting there may be a lack of confidence in the police among the Polish community. Appealing for witnesses to the incident, DC Trevor Walker said while he could not be certain that the man was deliberately targeted because he is Polish, “it is something we will consider throughout the investigation”. “This incident was not initially reported to us by the victim,” he said, “and this has made us slightly concerned that there may be a lack of public confidence within the Polish community in reporting incidents to the police. Perhaps it is simply due to a language barrier. “I would like to reassure those people that if you have been or become a victim of crime in the future, please do come forward and make contact with us. We will find a way to get the details from you and you will be supported the same as anyone else who makes a report.”Lancaster and Morecambe district, he added, was “one of the finest, safest and most welcoming areas in the country and we will work to keep it that way”.The attack follows a number of high-profile attacks on Poles. In August, Arkadiusz Jóźwik died after being assaulted in Harlow, Essex, while another Polish man required hospital treatment in Leeds following an attack on 9 September.The prime minister, Theresa May, has contacted her Polish counterpart to express “deep regret” at attacks on Poles. Poland’s foreign minister, Witold Waszczykowski, said last month that Britain’s Polish communities had not experienced any problems “over dozens of years” but linked a number of incidents to the Brexit referendum.Waszczykowski said: “The Polish community in Great Britain integrates very well with the British society. They are a hard-working group, they pay taxes and they deserve to be respected and secured.”