The trial of a 17-year-old accused of the racist murder of Anthony Walker today heard accounts from emergency workers who found him with an axe embedded in his head.The black teenager was killed with in ice axe in Huyton, Merseyside, in July.Mr Walker was murdered after he and his cousin, Marcus Binns, were abused by racists as they waited for a bus outside the Huyton Park pub. His girlfriend, Louise Thompson, who is white, was with them. Michael Barton, 17, denies murdering the 18-year-old and is on trial at Preston crown court, which is sitting in Liverpool. The defendant's cousin, 20-year-old Paul Taylor, has pleaded guilty to Mr Walker's murder. Statements from witnesses, including one from Sergeant Damian Peers, who described how he found Mr Walker, were read to the court today. "I saw a male lying prostrate at the park entrance, by the bollards," Sgt Peers said. "He was still, and there appeared to me to be an ice pick in his head. I would describe it as the type used by mountaineers. "The front of the pick was embedded in his skull, with the claw shape visible to the eye. The male was breathing but not conscious, and he appeared to be gently shaking." Paramedic Lawrence Sullivan said in his statement that he had to load Mr Walker into the ambulance in a different way because of the axe. "Due to the position of the axe, I decided to load the stretcher into the ambulance the opposite way," the statement said. "He was loaded feet first and halfway down the stretcher to allow for the axe. "The axe was then secured to the frame of the stretcher to prevent it moving and potentially causing further injury." In her statement, local resident Carol Roberts said she answered a loud knocking at the door to find Mr Walker's cousin pleading for help. "His eyes were wide open with terror and he was extremely agitated," she said. "I immediately knew something terrible had happened. I could see the fear in his face. He said: 'Can you help me?'. "I saw he had a mobile phone in his hand but it was shaking really badly. He said: 'They've got my cousin. They've got him in the bushes'." Ms Roberts said Mr Binns, now 18, was "pouring with sweat", and that he went with her husband and son, both called James Roberts, to find Mr Walker. The three men found Mr Walker on the ground with the axe in his head.Standing nearby were three friends who had also seen Mr Walker. They included Paul Hughes, who said in a statement: "I saw what I thought was a dummy slumped in the entrance to the park. "I went to have a closer look and I realised it was a person. I prodded him to see if he was conscious. He was lying on his back with what appeared to be an axe handle coming out of the right hand side of his head." Jennifer Molloy was walking home from a shift at a KFC restaurant when she saw Ms Thompson "hysterical" in the street. Ms Molloy said: "I saw a girl running towards me. She was hysterical and crying. I was immediately concerned for her and thought something was desperately wrong. I asked her: 'Are you all right?' I got no response - she was still crying and hysterical. "I asked her again, and she said: 'My boyfriend's been beaten up by a gang of lads in the park and I don't know where the police station is.' "I led her into the police station. She was still crying. She said: 'I hope he's all right'." Ms Molloy said 17-year-old Ms Thompson told her Mr Walker had been racially abused outside a pub by people she thought were "on something", which Ms Molloy understood to mean they were on drugs. The trial continues.