A young French student found battered to death in west London on Thursday evening may have been targeted by her attacker after making the simple mistake of taking the wrong bus home, police revealed last night.Emilie Delagrange, 22, had been living in London for just two months and was not fully familiar with her local area. She had spent the night with a friend at the Crystalz Winebar in the centre of Twickenham before making her way to catch a bus home. When two buses arrived at once, Delagrange caught the 267 rather than the 281. She boarded the bus just before 9.40pm but only realised her mistake when it pulled into Fulwell bus depot. Detectives believe she then began walking home, cutting across a poorly lit green a quarter of a mile from her house. It is there that the attacker struck. A passing motorist spotted her body and urged members of staff at a nearby Indian restaurant to call for an ambulance. The student died later that evening in hospital from head injuries caused by a heavy blunt object. No weapon has yet been recovered. Police said they could not rule out the possibility her death could be linked to other attacks, including the murder of student Marsha McDonnell, 19, who was bludgeoned to death 18 months ago just yards from her home in Hampton and just three miles from where Delagrange was found. She had spent the night out at the cinema with friends and was attacked soon after getting off a bus. Scotland Yard said detectives were not ruling out the possibility of a link between the cases or that a serial attacker could be on the loose in the area. Following McDonnell's murder it emerged that a 17-year-old girl had been attacked just four weeks earlier on 8 January, a mile away in Strawberry Hill, and was left with serious injuries. A 16-year-old boy is still being detained under the Mental Health Act after being arrested in connection with McDonnell's murder in March last year. Despite this and four other arrests, no charges have ever been brought and the inquiry remains 'live'. It has also emerged that police are investigating another 'serious assault' in Twickenham in April on a 34-year-old woman. That victim had spent the evening drinking in Harrington's restaurant, opposite the site where Delagrange's body was found. All three attacks took place late at night or in the early hours. Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy, the man leading the murder hunt, said he had drafted in officers from the McDonnell inquiry to help with the investigation. 'There is nothing specific to link the incidents at this stage, but it is obviously an important line of inquiry. We cannot rule anything in or out - we are keeping an open mind.' Detectives are also focusing their attention on the whereabouts of Delagrange's mobile phone and handbag, both of which are now missing. In previous attacks no property was taken, but police say it is too early to say whether robbery was the motive. 'So often with these crimes it comes down to someone being in the wrong place at the wrong time,' DCS Murphy told The Observer. 'It is a tragedy that Emilie got on the wrong bus that evening. What we need to do now is build up a picture of her movements from the time she left the garage. I would urge anyone who has any information to come forward.' Detectives believe the fateful bus journey could hold the clue to Delagrange's killing. Interviews with the friend she had met at the wine bar have so far revealed that the pair spent a quiet evening together and that nothing out of the ordinary happened. Relatives of Delagrange, who live about 60 miles from Paris, are expected to fly to the UK in the next few days to liaise with officers and visit the site of her killing. Last night the site was still cordoned off as dozens of officers in blue forensic uniforms conducted a fingertip search of the area.