A millionaire businesswoman who was consumed with jealousy is facing a lengthy jail sentence after inciting her infatuated new boyfriend to find an assassin to kill her former partner of 22 years and his wife.Ann Hunter, 50, who was an executive with companies such as Unilever before taking charge of the company responsible for Tommee Tippee baby products, was caught after meeting the potential hitman who was an undercover police officer.She was recorded asking him to maim Colin Love's wife Judith and denied that her intention was murder. She had pleaded guilty to soliciting the man to cause Mrs Love grievous bodily harm with intent but the jury at the Old Bailey found her guilty of soliciting murder.Her new lover Anton Lee, 45, a financial adviser with Rothschild's, admitted soliciting murder. Both will be sentenced on January 26.After the verdict Mr Love said he was shocked and appalled by the murder plot. "I still find it almost impossible to believe that an intelligent and gifted woman would contemplate such a plan. She has wrecked her life as a caring mother, career icon and female role model."The jury heard that Hunter began a relationship with Mr Love, who was a decade older, in 1982 when both worked for Avon Cosmetics. They started living together a year later and had a daughter in 1987 and a son in 1993. Her career as a business executive took off while Mr Love, a businessman who also lectured at Imperial College London and St Clare's College, Oxford, suffered failures.They had a house in Chiswick, west London, and bought Lionsfield House, a £600,000 15th century property in Belvedere, Oxfordshire in 1996. Hunter paid a cash deposit of around £80,000 while Mr Love assumed responsibility for the mortgage. Though the property was purchased in his name alone, she paid the mortgage when he could not.In 2003 Mr Love ended the relationship saying he had "found someone else" and asked Hunter to move out. "He turned my world upside down," she told the court. Mr Love had traced his new love, a former college sweetheart, through Friends Reunited. They married a year later. Hunter, who described herself as a Buddhist and a devotee of Kabbalah - the cult endorsed by Madonna - began a relationship a year later with Lee, who had been financial adviser to her and Mr Love. But she continued to rail against the"Old Bitch Whore". One email she sent Mr Love said: "You carry the stench of the whore whenever you come down to see the children."The last straw, the jury heard, came with her discovery that Mr Love had changed his will leaving everything to his wife. She also learned that he might have a claim on the property in Chiswick. She spoke to Lee of a recurring desire to get Mr Love "out of my life" and was urged to act. "We talked about the fact that accidents can happen," she said. But she claimed Lee pointed out that if Mr Lovedied his wife would be the sole beneficiary.Lee told the jury the plot was formed on holiday in Marrakesh. "I don't think she used the word murder, but 'kill'. I'm an old fool. I was blinded by love."Lee, of Stanmore, Middlesex, contacted an acquaintance but this led to police being informed and the undercover officer being deployed to pose as the hitman. He met Hunter in his car and taped her asking that Mrs Love be maimed so she would be unable to live at the Oxfordshire home. "There must be no forensic trail," she told the officer. She agreed a price of £10,000 and gave him £150 for expenses.Though she blamed her boyfriend, she later admitted embracing the idea. "Anton Lee had provided a solution. I was running with it," she said.