A Portuguese lorry driver who killed a family of six when he crashed into their car was today found guilty of causing their deaths by careless driving.Paulo Jorge Nogueira da Silva was jailed for three years at Chester crown court for causing the deaths of David and Michelle Statham, of Llandudno, north Wales, and their four children: Reece, 13, Jay, nine, Mason, 20 months, and Ellouise, 10 weeks. They were killed instantly in the crash on the M6 in Cheshire last October.Da Silva was told he would serve 18 months in custody before being allowed out on licence. He was also banned from driving for three years. He was sentenced to three years on each of the six counts, which will be served concurrently.Passing sentence, the judge, Mr Justice Irwin, said: "This case arose from a terrible tragedy. Anyone who has heard the case could not help but have strong, indeed overwhelming, sympathy for the families of those who died, a whole family wiped out. The overwhelming aggravating feature of what happened is the number of those killed."The 46-year-old was driving with "gross inattention" to the road when his 40-tonne vehicle smashed into the Statham family's Toyota Previa on 20 October. The family died when their car burst into flames near Sandbach, the court had heard.During the trial the jury heard that it was possible that Da Silva, who was delivering fruit juice to Morrison's supermarket, was using his laptop to find directions to the chain's distribution centre in Northwich, Cheshire, after hearing that the M6 had been closed due to an accident.Police investigators found Da Silva's laptop on the lorry cab's console, with its screen facing the driver, although the driver insisted that the computer had been switched off and on the passenger seat when the crash occurred.Mrs Statham, 33, a financial adviser, was driving the family home after they had spent the weekend at her parents' house. Ellouise was in the front passenger seat while Mr Statham, 38, a chef, and Mason were in the middle row, with the two older boys in the back row of seats.The people carrier had stopped at the end of a queue of traffic on the northbound carriageway of the motorway, and careered into another lorry when it was struck from behind by Da Silva's container lorry.The judge said: "In my view the evidence does not show Mrs Statham crashed first. Even if she did it was overwhelmingly likely such a thing arose because you were bearing down on her from behind and she had nowhere to go."I bear in mind the maximum sentence is five years, although six deaths, this was one episode and the prison sentences must be concurrent. This was one of the most serious offences of its kind."Outside court, Cheshire's chief crown prosecutor, Ian Rushton, said the evidence gathered by Cheshire police showed that the Stathams' car was crushed between a large lorry, which was queuing in a long tailback because of an earlier accident, and Da Silva's lorry."Da Silva admitted in court that he had seen the electronic signs warning that the M6 was closed ahead and that queues were likely. He said that he reduced his speed but could not explain how the collision happened," he said."The prosecution said that it was clear that for a period of around a minute, Paulo da Silva was not paying proper attention to the road and fatally hit the Stathams' van with his 40-tonne lorry."Da Silva did not react to the verdict, but his son burst into tears and held his head in his hands in the public gallery. Mrs Statham's parents, Carole and Peter Hagans, wiped away tears and left shortly afterwards.At the family funeral in Llandudno in November, Mr Statham's sister Jennifer McGlade described him as a man "who would give his last penny and make anyone welcome in his home".Mrs Statham was a loving wife and mother whose protectiveness of her four children was "legendary", while Reece had a "celebrated appetite, not just for food but for rugby, the air cadets, karate and altar serving", she said. Ellouise was described as "twinkle toes, the baby of the family. The fourth of the four children Michelle and David always wanted."