Date rape and rape by a husband or partner must be treated as seriously by the courts as rape by a stranger, the lord chief justice said yesterday.Issuing the first rape guidelines for 20 years, Lord Woolf adopted recommendations by the independent sentencing advisory panel, which concluded from a public opinion survey that the impact of rape on the victim was "equally serious, whatever his or her relationship with the offender". Lord Woolf took the opportunity of three rape appeals to issue the first guidance for judges in the crown courts on sentencing in date rape, marital rape and male rape cases. When the former lord chief justice, Lord Lane, issued the last guidance in 1982, he was silent on whether rapes within relationships should be treated less seriously than those by strangers. Marital rape and rape of males were not mentioned because they were not then considered rape by the law. The advisory panel had urged the court of appeal to make a clear statement that, when it came to passing sentence, cases of "relationship rape" and "acquaintance rape" were to be treated as seriously as "stranger rape". Lord Woolf, sitting with Lord Justice Rose and Mrs Justice Hallett, also agreed that rape of a male by another male was equally serious, and there was no inherent distinction between anal and vaginal rape. He stressed that the appropriate sentence would depend on the mitigating and aggravating factors in each individual case and warned judges against applying the guidelines in a mechanistic or indiscriminate way, which could result in inappropriately high or low sentences. Lord Woolf confirmed that the "starting points" laid down by Lord Lane for judges when considering how long a sentence to pass will now apply to all rapes, regardless of the relationship between victim and offender. These are: five years in custody for a single rape on an adult victim; eight years for rapes with an aggravating feature, such as gang rapes, homophobic rapes or rape of a child; 15 years for a serial rapist; and life for a perverted or psychopathic rapist who is likely to remain a danger to the public. In practice, many "relationship rapes" will continue to attract lower sentences than stranger rapes because of mitigating factors in the former or aggravating factors in the latter. Lord Woolf said that when a couple sharing the same bed had been out drinking and the man "failed to show the restraint he should have", it would be contrary to common sense to treat what happened as equivalent to stranger rape. Giving an example of a case of marital rape for which Lord Taylor, a former lord chief justice, had reduced the sentence from three years to 18 months, Lord Woolf said the courts today would now consider three years the right sentence. But in two of the three cases before the court yesterday, the victims had been raped by ex-partners in a particularly brutal way, and the court upheld the sentences of nine and 10 years. In the third case, the court reduced from five years to four the sentence passed on a 17-year-old guilty of raping a 15-year-old male friend. Lord Woolf urged the home secretary, David Blunkett, to give greater priority to the shortage of treatment programmes for young sex offenders. The lord chief justice said members of the public interviewed in the panel's survey had found it unacceptable that a plea of guilty should result in a shorter sentence. But that was because they saw it as "primarily about saving court time and costs and allowing the defendant to manipulate the system in his favour". The real reason for a reduced sentence was that a guilty plea spared the victim the trauma of giving evidence.