A football fan who was beaten to death outside Wembley stadium before Tuesday's match between England and Wales has been named as Michael Dye, from Cardiff, south Wales.The 44-year-old was found with head injuries on a concourse outside turnstiles at the ground. Paramedics have said he also suffered a heart attack before being taken to Northwick Park hospital, in north London. He was pronounced dead at 8.50pm.Six men, all believed to be Wales supporters, were being questioned by police about the incident on Wednesday, when a postmortem on Dye was also due to be carried out.The men, aged from their late 20s to early 40s, were all arrested inside the ground in the Welsh supporters' area. Police were called after reports of an alleged assault at about 7.20pm.Acting Detective Chief Inspector Sheila Stewart, leading the inquiry by the Metropolitan police's homicide and serious crime command, said: "I would appeal to anyone who witnessed the incident involving Mr Dye, which occurred on the concourse of the stadium near Gate C, to please come forward."It was understandably busy, and I'm sure there must be lots of people who can assist the investigation."Dye worked in the highways department at Cardiff council. The council's chief executive, Jon House, said: "Staff at the authority are devastated at the loss of their colleague and friend, who gave almost 20 years of good service to the council in a very specialised service."Our thoughts are with his family at this tragic time, and we will be offering support to his family and work colleagues."The Wales coach, Gary Speed, offered his condolences to Dye's family. "It's a game of football at the end of the day, and there's nothing more precious than life," he told Sky Sports News. "The players and the staff, we're all deeply saddened by the news."Dye was a Wales and Cardiff City fan, according to the Championship club's website. "Out of respect for the family of the supporter, the sensitivity of the situation and until full details and circumstances are ascertained, no statements will be made until deemed fit by proper channels," it said.Thousands of people have left messages on a Facebook tribute page. Several refer to Dye's wife, Nathalie, and their children.Fans of other football clubs have also left messages. Carl Curtis, the moderator, added an official message following news of the death. He said: "I would urge everyone to leave the whispers, rumours and stories going around the internet tonight where they are out of respect for Mikey's family members, and leave your condolences here."I have been asked to put this message out from the club and I have also been asked to say that the club will give Mikey a send-off on Saturday at the Doncaster game. The club officials have passed on their condolences, and will do so again this Saturday."