The jury's decision to convict itinerant Spanish waiter Francisco Arce Montes of murder ends a long and controversial investigation by the French judiciary.Montes had a 27-year history of raping and assaulting young girls in Europe and America, but a catastrophic series of blunders by the first investigating judge meant that it took eight years - and a large slice of luck - to bring him to trial.In the vital early stages of the inquiry, Caroline's father, John Dickinson, had to fight against indifference and incompetence. Appalled by the laxity and secrecy of the initial judge, Gerard Zaug, he brought several legal cases questioning the direction the inquiry was taking. Judge Zaug was eventually taken off the case and replaced by Renaud van Ruymbeke, one of France's best-known investigating judge. Officials have since acknowledged that Judge Zaug made elementary mistakes early in the inquiry. A local vagrant was arrested but released; evidence was ignored; police appeals for DNA tests in Pleine Fougères were refused; and the judge declined to allow door-to-door inquiries in the village for fear of "disturbing the community". Montes eventually emerged as a suspect after Mr Van Ruymbeke had sent police to interview every youth hostel manager in France, looking for possible precedents to the murder.He also ordered an unprecedented programme of 3,600 DNA tests, and recovered early statements from Caroline's friends describing a man seen hanging around the hostel in the days before the murder. It was those statements, apparently ignored by Judge Zaug on the grounds that they had not been translated into French, that eventually produced a photofit picture of a suspect, nearly two years after Caroline's death. In the end, Montes's arrest, three years ago, was down to an alert US immigration officer, Tommy Ontko, who was reading an article in a British newspaper left behind at the airport in Detroit where he worked. Seeing that Montes was one of 48 men wanted for questioning, he ran the name through immigration databases and discovered that he was being held in Miami in Florida on charges of lewd behaviour. When US police arrested him, they found he was carrying an International Youth Hostel card and a pair of scissors. The French police were quickly told, and a Paris forensic laboratory subsequently found 18 matches between Montes's DNA and traces found on Caroline's body. When he was extradited to France in November 2001, his arrest warrant stated: "The chances of a similar DNA profile being found at random in the general population were equal to one person out of the total world population." In Britain, the case was seen as one man's battle against incompetence and indifference to find his daughter's killer. In France, it transformed police procedures in criminal investigations by proving to a still-doubting judiciary the value of DNA testing. Last night, on the steps of the court, John Dickinson said that it had been an "uphill struggle", but he did thank the dedicated team of French police officers - known as the "Cellule Caroline" - for their tireless efforts to track down his daughter's killer. "We wish to express our particular thanks to the team of gendarmes who through their hard work and dedication have brought Montes to justice," he said.