Harry Potter actor Rob Knox, 18, had just finished filming his part in the latest instalment of the popular series and was preparing to reprise his role in the next film.The popular teenager had a proud and supportive family behind him and the prospect of a successful showbusiness career ahead. Karl Bishop, 22, was convicted today of the young actor's murder outside a bar in Sidcup, south-east London, last May.After he died, his mother, Sally, 50, said she regretted not celebrating his big break with him. "I played it down," she said. "As a mother, I didn't want him to get big-headed, not that he ever was. If I could turn back the clock, I'd have made more of it, been more involved."I thought I had the rest of my life with him. He took a few friends to the studio to watch him and I wish I had gone."Harry Potter star Rupert Grint, who plays Ron Weasley, joined hundreds of mourners at his funeral in June.Rob's father Colin, 55, told them his son had been "living the dream" when he died and loved playing the role of Marcus Belby in the film series.He described him as an "angel on earth without wings" but said his loss had left him with a daily "nightmare".Mr Knox said Rob was to receive a posthumous crime-fighting award after chasing a gang of thieves from Marks & Spencer at the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent the year before."That was Rob – he thought about other people first and not himself," he said.Rob, a keen rugby player, had passed his A-levels and had finished filming for Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince at Leavesden studios a few days before his death in May last year.He had just bought a new car, a VW Golf, and was described by his brother Jamie as "upbeat, very cheerful, always in a happy mood".Jamie, 17, said Rob was also "very protective" of him. It was this sense of duty towards his younger brother that was to cost him his life, when he confronted Karl Bishop for threatening Jamie with knives.After Rob's death, his parents were deluged with flowers and expressions of sympathy, many from people who did not know him.His father said: "It's impossible to convey the sadness and loss that we feel, but we now realise Rob touched many people's lives."Rob was "happy, outgoing and a fun person" and the "social hub" of his large circle of friends, he added. His son was "always the first person to stand up against wrong"."He achieved so much in his short life," said Mr Knox, who works in media production. "I like to think he was my friend as well as my son."Mr Knox said he hoped the fact his son had a role in the forthcoming Harry Potter film would help draw attention to the scourge of knife crime. "With knives there are no winners and only losers," he said.Mrs Knox, a retail buyer, said she had "many happy memories" of her son, who planned to become a full-time actor. He had already appeared in the BBC sitcom After You've Gone and both he and his brother, also an actor, had landed parts in the film King Arthur.Mrs Knox's brother-in-law, Kevin May, has set up a campaign called You Can Make a Difference to tackle knife crime issues and has met Gordon Brown and the London mayor, Boris Johnson, to discuss his concerns.