Online groomers rarely pose as children and can succeed in persuading a child to meet in less than half an hour, according to researchers probing the way in which sexual predators target victims online.The UK-based research team behind the findings say they hope to overturn common misconceptions about how online groomers operate in a bid to help parents protect their children. They suggest the research could also aid the development of better software programmes to catch online predators.“If we really want to prevent [grooming] and to help children and to keep them safe, we really need to go back to basics and really analyse what is actually going on in online grooming communication,” said Cristina Izura, a psychologist at the University of Swansea, who co-directs the the Online Grooming Communication (OGC) project. Presented at the British Science Festival, the findings come from studies carried out by the OGC, a project that aims to investigate the language that groomers use to trap children into sexually abusive situations. “It is how the groomers communicate and interact with their victims, with the children that they target, that we are interested in,” said Professor Nuria Lorenzo-Dus, also a director of the OGC project. The researchers examined instant messaging chat logs from US-based organisation Perverted Justice Foundation Inc that involved communications between adults posing as children - typically young teenage girls - and online groomers, who were unaware that they were actually interacting with an adult.The results, the researchers say, dispel a number of misconceptions about online groomers, including the idea that they always pose as children, and that grooming is a lengthy process.From two studies involving a total of more than 250 groomers, none of the predators were found to be masquerading as children. “A huge percentage of them say the age they are,” said Izura. “We had a range of ages between 18 and 65, the real age, and the [stated] age was between 16 years of age to 61.”Another finding, say the researchers, is that online grooming can be very rapid, with analysis of chat logs revealing that it can take just 18 minutes for some predators to arrange to meet their victim. “The speed can be alarmingly fast, ” said Izura. The fastest, says Lorenzo-Dus used sophisticated, persuasive, language-based strategies to build trust rapidly, including the use of small talk and praise.But, says Lorenzo-Dus, there is not one kind of online groomer, but different profiles that use different ways of grooming children communicatively. Online grooming, she adds, is complex, involving trust-building, isolation and desensitisation towards sexual behaviour. “In online grooming we are talking about a network of processes and strategies that do not follow always the same order,” she added. “[It] is an entrapment network.”The team behind the OGC project hope the studies will enable the development of better software to detect online groomers, adding that the research could also help parents and carers to protect their children. “If we don’t understand what the tactics are, we cannot really identify them when children may be implicitly referring to us about the kind of things they get up to when they are interacting online with others,” said Lorenzo-Dus. While Lorenzo-Dus says it is unrealistic to stop children using the internet or closely monitor their digital activities, she believes talking about what they do online is important. “It is not enough to just ask them once what they do online. It is something that should be more frequently brought up in discussions in the family, in school, in any context like that,” she said.A National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) spokesman said: “Children are increasingly contacting ChildLine telling us that they are being targeted in this way, so parents need to talk to their children about online safety and take steps such as installing parental controls or limiting the time they spend on the internet.“In 2015 a change in the law, as a result of NSPCC campaigning, banned adults from knowingly sending sexual messages to children, as a prelude to carrying out sexual abuse. It’s quite incredible that a year after this new legislation was passed it has still not been implemented, at a time when police are under crushing pressure to tackle this type of crime.“We hope these insights into how predatory adults groom children online will help educate young people about staying safe, and assist the police in catching offenders.” 