Samantha Orobator, the pregnant British woman who was jailed for life in Laos for smuggling heroin, is flying back to London tonight to give birth to her child in a British jail.The 20-year-old from Peckham, south London, was handed over to British officials today in the capital, Vientiane, and boarded a flight to Heathrow airport, following an agreement between the Foreign Office and the Laos government.Orobator faced a death sentence after being caught with 1.5lb (680g) of heroin at the capital's airport last August. She was spared a firing squad after becoming pregnant while in the women-only wing of Phonthong prison, in circumstances that remain unexplained. Her child is due next month.Orobator was allowed to transfer to Britain after the Foreign Office minister Chris Bryant travelled to Laos last week and signed a "memorandum of understanding".A second British prisoner, John Watson, 47, remains in custody in the country. Reports have suggested he smuggled his sperm to Orobator to make her pregnant and save her life. Bryant said he was concerned for Watson's health. Watson was transferred from Phonthong prison some time ago, a Foreign Office spokeswoman said, but "the Lao authorities have not given us information as to where he is being held". Human rights campaigners fear that he may have been transferred to a notorious prison as a punishment.British officials have received assurances that he will also be transferred into British custody "in the very near future". Watson was arrested in 2003 and is serving life for trafficking amphetamines, which carries a lesser sentence than heroin.Khenthong Nuanthasing, a spokesman for the Lao foreign ministry, said Orobator's return was a humanitarian gesture which took her pregnancy into account.Orobator's mother Jane said she was "shocked but delighted" that her daughter had been allowed to return. "I just want her to come back to the UK, that is my first desire. One step at a time, I just want her to have her baby here."Campaigners continued to question the validity of Orobator's conviction, arguing that she was denied access to independent lawyers and that British authorities were not told of her arrest for months.Clive Stafford Smith, director of Reprieve, which is representing Orobator, said she should be allowed access to independent lawyers on her return. "She needs to be sent to hospital, not prison."Orobator will meet her lawyers before being transferred to Holloway prison in north London, which has a mother and baby unit. Her mother, friends and lawyers will later hold a press conference outlining further details.Her MP, Harriet Harman, said she was "relieved" at Orobator's return.