An inquiry into how Ian Huntley, the murderer of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, was able to get a job as a school caretaker will hold its first public session next week.Following Huntley's conviction last month over the killing of the two 10-year-olds, David Blunkett, the home secretary, said the inquiry would be carried out by a former civil servant, Sir Michael Bichard. Next Tuesday, Sir Michael will read a public statement outlining how he will proceed. Representatives from the Humberside and Cambridgeshire police forces, each of which was involved in the case, the Inspectorate of Constabulary, the Home Office and social services are expected to be at the opening in London. But Sir Michael will not invite witnesses to give evidence until next month, and he has yet to say whether he will call members of the Chapman and Wells families. After Huntley was given two life sentences at the Old Bailey on December 17 it emerged that he had previously faced allegations of rape, indecent assault and sex with underage girls in and around his home town of Grimsby. A breakdown in vetting and checking allowed him to get the job as caretaker at Soham village college in Cambridgeshire. Sir Michael said the case raised issues of public interest, and he intended the inquiry to be thorough but that lessons would be learned and acted upon quickly. "I would assure those interested that I will be undertaking this inquiry in an entirely objective and independent fashion," he said. Mr Blunkett has also asked the chief inspector of constabulary, Keith Povey, to review Cambridgeshire police's handling of the hunt for the killer. Leslie Chapman, Jessica's father, described Huntley as a "time-bomb just ready to go off". Soham village college principal Howard Gilbert said the weight of evidence against Huntley - overlooked by vetting procedures at the time -was so extreme that any headteacher would have "said goodbye" to him. Carole Easton of Childline said the failures to pinpoint Huntley's history of sex crime allegations "beggared belief". Humberside police confirmed that they had contact with Huntley on 10 occasions. The force said it had identified weaknesses in its previous vetting system. Its contacts with Huntley were deleted from the system, partly because of its then policy for protecting people's rights under the Data Protection Act.