When Louise Davies was transferred from Bullwood Hall prison in Essex to New Hall, near Wakefield, at the end of March, she hoped she could make a new start. In common with one in seven women in jail, Louise had serious mental health problems that made serving her sentence - life for serial arson - almost unbearable. She believed a change of scene at a prison nearer her family could make the difference. 'My dream is to get well again and be normal in the head for once,' she said. Three weeks later she was dead. Louise's tragic story is told in next week's final part of Real Bad Girls, a fly-on-the wall documentary series about life at Bullwood Hall. In the film, Louise is held in the segregation block for her own safety because prisoners on the 'lifer' wing had threatened to kill her after she kept them awake for five nights with her shouting. She floods and smashes up her cell and threatens to kill herself before staff decide she has to be transferred to a prison where staff will be better able to deal with her erratic behaviour. As a child, Louise suffered brain damage and had been in and out of institutions since the age of 16. But because her personality disorder was judged untreatable, the courts had no option but to send her to prison rather than hospital. Like many working within the prison service, Bullwood Hall governor Tony Hassall is not convinced prison is the right place for women with as many problems as Louise. He tells the filmmakers: 'She's not well and clearly you have to ask the question: "Is prison the best place for that individual to receive treatment for her illness and for her reintegration into society?"' Tina Tay, who produced and directed the ITV programme, said: 'The patience and dedication of the staff in handling Louise was amazing because she was a very difficult prisoner to deal with. Governors and officers knew that prison was not the right place for her because she needed treatment and they were not equipped to give it to her.' Campaigners hope the documentary about Louise's final days will highlight the growing problem of suicide in women's prisons. In 1994 just one woman killed herself in jail, but the figure rose to a record high of 14 last year. Already this year there have been 11 suicides, including that of Louise, who was found strangled in her cell on 18 April this year, just short of her 33rd birthday. She had been at New Hall for just three weeks. 'Perhaps this graphic portrayal of Louise's life in prison will help persuade the government and the courts that we should stop sending vulnerable women to prison when we can't look after them,' said Deborah Coles of Inquest, which campaigns on the issue of deaths in custody and works with victims' families. · The Real Bad Girls: Louise's Story is on ITV on Thursday, 12 August at 10pm