Crime may be falling, but nobody believes it to be true when their own street does not feel safe. Despite indications that overall recorded crime figures have been going down, a majority of voters believe crime has got worse under Labour. The public's concern, outlined in a Guardian/ICM poll yesterday, may stem from the fact that there has been an alarming rise in street crime - robberies with violence, handbag snatches and, in particular, thefts of mobile phones.As Home Secretary David Blunkett said at the beginning of the week: "There is a feeling in some parts of our urban areas that it is not safe to walk on the street." Street crime in London is 49% higher than a year ago. Police recorded 4,656 robberies of personal property and 2,098 bag snatches in January, compared with 3,321 robberies and 1,199 bag snatches in January 2001. Street crime in the capital shot up in October last year, partly because police were redeployed to protect landmarks after September 11. Mr Blunkett's proposed solution will see police officers moved from traffic and other duties to targeted anti-robbery operations. Robbery hotspots will be watched both by undercover methods and by putting more officers on the street. There will also be early evening and weekend court sittings to speed up the trial process for those charged. Ideas imported from New York will play a key part in the crackdown. For example, Mr Blunkett said he wanted to increase the Met's numbers from 26,500 to nearer the 42,000 officers of the New York police department. He also wants to implement New York-style computer analysis techniques to determine crime hotspots, and to take a much stronger line on anti-social behaviour. With such steep rises in street crime - and the home secretary has admitted that such offences are likely to increase still further this year - it is not surprising that some people are becoming reluctant to step outside their front door. Fear of crime, and the myths associated with it, run the risk of causing almost as much harm as crime itself in the current climate. Yesterday's Times detailed the case of pensioner Beryl Mortimer, a victim of robbers four times in as many years. "No number of Downing Street summits will persuade her to leave home alone," the paper said. Mrs Mortimer does not appear to be the most likely victim of the latest wave of street crime. Instead, the surge is being driven by mobile phone thefts committed against teenagers by teenagers. Home Office researchers believe the level of street crime would have levelled off were it not for the explosion in mobile phone theft, with one in 20 teenagers saying they had been robbed of their phone at least once last year. Mr Blunkett's programme is aimed at stemming the increases in robbery in the police force areas which account for 82% of all street robberies: London, the West Midlands, Manchester, Merseyside, Avon and Somerset, South Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire, Thames Valley and Lancashire. These largely urban areas experienced 78,071 street robberies in the past 12 months - a third of them involving mobile phones. Two pilot pro jects concentrating specifically on teenage robbers will start in April in Hackney, east London, and in Longsight, Manchester. Another crime myth is that robbers strike under cover of darkness. A Home Office analysis of London crime published last January found that a majority of robbers were not put off by well-lit streets. In it, researchers interviewed 33 victims, 26 of whom said that the offences took place in full daylight or under bright street lights. The report from the police research group found that an effective crime prevention strategy should include the widespread publicity of any success. "Promoting the belief that an initiative is successful in reducing crime can have its own effect in stimulating further reductions." But Mr Blunkett's plan to crack street crime relies on the courts being able to jail car-jackers and muggers. With Britain's prison popula tion soaring - and last week reaching the record level of 70,132 - the rising levels of street crime will only add to the pressure on cell space. Prisoners on remand must be kept near the courts where they are to appear. If long-term prisoners are moved to make way for them it will damage rehabilitation work which is crucial to try to prevent reoffending. The newly announced plan to release hundreds more prisoners fitted with electronic tags will help to make room. Meanwhile, the Metropolitan police is engaged in a wrestling match with the home secretary. Last month, he gave the force six months to sort out soaring street crime in the capital or face takeover by outside management "hit squads". In what was widely seen as a response to the criticism, the Met's commissioner, Sir John Stevens, in his recent speech at Leicester University, blamed the criminal justice system for the rise in violent crime. He described trials as "an uneven game of tactics played out by lawyers", adding that it is not uncommon for muggers to be released on bail eight or nine times for separate offences before facing trial for their first attack. It was a measure of the government's concern that the prime minister chaired Wednesday's crime summit at Downing Street, set up to look at measures to reduce truancy and school exclusions, and their effects on crime levels. However, there is some scepticism that this could be another anti-crime intiative designed to capture headlines which may end in failure. Eighteen months ago, an anti-robbery initiative in five "hotspots" in England and Wales was launched at a cost of £20m. But this week, Mr Blunkett admitted it had been "deeply unimpressive" in terms of results. With a high percentage of all street crime committed in fewer than a dozen urban areas, people in most parts of Britain are unlikely to be victims. Not so long ago, the government was saying that the fear of crime was worse than crime itself. If Mr Blunkett wins his battle with the Treasury and gets the money he needs for his crackdown, he should be saying so again.  jeevan.vasagar@theguardian.com