This week Lord Falconer is expected to announce the results of the public consultation on broadcasting the courts. While there is speculation the law will be changed to allow cameras into appeal courts, the jury is still out when it comes to televising the lower courts and, in particular, criminal trials.In an era when few have the ability to attend the public gallery, the growing appetite for broadcasters to find new and innovative ways to bring understanding to the judicial process is reflected in the use of advanced courtroom graphics and the recent dramatic reconstruction of the trial of Michael Jackson. While the release of "as-live" transcripts of proceedings in the Hutton inquiry and Soham murder trial was a step towards opening the judicial process to the public at large, there remains resistance to the presence of cameras.Many of the concerns raised during the consultation process centre on the impact on vulnerable participants in court proceedings. Witnesses might be deterred or the quality of their evidence compromised by the prospect of having it relayed to the world at large. An accused may be subject to undue pressure at a time of stress, while the decisions of jurors may face disproportionate scrutiny. Others fear the sensationalising of trials, the risk of barristers and judges playing to the cameras, or that the presence of cameras would be intrusive or inhibiting.The media frenzy accompanying high-profile cases in the United States, like that of OJ Simpson and former nanny Louise Woodward, is frequently cited as an example of the dangers of allowing cameras into courts. In practice, the British experience is likely to be somewhat different.Courts are unlikely to favour the immediate adoption of continuous live coverage of criminal trials in the style of US channel Court TV. In addition, the law of contempt provides safeguards against speculative and inflammatory reporting of the type criticised in the Simpson and Woodward cases, by making it a criminal offence to publish reports creating a substantial risk of serious prejudice to a trial.Broadcasters are already tasked with distilling hours of complex evidence into palatable news packages and programmes. On an almost daily basis, reporters from rolling news channels stand outside the Old Bailey delivering regular updates from ongoing trials, illustrated by carefully selected quotes from evidence or legal argument read from a shorthand notebook.With cameras in the courtroom, viewers could hear those same words spoken directly by counsel, judge or witness, with their own tone, nuance and emphasis. The current safeguards against prejudice would be unaffected - journalists would still be bound to report trials fairly and accurately, and would have to work within existing legal restrictions, such as those protecting children, victims of sexual offences and jury deliberations.Experience elsewhere shows that with carefully considered safeguards, television cameras can be used to enhance responsible and fair court reporting, while minimising the impact on witnesses and the accused. In New Zealand cameras have been allowed into courts at all levels since 1995, subject to strict guidelines and the overall discretion of the trial judge.The concept was initially met with strong opposition on similar grounds to those raised in the UK: fears of witness intimidation, undue pressure on juries, theatrical performances and sensationalising the court process. Applications to televise criminal trials were routinely opposed by defence counsel concerned that excess publicity would prejudice defendants.Ten years on, there has been a dramatic shift in attitudes of the criminal bar and the judiciary, according to the Auckland lawyer William Akel, who has represented state broadcaster Television New Zealand throughout. "Applications to televise are now rarely opposed and in most criminal trials televising is accepted as the norm."Leading criminal barrister Marie Dyhrberg - a veteran of several televised murder trials - agrees. "The original fears have simply not come to pass." Dyhrberg, vice chair of the International Bar Association's criminal law committee, says a surprising number of lay witnesses "are quite happy" to be filmed without taking advantage of their right to pixelation and voice distortion under the guidelines."Witnesses are more likely to be intimidated by the opposing side or those seated in the courtroom than by the presence of television cameras."Dyhrberg's clients are also largely comfortable with cameras. "It's a chance for the public to see them as they think they really are."Those that do object are comforted by the rule that defendants can only be filmed for the first 15 minutes of each day, when giving evidence, or during verdict or sentence - ensuring they do not have to "be on their best behaviour" at all times. Last year, the guidelines were extended to allow coverage of charges of a sexual nature where the complainant consents, as well as live reporting of jury verdicts, sentencing and appeals. Dyhrberg believes this shows the balance is right."[Counsel and the judiciary] have now recognised the guidelines offer sufficient protection for the accused and crown witnesses while nonetheless allowing openness of the courts.""The media understand that it is in everyone's interests that it be done rightly, and in the early days they bent over backwards not to transgress."Both Akel and Dyhrberg agree that participants quickly forget about the presence of the camera. "What we have seen is an incremental education of the public," says Akel. "The criminal justice system is not Rumpole of the Bailey, but a slow-moving, civilised process without theatrics or undue dramatics."Dyhrberg says televising can enhance public understanding, citing a stabbing case featured in a recent observational series on the district (magistrates) court. The relatively light sentence received by her client in exchange for an early guilty plea did not attract the criticism she had anticipated. "I really believe the public derived a greater sense of justice from seeing and hearing him on television, rather than reading some snippet in the paper."The media eagerly awaits Lord Falconer's announcement. There is no dispute that the overriding concern must always be the administration of justice. But carefully managed television coverage is unlikely to result in a steady stream of jurors and barristers appearing on Trisha or autographing "tell all" books in WH Smith.With appropriate safeguards, cameras can improve public knowledge and understanding of the workings of the courts. Justice can be both done and seen to be done in a manner appropriate to a digital age.· Christine Sheehy is a New Zealander and lawyer for the BBC programme legal advice department