Ian Huntley hovered at Kevin Wells' shoulder as the distraught father spoke to police following the disappearance of his daughter, Holly, and her friend, Jessica Chapman, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Mr Wells described how he felt a presence "too close to comfort and invading my space" as he stood with a police liaison officer following a press conference held in Soham, Cambridgeshire, three days after the 10-year-olds vanished. He said he turned and greeted the caretaker, who denies murdering the two girls. Mr Huntley told him: "Kevin, I'm really sorry, I didn't realise it was your daughter." Holly's father said: "It just beggars belief, doesn't it?" Mr Huntley, who was arrested 10 days later, replied: "Yes, I know." Mr Wells noticed that the caretaker looked "drained" and had "panda eyes", but said in his statement to police that at the time he felt Mr Huntley was being sincere. The meeting was revealed as the prosecution began to present its evidence against Mr Huntley, 29, and his former girlfriend, Maxine Carr, 26, who denies two charges of assisting an offender and one of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Statements which the girls' families gave to police following the friends' disappearance in August last year were read out. The court was told that on Saturday August 3, the day before Mr Huntley allegedly murdered the girls, Holly's mother, Nicola, took her and another friend, Natalie, shopping in Cambridge. Mrs Wells bought Holly the black flared trousers she was wearing when she disappeared and her first bra. Natalie stayed over at the Wells' house and the girls had a "midnight feast" of sweets. Jessica came around at 11.30am next day, Sunday, August 4. She had just returned from a family holiday and was excited to see her friend again. The three girls did a quiz on the computer and Natalie left at noon. Jessica rang home to check she could stay for lunch, ringing again later to ask if she could stay for a barbecue. At 3.15pm friends of the Wells family arrived and the men organised the barbecue. Jessica had changed into a Manchester United shirt to match Holly and at 5.04pm Mrs Wells took the now famous photo of them beneath a clock. After the barbecue the girls went upstairs. Mrs Wells said: "That was the last we saw of them." She added that the men played dominos and cards, while the women went for a "natter". When their friends came to leave, Mrs Wells called up to the girls to come and say goodbye. There was no answer. Mrs Wells said she did not "really worry" at that time as Holly's curfew was not until 8.30pm. At 8.35pm she told herself her daughter would phone soon. "At 8.45pm or maybe 9pm, I started to panic a lot," she said. After phoning Jessica's home and finding the girls were not there Mrs Wells said she was "getting desperate". She stayed up all night as the search began. "I waited for news which didn't come," she said in her statement. Her husband told police as he continued searching for the girls in the early hours of the Monday morning, he noticed that the light in Mr Huntley's office at Soham Village College was on. The caretaker told him that the police had already searched the site, but also asked Mr Wells: "How did you know to come here?" Mr Wells knew Mr Huntley because his company used to have a cleaning contract at Soham Village College. His wife knew Ms Carr was a temporary teaching assistant in Holly's class at St Andrew's primary school, but had seen her only once, when Holly went and spoke to Ms Carr and gave her a hug. She knew Holly had made the classroom assistant a card when she had failed to get a permanent post. She also said she was certain her daughter would have told her if she had been in the caretaker's home. The court has heard that fibres allegedly from the Manchester United shirts worn by Holly and Jessica when they disappeared were found on Mr Huntley's clothes and in his home. Sharon Chapman, Jessica's mother, also knew Ms Carr because both worked at St Andrew's primary school. Mrs Chapman, who was a learning support assistant, informed police that Jessica had told her she thought Ms Carr was "cool" and that the classroom assistant used to help her daughter with homework. Joy Pederson, Holly and Jes sica's teacher at St Andrew's, was the first witnesses in the case to give live evidence in court. She described how Ms Carr helped out the teachers of year five pupils and "certainly enjoyed being with the children", tending to "gravitate" towards a group of girls which included Holly and Jessica. Holly had said she "liked Miss Carr very much". Cross-examined by Michael Hubbard QC, for Ms Carr, the teacher was asked if she considered some of Ms Carr's behaviour "childish or stupid". Ms Pederson characterised it as "inappropriate". The case continues today.