During the early 90s, Anthony Hurdle repeatedly burgled Tracey Sant's home, planted listening devices and stole her underwear. He even tried to hire someone to kill her husband. This case and others like it led to concern in parliament, the media and women's groups as it became apparent that women such as Sant were being spectacularly failed when attempting to bring stalkers to justice. Stalking was a relatively new phenomenon, and the 1861 Offences against the Person Act was simply not up to the job.In 1997, after lobbying by Sant and others, the Protection from Harassment Act was introduced. Feminists welcomed its potential in domestic violence cases in which women faced harassment from former partners - a more widespread problem than stalking by strangers.But now Huntingdon Life Sciences, the pharmaceutical testing company, is seeking to use the act to extend a temporary injunction against animal rights activists. The injunction permits only one demonstration every 30 days in exclusion zones around the company's sites, and the use of hooters and klaxons could be deemed to be harassment. This is only one placard away from the banning of future political demonstrations. Additionally a 50-metre exclusion zone has been set up around the home of every employee. As a feminist and member of Southall Black Sisters, I am worried - it doesn't take much imagination to see how this law could be used against us. We have stood outside the homes of women who have been driven to suicide by violent husbands, and have named and shamed the perpetrators. The tactic was borrowed from the Indian women's movement when, in 1984, Krishna Sharma, a woman who was frequently assaulted by her husband, was found hanged by a scarf. This is an effective feminist challenge to a culture in which "family honour" pulverises women's aspirations. The second reason for alarm is the recognition that in the past decade the law has become a major arena in the struggle for women's rights. It has been used extensively to mount appeals on behalf of women convicted of the murder of their abusive husbands. Feminists argued that the law should recognise that abused women kill in an attempt to escape violence. High-profile feminist campaigns softened the climate of opinion concerning battered women, and in the process we learned how much time and energy are expended winning the smallest of changes and then guarding against subsequent setbacks. For instance, in Kiranjit Ahluwalia's appeal in 1992, the court signalled a shift in the definition of provocation, a partial defence to murder, from "sudden" loss of self-control (which suited male-on-male violence) to one that incorporated the slow-burn experience of battered women. However, in 2000, in the case of Morgan James Smith, the crown argued that previous judgments in the battered women's cases had blurred the distinction between the defences of diminished responsibility and provocation. It is not just an obfuscatory judiciary that we should be wary of. Feminists must think about how we use the law to ensure that justice for women is not secured at the expense of other causes. For example, a woman should not be advised to use immigration laws to deport a violent husband, tempting though that might seem, because the laws are racist and have been used against black communities. For the same reason, Justice for Women was wrong to mount a legal challenge against the government's decision to give Mike Tyson a visa to enter the UK in 2000 on the grounds that, as a serial rapist, he represented a threat to women here. Similarly, the campaign for fairer treatment of women in rape and domestic rights cases has given rise to the victim lobby, which has been hijacked by those who wish to curtail the rights of the accused. Women lobbied for a man accused of rape to have his previous convictions revealed to the jury if he was allowed to cross-examine the complainant about her sexual history. Now the government is seeking to place everyone's convictions before the jury, whatever the charge. "It is," Lady Helena Kennedy QC argues, "a lesson in unforeseen consequences." We must recognise that the erosion of defendants' rights - particularly the right to silence and the double jeopardy rule - would affect the most vulnerable groups, which suffer adversely in the justice system. The disproportionately large numbers of black people in prison testify to this. In June 2001, ethnic-minorities accounted for 21% of the male prison population and 25% of the female prison population, when they total 9% of the population. The central irony of the Huntingdon case is that a law which was, in part, the product of political activism is being used to clamp down on political activism at a time when, more than ever, we need political activism to campaign for better laws. · Rahila Gupta is the editor of a collection of essays, From Homebreakers to Jailbreakers: Southall Black Sisters, to be published by Zed Press in October. sbs@leonet.co.uk