Our penal policy is adrift, fragmented and full of contradictions. It cannot deliver results that are in the public interest. Wherever we place ourselves on the lenity-severity spectrum, we know this. We also know that our politicians are incapable of touching penal issues without going into party rants and rituals of finger pointing and – it must be said – recurrent spirals of dishonesty.Consider the evidence. Between 1992 and 2013 the incarceration rate in England and Wales rose from 90 to 148 prisoners per 100,000 of population. Remarkably, this increase occurred during a period of falling crime. The Crime Survey for England and Wales estimated that in 2013-14 there were 7.1m criminal incidents. This was the lowest since the survey began in 1981, and a drop of 16% in just one year. Yet in the three decades of the survey courts have become more likely to resort to imprisonment, and the average custodial sentence has increased.And those who pass through the prison gates will stay for longer. The proportion of the prison population serving a life or indeterminate sentences has risen from 9% in 1993 to 19% in 2013. The number of prisoners serving life sentences has increased from 3,000 to 13,000.At between £35,000 and £40,000 per prisoner per year, this is extraordinarily expensive – and because we don’t have a coherent policy we cannot say if it is worthwhile. Were this gross mismatch to occur in almost any other field of public administration there would be a national outcry.It is an observation against the temper of the times, but it is impossible to believe that those in mainstream public life wish their country ill. Yet evidence-based policy cannot be heard over the desperation of competitive politics and instant-response soundbites. And all the time public anxiety is fed by a media diet of hard cases and spurious campaigns.Is there a way out of this unedifying mess? Louis Blom-Cooper and I (supported by many others with extensive experience in this field) first called for an overarching inquiry into penal policy 20 years ago. We have spent much of our professional lives working within the criminal justice and penal systems – practising, studying and researching. Our proposed solution belongs to neither left nor right, but is based on evidence, decency, a sense of proportion and economics.We want politicians to recognise that there is no party-political way out. The only rational solution is for cross-party agreement to appoint a royal commission on the penal system. Given the likelihood of another coalition government, we have some hope that this proposal will be grasped.Since the first Thatcher administration, royal commissions have been distinctly out of fashion. Not without some justification they were criticised as fudge machines – expensive means of delaying difficult decisions.The Bloody Sunday report cost about £200m and was 12 years in the making. The Chilcot inquiry into the Iraq war, announced in 2009, has still to report, and doubtless will come with a hefty bill.Yet the elements for a successful inquiry are well known. These include tight terms of reference, an experienced chair, a thoroughly professional secretariat and – crucially – a non-negotiable completion timetable. A royal commission’s work should and ought to be wrapped up within two years.We now have excellent data storage and retrieval. Costly and time-consuming domestic visits of inspection, much less overseas trips, are redundant. Instead, the commission should hear only from those who have unquestionable expertise, a substantial case to present or manifest flaws to expose.The commission’s ambition would be to set the direction of penal policy for a generation. To achieve this it would have to rise above ideological and political differences and look to evidence rather than emotion and preconception. To great national advantage the inquiry could free politicians and other policymakers from the restraints of their occupational reflexes and prior positions.The commission would provide rules to ensure a rational approach to policy. We do not expect easy consensus or universal harmony. These are difficult moral issues and men and women of good faith should always differ on them.Nevertheless, if the addictive but always short-term advantages of partisan policymaking can be set aside, and if evidence-based options can be set out, there is every chance that we will find ourselves capable of proposing and implementing a humane, cost-effective and sensible penal policy. If not now, when?