The man who was supposed to be the fifth July 21 bomber was sentenced today to 33 years in prison for his part in helping to plan the failed suicide attacks on London's transport network.Ghanaian-born Manfu Asiedu was meant to have exploded his rucksack device but "lost his nerve at the last moment" and dumped it in woodland, London's Kingston crown court heard. He admitted a charge of conspiracy to cause explosions.The attacks were attempted two weeks after four British Islamists killed 52 people in suicide bombings on three underground trains and a bus in the capital. Four men - Muktah Said Ibrahim, Yassin Hassan Omar, Ramzi Mohammed and Hussein Osman - tried to detonate hydrogen peroxide-based bombs on July 21, but their homemade devices failed to explode and no one was killed. They were all jailed in July for a minimum of 40 years, but a jury failed to reach a verdict against Asiedu and another man Adel Yahya. Yahya was jailed for nearly seven years earlier this month after pleading guilty to a lesser offence.Asiedu dumped the rucksack with his device in a park in north London on the day of the failed attacks. He denied losing his nerve and said he just wanted to get rid of the bomb. A few days after the failed attacks, he handed himself in to police and then lied to detectives on an "epic scale", he admitted in court.During the trial, he dramatically turned on his co-conspirators, contradicting their defence that the plot was a hoax, designed as a publicity stunt, meaning he had to be seated separately from the other accused in the dock. His lawyer said Asiedu had returned to the flat where the bombs were made to remove the hydrogen peroxide, and said his client had dismantled a booby-trapped sideboard that could have destroyed the entire apartment block. The basis of Asiedu's guilty plea was that he had bought the hydrogen peroxide for the bombs, his lawyer said. Yesterday, the prosecution QC, Nigel Sweeney, reminded the court that Asiedu had admitted buying all the hydrogen peroxide used in the attempted bombings. Sweeney said Asiedu "brought some significant talents to that role". He told the court: "His experience as a painter and decorator would help with the false cover story that it was being purchased for painting and decorating. His appearance was unlikely to raise suspicion."Asiedu was charged under the names of Sumaila Abubakhari, also known as Manfo Kwakuasiedu, as he had used fake identities since coming to the UK in December 2003. "He is plainly, or thinks he is, a consummate liar or deceiver - only someone who thinks that could go about false entry into the UK, adopting a false identity to remain here and go to the police taking them on in over 1,000 transcripts of interviews during which he sewed an intricate web of lies to try and avoid his guilt," said Sweeney."He went on to give false statements and evidence on oath." The QC claimed Asiedu had been in telephone contact with three of the others jailed in connection with the attempted attacks, Yassin Omar, Muktar Said Ibrahim and Adel Yahya. Asiedu lived in a one-bedroom flat which was turned into a bomb-making factory in New Southgate, north London, with some of the men now convicted in connection with the attack."Further, he took part in a cover-up after the bombs failed to explode both for his benefit and the benefit of his conspirators," Sweeney said.