A second Nigerian boy was killed in a stabbing incident just a few hundred yards from the tragic stairwell where Damilola Taylor was found bleeding to death last week.Seventeen-year-old Shola Agora was knifed in a block of flats on the same crime- ridden North Peckham estate, just nine days before Damilola's death.The news came as police announced yesterday that they had arrested two teen-agers and a 39-year-old woman in connection with the murder of Damilola. Shola Agora's body was found in the back of a car in King's College Hospital in south London. The attack took place in flats in Sceaux Gardens, a few minutes' walk from where Damilola died. One youth has already been arrested for the crime. Residents in the area last night described knives as a plague. Local councillors have called for an amnesty for the weapons in local police stations and an increase in beat officers. Vicky Naish, Labour councillor for the ward where Agora died, said: 'Knives and bullying should not be tolerated on the estate and we are doing as much as we can to stamp it out. But everywhere I go tenants have just one main demand: a beat officer on every estate.' Police have now swamped the area around the estate in the hope of finding new witnesses to the crime. Sixteen officers are conducting house-to-house inquiries. The arrests in the Damilola case were made at addresses in south east London in the early hours of the morning. As the three people were being questioned, Richard Taylor, the father of the murdered 10-year-old, paid an emotional visit to the bleak spot where his son was killed. Standing over the site with other family members, Mr Taylor could be heard crying: 'Oh my God, oh my God, my beautiful, beautiful boy.' Superintendent Rod Jarman said: 'This was obviously deeply distressing for the family and we though it best to leave them to their own space. They are extremely upset. If my own son was killed I would want to know where he died.' The National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children last night issued results of a survey showing that around 150,000 children have experienced violent attacks using knives and guns. The news of the second death comes as the Government prepares a major clampdown on juvenile crime and anti-social behaviour. The Home Secretary, Jack Straw, will announce on Wednesday that curfews for children under the age of 10 who terrorise local communities will be extended to teenagers. There will also be action against the selling of alcohol to under-age drinkers. Straw will say that he wants to tackle the 'evil of drunkenness' which leads to much of the crime in Britain. Under a separate scheme to be announced by the Government in the next few weeks, children as young as 10 will be forced to sign 'acceptable behaviour contracts'. The contracts will say that the children agree not to vandalise their community, fight or bully other children or swear and spit at adults. The Government hopes that the contracts will be the first step towards stamping out the criminal behaviour indulged in by many young children on rundown estates. If the children do not conform to the contracts then the children's parents could have their tenancy rights to council house accommodation revoked. Children who continually break their contracts will also be subjected to anti-social behaviour orders which have the ultimate sanction of five years in prison.  Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate