A teenager from a children's home stabbed, kidnapped and sexually assaulted an elderly anti-nuclear campaigner and dumped her body in woodland where she died of hypothermia, a court heard yesterday.The jurors at Stafford crown court were urged by the prosecution to "put to the back of your minds" conspiracy theories surrounding the death of Hilda Murrell. She died in March 1984 after disturbing 16-year-old burglar Andrew George at her detached home in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, the court heard. In June that year, the 78-year-old had been due to present a paper at the public inquiry into Sizewell B nuclear power station because she was concerned about the problem of nuclear waste, prosecutor Richard Latham, told the court. He said books had been written about the murder, television programmes made and "endless newspaper articles written". He told the jurors: "You might have been aware of the conspiracy theories, but do not allow yourself to become contaminated by what we say is pure speculation - much of it ill-informed and some of it wholly speculative." The judge, Mr Justice Wakerley, echoed his comments. He told the jurors: "Over the years, there has been a great deal of speculation about this case by those on the outside. Don't be tempted to start doing detective work on your own. Concentrate on what you are listening to in court." The prosecutor described Miss Murrell, a Cambridge graduate, as an "active, highly intelligent, independent and defiant individual, who was not likely to give in easily". George, now a 37-year-old labourer from Shrewsbury, denies murder and kidnap. He is alleged to have tied Miss Murrell to her banister with an ironing board cover and sexually assaulted her, before stabbing her and bundling her into her car and driving to a copse more than six miles away after crashing the vehicle. He is accused of stabbing her again and dumping her partially clothed body by a tree. Mr Latham said she was left with debilitating and unpleasant injuries, including three stab wounds to her abdomen, and died from hypothermia between five and 10 hours after she was left there. However, her body was not discovered for several days until a farmer noticed the abandoned car and friends had become concerned about her well-being. The police found her phone was off the hook and the telephone wires had been ripped out of a junction box. He said she was a well-known figure in Shrewsbury, someone who was "quite a distinguished woman". She had run a successful family gardening business. On the day of the murder, Miss Murrell had been due to meet a friend at her home in a village 14 miles away, but failed to turn up. Shortly before 11am, she was seen to drive towards the town centre and she cashed a cheque for £50 at Lloyd's bank. She went shopping at Safeway and returned to her home, then called on a neighbour, Frances O'Connor. That was the last time she was seen alive in "normal circumstances," according to the prosecution. A number of witnesses later saw Miss Murrell's white Renault 5 car being driven erratically with an elderly front seat passenger wearing a floppy wide-brimmed hat. According to the prosecution, the case involves a burglarly that went seriously wrong. "After she disturbed this defendant, he attacked her in her own home," Mr Latham said. "She was seriously injured, probably semi-conscious, then kidnapped and taken away from her home against her will by the use of force. The murderer left this unfortunate woman on her own in the cold to die a slow death of her injuries." A semen-stained tissue, found in her back bedroom, and stains on her underslip matched a DNA profile provided by George. The prosecution say the chances of it matching another man taken randomly from the population were "one in 1bn". George was arrested at his home in June 2003. He said: "What the fuck's going on? This is serious shit, this is." But he refused to answer any police questions about Hilda Murrell's death. He later told his girlfriend during a prison visit that he hadn't done it. Mr Latham said there had been considerable violence used against Miss Murrell. The prosecution claim the defendant realised he was in serious trouble and he had to silence her. "If he simply ran away, the alarm would be raised within minutes," he said. Mr Latham said George was indifferent to Miss Murrell's fate. "From the moment he confronted her, he had treated her with the most complete disregard and contempt," he added. A week after the murder, George was arrested on suspicion of burglary at another house in Shrewsbury. At the end of the interview, he was asked about his movements on the day of Miss Murrell's death. The court heard he claimed to have spent the whole day at Woolworth's in Shrewsbury playing games on display. The trial, which is likely to last up to six weeks, was adjourned until Monday.