Karen Matthews  Karen Matthews appeals for the safe return of Shannon. Photograph: John Giles/PAKaren Matthews was born in Dewsbury, one of a family of six. Her parents Gordon and June, who still live in the town, say she was a "good mother" when she left school at 16 and had the first of her seven children, who she has with five different fathers.The father of her eldest son, now 12, is unknown and left while the child was still a baby. Matthews took up with Leon Rose, the father of Shannon and her 11-year-old brother, but that relationship did not last long.They split up before Shannon was born and Matthews took up with Paul Hooker, the father of another of her sons, now eight, and then with a fourth man, William Marshall, with whom she had a daughter, who is now six.Another son, now five, was born before Matthews met Craig Meehan and moved to the Moorside estate and a house next to Craig's sister Amanda Hyett and her husband, Neil.Matthews' parents strongly disliked Meehan, who earned £16,000 a year as a fishmonger at Morrison's supermarket in Dewsbury. But Karen stayed with him for longer than any of her previous partners.Matthews has never worked and at the time of her arrest was receiving an estimated £400 a month in benefits, with four of her children at home with her.Her sister Julie, who has six children from a lasting marriage, disputes that Karen had ever been a good mother. She described in a statement to court how a six-month-old nephew would be offloaded on her by Karen for babysitting "with a carrier bag or towel taped to his bum. Instead of spending money on nappies, she spent it on stuff like crisps, sweets and pop."Michael Donovan  Michael Donovan. Photograph: West Yorkshire police/PAMichael Donovan was born Paul Drake, one of nine children who had a generally happy upbringing on the Woodsome estate in Batley, not far from the flat where he and Shannon were found. He is part of a large extended family which includes the Meehans - Craig Meehan is his nephew.Into his teens he was regarded as the baby of the family and attended a special school before leaving home aged 16 and not returning. He has two children from a failed marriage to a local girl, Sarah Bird. He was described repeatedly in court as inadequate and a man who only just gets by in the complications of the modern world.Scarcely known to neighbours on the three parallel blocks of maisonettes which form Lidgate Gardens in Batley Carr, he was nicknamed "Weirdo" locally. His sister Maria Harper, who left Yorkshire to work in the United States, recalls him as a fantasist.He changed his name to Michael Donovan, after the star of a 1980s science fiction cult TV show called V, in spite of objections from one of his brothers who is also called Michael.Donovan was given custody of his daughters when his marriage collapsed and was described as being devoted to them. He was upset when they were taken into care two years ago after he was involved in a traffic accident and needed lengthy hospital treatment.Fifteen months before he was found with Shannon, he collected his eldest daughter, then 11, from school and disappeared with her. Police eventually traced the pair to Blackpool and Donovan was charged with abduction. The case was withdrawn before reaching court, following social workers' reports.Donovan strongly denied mistreating Shannon, telling the court he had taken her shopping and for twilight walks in a local park, with her pink jacket hood hiding her familiar round-cheeked, grinning face.But media reports of the leash used to restrain the child led to an attack on him in Armley prison, Leeds, where he was remanded during the trial. He returned to the dock in obvious pain with a fractured jaw.