A mother and her two young children were being treated in hospital today after being hit by a stolen car pursued by police in South Shields, Tyne and Wear. The children's grandmother was killed in the crash.Eyewitnesses said a woman in her forties, who is being named in some reports as Pamela Phinn, died trying to save her two grandchildren by pushing their buggy out of the way of the oncoming car.The women were crossing the road with the two children in a double pushchair yesterday afternoon when a Honda Civic that had been stolen by an armed man hurtled towards them at high speed.Reports suggested that Mrs Phinn was hit with the full force of the vehicle as she tried to steer the buggy out of the way. She was sent flying through the air and died instantly.The car then hit the pushchair, reportedly sending it 20ft into the air. The mother and her two children, thought to be a boy and a girl under the age of three, were being treated in hospital today.A spokesman for the Independent Police Complaints Commission, which is investigating the police's involvement in the incident, said the woman and her two children were in a "stable condition" in hospital today. None of the victims have been named by police.A man was arrested at the scene of the crash and is today being questioned by detectives.The events began when a motorist was ordered to leave his Honda Civic by a man armed with a weapon.The victim alerted police who chased the stolen car, which collided with two parked cars before ploughing into the group as they crossed the road.A witness told the Daily Mirror: "The car came down the road at 75 to 80mph, hit a bollard and went out of control. It looked as if it was going to crash into a pub."Then it swerved, hit the kerb and went up on the pavement. It hit the buggy pushed by two women, catapulting it in the air. One of the women was carried on the bonnet until she was flung off in bushes. It was horrific."Another said: "The driver had no chance of stopping and the poor people in the middle of the road didn't have a prayer of getting out of the way."Today, flowers were left on both sides of the road where Mrs Phinn died. One card read: "To Auntie Pam, I ask myself why? Just a beautiful considerate person, warm-hearted and generous, will miss you loads."The police pursuit has been referred for investigation to the IPCC. Nicholas Long, IPCC commissioner, said: "My thoughts are with the families and friends of the deceased and the injured. This incident was a tragedy of the worst kind."He said the investigation would examine whether the "pursuit that led to her death" was in line with Northumbria police driving procedures.Police appealed for any witnesses to the incident to come forward.