The trial of Harold Shipman, the GP accused of murdering 15 women patients, was told that it would be quite incredible if his alleged victims had all died of natural causes.In his closing speech to the jury at Preston crown court, Richard Henriques QC, prosecuting, asked if it could be a coincidence that all the women had been seen by Shipman on the day of their death. Mr Henriques said in each case Shipman had failed to call an ambulance, or to examine the women or attempt resuscitation. He had visited their homes when he had not been called and, in seven cases, he had falsified medical records. He said the 15 women had trusted Shipman, who ran a sole practice in Hyde, Greater Manchester, with their health and their lives. "They trusted him to care for them," he said. "Their relatives trusted him to tell the truth about the circumstances in which his patients died. The community trusted him to keep records and documentation with insight and knowledge." The prosecution asserts that he breached that trust. "He did not care at all for these 15 patients he killed," said Mr Henriques. "He did not tell the truth to their relatives - he duped them in order to save his own skin." He said there could hardly be some other killer on the loose in Hyde seeking out Shipman's patients and following the same route as the doctor. The prosecution claims Shipman would "overbear, belittle and bamboozle" grieving relatives. "As they grieved, this determined man employed every device to make sure no postmortem examination took place," he said. "The poisoner, of course, fears the pathologist. He fears ambulances and he fears hospitals." He said the GP had told barefaced lies to convince his victims' relatives that he had called ambulances to help the women but that they had suffered natural deaths. He took advantage of their grief and their lesser knowledge of medicine and procedures. The prosecution claims the trail of murder would have been halted sooner if the relatives had got together to compare notes. Shipman, 53, of Mottram, near Hyde,denies murdering the women with injections of diamorphine and forging the £386,000 will of one alleged victim, Kathleen Grundy. Mr Henriques said Shipman did not attempt any resuscitation: there was no point because he knew they were dead. "He was too arrogant and too self-confident to go through the motions." He said the GP had gambled that authorities would not check his stories. The trial resumed yesterday after a 22-day break. It continues today.