Detectives hunting the killer of a policeman gunned down on Boxing Day today arrested a man in his late 30s.The man was arrested in Gateshead by Northumbria police after they received a tip-off from a member of the public at 2am. Police say they are no longer looking for the prime suspect, US-born Nathan Wayne Coleman."Following a call from a member of the public just after 2am today police attended an address in Northumbria where they arrested a man in his late 30s in connection with the murder of PC Ian Broadhurst and the attempted murder of PC Neil Roper and PC James Banks on Boxing Day," said a West Yorkshire police spokesman."The man is currently in custody in Northumbria where he is being held for questioning." Police are expected to bring the suspect to Leeds later today for questioning.PC Ian Broadhurst, 34, from Leeds, died after he was shot by a man who had been sitting in the back of his police car in Dib Lane, Leeds during a routine traffic arrest. His colleague, PC Neil Roper, 45, was shot twice by the same man and is still recovering in hospital. The man also fired on PC James Banks, 26, but bullets were stopped by his belt buckle.On Monday detectives hunting the killer made a public appeal for information about Mr Coleman, 37, a US-born nightclub doorman who has lived and worked in West Yorkshire for the past four years. In a fresh appeal yesterday, police said Mr Coleman had been spotted twice since the shooting in the West Yorkshire area and last night York railway station was sealed off after a possible sighting. Armed police searched trains and platforms for Mr Coleman following a tip-off from a flower seller. Police have not confirmed whether the alarm was genuine.Mr Coleman was spotted in Bradford city centre on Saturday and in Brighouse town centre on Monday afternoon. Detective Superintendent Chris Gregg, who is leading the investigation, said he had also heard from a taxi driver who took Mr Coleman to Bradford within hours of the shooting. Home-made bullets and ammunition-making machinery was also found during a raid on a self-storage unit in Leeds after a tip-off.The Daily Mail reported today that Mr Coleman's British ex-wife Denise Corbally was under armed guard in a safe house after it emerged that she contacted detectives when she recognised his description.