Angelika Kluk, a 23-year-old student from Poland, was lodging in a parochial house attached to a Glasgow Catholic church when Tobin murdered her in September 2006, before dumping her body under the floor of the church, in an underground chamber next to the confessional box. She knew him as Pat McLaughlin, a homeless man who had started attending a soup kitchen in the church six weeks earlier and then turned up daily to offer his services as a handyman.Kluk, a student of Norwegian at Gdansk University, had visited Glasgow, where her sister lived, and come to know the parish priest, who had offered her a room in exchange for cleaning duties. She was last seen on 24 September 2006, helping Tobin to paint a shed.Tobin had been on the sex offenders register following his conviction for raping and buggering a 14-year-old girl and sexually assaulting her friend, but police had lost track of him a year after his release from prison in 2004.Tobin beat, raped and stabbed Kluk before dumping her body in a void underneath the church floor. Tobin was convicted of her murder in May 2007.Vicky Hamilton, 15, was last seen on 10 February 1991, eating chips at a bus stop in Bathgate, west Lothian, as she made her way home after spending the weekend with her older sister. Her parents had recently separated and she lived with her mother, Janette, and younger twin siblings in Redding, Falkirk, but was unsure of the way home. Witnesses reported her asking repeatedly for directions.Tobin abducted her from Bathgate town centre, his trial heard, drugged her, strangled and sodomised her. When Vicky's body was found 16 years later it still showed evidence of a violent struggle. He cut her in two at the waist, and wrapped her remains in curtains and plastic bags. Four days later he gave his toddler son, Daniel, Vicky's purse to play with, which he chewed — a fact police learned many years later when, with the advent of DNA testing, they discovered it had Daniel's saliva on it.Tobin dumped the purse days later at a bus station, perhaps to suggest Vicky had run away to England; and in March he moved to Irvine Drive in Margate, taking her body with him. The new residents in his former Bathgate home commented on the smell.