A drunk mother who killed her fiance by running him over with her car outside a pub was jailed for three years today.Caroline Broad, 41, was more than three times over the legal drink-drive limit when she hit Christopher Phillips, 40, who was crushed by the car as it rolled over of his chest.The couple, who had been together for eight years, were happy together before the incident on August 17 last year, Bristol crown court heard. Broad described Phillips, known as Bobs, as a dedicated father figure to her four children from two previous relationships.The couple had been drinking steadily in the Full Moon pub, in the village of Twerton, near Bath, before going out to Broad's car where she got into the driver's seat.It is believed Phillips, who was heavily drunk, went around to the front of the car where he leaned on the bonnet before sliding off and to the ground. The automatic vehicle is then thought to have jumped forward.Phillips was taken to hospital but died a few hours later from multiple injuries to his chest and abdomen.Broad told police she could remember being in the driver's seat and Phillips sliding off the bonnet, but could not recall the car moving.In a statement read to the court, Broad said: ""The pain is indescribable, it feels as if everything has stopped because I cannot take myself away from that terrible evening. I see his face falling on the bonnet and hear the thud."I hurt myself, my children and all our friends in the worst possible way and I will never be able to forgive myself. I have lost the best thing that ever happened to me."She said she could not understand how it had happened and it was like "trying to put a jigsaw together which is impossible as there are so many bits missing".Charles Row, mitigating, said Broad had had a troubled past. He said she had had to flee with her three daughters to a refuge to escape her first partner years ago and that her son had attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)."The constant father figure in his life was Mr Phillips and he has been taken from him, and now his mother will be as well," he said. "Mr Phillips was the father that the girls never had and he was a real friend to them. They desperately miss him."The judge, Carol Hagen, jailed Broad, who was found guilty yesterday of causing death by dangerous driving, for three years and disqualified her from driving for five years. She said Broad would serve half of the prison term."Nothing I say will diminish the anguish felt by you over the loss of someone who was so much loved," the judge said. "You have had to live with and will continue to live with the consequences and the knowledge that in a drunken moment you were responsible for the death of Mr Phillips."