Overcrowding and staff shortages have fuelled disturbances, sporadic violence and "acts of indiscipline" at four prisons in the last week, the prison service admitted last night.Inmates at Swaleside prison on the Isle of Sheppey, Kent, yesterday became the latest to refuse to return to their cells and to cause damage to their wing. Their protest followed four days of disturbances at Holme House prison at Stockton-on-Tees, Teesside, during which 34 cells were damaged beyond use and 43 inmates had to be transferred to other jails. The prison service admitted overcrowding and staff shortages lay behind the disturbances which have also happened in the last week at Pentonville in north London and Ashfield young offenders' institution near Bristol. A prison service spokeswoman said overcrowding and staff shortages, exacerbated by the number of officers on annual leave, led to restrictions on association and long periods on "lock down". "We recognise there is a problem at the moment with high population and staff shortages." she said. "A lot of prisons are overcrowded. We are taking measures to reduce and control the risk by moving the population, making use of segregation where appropriate and actively recruiting more staff." The deputy head of the prison service, Phil Wheatley, last month warned ministers that the record 71,500 prison population had "increased instability" and "contributed to a small but significant number of incidents of mass disorder". He said there was "a real risk that such incidents could es calate to involve large numbers of prisoners leading to a riot". So far his fears have not been realised. The four days of disturbances Holme House started last Friday when about 60 inmates refused to return to their cells after association and the governor had to negotiate their return. On Sunday one group began banging food trays on cell pipes. Officers were forced to confiscate the trays. Later that night fixtures and fittings in 40 cells were damaged. On Monday another seven cells were damaged and two more on Tuesday. "Thirty four cells are currently out of use at the prison. Each of the incidents were contained and controlled by prison staff and there were no injuries to staff or prisoners," the spokeswoman said. The Howard League for Penal Reform last night released figures claiming that 64% of jails were overcrowded. It said that Preston with 661 inmates held in cells designed for 356 topped the list for overcrowding (186%) followed by Shrewsbury (180%), Leicester (176%), Dorchester (169%), and Swansea (166%). Home Office figures showed that last Friday 71,527 inmates were held in prisons with an "uncrowded capacity" of 64,159. · The home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday launched a network of "mini Jobcentres" in prisons in an attempt to cut the number of prisoners who reoffend. He said during a visit to Lewes prison in East Sussex that it made "common sense" to give prisoners the chance to find work before their release from prison. The pilot scheme gives inmates online access to 400,000 vacancies across Britain.