The detective leading the investigation into a "violent and sustained" multiple killing in a house in a Newcastle upon Tyne suburb revealed today that police were called by a relative who said he had murdered his entire family.The body of Olofunke Sobo, 36, together with those of her brother Yemi, 41, and her two children, 12-year-old Abigail Crampton, and five-year-old Steven Crampton, were discovered at her home in Hawthorn Gardens, Kenton, yesterday.Detective Superintendent Steve Wade told a news conference at Byker police station that police received a call at about 8.50am yesterday from a man who said: "I have murdered my entire family."Mr Wade said a 33-year-old suspect who was arrested yesterday in Winlaton, Gateshead, was continuing to be held today. He was receiving treatment in hospital for a number of injuries, some of them possibly self-inflicted, and would probably be transferred to police custody tomorrow.Officers arrived at the scene in Kenton to find the adults downstairs, on the floor in separate rooms, while the bodies of the children were discovered upstairs. Mr Wade said the children were fully clothed but he understood they were found in their beds. There were no signs of a break-in but there did appear to have been a struggle in various parts of the house."While I am unable to say how they died, it is apparent they had all been victims of a sustained, violent attack," he said.He said the children's mother was known as Funke for short. Family liaison officers were working with relatives, and Mr Wade expressed the sympathies of all officers working on the case to them."I can confirm that the arrested man is related to the victims, but at this stage I am not going to name him or give more details of his relationship to these victims," he said. "We have thus far been unable to question him owing to the fact he is receiving ongoing medical treatment."I can confirm at this stage we are not looking for anyone else in connection with this."Mr Wade said the family were apparently "fit and well" at 11pm on Monday and police were trying to establish how events unfolded afterwards.Mr Wade said forensic teams were still at the murder scene today, where bodies of the victims remained in place. They will be removed later, when post mortems will be carried out."For this reason I'm unable to give an exact cause of death or discuss whether any weapons were used in the attack," he said.Mr Wade said establishing a motive would be a major line of inquiry. The detective said the house in Hawthorn Gardens is owned by Funke's mother, Tunde Sobo, who was born in Nigeria but who is a British citizen and who has lived in this country for 50 years. Funke had another brother, Yinka, as well as Yemi.Family tributes were paid to Yemi, who was well known in Newcastle as a freelance photographer working in city nightclubs.His family said he enjoyed life and had many friends. He was staying with his mother while his flat in Gosforth was being renovated.Funke had different jobs in retail and most recently was employed at Asda in Gosforth. Her family said she was a "loving mother" to her children."We are told that Abigail was lively with lots of friends, who liked music and computers, while Steven was a bit of a rascal, very loving and helpful, and mad on Thomas the Tank Engine," Mr Wade said. "Their family are distraught, their friends, colleagues, and fellow pupils are devastated by this tragedy."