 Toni   Age: 17  Conviction: Assault Held: YOI prisonToni used to watch her mother trying to hang herself and use drugs. Her mother used to batter her with her fists or anything else that came to hand. Eventually, she threw Toni downstairs so Toni put herself into care. Her father was not around much. In fact, her mother told her he was not her father and so she is not sure who he is. Toni says she understands life: "My view of the world is that we are living in hell and we are all ghosts." She has thoughts she can't control and voices in her head. She has been in trouble with the police since she was 11, stealing, terrorising the neighbours, setting fire to things. Recently, she cut a girl: "Sometimes I feel I have to cut people up if I don't like them. Sometimes it only takes them to do one thing and, if I don't like it, then I'll have to have a go at them." She wants help for her mental problems but nobody has ever treated her. It's the same in the prison. Sometimes doctors come to the cell. "Everyone comes to your door at once and they just stare at you." So she doesn't talk to them. When she was first in prison, they put her on self-harm watch, but then she told somebody she'd like to attack another prisoner, so she was taken to segregation. She spent 20 days there, locked up alone for 23 hours a day. She could hear people smashing up their cells. Two people tried to hang themselves. Toni thought she could hear people crying. A 60-year-old woman in the next cell had got hold of some glass and was cutting her arm. Being on the seg made her feel low so she began banging her head against the wall. She was sure there were ghosts in the cell and then, once, all the books fell off her shelf, so she knew the ghost was there. Jink Age: 17  Conviction: Assault and threats to kill   Held: YOI prisonA lawyer from the Howard League for Penal Reform found Jink in a prison cell - a 17-year-old boy who weighed 22 stone and who was suffering from a congenital heart disease as well as mental impairment. Almost as soon as Jink arrived in prison, prison doctors said he needed to be sent to a secure psychiatric unit, but seven months later, he was still in his cell. When the lawyer found him, Jink was eating faeces and urine. Jink had simply got lost in the system. The prison was extremely worried about him but could not give him the care he needed. One day, he used his clothes bag to hang himself from the bars of his cell. They cut him down, he was still alive and one of the governors had a cup of tea with him. Jink told him how his dad had started buggering him when he was six and kept him locked in the bedroom. After that, the prison called together all the agencies who had an interest in the boy - social services, youth offending team, Welsh health commissioner, prison doctors, hospital psychiatrists, defence lawyer. But they still could not sort out where to send him. And all the time he waited, Jink was being bullied mercilessly.Jink had assaulted his mother and threatened to kill her. From time to time, they would take him to court for a remand hearing. The cubicle in the van was too small for him; he suffers from claustrophobia; once, the door jammed and they couldn't get him out; he had a panic attack in the van.The lawyer from the Howard League said it was unacceptable that Jink had been waiting seven months for a hospital bed. He got on to the internet and rapidly found one which was suitable. He called the unit, which agreed to assess Jink. Two weeks later, he was moved. He is much better now. Henry Age:  16  Conviction: Arson with intent to endanger life   Held: Secure training centreHenry was sexually abused as a boy. He has had mental health problems since he was nine. He hears voices, has blackouts, sets fires and harms himself. The government says no prisoner with a severe mental illness should wait more than three months for a secure psychiatric bed. Henry waited 14 months.The first six were spent waiting for a local community psychiatrist to assess him. The psychiatrist said there was no suitable placement in the primary care trust's (PCT) area, so he had no remit to do the job. The local youth offending team (YOT) asked another psychiatrist to assess him, but that never happened. Henry's lawyers appealed to the local director of public health, but he was off sick.In the seventh month, the judge in Henry's trial said he was "extremely concerned" by the delay. The lawyers threatened to summons the head of the local YOT before the judge if he did not take responsibility within two weeks. The YOT said it was up to the PCT. The PCT said they would consider a non-local placement, but it was up to the community psychiatrist to arrange an assessment. The community psychiatrist said he would refer Henry to the Gardener unit in Manchester. But the doctor advising the lawyers said it was the wrong sort of unit. The lawyers then got an independent psychiatrist to assess Henry, and he agreed that the Gardener unit was wrong for him but suggested the Proudhoe in Northumberland. But the Proudhoe had no beds and Henry's case was sent back and forth between the Proudhoe and another unit, St Andrews in Northampton.After 14 months, four assessments involving three units and seven doctors, Henry got a bed at the Proudhoe. During that time he had no effective treatment for his illness.Babs Age:  17  Conviction: Affray and arson with intent  Held: YOI prisonAs a young girl, Babs was abused sexually, physically and emotionally and spent years going in and out of care. In one foster family, she was sexually abused again. She also saw her young brother die. When she was 17, she set fire to her bed, was taken to court and pleaded to be sent to a psychiatric hospital. When they refused, she ran from the court, met up with two mentally ill friends, got drunk and swallowed all their medication with them, was indecently assaulted by one of them, trashed the house, was subdued by police using CS gas and remanded in custody to await trial. There, a prison doctor learned about her two personalities (Andy who she liked and Andrea who she didn't) and diagnosed personality disorder, mood disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder. The doctor said she must be transferred to a secure hospital. But that took 11 months, during which time her condition careered downhill. She made her most serious suicide attempt when she hanged herself with a cable from her cell window. Officers cut her down and left her in the cell under constant observation. When she recovered, she tried to shove her way past the officer in the doorway. She was handcuffed, stripped, put into a strip gown and placed in the punishment block where one of her friends had hanged herself. During her 11-month wait for a hospital bed, Babs tried to hang herself several times using cables, laces, torn shirts and sheets. She cut and burned herself and tried to cut off her thumb. She also tried to throw herself off the wing landing. On several occasions, she dug a wound in her arm and buried a pen in it. The pens had to be surgically removed and she was warned that if she continued to damage her arms or hands, they might have to be removed.Margie  Age:  17  Conviction: Breaking and entering and assault   Held: YOI prisonMargie has had trouble with mental illness throughout her adolescence. She has been sectioned twice, held in hospital for psychiatric care and prescribed anti-psychotic medication. She spent the first eight years of her life being beaten up by her father and watching him do the same to her mother. When she was eight, her mother fled to a refuge taking Margie and her four siblings with her. One night, the father found them. Margie hid and watched while he stabbed her mother 17 times and then kidnapped her brothers and sisters, leaving her alone with the corpse. At first when she was arrested - for breaking into another girl's home and forcibly shaving her head - it looked as though she would be moved from prison to hospital without much trouble. The judge said her transfer was "extremely urgent" and a psychiatrist not only recommended that she be transferred to a secure hospital but pointed out that she wanted to kill babies and added: "Formal therapeutic interventions are vital. It would be impossible to contain her behaviours and provide such intensive interventions, if she were not to be managed in a secure psychiatric unit."But the primary care trust, which was going to pick up the bill, sent another psychiatrist to assess her. She concluded that the first psychiatrist's diagnosis was wrong, that Margie would not respond to treatment and would not mix well with other patients in the unit. The trust refused to fund the transfer. Margie was given a long sentence.The last time she was heard of, she had just heard her father was due to be released from the sentence he was serving for murdering her mother. She said: "My brain thinks that if I throw a stone in a pot then I won't die - and I don't throw a stone in a pot."