Sainsbury's today offered a £5,000 reward for information helping to catch the man who raped an 11-year-old girl in a toilet at one of its stores.The supermarket chain put up the reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the attacker, who is white and believed to be in his late teens. The girl was raped after leaving her mother to go to the toilet at the Sainsbury's store in the Shires retail park at Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, at around 7pm last Thursday. As she left a toilet cubicle, she was pushed back inside it by the man, who locked the door and attacked her. "This was a shocking incident, and we are doing all we can to assist the police to catch the person responsible," a Sainsbury's spokesman said.Meanwhile, police posters showing an artist's sketch of the suspect were today being put up in stores throughout Leamington. The sketches show the new-looking hooded black anorak the suspect was wearing. The front of the coat was red with distinctive silver stripes. Officers said they hoped the man seen on the posters would be recognised by members of the public. Yesterday, the girl's mother appealed for help in catching him, saying she feared he would carry out more attacks. "I don't think he should be walking round here ever again," she said. "If he does it once at that age, he will do it again. "As a mum, I really feel guilty because I should have taken her to the toilet - but you think that they are safe." Speaking anonymously to protect the identity of her daughter, the mother said the girl would no longer go to the toilet on her own or sleep in her own bed after her ordeal, and would need counselling.Police said her ordeal lasted between seven and 10 minutes, during which time another woman entered the toilets and used a neighbouring cubicle.The attacker - who smelled strongly of cigarettes - apparently told his victim he would leave once the woman had locked herself in. He had long hair, heavy acne, brown eyes and was around 5ft 6in or 5ft 7in tall.Officers are appealing for information from anyone who saw a man acting suspiciously in the toilet area or nearby last Thursday afternoon or evening. Detectives studying CCTV footage from the supermarket are keen to talk to the woman who used the cubicle next to the one where the attack took place.They also want to speak to another woman, who held the door open for the victim before the attack. She had blonde or brown hair and was wearing a long dark coat and long boots.