A former chief of the defence staff has warned that the "creeping irreversible curtailment" of civil liberties in the name of national security is "playing the game by terrorists' rules".Lord Craig of Radley, a former marshal of the Royal Air Force, also criticised the scale of the surveillance society, arguing that millions of CCTV cameras in Britain had done little to reduce street crime or prove themselves cost-effective.In a House of Lords debate on civil liberties and electronic surveillance yesterday, Craig said the rapid advance of digital technology could eventually lead to society accepting the need for "chipping of humans at birth", with the state using the information in a national identity card scheme or for medical records.He was supported by the former law lord, Lord Steyn, who said there was no evidence that the national identity scheme would improve security.Craig, a crossbench peer, said terrorism obviously posed a threat to national security, but should never be equated with a threat to "national survival" - as Britain faced in two world wars and the cold war - however ghastly its manifestations: "Curtailing civil rights is playing the game by terrorists' rules. "We owe it not only to ourselves, but to future generations to do our utmost to uphold and safeguard our civil rights. Creeping irreversible curtailment is the danger today," he told peers.Craig said that the rapid growth of CCTV coverage at a cost of hundreds of millions of pounds had helped track down suspects but questioned whether many of its other claimed advantages had materialised."Crime on our streets has not significantly reduced. How many of the thousands of prisoners in jails owe their convictions to being caught on CCTV?" he asked. He noted that Norfolk police had fitted electronic tags to radios and vehicles so patrols could be tracked to improve response times but said such technologies had wider uses. Pets were already being routinely fitted with electronic chips detailing their owners addresses. The EU wants all sheep to be similarly tagged. "Unacceptable for humans today, but after another decade or more - I wonder? If all were to be chipped at birth, this information could be used for a whole variety of applications favoured by the state such as national identity cards." He added that until such civil liberty challenges were addressed, society could not rest assured that IT systems were servants rather than masters of the individual.