Plans to overhaul Britain's "archaic" coroners' system still leaves open loopholes that were exploited by the GP serial killer Dr Harold Shipman, a lawyer for the relatives of many of his victims warned today.Today's draft coroners reform bill was put forward by ministers partly as a response to the failings highlighted by the Shipman killings. It includes a new right for bereaved families to ask for a second opinion on a death certificate and the right to challenger coroner's verdicts to a new chief coroner. But it rejected a number of recommendations put forward by Dame Janet Smith's official inquiry into the Shipman's murders. This includes the proposals that all deaths be referred to coroners, and that death certificates be independently verified.Solicitor Ann Alexander, who represented 200 families of people murdered by Shipman, welcomed today's bill, but said it should go further to include these recommendations.She said: "Shipman was a doctor who avoided the law whilst murdering his patients by exploiting all the loopholes in the current system. This bill will go a long way towards closing one of these loopholes, but others remain and require urgent attention."She added: "On behalf of the families, who fought long and hard for a public inquiry in the Shipman tragedy, I am calling on the government to implement all the reforms recommended by the Shipman inquiry."When today's reforms were first mooted, Dame Janet warned a committee of MPs that they would not prevent another Shipman tragedy."If these reforms go through there could still be a Shipman out there, still killing patients, still certifying their deaths ... Nothing will have changed," she said in February.Ms Alexander, or Irwin Mitchell solicitors, echoed those concerns. "These reforms are long overdue, but are only part of the reforms needed to ensure that another Shipman cannot be allowed to happen," she said.Dr Michael Wilkes, chairman of the British Medical Association's medical ethics committee, said he was concerned that today's reform were "seriously scaled back" from Dame Janet's recommendations. "What we need is a very robust, independent system which is essentially legally-led, where coroners have greater powers to listen to concerns from bereaved families and initiate more investigations themselves," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme. He added: "I do hope we are going to see a quantum shift here, so that resources are genuinely put into this to allow coroners to work in this way. Without that kind of separateness from government, we may see a significant lack of progress." Harriet Harman, the constitutional affairs minister, told Today that coroners would remain independent of ministers and that today's proposals met the objectives of the Smith inquiry. "I don't think we have scaled it back," she said. "I think we have done it differently, but we have certainly achieved the objectives that she set out in her inquiry. The draft bill also proposes that:· Coroners will be able to ban the media from reporting on cases such as suicide where they believe publicity is not justified in the public interest · 111 mostly part-time coroners in England and Wales would be replaced with 65 full-time posts · A new chief coroner for England and Wales, would be directly answerable to ministers, to give leadership and to develop national standards. In a joint foreword to the draft bill, the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, and Ms Harman acknowledged that reform was now urgently needed. They say: "The coroners' system at present is fragmented, non-accountable, variable in its processes and its quality, ineffective in part, archaic in its statutory basis, and very much dependent on the good people working in, or resourcing it, at present for its continued ability to respond to the demands we place upon it."Outlining the proposed Ms Harman added: "Each coroner will make their own decisions, independently, like judges do now. But at last there will be national recruitment procedures and national standards. It's the classic postcode lottery at the moment."