All the people at the top of the criminal justice system - the lord chief justice, the lord chancellor, the home secretary - believe too many people are being sent to prison. Although crime has been falling for eight years - with a record one-third drop in burglaries and car crime - custody has continued to rise. The need to reduce numbers in custody applies with even more urgency to young people, even more of whom are suffering from social or mental problems, and a majority of whom are imprisoned for non-violent offences. All manner of constructive - and challenging - alternatives to custody have been designed for young people. But, though we have more alternatives, the courts are still sending disproportionate numbers inside. Worse still, as figures released last week by the youth justice board show, there are large variations between different benches.This is not a new campaign by the board. Eighteen months ago, it issued its first report on this casino justice, which showed that, at the extremes, one court was imposing custody in only one out of every 43 offences, while another imposed custody in one in every two. These extremes may be explained by small caseloads, but the variations in the middle, while less dramatic, are more serious. Even Margaret Thatcher believed in equality before the law. Instead we have unequal justice, based on geography. The new figures cannot be compared to earlier statistics because they are on a regional, not a court-by-court basis. The lord chancellor was upset by the first report, so this change looks like Whitehall covering up its own shortcomings. There appear to have been some improvements but even the regional comparisons show young people are twice as likely to be given custody in London than in the north-east. The lord chancellor should be addressing the problem, not covering it up. Making the local court sentencing patterns more available would be a useful first step to tackling the different sentencing cultures. This might also prompt supporting services, like probation, to challenge the different cultures and improve pre-sentencing reports. Whether it is on a region-by-region or a court-by-court basis, injustice must be stopped.