A convicted murderer has told a jury that he alone was guilty of a brutal killing and felt "terrible" that three innocent men were jailed for the crime.Jeffrey Gafoor said he killed Lynette White, 20, in Cardiff in 1988 and insisted the men wrongly convicted of her murder, who came to be known as the Cardiff Three, were "completely innocent".Gafoor, who was finally jailed for killing White in 2003, was giving evidence at the trial of eight police officers accused of shaping and fabricating evidence to make a false case against the Cardiff Three. Asked if he knew any of the three men wrongly convicted of his crime, he replied: "No".He said the conviction of the three was a "miscarriage of justice", adding: "Their problems stemmed from my actions and I feel terrible about it. I know that they did not have anything to do with it and that they were completely innocent, because I was the one who killed Lynette White. All the injuries she had she received from me."White, who was working as a prostitute, was found stabbed to death at a flat she used in the docks area of Cardiff. Her boyfriend Stephen Miller and two other men, Yusef Abdullahi and Tony Paris, were convicted of killing White and were jailed in 1990. They were freed on appeal in 1992 and, following improved DNA techniques, Gafoor was found and convicted 15 years after the killing.Swansea crown court has heard that the eight police officers "acted corruptly together" to manufacture a case against the Cardiff Three.Giving evidence for the prosecution, Gafoor, 46, told calmly how he stabbed White after a row about paying her. Gafoor, a former security guard, told the jury: "I met Lynette White for her services as a prostitute but I changed my mind and asked for my money back. She declined to give my money back. We argued and I grasped for a knife to threaten her to get my money back. We both had the knife. In the course of an argument I stabbed her and she was killed."Gafoor admitted taking the knife to the room above a betting shop that White used. But he claimed he could not remember how or where he met White, or whether he had used prostitutes before.Bespectacled Gafoor, who was wearing a light blue striped shirt and jeans, told the jury: "When I last saw her she was in the flat face down on the floor. I was the only person in the flat. When I went into the flat I did not see any other person."Gafoor told the jury he cut his hand in the struggle with White. He said: "When we were scrabbling over the knife, I was cut on the back on the hand, near the wrist area. I remember stabbing but it is all a bit vague. I mean fuzzy. I don't want to say dreamlike but it is a lot like that. It seemed to go on a long time. I was shouting and she was shouting back at me."Former police officers Graham Mouncher, Richard Powell, Thomas Page, Michael Daniels, Paul Jennings, Paul Stephen, Peter Greenwood and John Seaford deny conspiring to pervert the course of justice. In addition, Mouncher and two non-police witnesses who are also on trial deny perjury.The trial continues.