Ozzy Osbourne and his wife Sharon today offered a £100,000 reward for the return of jewellery that was stolen during a break-in at their home.Ms Osbourne stressed that, while the family were wealthy enough to replace the items taken, their sentimental value made them irreplaceable. She added that she and Osbourne, the former Black Sabbath frontman, had "worked our arses off" to pay for the jewels, valued at around £2m.At a press conference in a local hotel, the couple spoke of their distress and gave a full list of the items taken, including Ms Osbourne's wedding rings, in the burglary at their Buckinghamshire house yesterday.Ms Osbourne said: "I'm sure a lot of people will look at us and say, 'Well, they have got more, they can buy it again, there's more serious things happening in the world, who really gives a damn?' But the thing is, we worked for everything."I came from Brixton, Ozzy came from not a very nice part of Birmingham and everything we have got we have worked our arses off for. If I choose to make an investment for my kids in whatever way I choose to make it, that's my business."I worked for every goddamn penny and when somebody comes who hasn't worked and wants to take what's yours, you know it pisses me off big time."It was announced at the press conference that the Osbournes and Lloyd's underwriters are offering a reward of up to £100,000 for information leading to the conviction of the offenders.The couple dressed in black and looked tired and subdued, though she was wearing a diamond necklace and a large ruby brooch which the burglars had apparently left behind in the raid.Ms Osbourne talked through a series of photographs of pieces taken during the raid, explaining their sentimental significance to reporters.She lost a diamond daisy chain necklace, which was a 20-year anniversary gift from Osbourne, as well as two Franck Muller watches, both of which are collectors' pieces. A string of pearls with a diamond clasp, which she had for 20 years, was also taken, as was a 4in x 4in diamond rose ring.One of the most significant losses was a perfect 24 carat sapphire called the Swimming Pool, which she bought with what she called "my first significant money" a few years ago as an investment for her daughters.Ms Osbourne said it was one of only very few absolutely pure sapphires in the world. She also lost her wedding rings, which Osbourne bought her a couple of years ago, when they renewed their marriage vows. Detective Inspector Paul Miller of Thames Valley police described the moment when Osbourne tackled the burglar. Osbourne declined to do so himself, saying he was too upset.Mr Miller said: "Whilst selecting items of jewellery, the burglar was distracted by Ozzy, who very courageously tackled this burglar and pursued him from the house."The officer said that security at the house had been reviewed and added that he was "keeping an open mind" on the possibility that it was an inside job.Osbourne did not comment at length about the incident, telling reporters: "I feel worse today than I did yesterday." Asked if he would tackle a burglar again, he said: "Is the Pope a Catholic?" But he said he acted "just purely on impulse", adding: "I could have been like George Harrison [who was stabbed in the chest by an intruder at his Oxfordshire home]. I could have been badly injured or anything. It could have got really ugly. I just thank God that no one got injured."