The former solicitor for Jon Venables does not believe the 27-year-old will be back behind bars for very long.Laurence Lee, who represented Venables at his 1993 trial for the murder of James Bulger, predicted the authorities would want him released "as soon as possible".Lee, 56, suggested Venables may have been involved in the commission of a crime. He said: "I don't think they would put him into the prison system for a small breach. It would have to have been an imprisonable offence."We've got a very unusual situation here with Venables and [Robert] Thompson. The last thing the authorities want is for them to be in prison because of the security 'tinderbox', as I call it. What do you do with him now? It's a hot potato if ever there was one."Lee, who has practised in Liverpool for 27 years, said his "instinct" was that Venables would not be in prison for long. "I would say that they will be desperate to get him back into society as quickly as possible unless something heinous has happened. Every prison in the country will be looking round to see whether or not there's a 27-year-old who looks a little bit like that boy."Denise Fergus, James Bulger's mother, said Venables was "back where he belonged – behind bars".A spokesman for her family said: "Denise has always said she did not believe it was safe to parole Venables and Thompson at the age of 18, before they ever spent a day in an adult prison. She believes the breach of the parole shows she was right."He said Fergus believed she and the public had a right to know what he had done "and what is to be done with him".Retired detective Albert Kirby, who led the murder inquiry, said the Ministry of Justice statement on Venables being taken back into custody "actually raises more questions than it answers". He said it would help to clarify "and put this to rest once and for all if the public did have some indication of what he has done".Mark Thomas, the editor of the Liverpool Daily Post, wrote the definitive book about the Bulger case, Every Mother's Nightmare. He said Venables had "significant emotional problems" as a boy. "He was unruly, he was an out-of-control kid and, with Thompson, they created a chemistry that led to the awful crime."Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation officers' union, said in 2009, 89 lifers were recalled, which was less than 5% of those prisoners released on licence."In every case this wasn't done lightly, either because they were charged with a serious offence but not convicted or secondly, it was because their supervisor thought their behaviour had deteriorated and they presented a risk to the public."He said the authorities would not have taken the decision lightly because of the fear his new identity would be known."The fewer people in the intelligence loop the better. It has stayed confidential over the last nine years because only a handful of people are involved. Now he is in prison, the governor has to know, other prisoners might speculate why he is being treated in a certain way."