When Detective Chief Inspector Mick Judge, 46, was assigned to Operation Deliver, he had more than 20 years' experience solving crimes. So how did he and his team of 100 officers crack the case? "We had a little bit of luck," Judge said.That little bit of luck - a tip-off - took them, within 24 hours of the robbery, to the door of Michelle Hogg, a 32-year-old hairdresser who had created the latex masks worn by the gang.Hogg had trained at the London College of Fashion, and had worked in the theatre and on a make-up counter at Harvey Nichols. Using material bought from a theatrical goods store in Covent Garden, she had helped to change the looks of four of the robbers, using her make-up skills and some improvisation. She used her bra straps to pin back one man's eyes and give them a more slanted look, while the rubber teats of a baby bottle were inserted in his nostrils as further disguise.However, she made one fatal error. She left some of the material, with vital DNA traces of the robbers, in her rubbish bin. Initially, she claimed she had thought she was making the masks for use in a music video and refused to identify the men. But her mobile phone showed she had been in touch with Jetmir Bucpapa a dozen times on the day of the kidnapping. She was charged with conspiracy and started the trial as a defendant before turning crown witness.The police also looked for an inside man. "You have to assume that, to gain entry, you would have had to have known some of the details, like how to lower the ramps," said the trial judge, Mr Justice Penry-Davey. "You don't risk going in without that information."Dixon, who has now been rehoused at a secret address with his family, was not a suspect, and the police soon focused on a young Albanian man, Emir Hysenaj, a friend of Bucpapa.The gang came unstuck due to many basic errors. First, there was the sheer size of the gang, thought to number about a dozen. Having so many members is risky: the smaller the gang, the fewer the tip-offs and less of a chance of weak links being found by police. Hogg was a weak link and, through her, other suspects soon emerged.Second, while the plotters made use of sophisticated modern technology, such as using a tiny surveillance camera to film the inside of the depot, technology also proved their undoing. They had used both "clean" and "dirty" mobile phones, the former in their own names. They had hoped their "dirty" (stolen) phones were untraceable but police had easily "cell-sited", or tracked, the devices to the key places and times of the robbery.Then there was the sum of money stolen. A £53m haul was so large that the police were bound to commit enormous resources to tracking down the gang. Had the sum been, say £2m or £3m, there would have been far less uproar and attention. As a result, Kent's chief constable, Mike Fuller, assigned three times the number of officers used in a murder inquiry and employed every available detection method. "It was probably the first time we used every trick and technique," he said.Kent could call on outside forces, including the helicopters and specialist divers of Sussex police.The judge said the sheer volume of notes was also a problem for the gang. "I don't think they knew how much they would get," he said."What on earth do you do with £50m? It's a lot of money to try to manage ... It's very difficult to cover your tracks once the ball started rolling; it's a snowball effect."Roger Coe-Salazar, who headed the Crown Prosecution Service team, said the robbery was "very clever in parts and very naive in others"."There were some very sophisticated preparations and some very silly mistakes, but it's quite wrong for it to end up being romanticised in an Oceans 12 way. There is nothing romantic about a child being held at gunpoint by a masked man. This was a callous crime," he said.A £1m reward was offered in this case, and although such payouts are not paid until a conviction, it is likely much of the money will be available to those who provided the early tip-offs.Police also faced a few red herrings. One of the images found on a mobile phone at Hair Hectik, the hairdressers where Hogg worked, was of "Mad" Frankie Fraser, the famous old-school London villain. He was not involved in any way.