Forget obesity and torpor, the old curses of the Playstation generation. Now a mutant tribe of homicidal couch potatoes is being incubated on sofas everywhere. The murder of a teenage boy has been ascribed to his killer's alleged fondness for Manhunt, a violent computer game, and the media want this 'evil' banned.Dixons have already obliged by withdrawing Manhunt - though not other games guilty, in critics' eyes, of incitement to murder-by-console. Amid the uproar, it is possible to forget that a child has died, not at the click of a mouse but in the coldest blood imaginable. Stefan Pakeerah was lured to a Leicester park by his friend, Warren LeBlanc, 17, on the pretext that they were going to meet girls. Instead LeBlanc attacked the younger boy from behind, beating him to death with a claw hammer and a knife. Shortly before the hearing at which LeBlanc admitted murder, Alan Pennell, aged 16, was named by a judge as the murderer of Luke Walmsley, the Lincolnshire schoolboy stabbed in a school corridor. The two cases had eerie similarities. The victims, both 14, were popular and bright children killed by older boys described as loners with chaotic and unhappy backgrounds. Practically the only missing link was any suggestion that Alan liked Manhunt. His den, marked 'Members Only', contained martial arts videos, as well as a snooker table, a stereo and a cache of knives. Many people knew about the knives. Alan had threatened several times to stab Luke to death and, on the morning of the murder, he held a blade to another pupil's throat during a debate over whether Manchester United were 'crap.' Many people also knew Alan's history. His mother, whose memory he idolised, died with her boyfriend in a drunken car accident when he was four. His father, a lorry driver, was rarely home. Alan, a veteran of vodka blackouts, was known to the police because he had an assaulted an officer as well as smashing another pupil in the face. If he had gone to school wearing a sandwich board labelled Murderer-in-Waiting, he could scarcely have advertised his potential more starkly. And yet, in a post-Climbié age of school-centred protection and sharp shocks for bad boys, the authorities stood languidly by as the day drew nearer when one child would die and another have his bleak life effectively terminated. That is not to blame teachers. The problem is the blind smugness of a society, and a political class, that see teenage violence simultaneously as a canker and an abstraction. What would have persuaded Alan Pennell not to kill? An Asbo? An exclusion order? A DVD cupboard stocked with the Blue Planet? Counselling from our threadbare mental health service was never an option. However nebulous the solutions, the adult world should cringe for shame at its failure to try. For a brief moment, there was a flicker of media remorse. Newspapers quoted Luke's mother's entirely justifiable view that Pennell was 'evil', but they also reported the sad past of a murderer who, when asked by a doctor for his three wishes, could only muster two - to have his mother back and never to have killed Luke. For once, the press stepped haltingly on to the cracking ice between hatred and pity, almost willing to study the complex world of child violence, in which action and consequence, provocation and licence curdle together in damaged minds. It did not last long. Two days later, Warren LeBlanc pleaded guilty to murder, and Manhunt was screamingly deemed the corrupter of all children. Writing in the Daily Mail, Brian Masters claimed that 'an entire childhood of careful education by example, trying to establish the necessary virtues of moral choice, may be utterly unravelled by an activity which purposefully releases the participant from any moral considerations whatever.' This is absurdly wrong. Obviously, normal children do not take GrandTheftAutoViceCity as a licence to shoot policeman. I would rather my teenage son had not gone through a phase of playing it, because I loathe all violence, but I knew there was not the faintest risk that he would lose any traction on right and wrong. The savage environment that nurtures violent children is the very opposite of virtual. Its creators are brutal carers who do not know, or mind, that the beaten become aggressors. Occasionally it is not even necessary to thrash a child. Some backgrounds are so cleansed of love that they produce automatons in whom emotion dies unformed. Any correlation between violent computer games and crime belongs in a mishmash of studies with contradictory and inconclusive findings. One educational theorist, Professor John Paul Gee, last year published a book arguing that video games, even violent ones, were an aid to learning and literacy. Most people would allow, though, that bloodthirsty material could be a catalyst in rare cases where very damaged children are exposed to an overload of vicious fantasy. But the current furore is not really about such cases. It is, instead, about finding somewhere to pin the blame. Such witchhunts are nothing new. If the Columbine High School massacre had really been ordained by video nasties, or if James Bulger's killing was decreed by his killers' fondness for the horror film Child's Play Three, then hideous crimes would have been stamped out long ago. In the absence of such a simplistic solution, berating game tycoons at least allows protesters to mask their own complicity in a society that heaps tawdry emotion on murdered children while ensuring that those branded irredeemable stay that way. Having once washed their hands of Alan Pennell, the authorities are likely to do so again. In accordance with the Home Secretary's discretion to send such children to any institution, William Whitelaw once despatched a grave offender to public school. David Blunkett is unlikely, and rightly so, to conclude that anyone capable of Alan's crime would benefit from a spell at Eton. He could remain at his highly-praised se cure training centre, but only until he is 17. After that, he will be destined for one of the young offender institutions on which the Youth Justice Board has, according to one member, Rob Allen, signally failed to make a real impact. In such hotbeds of violence and bullying, boys like Alan Pennell can brush up on any aspects that have so far eluded them of how it feels to inhabit a living hell. Those who think it obscene to expend sympathy on children who commit terrible crimes should realise that the fate of the innocent, like Luke and Stefan, depends on helping the most vicious, not on drumming up spurious reasons for their behaviour. Computer games are relevant, but mainly as a metaphor for a system that invents and disposes so carelessly of its demons. This time next week, Alan Pennell and Wayne LeBlanc will have been zapped from public debate as thoughtlessly as an average teenager might eradicate Manhunt's electronic images. Monsters need not hang around to haunt us. Simply hit the erasure button, and watch them die. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk