A drugs smuggling empire that imported three tonnes of cocaine into the UK in two years and had a network which spanned the world has been smashed by a customs investigation, it emerged yesterday.Though the "Mr Big" who ran the operation, Brian Brendan Wright, is a fugitive thought to be living in northern Cyprus, 16 members of his gang, including his son, have been jailed for a total of more than 200 years. During the course of a series of trials, it was claimed that Wright, who is wanted on an international arrest warrant, laundered hundreds of thousands of pounds through gambling, and was responsible for race-fixing and doping horses in the UK during the early 1990s. The Jockey Club, horseracing's ruling body, said yesterday that its disciplinary committee would meet next week to consider action against a number of people involved in the trials. Reporting restrictions meant that details of the inquiry could not be revealed until the last smuggler in custody, Hilton John van Staden, 52, pleaded guilty to his role in the organisation at Bristol crown court. Yesterday Van Staden, 52, was jailed for nine years after the judge heard he had organised yachts to transport millions of pounds worth of cocaine from the Caribbean to the UK. The trail that led investigators to him, Wright and the others, began in September, 1996, when a trawler called the Sea Mist moored in southern Ireland. When customs officials searched the boat, they found 599kg of cocaine, with a street value of £80m. They learned that the drugs were being smuggled for Wright, who lived in a villa in Sotto Grande in southern Spain and rented two luxury flats in London's fashionable Chelsea Harbour. Known by other criminals as "the Milkman" - because he always delivers on time - Wright's operation unravelled slowly over the next 18 months. It stretched from Australia to America and involved a complex supply network through Colombia, Mexico, Brazil and Panama. Gang members used light aircraft to parachute cocaine drops of up to 600kg at a time to waiting ocean-going yachts, crewed from the Caribbean, Venezuela and South Africa. The yachts were used to ferry the drugs to a few miles off the coast at either Salcombe, Devon, Poole in Dorset, or Lymington, Hampshire, where they would be met by other, smaller craft. Transferring the cargo to fishing vessels - a practice known as "coopering" - meant the yachts could dock "clean". In late 1998, the police struck the first serious blow against Wright's gang, when they stopped a car in London following an anonymous tip-off, and found 29kg of cocaine, with a street value of £1.5m, in the boot. It was part of a a huge shipment that was being smuggled into the country and by following other members of the gang, customs officers raided a lock-up garage in Leigh-on-Sea, Essex, and a farm in Laleham, Middlesex, three months later. They recovered 472kg of cocaine worth more than £60m. Wright, who had a box at Royal Ascot and counted comedian Jim Davidson and bookmaker Victor Chandler among his friends, was abroad and out of the reach of investigators. But among those who were arrested and stood trial were his 34-year-old son and trusted lieutenant, Brian Anthony Wright, who was sentenced to 17 years last July following a 14 month trial - the second longest trial in British legal history. A Brazilian, Godfried Hoppenbrouwers, 61, who was in charge of chartering the yachts used for smuggling, faced trial in Miami and was sentenced to 30 years. Van Staden was arrested in London in March 2000 when he tried to access a safety deposit box, in which he kept around £500,000 in cash and contact details for the other members of the drugs smuggling gang. Yesterday, the court heard how Van Staden, a keen sailor with good contacts in the yachting industry, became involved in the drugs smuggling ring in 1997 when approached by his friend, Hoppenbrouwers. Sentencing him, the judge, John Foley said: "Those who are part of conspiracies to smuggle large quantities of class A drugs, if they are successful, achieve substantial rewards. If they're unsuccessful they achieve substantial penalties and your case is no exception." In all there were five trials and 16 people were convicted. Christopher Spence, the Jockey Club's senior steward, said yesterday that the convictions underlined "racing's vulnerability to corruption by criminals and the potential of betting as a vehicle for money laundering". But he said that there was "no evidence that criminal activity on anything like a similar scale is operating today". Customs officers describe Wright snr as "very professional and quietly confident". A spokesman said he was running "what is believed to be the most prolific and successful international drug smuggling organisation ever to target the UK".