Cherie Booth QC, will head a new prisons commission that is likely to be highly critical of the legacy of her husband's government, it was announced today.Ms Booth has agreed to be president of a new Commission on English Prisons, which is expected to speak out against soaring prisoner numbers in Britain's jails. It is her first public appointment since her husband and prime minister, Tony Blair, last week announced the date of his resignation.The commission was launched today by the Howard League for Penal Reform, which is a staunch critic of the rising prisoner numbers and the role of ministers in encouraging the use of prison to deal with crime.The prison population has soared to a record 80,000, which is just short of full capacity. The Howard League has long argued that the government should consider alternatives to prisons, such as more community sentences.The commission has been established to rethink the role of prisons and investigate the reasons behind the rise in numbers.It is expected to criticise ministers for pandering to media demands for tougher sentences. One of its specific remits is to consider the media's role over the issue.Prison numbers have risen rapidly since Labour came to power. In 1997 the average prison population stood at 61,114; it is predicted to rise to 94,000 by 2010. The government has been forced to build an extra 8,000 prison places to cope with prison overcrowding.Commenting on her appointment, Ms Booth said: "Of course, imprisonment must remain the proper sentence for the most serious offences and prison will continue to have a central role in the criminal justice system."But the new commission ... will also explore new ideas like restorative justice, as well as how we can best turn offenders away from crime."Ms Booth has made no secret of her unease about the rise in the prison population. In a lecture in 2002 she said: "The huge increase in numbers and the prevalence of short-term sentences is crippling any attempt at a constructive approach to prison."More recently, in a Lent talk for the BBC, she championed greater use of restorative justice, a system that involves forcing offenders to confront the victims of their crimes, in some cases in place of prison sentences.Members of the commission have yet to be named but the Howard League is understood to be hoping to persuade the editor of the Sun newspaper, Rebekah Wade, to join.She is likely to be wary of joining. Last week the Sun labelled the new justice secretary, Lord Falconer, a "warbling clot" after he announced plans to restrict prison sentences for people who breach parole.In her role as president of the commission Ms Booth will act as its figurehead. It will be chaired by Professor David Wilson, vice-chairman of the Howard League.The commission is backed by the Archbishop of Canterbury, who said: "The criminal justice system as a whole, and our prisons in particular, are under huge strain. Our penal policy needs some radical rethinking."The commission is modelled on a similar body that reported in 1922 and was influential in reducing the use of prison and the length of sentences at the time.