Details of an inquiry into police behaviour towards a black north London couple Sonia and Delroy Lindo have revealed a devastating catalogue of unlawful arrests, racist attitudes and shortfalls in Crown Prosecution Service procedures.Since 1996 Delroy Lindo has been charged 17 times and cleared 17 times of a series of offences including assaults on police officers and public order offences. His wife Sonia has been charged and cleared of two offences. The internal inquiry, which is unprecedented, was set up in July by the newly-formed Metropolitan Police Authority after concerns raised about police behaviour towards the Lindos by Lee Jasper, equality and policing adviser to Ken Livingstone at the Greater London Assembly. The inquiry has been conducted by senior Metropolitan police officers. The couple have been the subject of 93 separate intelligence reports by the Metropolitan police although they are not prominent suspects for anything at all. Perhaps most serious of all is the finding that not just the Metropolitan police but the Crown Prosecution Service and the courts along with the Police Complaints Authority have failed to behave properly towards the Lindos. A Metropolitan police spokesman said that the report was an attempt at "organisational planning" and did not have the status to discipline individual officers if concerns were raised about them in the inquiry. He said he was unsure if a separate inquiry to discipline officers could be launched as a result of this one if serious concerns are flagged about individual officers. A Metropolitan police spokesman said: "We are interested in moving forwards. There are many lessons to be learned about the management of difficult policing operations and about interaction with the community and its expectations." Mr Jasper said: "This investigation has been unique in terms of relations between police and the black community, and I think it will provide a model for dealing with similar complaints in the future. "Mr Lindo's last arrest was for sucking his teeth. Arresting a black man for that ought to be a sackable offence. It has been interpreted by the black community as naked intimidation."