The father of a young bride murdered using a shotgun was today named for the first time as the main suspect in the case as detectives said they suspected someone could be sheltering him.Terry Rodgers disappeared after his daughter, Chanel Taylor, 23, was found shot in the head seven weeks after marrying 22-year-old Lee Taylor. Mr Taylor found his wife's body at their terraced home in Huthwaite, north Nottinghamshire, on Friday at around 1pm. Police said today that Chanel's father, who was living with the newlyweds after his marriage broke up, was the prime suspect because he was the last person known to have been in the house with her. After an appeal by Mr Rodgers' 19-year-old son, Colt, for his father to contact police to help end the family's "nightmare", Detective Chief Inspector Paul Cottee of Nottinghamshire police said Mr Rodgers had been seen locally on two occasions since Saturday.Det Ch Insp Cottee, the man leading the inquiry, told a news conference there was a "serious possibility" someone was helping the 55-year-old. He advised anyone who may be helping doing so to contact the police. "We are contacting people he knows, currently and in the past," he said. "If you assist him, you will be prosecuted. "It is a human instinct to help a friend by offering them protection and shelter; however this is a horrific crime. We have got a young girl who has tragically been killed and these people are committing a criminal offence if they are hiding him. "We will leave no stone unturned to find him. He could be anywhere but we have got a local sighting, and he was born and bred locally."He repeated pleas for Mr Rodgers to give himself up.The two confirmed sightings of Mr Rodgers were in the Hucknall area of Nottingham, where his car was found abandoned on Saturday.Police admitted they did not know what the motive was for the killing of Chanel, a hairdresser. Det Ch Insp Cottee said: "As far as we know, the relationship between Terry and Chanel was a good relationship. "We are now working on the basis that Terry was in the house when Lee left for work that morning and, as such, Terry Rodgers is now the main suspect in this murder investigation." He said the former security man, who was known to police prior to the shooting, had recently sold his security business, though he was in no financial difficulty. Asked if he thought Mr Rodgers was suicidal, Det Ch Insp Cottee said he had no information about his state of mind. He warned the public not to approach Mr Rodgers as the murder weapon had not been recovered. Police believe the gun was being held illegally. Colt Rodgers, Chanel's brother, said in his statement: "Over the past few days our lives have been turned upside down. Chanel's death has left so many unanswered questions."Urging his father to get in touch, he said: "Dad, we need your help to make sense of this nightmare. I am trying to be strong, especially for Mum, but we are all devastated. "We've always been close. It was only the other week we were all together sharing Chanel's big day. If you are watching or listening, we need you to come forward, for Chanel's sake and yours." Det Ch Insp Cottee said police had spoken to Lee Taylor. He said: "As you can imagine, he is extremely distressed at the loss of his wife. He has been helpful in painting a picture of her and her relationship with her father."The officer would not discuss forensic evidence found at the scene but he said: "We will do everything in our power to catch him and we are very confident that we will."