There have been some high-profile criminal arrests in the past few months that have tested the laws of contempt and the patience of readers. "I am appalled to see the full name and photo of the nurse allegedly involved in these insulin-saline deaths published all over the news," wrote one reader when Rebecca Leighton was arrested in July after unexplained deaths at Stepping Hill hospital, Stockport. "Has this country's media ever heard about the principle of 'innocent until proven guilty in a court of law'?"Leighton had been arrested in connection with the contamination of bags of saline with insulin, and faced charges of criminal damage with intent to endanger life. She was held in prison but released on Friday 2 September after all charges were dropped. She had always denied any wrongdoing.After she was released, another reader wrote: "When photos and personal details of the nurse arrested in the saline deaths case were splashed all over the papers, including the Guardian, a few weeks ago, I thought it was wrong. Innocent until proved guilty. Yesterday there was a huge photo of her again, on your front page, because she had been released due to lack of evidence."I imagine her life will never be the same again as mud unquestionably sticks. On the same day 'a 30-year-old man' was arrested as part of the phone-hacking investigations at the News of the World. Although your paper made an educated guess at his identity, you didn't print his photo. Why one rule for one and one for another, and who decides whether to release a name and photo? Is it the police or the press? I would genuinely like to know."No, it's not the police. It's an editorial decision made on the day as to whether a photograph should be used or not; the decision may simply be based on whether one is available. In the case of Rebecca Leighton it was right to give prominence to her release.Leighton's case followed that of Chris Jefferies, the landlord of murder victim Joanna Yeates. He was arrested on suspicion of her murder, but later released without charge, and was entirely innocent of any involvement. Two tabloid newspapers were later fined – £50,000 and £18,000 – for contempt of court for articles they had published about Jefferies after his arrest. Three senior judges ruled that the tabloids had breached contempt laws with their reporting.In another case that raised similar issues for some readers, Dominique Strauss-Kahn – commonly known by his initials, DSK – was arrested on charges of sexual assault in the US, where the law is different but the presumption of innocence is still the basic guiding principle (the charges have since been dropped).One reader – who said she was not a supporter of the "odious" Strauss-Kahn – took issue with one aspect of our coverage: "In today's article on DSK's charges, you included this paragraph: 'New York's mayor, Michael Bloomberg, agreed the display of Strauss-Kahn being led by police was humiliating and would be unfair if a defendant was proved to be innocent. "But if you don't want to do the 'perp walk', don't do the crime," he added.' … the Guardian failed to note that this allows a major misconception of criminal justice to pass uncommented [upon] … the Anglo-American legal system enshrines a presumption of innocence … The comments by Bloomberg were not analysed, so his prejudice was repeated by your author … "There is a difficult legal and ethical balance to strike when reporting on crimes. It would be bad for a society that believes in open justice if news organisations took the view that there should be no reporting of arrests.Dan Roberts, the Guardian's national editor, with overall responsibility for news editing in print and on the web, says: "We try to be a lot more circumspect than many newspapers when covering police suspects who have just been arrested or charged, particularly in serious criminal cases such as the Joanna Yeates murder where the circumstances are very unclear. That's not to say we won't cover the basic facts, but we choose to avoid the more salacious reporting of background material and speculation that, sadly, some seem to regard as fair game."