Psychologists often disagree about explanations for everyday, "normal" behaviour, let alone for the sort of extremely violent sexual behaviour meted out by Robert Napper. His profound and obsessive hatred of women was expressed in a series of violent attacks in the Green Chain rapes in London and culminated in the killing of Rachel Nickell, and 16 months later the murders of Samantha Bisset and her four-year-old daughter, Jazmine.The exclusive focus of his rage was women – while Rachel's son, Alex, was spared, Samantha's daughter was not. Specifically he loathed young mums with infants, inflicting 49 stab wounds on Rachel and taking the time to "display" Samantha's disembowelled body.It is in his unseen escalation from peeping tom to stalker, rapist and serial killer and mutilator that Napper most resembles his 19th century predecessor Jack the Ripper. Both seemed to be invisible and not opportunistic: they both targeted their victims, in the Ripper's case prostitutes and in Napper's case young mothers with young children.It is difficult to pinpoint the psychological mechanism that can explain such a hatred of young women.Some theorists favour internal explanations of such acts, focusing on thoughts, feelings and emotions. Others eschew these inner processes and examine external forces that exert an influence on observable behaviours.Napper is a textbook example of the psychoanalytical ideas of what Freud called the sex and death instincts, dualities that are constantly in tension, generating conflict and the potential for aggression directed at ourselves (masochism), as well as at others (sadism), at the points in our lives where birth and death and sex and violence combine.He was obsessed with knives and – coupled with impotence – these constituted the most consistent feature of his crimes. Knives were used frequently.The fact he targeted mothers who had recently had children combines sex and death symbolism and perhaps speaks volumes about his views of his own childhood and his own mother. It enraged him to see a mother as a sexual, desirous partner for an adult man.But a behavioural explanation is likewise plausible. What began as a circumstantial factor – children happened to be in the house he entered in his earliest known rape – may have developed over time as a preference. The pleas of this victim as she tried to protect her children may have reinforced his sense of power and sexual pleasure, in turn influencing his next choice of victim. Thus, the specific aspect of "children present" may have begun in adulthood.Napper's sexual sadism is rare and built on neglect. Theories of what causes it centre on abuse, yet only for some does violence escalate into murder. Research comparing rapists to sexual murderers has shown that one of the key distinctions between the two types of offender is that those who kill have suffered a greater degree of isolation, in childhood as well as during adult life. Isolation permits a retreat into fantasy and the redoubling of the disconnection from others who might have acted as a moral compass of sorts. The fulcrum of Napper's descent into fatal violence was his isolation, though it is likely the sexual sadism will have had deeper roots.Sexual sadists' violence is borne of an absence of intimacy, a lack of sense of self and a complete lack of understanding of others. They fill their emptiness with the pain and suffering of others – only achieving connections to the rest of us through rage and violence. Not uncommonly, such an impoverished world view is formed in childhood, carried over into adolescence, stunting the adult trait of empathy for others. Napper associated his own gratification with the distress of victims; he mixed anger and sadism with sex. His particular form of sadism appeared to be enhanced by making a mother feel the ultimate fear – recognition she could not save her child.* Killer in the Shadows: the monstrous crimes of Robert Napper will be published on 12 January 2009