The six-year search for justice by the parents of murdered black teenager, Stephen Lawrence, last night secured a landmark commitment from the Government to combat the 'institutional racism' which it acknowledged exists not only in the police but in many organisations in British public life. The promised reforms will see every public institution from the police to the NHS made criminally liable for the first time to be investigated for racism and sued if they are found to discriminate. Individual racists will face personal prosecution. The final publication of the Lawrence murder inquiry report is expected to prove a watershed in community relations in Britain. The effort will even include confronting the racist attitudes of young children in school. The decision to end the exemption of the police and other public bodies from the Race Relations Act follows the scathing verdict of Sir William Macpherson's long-awaited report into the Metropolitan police's handling of the investigation into the racist murder of the promising A-level student at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London. That investigation had been fundamentally flawed and 'marred by a combination of professional incompetence, institutional racism, and a failure of leadership by senior officers". While he found the Met guilty of incompetence and racism he cleared it of the third charge of corruption and collusion. Yet however trenchant the language used by Sir William, he said last night there could be 'no remedy for the grief which the unsuccessful investigation piled upon the grief caused by the murder itself'. In his inquiry report he makes clear his contempt for the suspect gang of the five 'evil' white youths saying they had been 'infected and invaded by gross and revolting racism'.  They had failed to declare their innocence and instead chose to be vague and evasive yet Sir William says he could not personally recommend they be prosecuted for perjury. The possibility had to be left open. Stephen's parents, Neville and Doreen, yesterday morning met Tony Blair and Jack Straw in Downing Street to discuss the inquiry's findings. Last night they did not repeat their call for the resignation of the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, but instead made a powerful reminder that change has not yet come: 'This society has allowed my son's killers to make a mockery of the law,' said Mrs Lawrence. 'Black people are still dying on the streets and in the back of police vans. My feelings about the future remain the same as it was as it was when my son was killed . . . nothing has changed."  Mrs Lawrence warned Sir Paul that he did not have the support of the black community. She denied that Downing Street had put pressure on her to soften her criticism of Sir Paul. The premature leak of the report had led to expectations that the inquiry would be scathing in its personal criticism of Sir Paul but the actual report contained only mild criticism of his conduct at the inquiry and over the investigation. No MP called for his head and it was left to Stephen's friend, Duwayne Brooks, to insist he should go: 'For Jack Straw to say Mr Condon will stay is totally wrong. I think he should do the honourable thing and resign.' The Society of Black Lawyers backed that view. Sir Paul himself yesterday talked of 'his sense of shame', promised to begin the transformation of the capital's police into an 'anti-racist force' and claimed there was still a chance to prosecute at least some of the killers: 'I want them to feel hunted,' he said. The Home Secretary said he shared Sir Paul's 'sense of shame' as he unveiled his determination that the fight against institutional racism should now prove a lasting testament to Stephen's memory: 'The very process of the Inquiry has opened all our eyes to what it is like to be black or Asian in Britain today . . . I want this report to be a watershed in our attitudes to racism.'  The uncertain future of the Commissioner, who last night finally embraced the new definition of institutional racism offered by Sir William, was resolved when Mr Straw disclosed in his Commons statement that he had asked him to stay on to deliver the needed reforms to the Met. That will include a thorough scrutiny of every unsolved murder in the capital. 'He will use the remaining 10 months of his office to take that work forward, including the agenda set by this report. I will be supporting him and his successor in the work which lies ahead,' Mr Straw said. But he emphasised that the finding of institutional racism did not mean every police officer was racist or the Met was racist in its policies. The promised Government reforms include a qualitative change in the attack on racism in Britain. It will no longer be confined to the actions of individual racists but will attempt to strike at its roots deep inside the country's public institutions. Mr Straw explained that the changing definition of 'institutional racism' was the critical question in deciding how the extension of the powers of the 1976 Race Relations Act, not only to the police as recommended by Sir William, but also to the immigration service, to the entire civil service, including the NHS, will bite. It is designed to repair the gaps left by Lord Scarman in his anti-racist package after the inner city riots almost 20 years ago. The Macpherson definition includes 'collective failure' and 'unwitting prejudice'. Mr Straw said it would cover 'any long-established, white-dominated organisation which is liable to have procedures, practices and a culture which tend to exclude or to disadvantage non-white people. The police service in this respect is little different from other parts of the criminal justice system, or from Government departments, including the Home Office and many other institutions,' said the Home Secretary. Mr Straw was careful not to immediately embrace all of Sir William's 70 recommendations, saying he would produce an action plan before a full-scale Commons debate on the issue. However, he made clear that the current police powers on stop and search will remain unchanged. Definition of institutional racism by Sir William Macpherson 'The collective failure of an organisation to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin. It can be seen or detected in processes, attitudes and behaviour which amount to discrimination through unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness and racist sterotyping which disadvantage minority ethnic people.'