The family of a young paranoid schizophrenic who hanged himself with his shoelaces while on remand in Wandsworth prison won an order for a new inquest yesterday. The prison was strongly criticised for failing to take steps to prevent his death. Two senior judges at the high court in London ordered a fresh inquest into the death of Keita Craig, 22, son of the Culture Club bass player Mikey Craig. He was one of seven inmates who killed themselves at the south London prison last year. Lord Justice Keene and Mr Justice Penry-Davey ruled that the Westminster coroner, Paul Knapman, was wrong in law to deny the inquest jury the option of a verdict that neglect had been a factor in the death. There was evidence of "a gross failure" on the part of the prison, Mr Justice Penry-Davey said. Mr Craig hanged himself with his shoelaces at the prison in February last year. They had been removed from him at the magistrates court, but he was given them back in prison even though staff were warned he was a suicide risk. What was striking was the substantial amount of knowledge the prison had about Mr Craig's condition, Lord Justice Keene said. "This was a young man already diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic who killed himself in the Wandsworth prison health-care centre while, as the inquest jury found, the balance of his mind was disturbed. The fact that he suffered from that mental illness was known to those who were responsible for him at Wandsworth prison." Mr Justice Penry-Davy said: "The restoration of shoelaces to the deceased combined with the failure to keep the deceased under proper observation resulted in his death, and in my judgment there was evidence of gross failure to provide medical attention where the mental state of the deceased obviously called for such attention." Last April the inquest jury returned a verdict that Mr Craig killed himself while the balance of his mind was disturbed. Dr Knapman had told the jury that the ingredients for neglect "were not present" and barred them from including a finding of neglect in the verdict. "But there was evidence on which they could properly conclude that such a verdict was justified. In those circumstances the coroner was wrong not to leave such a verdict to the jury," Lord Justice Keene said. Mr Craig had been arrested over street robbery allegations, and Richmond magistrates had remanded him to Wandsworth while a place was found for him in a psychiatric unit. His solicitor and a social worker expressed concern for his well-being and Tracey Lowe, a probation officer, was alerted. Ms Lowe faxed the prison making it clear that Mr Craig was a suicide risk. She also spoke to a deputy prison governor. A concerned Securicor guard ordered Mr Craig's shoelaces to be taken away. At the prison Mr Craig underwent a five- to seven-minute medical examination. A form for those at risk of self-harm was not properly completed and nursing staff were not made aware or given special instructions. He was seen by a 73-year-old prison doctor, Somasunderam Pothalingam, who had also assessed two remand inmates at Brixton jail in south London who hanged themselves two months before Mr Craig. Dr Pothalingam told the inquest into the Brixton prisoners' deaths this month: "It's not practical to spend more than a few minutes with each patient."