An "urgent" change in the law is being considered to allow anonymous witness evidence to be used in court, the government said today.There are fears that scores of convicted murderers and serious criminals could be released after a recent court ruling that defendants have a legal right to know the identity of witnesses testifying against them.The justice secretary, Jack Straw, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that he could put anonymous evidence on a statutory footing before December's Queen's speech."I'm looking at this as we speak," he said. "Ever since this judgment on Wednesday this has been my major preoccupation - to ensure that we are able to change the law as quickly as possible."The government has already announced plans for a bill introducing a statutory base for anonymous evidence - where witness intimidation is an issue - during the next session of parliament.But he said that would "almost certainly" be too long, adding: "I'm looking at this very urgently indeed." On Wednesday, the law lords ruled that defendants have a right to know the identity of witnesses testifying against them when they quashed a double murder conviction against Iain Davis. The lords said the conviction would have been achieved without anonymous evidence.Davis was convicted at the Old Bailey of the New Year's Day 2002 killing of two men in flat in Hackney, east London. Seven witnesses at the trial in May 2004 were granted anonymity after claiming to be in fear for their lives if it became known that they had given evidence against Davis.But Lord Bingham, the head of the panel of judges who sit at the highest court in the land at the House of Lords, ruled this week that Davis would not have been convicted without their evidence. He went on to say that the anonymous evidence hampered the defence in a way which was unlawful and rendered the trial unfair.John Yates, an assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, today described the judgment today as "potentially disastrous" and predicted that it would prompt a series of appeals by dangerous convicts.Yates told the Daily Telegraph: "This is potentially disastrous. A lot of good work being undone, and this will play out so badly in terms of those we are trying to reach out to in communities. It almost feels like we have broken our word. To see clearly guilty people walking free is just awful."Straw insisted today that the government was committed to ensuring there was a balance between the need for a fair trial and to ensure that defendants did not go free because of a culture of intimidation."It's absolutely fundamental that defendants should be able literally to see and hear the evidence before them," he said. "But you then have to balance that with what actually happens in real life these days, where you've got very serious gun and drug crime where it's not just an individual will get a phone call."They don't need to get a phone call saying 'if you turn up in court we will kill you', there is just a high level of fear which means that police can't get witness statements at an early stage from anybody who saw it."