A 19-year-old youth was seen "smirking" after fatally assaulting schoolboy Jimmy Mizen and leaving him to bleed to death in a bakery shop, an Old Bailey court heard yesterday.Jake Fahri, from Lee, south-east London, started a fight and flung a glass dish at the 16-year-old following a trivial dispute in a queue, the jury was told. The dish shattered and a shard of glass pierced Jimmy's neck, severing the carotid artery. He collapsed and died in his brother's arms.The explosion of violence had its origins in a confrontation seven years earlier when Jimmy Mizen's elder brother, Harry, was forced by Fahri to hand over 20 pence, the court heard.Opening the case for the prosecution, Crispin Aylett QC said Jimmy had left his home nearby in Lee on a Saturday morning in May last year to buy his first lottery ticket. It was the day after his birthday and he was accompanied by his brother."From the newsagent, Jimmy and Harry went to the Three Cooks Bakery," Aylett said. "Harry wanted a sausage roll. It was a quarter to twelve. It seems extraordinary that a young man might go into a bakery on a Saturday morning and end up dead."A trivial incident brought about by the defendant's rudeness escalated into something horrific as the defendant took any and every available weapon with which to attack the Mizen brothers, [including] bottles of soft drinks, an advertising board and, fatally, a glass dish."Fahri, the court heard, had been ahead of the brothers but turned back to look at a display of cakes. In doing so, he barged into Jimmy. The schoolboy, who was 1.9 metres (6ft 2in) tall, stood his ground.The defendant pulled out a car key and jabbed it in Harry Mizen's face. "I remember you, you grassed me up a few years ago," Fahri said."This was a reference to when the defendant bullied Harry and police had been involved," Aylett said. At the time, in 2001, Fahri had taken 20 pence from Harry Mizen, the court heard. Two years later the boys met again and Fahri had chased and kicked his victim, accusing him of informing the school about the mugging.As the violence flared, the court heard, Fahri was heard to shout: "You are fucking cowards". He was bundled out of the shop but said he would wait outside for them.When he spotted Harry on his mobile phone he suspected that other brothers were being summoned to help. Fahri picked up an advertising board, smashed the glass door and forced his way back inside the shop, it was alleged.Picking up the glass bowl, he hurled it at Jimmy who had retreated behind the counter, the court heard. The glass broke and cut into his neck."One of the staff at the bakery has described it as being like a horror film: blood was spurting from Jimmy's neck," Aylett added. "Still fearing that he was under attack, Jimmy went and shut himself in a staff room at the back of the shop. Jimmy's brother, Tommy, had by now arrived and Jimmy collapsed into his brother's arms."The jury heard that a passerby saw Fahri running from the scene across the road and observed that he was "smirking". When Jimmy's mother arrived she fainted. On coming round, she called for a priest.Fahri has denied murdering Jimmy Mizen. He told the police in an interview that he had acted in self defence.The case continues