A businessman who became a darling of the City of London for building a hugely profitable insurance firm is facing prison today after being found guilty of a corporate cover-up to rank with the Maxwell affair and the collapse of Barings bank.Michael Bright, the founder and chief executive of Independent Insurance, dreamed of building a world-beating company that insured the country's biggest commercial and industrial properties - but he succeeded only in turning it into one of Britain's "worst commercial disasters", which he then tried to prop up with an elaborate structure of lies and deceit.A jury at Southwark crown court found that Mr Bright, 63, was a liar who for several years, along with two other senior directors, pulled the wool over the eyes of fellow directors, the company's professional advisers and investors in one of the most comprehensive boardroom cover-ups of recent times.Echoing another of Britain's corporate villains, Robert Maxwell, the company's employees not only lost their jobs when the business went bust, but in many cases also their savings, which were wrapped up in company share schemes. More than 1,000 staff were made redundant when the company collapsed in 2001.Other victims included shareholders who lost investments and policyholders with outstanding claims who were unable to repair damage or gain compensation for their losses.In another similarity to the Maxwell case, Bright claimed that whatever actions he took were for the benefit of the company, which by the end of the 1990s was worth almost £1bn. From the witness box he tearfully accused staff of hiding vital details of contracts that would eventually ruin the company.The case has seen more than £366m paid out in compensation by the Financial Services Authority and the bill for taxpayers has continued to grow with the multimillion-pound, four-month trial, one of the most complex ever mounted by the Serious Fraud Office.The prosecution provides the SFO with a long-awaited high-profile victory after a series of difficult cases, most notably the investigation of bribery allegations against BAE staff negotiating the Al Yamamah arms deal.The court heard that figures were manipulated, massive undisclosed liabilities "buried", and loss-making contracts that offloaded risks to other insurers were "concealed".A damning internal audit report a year before the collapse highlighted major concerns with the operation of the business. Yet it was swept aside and its findings filed away.The jury spent more than 40 hours over nine days considering the evidence, before they found Bright, of Smarden in Kent, guilty of two counts of conspiracy to defraud. His former finance director Dennis Lomas, 56, from Haywards Heath, West Sussex, was similarly convicted, and his former deputy managing director Philip Condon, 48, who lives in Sevenoaks, Kent, was found guilty of one of the charges and acquitted of the other.Sentencing was delayed until today by Judge Rivlin QC, though all were expected to receive custodial sentences.The Serious Fraud Office said the picture painted by the company was in stark contrast to the one given in the annual accounts published in early 2001.The company's rise to become Britain's ninth largest insurer was meteoric. Within a few years of its founding in 1986, the company was undercutting rivals and boosting profits at a blistering pace.It started business selling motor and household policies, but when premiums started to tumble in the early-1990s recession Independent moved into the more lucrative and riskier business of commercial and industrial insurance. By the late 1990s the company was the largest insurer of hot-air balloons and caravan parks. It insured the Williams formula one motor-racing team, 250,000 council homes and several high street retail chains.Some analysts said at the time the company was maintaining only a fraction of the reserves it needed to cover these huge insurance liabilities, but Mr Bright brushed any criticism aside.The City fell in love with his ebullient, no-nonsense style that emphasised the need for profit growth at every opportunity. Mr Bright held a substantial stake in the business and by the time of its collapse it was worth in excess of £60m.The trial focused on two frauds. The first was a form of off-balance-sheet accounting that involved keeping contracts and claims information on whiteboards before entering them on the main computer system. The court heard how directors were kept in the dark along with actuaries, auditors, re-insurers, shareholders and policyholders by not entering the information on to the main system.The second charge concerned re-insurance contracts used to offset liabilities with other insurers. Several were lossmaking and hidden from view.Bright blamed a former member of staff for writing poor contracts and sowing the seeds of the company's demise. The businessman claimed the former executive repeatedly ignored company procedures by selling large numbers of insurance policies to "four favourite brokers".He also blamed external advisers. He said he took comfort from statements by KPMG, the company's auditors, and actuaries Watson Wyatt that the company was a going concern.Bright told the court if he had been guilty of anything it was dismissing his company's problems as simply an "administrative quagmire". By the time he realised the truth it was too late, for by then a "frightening black hole" full of "nasty, black, crawly things" had already infected the insurance giant like a "black cancer".Mr Lomas, who complained he never received many emails sent to him, argued he was unaware of the scale of the problems and Mr Condon said he had nothing to do with any alleged misuse of the "whiteboards" and denied any knowledge of a cover-up. The jury rejected that part of his evidence, but accepted he knew nothing about the reinsurance negotiations.ProfileMichael Bright, 62, was once lauded as one of the country's leading businessmen. He lived a flamboyant lifestyle with three homes - a converted oast house in Kent, a flat in the City and a villa in Marbella. He talked big and boasted of rival insurance companies he planned to take over.The City lapped it up. Analysts who questioned Independent's finances were brushed aside as the profits piled up. But many saw him as an old-fashioned ogre who ruled with a rod of iron and he eventually came to see himself in the same light.At the hearing he broke down as he described how he became "unbearable" to work for as the company spun out of control. He said the accounts were a "mystery quagmire". He told the jury how he struggled to solve the group's problems. But they decided he was only trying to preserve his telephone number salary.Miraculously, despite being sacked and made bankrupt with debts in excess of £4m, he has managed to keep all three homes. It emerged that deals between his wife Catherine, a 50% owner of the properties, and his trustee in bankruptcy allowed the couple to maintain the properties.It is understood he has spent the six years since he was dismissed living on his £3m pension pot.