Over the last few days we have had a number of petty robberies in church. Someone got their hands on a spare key, or made a copy, and has been letting themselves in and stealing everything from loo rolls to money. After the second robbery we arranged for the locks to be changed – which cost a few hundred quid that we don’t really have. But worst of all, the night before the locksmith arrived, the thief came back for a third time, taking the food we collect for the local food bank and nicking the church candlesticks straight off the altar.Since then I’ve been pondering that bit from Les Misérables in which Jean Valjean is caught by the gendarmes stealing silver from the church. This is how Victor Hugo describes the bishop’s reaction on being presented with the thief. “Ah! Here you are!” he exclaimed, looking at Valjean. “I am glad to see you. Well, but how is this? I gave you the candlesticks too, which are of silver like the rest, and for which you can certainly get 200 francs. Why did you not carry them away with your forks and spoons?” This is the moment of redemption on which the story turns. The bishop continues: “Jean Valjean, my brother, you no longer belong to evil, but to good. It is your soul that I buy from you; I withdraw it from black thoughts and the spirit of perdition, and I give it to God.”As it happened, I wasn’t given the opportunity to see how I would react in similar circumstances because the police were unable to catch the thief. Instead, they kindly supplied me with some paperwork and lots of silvery gray fingerprint dust over the doors. Anyway, I reckon my boss, archdeacon Jane, would not have taken kindly to me giving away the church’s silver, even if the intended purpose was one man’s eternal salvation. But that aside, I’m not sure it really works like that. It’s too romantic a picture. Like the idea of the saintly prostitute Fantine, it operates as a cartoon-type fantasy of salvation. Most of the Valjeans I’ve known would have left with the bishop’s candlesticks sniggering to themselves what a sucker he’d been. And most of the priests and bishops I’ve known would have been (rightly) pissed off at being robbed – and not got all sentimental about it. A few years in a tough parish tends to rob you of that. The idea that the clergy are credulously naive about human motivation is remarkably superficial My part of south London is not Les Misérables. Some of it is becoming gentrified, with social housing being fast replaced by glass designer buildings. But this is where Charlie Chaplin experienced the misery of the workhouse. And it continues to make the headlines for all the wrong reasons. Last month, two terrified young boys were forced off a bus from Brixton and threatened into performing a sex act on each other in the old churchyard. Loneliness, poverty, stone-throwing kids, scary dark alleys, drug problems, social breakdown: its not Les Misérables, but I recognise some of the features. Not least the feeling of not being important, of being ignored. I listened wearily to the budget, knowing it had nothing to offer many people here. I understand why people become revolutionaries. When “affordable housing” is defined as 80% of the market rate, and when the market rate is astronomical, what other hope is there?But the strange thing is, once my cynicism is all out of the way, once I’ve distanced myself from Victor Hugo’s fanciful romanticism about poverty, I do think Les Misérables is on to something. According to the great Peruvian writer Mario Vargas Llosa, Les Misérables “is not the story of an ex-convict and Fantine’s daughter but a drama in which the leading character is the infinite. Man takes second place”. And I suppose it’s this wider perspective that enables the church to stay in tough places without losing hope. Because it’s a hope that is not premised upon a faith in human beings. The idea that the clergy are credulously naive about human motivation is remarkably superficial. I don’t give money to the guy who bangs on the door because I believe his story. Or because I am nice – because I’m not. I do it (sometimes) because it reaffirms the perspective of infinity from which such trifling things as church candlesticks just do not matter.@giles_fraser