Police have released CCTV footage taken moments before a man was run over while trying to prevent his car being stolen outside Liverpool John Lennon airport on Tuesday morning.A 20-year-old arrested last night is the second man being held in connection with the death of Michael Howard, 57, from Preston who died after he became trapped under the wheels of his car. The pictures show Mr Howard unloading his bags outside the airport just before the carjacker struck. It was the third carjacking incident at the airport in six months. Mr and Mrs Howard had been due to fly to the Spanish holiday resort of Malaga at 6.40am on Tuesday. Mr Howard's children Jonathan, David and Lisa were comforting their mother yesterday at their home in the Hesketh Bank area of Preston. Police believe Mr Howard, who was operations manager of Manchester-based pharma ceutical company Mawdsleys, ran to the front of the vehicle to try to stop the theft. Mawdsleys managing director Ian Brownlee said: "Everyone is absolutely devastated by the news and we will miss him very much. Our hearts go out to his wife and family." Another couple who foiled an almost identical carjacking at the airport last October, spoke out yesterday. Sandra and Len Jones, from Heswall, Merseyside, were targeted as they unloaded their car in front of the terminal building. Mr Jones had left the keys in the ignition of his silver BMW as he searched for a luggage trolley. His wife Sandra said that as she got out of the car she saw a man had jumped into the driver's seat and was fumbling with the ignition. She said: "There was a car, a white Mondeo, next to our car with another man in. The back door of our car was open on the passenger side and I leant in and screamed at the man. He couldn't start it because it has an electronic gear box and you need to push a button on the gear stick. He looked at me and got out again and ran off." She said she wasn't really impressed with security at the airport. "What happened to that poor man proves things have to change," she added. There was a similar incident in December when a Volkswagen four-wheel-drive owned by the father of racing driver David Coulthard was stolen. In Bradford there was a nother incident on Tuesday when a woman had her leg broken after thieves ran her over with her own car as she tried to stop them stealing another vehicle in the Lidget Green area. A gang of three men turned on the 54-year-old mother when she saw them in a car which she knew was not theirs and threatened to call police. The incident happened hours after Mr Howard was killed. Detective Inspector Sean Bowie of West Yorkshire police said: "A lot of members of the public do want to get involved when they see something like this happening, but we strongly advise that they do not take risks but contact us straight away." The woman was taken to Bradford Royal Infirmary where her condition was said to be satisfactory last night.