When Jane is at home, local children throw eggs at the windows of her Sheffield flat; when she goes out, her adult neighbours hurl verbal abuse. Jane is vilified only because she is the mother of a serious offender - her daughter was convicted, along with her boyfriend, of inflicting numerous injuries on their baby. Jane's daughter is in prison, and her 11-month-old grandson has been adopted. Jane's grief is palpable - she keeps the room where her grandson stayed at her house just as it was when he was taken, with clothes hanging in the wardrobe and toys on the floor. She tries to balance the need to support her daughter, whom she still loves, with her own conflicting feelings of guilt, blame and anger, while all the time having to face the fury of strangers, and cope with the loss of those friends and family members who have avoided her since the court case.Jane's story is woven from the same threads as those of the other 31 relatives of serious offenders I interviewed for my book, Families Shamed - all of whom have suffered as a result of the behaviour of their loved ones. We know from some high-profile cases that the vilification such families suffer can be prolonged. The parents of Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, who killed James Bulger in 1993, had to move to new cities and assume new identities after death threats; Primrose Shipman, the wife of serial killer Harold, was the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and speculation about what she might have known. And now the family of the Virginia Tech campus killer, Cho Seung-hui, has gone to ground since the shootings.When Seung-hui's sister said: "We are humbled by this darkness. We feel hopeless, helpless and lost," she could have been speaking for any one of the relatives I spoke to. "This is someone that I grew up with and loved," she went on. "We could never have believed that he was capable of so much violence. He has made the world weep. We are living a nightmare."All the family members I spoke to described the devastating impact of becoming outcasts as a result of their loved ones' actions. "It was just a nightmarish time. I couldn't believe it was happening," said Harriet, whose son was accused of sexually abusing his own children. "You actually feel you're going to go mad; the brain cannot take this degree of trauma. Either it will explode or I shall go mad.""Debilitating" is how Anne described the impact of finding out her 17-year-old son had been arrested for rape. She feared going out; it was two years before she started to feel better. "I'd lost my son as I knew him ... I'd lost his future." Some relatives were so traumatised that they contemplated suicide.Bringing shame upon the family is a notion more commonly associated with faraway cultures and closely bound extended families. In our society, however, the ties that bind kin together are strong enough for dishonour to flow from the actions of one relative to another, and for a family's reputation to be irreversibly damaged by the actions of one member. When those actions comprise some of the gravest and most vilified crimes in our society, the whole family can be stigmatised."It was just like a nightmare. It was surreal," says Emma Jackson when asked about the day her husband came home, panicking and covered in another man's blood. "It was the day my life changed for ever." Her husband, a small-time drug dealer, told her he had killed a man, stabbing him several times. He was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to 10 years, leaving Emma alone with their two children.It was then that the death threats started - furious and explicit threats by people associated with the victim. Emma was told by the police that her life and the lives of her children were in grave danger and that she should leave the city immediately. She was given the telephone number of a refuge in another city and escorted by the police on to the motorway: "I didn't want to go but I had to. I was in shock."She tried to keep in touch by telephone, but some of her friends did not return her calls: "When it comes to killings, people get judgmental." And not just about the killer.Emma and her children lived in the refuge for 18 months. They had counselling and Emma changed her name to protect her anonymity. She worried terribly about the effect on her children, particularly her daughter, who at the age of nine suddenly had to leave her home, her school and all her friends: "For years she was crying that she wanted to go home. It stole her personality; it took her sparkle."Relatives of prisoners face numerous practical difficulties: financial problems, concerns about visiting and worry about the impact on children. Most salient for many relatives, however, was the stigma and shame associated with the serious offence. This "kin contamination" follows them everywhere - even to the prison visiting room. Lillian, whose son is a convicted paedophile, says: "You might get talking to somebody, and talk to their child. And then when you go in, if they say to their husband, 'Oh, I've been talking to that woman over there; she's a nice lady.' And then he could turn around and say, 'Well, you don't want to talk to her; the person she's visiting is a sex offender.' And then the next time you go this person won't even acknowledge you."Eileen, whose husband was convicted of sexual offences against their grandchildren, has had similar experiences: "We are pariahs ... suddenly you're a second-class citizen. You might as well be a tramp under Waterloo Bridge. Had he just stolen something, I wouldn't have felt like that. We're outcasts."All of the relatives I spoke to felt they had been contaminated by their familial association with offenders - "tarred with the same brush" for sharing a common background and by an alleged genetic connection that provokes very primitive ideas of bad blood. They were blamed and deemed to be responsible through imagined sins of omission, something they did not do. Onlookers assume that they must have known, or should have known, that the offence was likely, and that they should have stopped it. Or it is assumed that the offender behaved in the way they did because of something the family member did - that some deed in the past caused or contributed to the offending.All the people I spoke to had lost friends. All talked of people crossing the road rather than talk to them. A mother was spat at; a wife had all the windows in her house broken; one mother received abusive phone calls; and a wife was taunted in the street: "You murderer's wife."Lillian felt the gaze of blame even though her son was in his 50s when he was arrested: "They always say, 'It's the way he's been brought up. It must be his parents' fault.' They never think these people have a life of their own."Relatives also wrestled privately with self-blame, wondering if they had played a role in what happened. As Beryl, whose son was convicted of murder, said, "You wonder where you've gone wrong. You think, 'Why did it happen? Is it something I've done?'"Penny talked of feeling very guilty when her son was convicted of rape: "Because I'd given birth to him. And, I know a person is responsible for his own actions ... but it was as if I was partly responsible for what happened."Like many of those I spoke to, Emma decided to stand by her husband. "I had to think about whether I could do the sentence with him. He's always supported me, and been a good father to the children. He's a nice person, a genuine person. To see him you wouldn't think he was capable of what he did."Many were keen to show others the good in the offender. They felt they were further blamed for this, their support interpreted as condoning the offence. They were keen to point out that this was not the case and that they could stand by their husbands or sons while still being horrified at what he had done. As Emma says: "I do believe him that it was self-defence, but at the end of the day a woman lost her child."Emma's life is more settled now, her children are happy at school, but she cannot help but draw comparisons between her old life and her new life. She left behind a house with a garden and now lives in a flat in a tower block; she used to enjoy going for dinner with her family but can now no longer visit them; she had a part-time job but now she is in considerable debt; she used to feel that others regarded her as a decent human being but now she is an outcast. "When he did what he did, the rug was really pulled."· All names have been changed. Prisoners Families' Helpline 0808 808 2003.· Dr Rachel Condry is a research fellow in the LSE's law department. Her book, Families Shamed: The Consequences of Crime for Relatives of Serious Offenders, is published by Willan at £40. To order a copy for £36 with free UK p&p, go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0870 836 0875