I blogged here a couple of weeks ago about how anti-Muslim violence appears to be on the increase following a recent spate of arson attacks on mosques in the UK. Since then, there have been a number of additional worrying incidents including the torching of an Islamic charity shop last week in Glasgow following the receipt of threatening hate messages. Last week there was also an arson attack on the home of a Muslim community organiser, Noor Ramjanally, in Loughton, Essex, after he was sent a threatening letter by suspected far-right activists. Every week he had been hiring a community hall for the purpose of holding the Friday Jumu'ah prayer.Ramjanally told the local paper:Every Friday we have our prayers and meetings, then we disperse. This Wednesday I received a threatening letter saying: 'We don't want you to carry on at this. We know which school your kid goes to and which car you drive.'On Thursday they set fire to the front door of my home. They used an accelerant. It's with the police and they are doing all the checks.I'm OK, but my wife and kid are very disturbed. I've had to take my kid out of his school. It's definitely targeted. They don't want the Islamic community centre in Loughton, I don't know why.Police have confirmed they are investigating both incidents as racially motivated.At the weekend, it was revealed that a number of people had been charged after a network of suspected far-right extremists with access to 300 weapons and 80 bombs was uncovered by counter-terrorism detectives. The Sunday Times described the police raids as the "largest seizure of a suspected terrorist arsenal since the IRA mainland bombings of the early 1990s. Rocket launchers, grenades, pipe bombs and dozens of firearms have been recovered in the past six weeks during raids on more than 20 properties."Police sources say that in another recent case not linked to those arrests, detectives seized maps and plans of mosques from the homes of suspected far-right supporters.Concerns among senior police officers that far-right extremists were planning a terrorist "spectacular" in a bid to further stoke up racial and religious tensions in the UK were reported in the Guardian on Tuesday.There have also been a number of demonstrations ostensibly against "Islamic extremism" in Birmingham, Luton and London which appear to have been heavily infiltrated – if not actually organised – by far-right elements including known British National party activists.In Scotland, Neil MacGregor is waiting to be sentenced following his conviction on a charge of breaching the peace (racially aggravated). MacGregor, 35, was convicted in April after having admitted to threatening to blow up Scotland's biggest mosque and to behead one Muslim a week until every mosque in Scotland was shut down. MacGregor had been found to have sent Strathclyde police an email in which he said:I'm a proud racist and National Front member. We as an organisation have decided to deal with the current threat from Muslims in our own British way like our proud ancestors ... Our demands are very small. Close all mosques in Scotland, we see this is very easy – even you guys can handle that ... If our demands aren't met by next Friday we'll kidnap one Muslim and execute him or her on the internet, just like they did to our Ken Bigley.Anti-Muslim violence is also on the increase in Europe as witnessed by the rise in support for explicitly anti-Muslim far-right parties in recent elections and the gruesome murder last week in a German courtroom of a hijab-wearing Egyptian lady in front of her three-year-old son. She had been stabbed by a racist who was in court for having abused her as an "Islamist whore" and "terrorist".Of course, mindless violence against minorities is nothing new in the world or even Europe, as we saw with the terrible prejudice shown against the immigrant Roma community in Northern Ireland just a few weeks ago.Sometimes in my more optimistic moods I like to think that we in Europe have managed through education and legislation to confine these issues to history. Sadly this does not appear to be the case and it looks as if we are heading for some very troubling and testing times.