Police and social workers have identified over 100 young people who they fear may be drawn into Manchester's brutal gang wars, which have already claimed more than two dozen lives in the past five years. The names of the youths, some as young as nine, have been put on a confidential database run by the city's multi-agency gang strategy (Mags) after intelligence showed they risked ending up either as killers or victims of gangland hitmen. 'These are kids who, if left to their own devices, will end up with a gun in their hands or a bullet in their heads,' says Detective Inspector Mark Powell of the Greater Manchester Police. Most live in the city's 'gang triangle' between Longsight, Moss Side and Hulme. The area has seen at least 26 gangland executions as the main gangs - the Longsight Crew, the Doddington Gang and Gooch Close Gang - each named after the districts from which they hail, have fought a bloody battle for control of the city's multi-million-pound drug trade. Earlier this month 19-year-old Longsight Crew member Fabian Flowers, who was suspected of involvement in the drug trade, became the latest victim when he was shot dead in the lavatory of a lap dancing club. He was wearing a bullet-proof jacket at the time but was shot in the head at close range. One Mancunian gangland figure told The Observer: 'The Longsight Crew are trying to take over everything. They are the youngest and most violent and are trying to make a name for themselves. They will take out anyone who gets in their way.' Flowers died the same week that Julian Bell, 26, founder of the Longsight Crew, began a 20-year-sentence for drug and gun offences connected to his £1 million criminal empire. Bell, who has been in a wheelchair after falling off a stolen motorcycle at the age of 12 and fracturing his spine, formed the gang after his brother Orville, 17, was shot dead at the wheel of his car by members of the Gooch gang in October 1996. At the age of 18 Bell received £500,000 compensation for the motorcycle accident and bought himself a smart bungalow in Preston, Lancashire, and a specially adapted BMW. Eager to avenge his brother's death, he decided to move into crime, relying on his wealth rather than physical strength and buying the loyalty and respect of those around him. He rewarded gang members with gems, Rolex watches and bulletproof jackets. He also paid minders to look after him and hired gunmen to carry out shootings on his behalf. Although police hope the length of his sentence will act as a deterrent, they know the vast sums to be made from the local drug trade will mean others are ready to take his place. 'We can be very effective at catching certain people and locking them up for a long time,' says Detective Inspector Powell, who is in charge of the police's input into the Mags project. 'But in the long term we realised that this wasn't solving the problem.' To illustrate the point Powell produces a newspaper headline from 12 years ago which announces the police are to wage war on gun crime and contrasts it with another from last year showing that gun crime has risen 35 per cent in the past decade. 'The police cannot win this war on their own. It has to involve the community. That is why the Mags project was started.' The project already appears to be having an impact on crime levels but Powell recognises that it is hard to convince youngsters to go straight when they can earn £200 a day or more working in the drug industry. Although the names of the city's main gangs are well known, Powell refuses to use them. He believes this gives them an added air of glamour which makes them even more attractive. 'We are trying to take away that image. We arrange for young people to talk to those in prison so they know what a life of crime can lead to. Giving the gangs names makes them seem more organised that they actually are. We're not talking about slick criminal organisations - we're talking about kids with guns.' Others disagree. Many of the gangs are said to be highly sophisticated and some have access to private doctors who will treat gunshot wounds without informing the police. There have also been incidents where the wounded have been given basic assistance by fellow gang members and then taken abroad for professional treatment. This, say those on the fringes of the gangs, is the reason that while the number of incidents involving gunfire has remained fairly constant over the past year, the number turning up with gunshot wounds in hospital has declined. Elsewhere, other projects have sprung up to fight for the hearts and minds of the city's youth. Those in charge of the schemes are particularly disturbed at the emergence of a new gang, dubbed the Young Longsight Soldiers, whose membership is said to be made up mostly of teenagers excluded from the school sys tem. A significant number of the 106 youth identified by Mags are believed to have connections to the new gang. Last weekend saw the last of a series of 'peace' events organised by the community group Charisma whose Erinma Bell says: 'We targeted primary schools because we found that a lot of the eight- and nine-year-olds were looking up to the older kids involved in crime and trying to emulate them. At that age the children can be moulded. By the time they get to secondary school it is almost too late. There you have 11-year-olds mixing directly with 16-year-olds and it is much harder to get through to them. 'A few weeks ago I was giving a presentation to students of 13 and 14. I asked them to come up with reasons for joining a gang, and they had no trouble filling the flip chart. Then I asked how they would get the money to buy an expensive piece of jewellery if they did not turn to crime, and they struggled. That is scary. And these weren't bad kids - they were just average. That's how deeply ingrained the gang lifestyle is.' The 106 youngsters were identified after the Mags project isolated factors which seem to be common to gang membership including exclusion from school, absentee parents and arrests from an early age. The authorities now hope that by intervening in their lives they will be able to deter them from being drawn into a life of crime. Despite recent slight falls in the levels of gun crime, inner south Manchester remains one of the most dangerous parts of the country. In 2002 the firearms murder rate for England and Wales was 0.09 per 100,000 head of population, compared with 5.4 per 100,000 for the US. In Greater Manchester the rate was to 10 per 100,000, while in Longsight, Moss Side and Hulme it was 140 per 100,000.