A drink driver who killed two police officers when he deliberately smashed his van into their patrol car during a high-speed chase was jailed for 14 years yesterday.Leayon Dudley, 41, from Acocks Green, Birmingham, had admitted two manslaughter charges at a retrial. He was sentenced yesterday at Stafford crown court. He had originally been jailed for life for the deaths of PCs Andrew Munn and Bryan Moore on the A42 in Leicestershire in August 2002. The officers were killed when Dudley's van hit their car, mounting a kerb to avoid the police roadblock. PC Munn was killed instantly and his colleague died later in hospital. Dudley, who was trapped in the overturned van, swore at and punched the officer who rescued him from the wreckage. At the original trial he was convicted of murdering one of the officers and unlawfully killing the other. The appeal court ruled the convictions unsafe after hearing evidence on the accident that had not been allowed. Mr Justice Mitting, sentencing Dudley, said: "Your decision condemned the officer, and as it happens, his passenger, to death." Dudley was also banned from driving for 10 years. A retrial was due to start last week but the prosecution was unable to bring a second trial on two counts of murder as Dudley had already been acquitted of the murder of PC Munn. Frances Oldham, prosecuting, said that after consultation with the families of the two victims, they had decided "with extreme reluctance" not to proceed with the murder charge. The widows of both officers, Sarah Moore and Allison Munn, were both in court for the sentencing yesterday. Outside court last week, Mrs Munn said she felt cheated by the legal system which saw Dudley convicted for the manslaughter of her late husband and cleared of murder. She said: "We arrived at court, expecting to receive a fair hearing but due to gaps in the judicial system, we have been left with no alternative but to accept two counts of manslaughter." She added: "This man has now been given the right to diminish his sentence, diminish his convictions and quite literally get away with murder. "Are our husbands' lives worth that little?"