The sister of Amar Aslam, the teenager found murdered in Dewsbury at the weekend, today said his death had "shattered our family". Samreen Aslam spoke out as police continued to question seven people, including six children, about her brother's death in the walled garden of a park. "Nothing can replace our brother, and we still believe he will come through the door," she said in a statement issued through police. "This has shattered our family, and it won't be the same without him. There will always be a gap where there is a part missing. "Amar's nickname was Moon, because he was like a shining moon to us. He was the second brother and the baby of the family. "He was very close to his family, and especially his mum." Three boys, aged 12, 13 and 15 were today arrested in connection with the murder of the 17-year-old.Officers investigating whether he was set upon by a gang in front of a large crowd of people have so far detained seven people, including four 15-year-old boys and a 20-year-old man.It was originally thought the attack could have been racially motivated, but the Labour MP for Dewsbury, Shahid Malik, last night said three suspects were Asian."This means that the race motive so far, perhaps, is not one that might be the cause of the death," he told the BBC.Aslam's body was found by two people in Crow Nest park at around 7.30pm on Sunday. A post mortem examination revealed that he died of head injuries after a "sustained and brutal" attack, police said.Officers said they believed there could be a link between his death and reports of running battles between two gangs in the area.A source close to Aslam's family yesterday said the bank holiday had been marred by warring gangs. The man, who did not want to be named, added: "Stuff went on in the park between different gangs of youths during the day. It's possible that what happened to this boy was a continuation of that violence."A West Yorkshire police spokesman said investigators were "still looking at a possible motive, so we cannot link the boy's death to anything else at this moment". He added: "We are looking at what happened in the park during the day."Detective Superintendent Chris Thompson, leading the inquiry, said he was "very confident" that there had been a large number of witnesses to the assault. "As it was a sunny day, it was very busy and there weas a large number of young people in the park. It is very important they come forward," he said.The killing came six months after another Asian man died violently in Dewsbury.Two teenagers are to be tried at Leeds crown court next month, charged with the murder of Ahmed Hassan, 17, from Batley, West Yorkshire. He died after an incident at Dewsbury train station on December 15 last year.Five men aged between 19 and 26 were arrested today on suspicion of murder in a separate incident after a 31-year-old man was stabbed to death in Bradford, West Yorkshire.