While there are still those in society who would like people sent to prison to be further punished, it is the deprivation of liberty that is the punishment for breaking the law: prison as punishment not prison for punishment.Of course, with incarceration come other restrictions. But it is the extent to which such restrictions are imposed, either by design or default, that lie at the heart of the current debate around penal policy. The starting point has always been the UN’s Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, dating back to 1955.It has taken a mere 60 years for them to be revised, with the United Nations Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice finally adopting the crucial changes only two weeks ago. Now termed The Mandela Rules – named in honour of the late South African president Nelson Mandela, they aren’t binding, although they represent a powerful global consensus on minimum standards.Incarcerating someone decently and humanely is only the start; jurisdictions should examine who they are locking up and why, as well as ensuring that prisoners don’t keep coming back. Even where reasonable standards of treatment apply, the penal systems can make things worse unnecessarily worse.In 2006, a test case was brought against the then Home Office by a group of serving prisoners, who alleged that the drug treatment they received in the community prior to incarceration did not continue in prison. The prison service did not support the methadone maintenance regimes that were widely practiced in the community. The prisoners won: compensation was paid to hundreds and the concept of equivalence for medical treatment was firmly established, although much remains to be done.Poor health is just one common characteristic of the prison population, alongside fractured social relationships and poor educational attainment and employment history. Prisons struggle to support prisoners who wish to keep in contact with family and friends, while real work, eight hours a day for less than the minimum wage, still remains the holy grail for successive governments.However, it is in education that there are quick wins. Few dispute the principle of education in prison, but the “what” and “how” warrants much more debate. The emphasis around the “what” has always been on basic and key skills, using questionable literacy and numeracy statistics. Given high reoffending rates, such emphasis exposes the courses as ineffective or as part of a simple repeat prescription model. In addition, we now have many people serving very long sentences for whom basic and key skills are relevant only at the start of decades of incarceration. Further and higher education become not only more relevant but also play an integral tole in making our prisons safe and effective.The “how” has yet to embrace the digital age and modern methods by which students learn in the community. We would regard it as totally unreasonable for any school or college student to be denied a laptop or internet access, yet for prisoners it is our expectation. That doesn’t mean that serial killers and terrorists should have their own Facebook page and Twitter accounts. It is to say that some prisoners, in some situations at some point in their sentence might just benefit from such access to a modern world that they will some day re-enter.There is considerable evidence to support the benefits of distance learning in prisons. There has been some investment in hardware under the auspices of what has become known as the “virtual campus”. But at the heart of the process lies the provision of education in prison through regularly tendered contracts with a variety of further education college providers.The Prisoner’s Education Trust has analysed the issue in great depth in its report The Future of Prison Education Contracts. It is a story of missed opportunities and enforced idleness. The need for a modern approach is not lost on the practitioners tasked with running prisons and managing security. A joint Prisoners Education Trust and Prison Reform Trust report in 2013 found that 74% of the prison governors and managers who responded to the survey agreed that prisoners should have secure and controlled access to the internet; 94% agreed ICT skills were necessary for everyday living.With apologies to Eliza Cook: better build digital schoolrooms for the boy than cells and gibbets for the man.