The Metropolitan police says it has arrested almost 2,000 people in connection with London's riots and that more than half have been charged. It's a consoling relief that these may include perpetrators of some of the most sickening acts that took place in the capital, including the robbery in Barking of a Malaysian student, the torching of a furniture shop in Croydon that had been a local institution and the murder of a pensioner in Ealing. Amid all the cheap talk about "robust policing" and "surge capacity" it's easy to forget that catching and convicting pitiless crooks is no bad way for cops to deter others and to nourish public confidence, whether in London or elsewhere.The post-riots debate on British policing has neglected the small matter of effective detection in favour of big blather about supercops and point-scoring over budgets. As a Londoner who felt the riot waves lapping quite close to his own doorstep, I can't help feeling that it's not the only example of misplaced priorities and narrow vision as the Met enters a further period of upheaval. A new commissioner will soon succeed Sir Paul Stephenson, and a new constitutional arrangement could be in place from the start of October. There might be a different London mayor next May, with a different approach to crime from the present one. The Olympics and the build-up to them already present a giant challenge.Liberal Democrat peer Dee Doocey, who is also a member of the London Assembly and the Metropolitan Police Authority, has argued that the coalition should defer its reorganisation of the Met until after the 2012 election and games, but even such a delay would be unlikely to produce a golden dawn of fresh thinking about addressing urban crime. The interminable "police numbers" quarrel, already a soporific staple of the mayoral election diet, boils down to a giant tiff over tiny variations on the figure of 32,500. The term "frontline policing" is freely bandied as the antithesis to "endless form-filling" (or something), despite nobody knowing what it means. A more rational row is raging about soon-to-shrink community policing teams, but that's as deep as the argument gets.We need a far more searching look at how police resources are deployed and what we want the Met in London to be for. One of the riot scenarios I witnessed has left me pondering the heresy that a dramatic incursion of riot vans might have helped create the conditions for confrontations rather than pre-empting villainy. Accumulated controversies have hardly endeared the territorial support group, with its batons and balaclavas, to significant numbers of Londoners. The possibility that this successor to the discredited special patrol group has become a similar liability should not be dismissed. We can be confident, alas, that it will be.The same applies to the value of the use of stop-and-search powers, which London mayors present and past have endorsed. Statistics provide no proof that it lessens violent crime against teenagers and young adults, which police figures indicate has risen since 2008. Perhaps there is a place for the tactic's limited use, but is it doing more harm than good? Could police time and effort be more profitably devoted to this vital area of crime prevention in different ways?Dare we look critically at the value of more "bobbies on the beat", for which the public appetite is insatiable? What difference does having more police patrolling the streets actually make? Academics at the London School of Economics have calculated that a 10% increase in police deployment reduces the crime rate by roughly 3%. This doesn't seem an awful lot. A recent London Assembly investigation heard that pressure to provide more visible policing takes no account of police work behind the scenes that might have a bigger impact on cutting crime.There are still further issues to be examined. There is some feeling, not least among well-placed observers in Tottenham, that an erosion of the authority of local-level policing is part of the story of what went so wrong there. As we warm to calls to combat gang culture and the intolerable effects of "postcode wars" are we deaf to the insistence of "supercop" Bill Bratton that it is first and foremost "a societal problem", which can't be solved by "zero tolerance" or by making arrests alone? David Cameron has praised an anti-gang initiative in Glasgow and London has made a start on something similar, but are we ready to do more if it means cutting back in areas that are politically trickier?A smothering consensus has placed raising many of these questions beyond the boundaries of political debate in London at a time when they should be central to it. The right level of funding for policing is, of course, essential but no amount of cash alone can make the Metropolitan police or any other more trusted, efficient and effective. Politicians, the media and police officers themselves should be thinking hard and talking out loud about how best to achieve these things. Will they? Don't get your hopes up.