Perhaps it is not surprising that Sir William Macpherson of Cluny, 27th chief of his clan and a former member of the SAS, is fond of military analysis. He does not want to say anything "too incendiary" for fear of whipping up unnecessary controversy. But he is obviously fed up with the "sniping".Sir William has kept his own counsel at his 15th century home, Newton Castle, since the publication of his seminal report into the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry almost 12 months ago.He has chosen next week's anniversary to make what will be his final pronouncement on the inquiry, his rightwing critics and his hopes for the way race relations will develop in the future. While most of what he says is measured and he insists he is happy with the "generous acceptance" of his report in most quarters, certain issues have irritated him beyond constraint. He says senior officers in the Metropolitan police must stop talking about the "grieving process" that officers have gone through over the past year. "The Lawrences grieve and they will never stop grieving because they lost their son. A police force doesn't grieve. The police have taken a blow, they've got to get over it. Putting it in military terms, if a regiment has been castigated for getting something wrong, what sort of set up would it be if a year later they were still complaining against conclusions properly made against them? They have to get on with it. I would like to hear someone say, 'that's all behind us now. Let's get cracking together'. "I would like to think that's the way I would have dealt with it if I was in charge. It makes me sound like an old fossil but perhaps I am." Stop and search is another vexing issue. He says it is "an absurd over-simplification" to link a fall in stop and searches with the rise in street crime. And he has no truck with those in the media and the police who blame his report for causing officers to use the tool more carefully. One Daily Telegraph writer recently said Sir William, who will be 75 later this year, had "blood on his hands" because the police did not dare stop and search for fear of being branded racist. "We pointed out the discriminatory nature of stop and search. It's up to the police to look at it and get it right. Were we to say nothing about it or to ignore the problem that exists and the unrest in the black community? If the police are holding off because they are afraid of being called racist that is not the fault of the re port. The report didn't cause the problem, it highlighted the problem. "The sooner they act properly and do their stop and searches properly the better. It rankles with me that I am being made responsible for the police stopping doing their job properly." Sir William says he is "surprised, disappointed and momentarily angered" by the rightwing backlash to his report. He knows he could have sued the Daily Telegraph for that article ("without any question at all"), but does not want to be drawn into a game of what he calls "insult tennis". Sir William stands by all 70 of his recommendations but wishes he had expanded on three of the most contentious; a review of the law regarding double jeopardy, which could open up the possibility of suspects being tried for a second time if compelling fresh evidence emerged; consideration that the use of racist language and the possession of offensive weapons at home could be prosecuted; the inquiry's definition of a racist incident as any "which is perceived to be racist by the victim or any other person". The first two could only apply in exceptional cases, he said. The idea he was advocating 'big brother' policing of dinner party conversations was ridiculous. "Maybe we didn't spell it out enough. The review of double jeopardy is not a zany proposal. It was not plucked from the top of my head. It was positively suggested by lawyers involved in the case [Imran Khan and Michael Mansfield]." He said the video footage which showed some of the Lawrence murder suspects swearing and boasting of attacking black people had been shocking. "That sort of mix of violence and racism combined - it should be possible to do something about it." He remembered that detectives found a claw hammer head attached to a dog's lead at the home of one of the suspects, David Norris. "That is an offensive weapon. What else could it be used for? I didn't expect that these recommendations would be picked up and pilloried. They were based on the evidence we heard. Anyone who had been there and paid proper attention to the evidence would have sympathy for the recommendation to be made." Sir William admitted he has only been keeping a cursory eye on progress made to implement the inquiry findings. He had had enough and wanted to return to retirement. He firmly believes the report remains a blueprint for the future and that the Metropolitan police and the home office are forging ahead. "There is good reason to look forward with optimism and I do." He describes Sir Paul Condon, the former commissioner, as a "courageous and dedicated man", and has faith in his successor, Sir John Stevens. The danger he believes may be that other institutions - the media, industry and business - are not looking hard enough at themselves to identify overt or unwitting racism. He now intends to enjoy continuing his retirement with his wife Sheila, playing golf and not feeling like a sitting target. "I will not say another word after the anniversary. I did my best to reach honourable conclusions. I have been surprised and disappointed that I have been attacked personally, but it is water off a duck's back. "It's time to take things on. I hope the corner has been turned."