The criminal justice system must engage with communities to tackle gun and knife crime, the director of public prosecutions told a conference today. Sir Ken Macdonald QC told criminal justice representatives and community leaders that his organisation was working hard to build links with communities whose close cooperation was needed to build successful cases and agencies should also work together.The Crown Prosecution Service-led conference follows the fatal stabbing of 14-year-old Martin Dinnegan in Holloway - the latest in a series of deaths among youths this year as a result of gun or knife violence in London."In the fight against gun and knife crime, as in the fight against terrorism, engaging with communities is becoming an integral part of our management, planning and strategic decision-making, as well as a crucial part of frontline prosecutor activity," Sir Ken told the conference. "Gun and knife crime often results in a tragic waste of life, not only of its victims but also of its perpetrators. It requires the whole-hearted commitment of everyone involved from youth workers to prosecutors," he added. The conference was set up by the CPS to bring together people working in the criminal justice system, community representatives and individuals who have been directly affected by knife and gun crime. They have been discussing a range of issues and concerns and considering ways of working more closely together in the future. Young people, those living in urban and poor areas and black and minority ethnic communities were disproportionately affected by weapons-related offences, Sir Ken told delegates, and "those communities most severely affected are often those whose trust and confidence in the criminal justice system is the most fragile". "The CPS is determined to use its powers to protect witnesses who take risks in giving evidence. It goes without saying that prosecuting weapons-based crime often demands great courage of victims and witnesses. And anything we can do to encourage their coming forward increases our chance of obtaining convictions," said Sir Ken."We now have the power to use special measures such as anonymity, voice distortion, videolink facilities and screens to assist those giving evidence to do so safely."Kola Williams, director of NW10, a community centre in Harlesden, said she shared Sir Ken's concerns. "Working with the people who suffer the consequences of gun and knife crime soaks up enormous amounts of our time," she said. "Each case is individual but the victims are not only the person who has been killed or injured but also the wider family, it is they who have to live out the nightmare each day for the rest of their lives. "This conference creates an important opportunity for change. All statutory agencies have an important role to play; however, often the answers lie deep within communities and beyond their reach, where trust and confidentiality is everything. "We mediate in these challenging conditions either between warring factions as they prepare to engage or else afterwards seeking to bring peace, harmony and understanding to all."In other recent London incidents Ben Hitchcock, 16, from Penge, south London, was stabbed to death in a fight last weekend after being beaten in Beckenham, Kent, and Annaka Keniesha Pinto, 17, died in hospital after being shot at a bar in Tottenham, north London, early on Saturday.