It has taken 18 months and £2.5m to investigate, prosecute, and defend. But the Svengali-like character who charmed women, spinning wild yarns about his bogus MI5 career while extracting hundreds of thousands of pounds from their bank accounts, has finally been brought to book.Robert Hendy-Freegard, 34, former barman, car salesman, and one of the most accomplished liars police have encountered, could face life imprisonment after being convicted yesterday of two counts of kidnap, 10 of theft and eight of deception.The crimes were perpetrated over 10 years, during which he pulled at least seven women and one man into his web of deceit.The case originally began in January last year. But after three false starts, where Hendy-Freegard changed his legal team each time, the trial finally got under way on October 21. Yesterday, after eight months listening to a story more akin to a blockbuster movie, and four days deliberation, the jury returned its verdict.Hendy-Freegard, from Kilton, Nottinghamshire, was the consummate charmer. Not only was he extremely successful at selling cars to well-heeled female customers, but he secured quite a few dates as well.At first, he was the perfect boyfriend - handsome, attentive, generous, a good listener. But then things got weird. He would disappear for weeks, and then started to drop hints that he wasn't just a car salesman; his real job was much more exciting. He would eventually confide that he was, in fact, an MI5 spy being hunted by IRA killers, the reason for his obsessive secrecy and keeping almost constantly on the move.His fantasies had serious and traumatic consequences. Over a 10-year period, he had managed to convince his victims, in order to con them, and in some cases, their parents, out of huge sums of money, totalling £1m.Born in Kilton in 1971, Hendy-Freegard left school at 15 and trained as a joiner, but he invented another life. In 1993 when a part-time barman in a pub near Harper Adams agricultural college in Newport, Shropshire, he persuaded three students, Sarah Smith, Maria Hendy and John Atkinson, to go on the run with him, insisting they were also in danger from the IRA because of their association with him.He manipulated them like puppets, making them criss-cross the country, subjecting them to bizarre and degrading "tests", and forcing them to hand over their wages to him.Maria Hendy spent eight years with him, giving birth to their two daughters, as he forced her to live in a cramped flat in Sheffield, controlling her every move as he treated himself to a string of expensive cars, a Rolex watch and handmade suits and shoes."When he bought a luxury car, he wanted every extra money could buy," said one man who sold him cars. "If he could have had a diamond-encrusted cigarette lighter, he would have."None of the women knew about his relationships with the others. He often used one woman's money to woo another with gifts and expensive dinners and he juggled up to five of them at the same time, once keeping two women in a house together for a month, but ensuring they didn't communicate with each other by telling them they didn't speak the same language.He ruled by fear. His rages were violent and unpredictable. He would stop on the motorway and threaten to throw a woman out of the car. Maria Hendy claimed that he once smashed her teeth but forced her to lie to the dentist and say she had fallen downstairs. He forced another, newlywed Elizabeth Richardson, to sleep on park benches, surviving on slices of Mars Bars and water from public toilets.He promised his lovers he would marry them. But in the end, all he left were huge holes in their bank accounts and a trail of broken hearts. Many of the women he targeted were intelligent professionals. Caroline Cowper, a successful solicitor, sued him and reported him to police, putting them on the trail of Maria Hendy, John Atkinson and Sarah Smith. But it was his involvement with American child psychologist Kim Adams that eventually led to his arrest.Hendy thought he had struck gold when he met Ms Adams in August 2002, and discovered her stepfather had won thousands of dollars on the lottery. He phoned her employers, telling them she was terminally ill and would not be returning to work, and told her they would live in the Hebrides, spying on Russian submarines.Hendy-Freegard told her parents he had recruited her as a spy and they must send thousands of dollars to pay for her training. When they spoke to her on the phone, she was often crying, but refused to tell them where she was.FBI agentWhen FBI special agent Jaclyn Zappacosta picked up the phone in her US embassy office she heard a familiar voice, that of Scotland Yard fraud detective Bob Brandon, whom she had worked with on a number of cases since she came to London three years ago. "Bob told me a story so incredible I had no choice but to believe it," said Ms Zappacosta."We tried all the usual things, phone records, bank withdrawals, but Hendy-Freegard was such an accomplished fraudster, every avenue dead-ended," said the FBI agent. "In the end, we set a trap through Kim's parents."Ms Adams' mother flew to London, promising to hand over $10,000 to Hendy-Freegard on condition she could see her daughter. But the police were waiting for him at Heathrow. Ms Adams was not with him, but they found her in a nearby car park."At first she just cried and refused to accept we were police officers," said PC Cathy Harrison, who interviewed all Hendy-Freegard's victims at length. "Hendy-Freegard had told her that, because of his M15 role, people pretending to be police officers could swoop on the couple but they would be imposters and she should not cooperate with them."She was immensely traumatised, as were all the victims, and when she opened up it was unbelievable to hear how such a bright, intelligent woman had been so duped by this man."The detectives soon found other victims and were stunned at their equally traumatic stories, as they pieced together just how big a lie Hendy-Freegard had lived and how many people he had fooled.When arrested he had a Polish passport, and had holidayed with Ms Adams recently in the French Alps. Police found letters and papers at a hotel there mentioning other victims. Hendy-Freegard refused to answer any questions. But when he was charged, he said he wanted to talk. However, when police turned on the tape recorder, he spoke "utter nonsense" for two and a half hours, claiming the case against him was a massive conspiracy invented by his accusers.DS Brandon said: "In 25 years as a detective, I've never come across such an accomplished liar. He was just very, very good at spotting people's vulnerabilities, exploiting them and keeping him under his control. All those who testified against him are now on the road to recovery. But he stole a chunk of their lives which they can never get back."The conned, controlled, beaten and fleecedJohn AtkinsonOne of three agricultural students at Harper Adams College, Newport, Shropshire, whom Hendy-Freegard met when he was a barman at local pub, the Swan, in 1993. He told them he was an MI5 spy and persuaded them to drop out and go on the run with him because their lives were in danger from the IRA. He "recruited" Atkinson to a bogus spying mission, beat him to "toughen him up", forced him to perform bizarre initiation tests, and conned him and his family out of £390,000.Sarah SmithAnother of the Harper Adams students, went on the run with him, criss-crossing Britain for 10 years. She once wore a bucket on her head while being moved to a "safe house", unwittingly stayed with another of his girlfriends while pretending not to speak any English, and spent three weeks hiding in a bathroom from terrorists. She handed over all her wages from 16-hour shifts in a chip shop to the fake spy and her family were conned out of £180,000.Maria HendyThe third Harper Adams student was so infatuated with Hendy-Freegard she stayed with him for eight years, giving birth to his two daughters and living in dire poverty while he swanned around in expensive cars and designer suits. He would fly into violent rages. On one occasion, he smashed one of her teeth but forced her to tell the dentist she had fallen down stairs.Elizabeth RichardsonA newly married PA in a Sheffield car dealership when she met Hendy-Freegard in 1995. He forced her to change her name from Bartholomew to Richardson and go on the run, spending nights on park benches and surviving on slices of Mars Bars and water from public toilets. She took out loans for him, for £6,500 and £8,000, which he pocketed. Eventually discovered by police, emaciated and covered in sores in a "hovel" in Dunton Bassett, Leicestershire.Lesley GardnerA civil servant who met Hendy-Freegard in a Newcastle nightclub in 1996. He milked her for £16,000 over six years.Renata KisterA Polish company director who was seven months pregnant and had recently split from her partner when she met Hendy Freegard in the west London car salesroom where he worked. He kept the £10,000 he got for her car, and got her to take out a £15,000 loan for him. He forced her to let Sarah Smith stay at her house for a month but the two women never spoke as he told her Sarah only spoke Spanish.Caroline CowperA high-flying solicitor who met Hendy-Freegard in 2001 when she bought a car from him. They started a relationship and got engaged. He wooed her with expensive gifts and holidays but she was left holding the bill. They split up when she found he had plundered £14,000 from her internet bank account. She sued him for £41,000, and after turning detective and finding out about his lies and involvement with other women, she shopped him to the police.Kimberley AdamsAn American child psychologist and film producer's daughter. After discovering her stepfather had won $20m (£11m) on the lottery, he persuaded the family to send £15,000 for her "spy school" fees. He forced her to leave work, telling her employers she had terminal cancer, and her that they would get married and live in a lighthouse in the Hebrides spying on Russian submarines.He was eventually trapped when the FBI set up a sting involving her mother at Heathrow airport.