A man was jailed for life today with a minimum tariff of 21 years after admitting the murder on a train of a university student who had done no more than look in his direction.Thomas Lee Wood, 22, fatally stabbed Thomas Grant, 19, in the chest on a Virgin train from Glasgow to Devon as it went through Cumbria on May 27.Earlier, on a platform at Carlisle train station, Mr Grant had looked in Wood's direction after hearing him tell a girlfriend that he would steal the food she was planning to eat that evening.Wood, angry over a row with his girlfriend about railway tickets, then stalked the carriage of the train and plunged a knife into Mr Grant "quick and forceful, like a boxer", according to a witness. The train was full of passengers, including children.Passing sentence at Preston crown court, Mr Justice Openshaw told Wood, who had 21 previous convictions for 40 offences, including a six-month sentence for burglary, that his victim was "entirely blameless".The judge said: "He did nothing more than just a look, it cost him his life. The defendant objected to that look and said words to the effect, 'what the f*** are you looking at? I will stab you in a minute'."This was a truly shocking case. The killing was entirely unprovoked ... The murder was committed in a public place; a packed railway carriage."Mr Grant - described as a popular young man whose life was "full of potential" - had just finished the first year of a history and Arabic degree at St Andrews university and was returning to his family home in Churchdown, Gloucestershire, for summer.The prosecution said that it been Mr Grant's "misfortune" to cross paths with Wood, from Skelmersdale, Lancashire, who was in an aggressive mood that day.Wood had been travelling with a girlfriend, Sarah Chadwick, who he was living with after finishing a prison sentence for burglary on April 11. They had a stormy relationship and he had earlier punched her in the stomach, despite knowing she may have been pregnant with his child.Ms Chadwick and Wood had been staying with a friend of hers, Sarah Dunsheath, in Cumbria in the week before the attack. They were on the platform at Carlisle at the same time as Mr Grant, who was changing trains.Wood, Ms Chadwick, Ms Dunsheath and her children were travelling to Skelmersdale.Tim Holroyde QC, prosecuting, said that Mr Grant had said nothing on the platform at Carlisle but Wood had taken exception to the fact that he had looked towards him. Mr Grant got on the train and sat near his bicycle, which he had stowed in a compartment. Wood, the two women and children sat in the same carriage. Mr Holroyde said Wood was carrying an 11cm kitchen knife in his inside pocket which he had stolen from Ms Dunsheath's house.There was a row between Wood and the two women over tickets. Wood had torn his ticket up and told his travelling companions that he would stab the ticket collector rather than be told to leave the train. Ms Chadwick began to cry. Mr Holroyde said Wood then began "walking up and down the carriage as though he was stalking", according to one witness.The witness said Wood approached Mr Grant after appearing to have "placed his victim". The court heard that Wood jabbed downwards with the knife in a downwards lunge towards the seat where Mr Grant was sitting, and he then sprang back from his victim.Wood was then seen looking down at Mr Grant's body. Mr Holroyde said: "The defendant said, without emotion, 'He's dead'."Passengers in the carriage panicked and ran. The train manager locked the sliding door, trapping Wood inside the carriage. Wood then "went berserk" and tried to kick the door down, the court heard.When the train pulled in to Oxenholme station, Wood escaped through a train window and fled across fields but was arrested later as a farmer drove him to a bus station.Wood had claimed to police that he had felt "intimidated" by Mr Grant on the platform at Carlisle. Wood said he had intended to threaten Mr Grant but was knocked over by the sliding door, stabbing him accidentally.Today in court, flanked by security guards, Wood hung his head as the charge of murder was read to him. There was silence in court as he made a barely audible guilty plea.Later, Mr Grant's parents, Ken and Pat, spoke briefly outside court. They said their son had not acted as a good samaritan, intervening in an argument on the train, as had been suggested earlier in the media."Instead, he was attacked as he sat next to his luggage, minding his own business. This is what makes his death all the more shocking and unforgivable," Mr Grant said.