From 2001 to 2008, Kirk Reid committed 71 sexual assaults on women. Police face the sack after this week's Independent Police Complaints Commission report into their failure to catch him. But his crimes should have been halted as early as 1996, when he was first brought to trial for a vicious attack on a lone woman in a dark alley and wrongfully acquitted. I say that because I was on his jury.His victim testified with obvious sincerity that Reid had attacked her as she passed him in a narrow lane, violently penetrating her vaginally with his fingers. She fought back and gave chase. Reid then suffered his only piece of bad luck – he ran into the arms of a policeman.Hilaire Belloc described a jury as 12 people summoned at random to decide who has the better lawyer. Regrettably, it was true in this case. The prosecution barrister plodded through the evidence. He made no final speech. "See?" said my fellow jurors, before we retired to consider our verdict, "even the prosecutor does not believe in his own case."In fact, the CPS guidelines stated that barristers were not obliged to make final speeches in short cases – a rule not explained to jurors and which was completely misunderstood. In this country, absurdly, it's a crime for jurors ever to talk about what goes on in the jury room, so prosecutors never realise the psychological impact conduct such as this can have in undermining their case.The defence barrister, on the other hand, was shrewd and persuasive. He insinuated that the victim was unstable and probably a man-hater. Reid was a black man victimised by a racist society and by a xenophobic police force.To me, one of only two women on the jury, Reid's defence was absurd – the notion that this young woman of good character, rushing back to work after her busy lunch hour, would randomly condemn a stranger by a false accusation, was impossible to believe.Juries look to the judge for guidance. Judge Gee, looming over us with pompous disdain, decreed that there was no DNA evidence. He did not remind us that the woman's testimony was evidence enough. He appeared to instruct us that any conviction might be unsafe.Our jury room movie would have been called One Angry Woman and 11 Irritated People Who Want Lunch. Jury secrecy laws forbid me from saying more than that the judge's instructions must have reverberated in the minds of my fellow jurors. When Reid was found "not guilty", the young victim looked at the jury in dismayed disbelief. She had faced her attacker in court, only to be publicly discredited. I was determined to let her know that the verdict did not mean she had been disbelieved.I tracked down her address and wrote praising her bravery. The letter I received back was harrowing. When Reid was acquitted, the young woman was crushed, emotionally distraught and frightened of reprisals. She was comforted by the fact that someone believed her.Reid went on to assault large numbers of women in the same way, raping several of them. But the police are not the only ones to blame. Not only was the CPS tactically inept, but why was a man like Judge Gee – formerly a commercial solicitor – appointed to the criminal court? (He was later arrested for mortgage fraud. His own jury failed to agree.)The unfair dynamics of adversary trial and savage cuts to the CPS budget will bring more wrongful acquittals for the likes of Kirk Reid. Censorship imposed by section 8 of the contempt act means that lawyers and judges will never understand how the language they use misleads juries. An estimated 50,000 women are raped each year in Britain. The way sexual assault cases are handled remains on trial.