The most significant move in last week's government reshuffle was not Alistair Darling's sideways shift to Transport or Paul Boateng's promotion to the Cabinet. Mike O'Brien's rehabilitation as a Foreign Office minister was perhaps the most intriguing move, considering his role in the downfall of the Prime Minister's great friend and ideological ally Peter Mandelson. But it does not have any policy implications.No, if you want a signpost to the real issues on which the government wishes to fight the next election, then look no further than the new post of Criminal Justice Minister at the Home Office, created especially for another of the Prime Minister's close friends, Lord Falconer.There has been talk this week about whether Falconer is intended as a Blairite tank on Blunkett's lawn following stories last year suggesting the Home Secretary had ambitions on Number 10. But, in fact, the appointment is potentially far more undermining for Blunkett than a mere political slap on the wrist.Blunkett's performance as Home Secretary has been nothing if not high profile - with a leaked initiative at least once a week. But it has also been deeply confused. He talked proudly following his post-election appointment about having no lawyers among the Home Office. This was an uncharacteristically foolish mistake - not only because Tony Blair's government is famously dominated by his fellow lawyers including, for example, all of those - Darling, Boateng and O'Brien - in the reshuffle headlines.The problem for Blunkett runs far deeper than that. Home office officials have told me that Home Office lawyers had to spend a great deal of time last year taking pains to explain the basic principles of English law to David Blunkett and to curb his natural instinct to interfere with the independence of the judiciary He has been admirably bold on certain issues - the aboltion of the pernicious asylum vouchers and his determination to reform the police are obvious causes for celebration. But there is a creeping impression that he is losing control on many of the issues which will do must to decide - youth crime, the prison system and the shake-up of the criminal justice system.In effect, what Tony Blair has done by appointing Lord Falconer to the Home Office is to impose a deputy Home Secretary on Blunkett: one he hopes can win the trust and respect of the legal profession, but also to push controversial measures successfully through a House of Lords full of smart lawyers. Falconer's task wil be to gain support for the imminent White Paper on the future of the Criminal Justice system which will herald significant reform of the rules of criminal evidence sentencing and the courts. This includes the admissibility of previous convictions, hearsay evidence and the abolition of double jeopardy for murder cases.But Falconer's appointment can not shift responsibility for sorting out the potentially disastrous contradictions at the heart of Labour criminal justice policy. This will ultimately be the responsibility of David Blunkett himself. But these confusions run deep - they have their origins in Blair's "tough on crime - tough on the causes of crime" mantra first expressed when he was shadow Home Secretary and still seen by New Labour as at the bedrock of its electoral success.At its worst, this ideology can combine the most liberal of intentions with the most illiberal of consequences. One emblematic example is how the use of Detention and Training Orders for young offenders, introduced before the election by Blunkett's predecessor Jack Straw, have worked in practice. These orders were devised to respond to genuine concerns about the lack of support and monitoring given to young people released from prison. Magistrates would now be given the option of granting an order which would mean offenders spending half their sentence in custody and half on community sentences. And the courts have welcomed the new measure with alacrity, giving them out at a rate of over 5000 every six months. The result has not been that intended - instead young offenders' institutions have become clogged with prisoners. Yet David Blunkett intends to introduce so-called 'custody-plus' sentences for adults, based on precisely the same flawed model. More worrying are plans to lower the age at which children can be remanded in custody for non-serious crimes to 12. This attack on what the right calls teenage 'bail bandits', has already attracted the attention of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, who have called on the British government to justify its decision to incarcerate hundreds more children in secure units.The results of pilots for this scheme are already proving disastrous. Blunkett insisted that 600 places be made available in secure units across the country for the new intake of teen criminals. As a result older children in the units have been displaced into the juvenile wings of young offender institutions. In an absurd penal domino effect, older offenders in youth offender institutions have been shunted into already bursting adult prisons. With the prison population over 70,000 and already hugely over-capacity, Prison Service Martin Narey now says that 11,000 prisoners must be released on tags. In the most transparent admission of failure, the Home Office last week announced that 1200 teenage criminals on Detention and Training Orders will also be released on tags a month early to relieve the juvenile prison population and, presumably, to make way for the so-called 'bail bandits' who, despite being demonised, have yet to be convicted of any crime.The Prime Minister hopes that Lord Falconer's noted intellect will help to win over a sceptical legal profession and avoid his criminal justice reforms being derailed in the Lords. But it may be too much to expect even the closest of political allies to unravel the ideological contradictions which are woven into the very fabric of New Labour's criminal justice policy.· Martin Bright is Home Affairs Editor of The Observer. This is the first in a series of monthly online pieces which will examine Home Office policy initiatives for The Observer Crime and Justice Debate pages.