New figures revealing the "hierarchy of racial hatred" endured by Britain's minorities have been obtained by The Guardian.Statistics show that there were an average of 53 racist crimes a day recorded by police in London last year. Of these, 32% were against people of African and Caribbean origin, 30% were against Indians, Pakistanis and Bangladeshis, and 22% were against white Europeans.Attacks on southern and eastern Europeans accounted for 7% and Arabs and Egyptians were targeted in 3%. Two per cent were against Chinese and Japanese. There were 216 religiously aggravated anti-semitic crimes, equivalent to 2% of racially aggravated crimes. But statisticians at Scotland Yard and the Greater London Authority have also produced calculations showing how various races suffer in relation to each other. Compared with a white European, an African or Caribbean person was 11 times more likely to be the victim of a racial crime, an Arab or Egyptian 12 times, an Indian, Pakistani or Bangladeshi 13 times and a southern or eastern European eight times. A Chinese or Japanese person was five times more at risk and analysts claim a Jewish person was three times as likely to be subject to a racially or religiously aggravated crime. Ken Livingstone, mayor of London, said: "If you are Black, Asian, Jewish, Arab or east or southern European you are more likely to suffer racist attack than white Europeans. Every single such attack is intolerable - whether directed against Asians, black people, Jews, Muslims, or anyone else. "The police and communities working together have succeeded in cutting racially aggravated incidents in London by 35% since 1999 but the level is still intolerably high. I will therefore continue to give the highest priority to stamping out any form of racist or anti-semitic attack on any group in London and will work with all communities and the police to achieve this." According to the British Crime Survey, which monitors incidents throughout the UK, there were 206,000 racially motivated incidents in the UK - equivalent to 560 a day. Of the racist crimes recorded, in London 926 were cases of common assault and 782 were woundings. There were also 1,291 cases of criminal damage.But in highlighting the level of racist crimes, officials in the capital take comfort from the fact that London's total is lower than most other areas of Britain when set against the size and diversity of its population. It is also lower than capitals of other countries.