One of the youngest children to be arrested for firearms offences in the UK faces a custodial sentence after admitting storing a Russian pistol, silencers and ammunition at his home as part of an initiation rite into a street gang.The teenager, who as a juvenile cannot be named, was 13 when he was arrested in August after officers found a Baikal 9mm pistol, two silencers and 31 cartridges of ammunition at his house. When police searched his bedroom they discovered a machete hidden in the wardrobe, which the teenage gang member said he used as protection. His case adds to growing evidence that very young teenagers are becoming involved in gun crime.The boy, from New Cross, south-east London, admitted to police that he was in a street gang and was storing the firearm for an older gang member who had asked him to hide weapons in the past. Police found the ammunition hidden in his sock.The teenager, whose parents were in court yesterday, changed his plea to guilty as his trial was about to begin at Inner London crown court. Previously a lawyer had warned the court that the boy's life was at risk from other gang members should he be released on to the streets, and Judge Usha Karu released him on bail yesterday under strict conditions. She said a custodial sentence was almost inevitable when he appears again on January 30."He was the youngest member of a gang," said the judge. "He had been given the firearm and silencers and ammunition in a bag and asked by telephone by the same person to separate them, and that's what he did." The teenager told police he was given the Baikal to store in July, along with two silencers and the ammunition.The teenager was arrested at his home in August after police obtained a search warrant. An officer using a sniffer dog found a machete in a wardrobe in the teenager's room. In the basement of the house police also found a white rucksack. Inside it was a pillowcase containing the Baikal automatic pistol and magazine and, separately, two black metal silencers. In a black sock nearby the officers discovered the ammunition. When asked if there was anything else in the house the boy replied: "Did you find the two silencers?"David Atkins, prosecuting, said the teenager's role was a prime example of gang and gun crime culture, in which groups of 40 to 60 young men operated a hierarchy. Junior members begin by hiding weapons but earn promotion by taking part in shootings and violence. By 13 the boy's criminal record already showed an escalating pattern of offences. His previous convictions include robbery and possessing a meat cleaver.