A senior loyalist paramilitary has been hacked to death in a brutal attack using his own samurai sword, according to a senior detective. Veteran Ulster Defence Association (UDA) member Colin “Bap” Lindsay, 47, and another man, 52-year-old Stanley Wightman, were found with severe injuries lying in the living room of Lindsay’s home in Belfast’s Belvoir estate last night. The father of two, a well known figure within the loyalist movement, was pronounced dead at the scene. Wightman has undergone emergency surgery and remains in a critical condition in Belfast’s Royal Victoria Hospital, with “significant injuries” to his neck and arms.Detectives believe the attack had a personal motivation and were not linking it to any terrorist activity or paramilitary feud. A 46-year-old man arrested at a house close by continues to be questioned by police on suspicion of murder and attempted murder. In an unusual step, the detective leading the investigation named the suspect as Albert Armstrong. Detective Chief Inspector Richard Campbell of the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) said a sword believed to be the murder weapon was recovered from a blue Mazda car understood to be owned by Armstrong. “My assessment at the minute is that it is likely that was the weapon used in the attack,” said Campbell. He described the incident as “extremely violent” and said he was naming the suspect and two victims in an effort to gain more information about what happened. “I am taking the unusual step today of naming the three men involved because I believe that it is important to do that as part of my appeal for information from the community,” he said. When asked if the sword belonged to Lindsay, the detective replied: “I believe it was in his property, yes.” Campbell did not elaborate on the dead man’s paramilitary links. “Mr Lindsay was known to police but that shouldn’t take away from the fact that he has suffered a very brutal death last night, completely unnecessary,” he said. “He is a father of 12-year-old and 18-year-old girls and he is survived by his mother, all of whom are grieving his loss today – that’s what we need to concentrate on.” Outlining the PSNI’s main line of inquiry, he added: “I would emphasise this appears to be an incident that is motivated as a result of personal relationships and there is no wider paramilitary or criminal involvement that should raise tensions.” The police response unfolded when officers received a report from a concerned member of the public just before 8pm. They went to a house on the Belvoir estate and arrested Armstrong and recovered the sword from the car. Officers then went to Lindsay’s home and forced their way in. “They were confronted with the scene of two men very, very seriously injured,” said Campbell. “They attempted to render first aid while an ambulance was called.” He added: “This was a very brutal attack and obviously very unpleasant for the officers and anyone else who had to see it.” The detective appealed to anyone who saw either of the three men yesterday, or were aware of their movements, to come forward. South Belfast Assembly member Jimmy Spratt called for calm after the attack, noting that tensions are already high as the height of the loyal order marching season approaches. “Murder has no place in our society and I would urge anyone with information to contact the PSNI immediately,” said the DUP representative.