For one reason or another I often get asked to present talks or lectures about Manchester's regeneration – the rise from post-industrial disaster – and it's a remarkable story. I talk about creativity and the music scene; the energy of entrepreneurs; the enlightened council; the sense of feeding off a history of self-reliance. I point to the profile of the city in sport and music; the tourism, the arts, the quality of life.But I usually end with what I think of as my "and yet" paragraphs. I take a break from civic boosterism to point out that there are many in Manchester who haven't benefited from this true and remarkable story.In the "and yet" paragraphs, I call Manchester "dysfunctional", and point out that 19% of the adult population have no qualifications, and more than a quarter of children are living in "severe poverty". The level of underage pregnancies is nearly twice the national average and there are high levels of school exclusions (currently each academic year 6,000 schoolchildren in Manchester and Salford are excluded, some for weeks). Mental health is poor, and Manchester is the self-harm capital of Europe.Sometimes I'm tempted to edit out these paragraphs; if the audience is involved in marketing the city or bringing tourists here, it's probably not what they want reminding of. But those "and yet" paragraphs have become more relevant as the recession has taken hold. I'm not saying this dysfunctionality is an excuse for what went on this week (there are plenty of young people with desperate lives who would never thieve or act with unrestrained violence), but if people with not very much feel alienated and excluded then they're more likely to indulge in looting and vandalism (after all, they're not activities the well-off or socially well-adjusted are prone to) .Those communities getting left behind – we knew that was happening, right? But it's easier if we edit the flaws out of our minds, as we enjoy the multiple shopping experiences, plus our wonderful art galleries and other cultural institutions. This week a Manchester city council spokesman said, "The rioters are not true Mancunians." As my friend Greg says: "That might be exactly the problem – they ought to be."People need a stake in the society; a job, an opportunity, a way out of a bad situation. There are lazy or criminally minded people in all parts of society, but it's only at the bottom that life chances are restricted, doors shut.Perhaps we need to question the model of regeneration that has failed to extend its benefits to all our communities in Manchester; have resources being concentrated in the city centre and too much emphasis given to giant retail emporia or "luxury" apartments? What kind of city do we want to see from cloud 23? We need to engage with the young – even those we've been describing all week as "scumbags".We should wonder why the left has so completely failed to create a medium for change. Those who gather at the People's History Museum this weekend to commemorate the anniversary of Peterloo will know that in 1819 there was a sense that change could come through political action. But do young people in Manchester believe that any more?The right, meanwhile, has to acknowledge some connection between our economic situation and the violence. The cuts implemented or demanded by the government in education, for example, and cuts to youth centres such as the Whitemoss centre in Charlestown, where the club for 13- to 18-year-olds has been disbanded – this is never going to make our city less dysfunctional.The wider question is about some of the values that our society appears to reinforce. Who is the greediest, a kid from Collyhurst who walks into town and takes a box of trainers out of Foot Asylum or a banker who believes he has a divine right to a £1m bonus even when he's screwed up?In terms of economics, the riots, the clear-up and the damage to the city's reputation will have a cost, but the greater damage was done to our economy by the bankers. There's been no determination from our leaders to root out the individuals responsible, has there? The young see this and think that different rules apply.Consumerism is another value that distorts us all. There's a relentless message: your social status is marked out by what you own. To a looter, that may mean a new pair of trainers, but the mentality is no different in the Jeremy Clarkson world, where you're a loser if you don't have a flash car.Music mogul Tony Wilson used to say: "This is Manchester; we do things differently here." In many ways we do, but Manchester is part of the real world, not some utopia where poverty, anger and criminality don't exist. After this week I'll never again be tempted to edit out the "and yet" paragraphs.