Prisons minister Beverley Hughes yesterday accused the Prison Officers Association of becoming a laughing stock and harking back to the "dark" days of trade unions after she was heckled and jeered by delegates at their annual conference.The minister had been forewarned about what to expect when the POA sent out an embargoed press release on Monday, describing the hostile reaction from the floor she would receive. Ms Hughes tried to pre-empt the jeers by urging delegates to engage constructively with the government. But many of the 350 present at the conference in Portsmouth refused to be quelled, shouting abuse at the minister concerning a pay rise awarded to officers of 6% over 15 months. Ms Hughes told the delegates that the press release was a misjudgment that had made a laughing stock of the POA with the media, the rest of the trade union movement and the public. "It still portrays a trade union stuck in the dark and not serving the interests of its members," she said. Defending the pay rise she said that it was above average for the public sector and was higher than the 2.5% that would have been handed out if an independent pay review had not been set up to govern pay for the prison service. Ms Hughes said funding from outside the Home Office for an extra pay increase was not possible and added: "Receiving additional funding from the Treasury was quite frankly not on the cards. If anyone on the pay review had thought of that as possible, it was naive indeed." Earlier, POA leader Andy Darken had threatened to break the law by sending his union out on strike to campaign for more pay and better working conditions. "Only slaves have to work without any rights," he said. "There may be a time when we have to take unlawful industrial action to regain our rights." In response, the minister urged the POA to stick by a voluntary agreement set to be implemented to replace the ruling in the 1994 Criminal Justice Act which makes it illegal for officers to go on strike. Ms Hughes said the POA had a crucial role to play in helping the government reform the prison service, including reducing the spiralling prison population, and increasing the use of prison officers in helping prevent criminals from re-offending. Responding to her speech, Brian Caton, POA general secretary, said: "We are workers, not constables. We deserve no less than other workers in Europe. If you want these people to work for you, you pay them for it." Earlier Mr Darken accused the government of betraying promises made in opposition to renationalise the entire prison service. He said: "They used our support when in opposition then discarded us like dirt off a shoe once in power. I tell you Tony, start working together with us and together we can start modernising the service - just get rid of this spectre of privatisation."