Television cameras are poised to enter the royal courts of justice in a move to lift the veil of secrecy that still surrounds the legal process in Britain. Senior judges have agreed to consider a pilot scheme in which an appeal hearing would be filmed next year, in the first stage of a process that could lead to the more routine presence of cameras in courtrooms. Most senior judges are against the televising of trials because they believe the camera's presence would intimidate witnesses and affect their testimony. Many, however, would have no objection to filming in the appeal courts, where there are normally no witnesses. Lord Donaldson, who as master of the rolls headed the court of appeal's civil division before his retirement, said he had an open mind about televising appeals. "There's no harm in doing a pilot. You would have to see what the result of the pilot was. "It's obviously a good idea that people should know more about the way justice is administered. You could have high-profile criminal appeals, but they would show only extracts, which would distort the thing." Civil appeals, on the other hand, would be "too boring" for viewers, he said. A Scottish court permitted filming as part of an experiment in 1992, but the project was not taken further. Sensational coverage of US trials such as those involving the former American footballer OJ Simpson and the English nanny Louise Woodward is thought to have made British judges wary of allowing cameras into their courts. But the more enlightened members of the judiciary are said to be watching coverage of the Soham trial with great interest: Sky News is providing a line-by-line feed of the evidence and all the main broadcasters are using 3-D courtroom images to illustrate their reports from the Old Bailey. Some broadcasters see the Soham developments as an important stage in the drawn-out process of getting cameras into courtrooms. Before the Soham trial, Sky News opened negotiations with the Old Bailey court authorities with a view to broadcasting line-by-line coverage. After "painstaking" talks, Sky was eventually allowed to put its own stenographer into the overflow annexe provided for the dozens of journalists who are covering the trial. The Sky stenographer takes down every word of the evidence and periodically saves it on to a disk, which is taken outside to be checked by journalists before it is made available to viewers of the Sky Active service. It is the first time that anyone has provided line-by-line coverage of a trial. John Ryley, executive editor of Sky News, believes Lord Hutton's inquiry into the death of the weapons expert David Kelly was a watershed. While the judge did not allow cameras into the inquiry, the court authorities allowed news organisations to take modems into an annexe, allowing evidence to be broadcast within minutes of it being given. Sky also used actors to reconstruct each day's evidence. Mr Ryley said the extensive use of transcripts, and the increasingly sophisticated use of graphics, had made the case for televising court cases more compelling. "It has certainly put more pressure on the issue," he said. A working party, involving all the British news broadcasters, will soon present a plan to senior judges for the filming of an appeal. If they approve the scheme, cameras would film an appeal hearing, but it would not be broadcast. The TV companies would make sample reports, of the kind that would appear in nightly news bulletins and on 24-hour news channels, to provide examples of how the pictures would be used in practice. The judiciary and the Department for Constitutional Affairs would then consider the results with a view to widening the experiment. David Mannion, the editor of ITV News, said the representation of trials on television had advanced little since ITN pioneered the use of courtroom artists in the Yorkshire Ripper trial more than 20 years ago. A change came with the trial of the former royal butler Paul Burrell; the Royal Television Society gave ITV News an innovation award for its 3-D reconstructions of the case. Mr Mannion said he favoured the televising of trials: "The camera is only an extension of the court reporter's eyeballs," he said. But he stressed that broadcasters would accept restrictions placed by judges in sensitive cases. The implications of technological advances spread wider than court cases: Martin Stanford, a Sky News presenter, said stories that would have slipped down the news agenda because of the lack of pictures are now given proper attention. But he warned that graphics should not be over-used, because of the danger that viewers could be misled: "To what extent do we take graphical licence?" Jon Williams, the BBC's home news editor, said that court artists could capture the drama of a courtroom in a way that inanimate graphics cannot. "When witness Bromley fled the court in the Damilola Taylor murder trial, the court artist could capture that drama in the way that 3-D never could. It would be a brave editor who decided not to put an artist into court."