The government was warned yesterday it must do more to tackle a "staggering" crime wave against the business sector which is estimated to be costing £18.8bn a year. A poll by the British Chambers of Commerce of 3,000 firms showed that 58% had been the victims of crime over the past 12 months and more than a fifth were being hit once in two months. Hotels and catering is the the worst hit sector while Yorkshire and Humberside is the most vulnerable geographical area, according the BCC. The survey, claimed to be the largest and most detailed of its kind, showed that faith in the police is low in some quarters, with 13% of businesses not bothering to report problems. Furthermore, 40% of companies reported to the police less than half of crimes they suffered, with small firms the least likely to take incidents any further, worried about the time taken up by an investigation. "There is often a perception in the public sector that businesses are profitable and insured, thereby making business crime a 'victimless crime'. As the survey demonstrates, the social and economic costs of doing business are staggering," said David Lennan, director general of the BCC. The survey shows that the most common crimes experienced by businesses are vandalism (27%) and burglary (27%), closely followed by vehicle crime (21%). More than a fifth of companies which responded to the survey experienced theft by an employee - more preponderant than fraud, arson, internet crime and personal injury. But the survey, which is to become an annual event, threatens to bring some problems in its wake, says Isabella Moore, chairwoman of the West Midlands Chamber of Commerce and a board member of the regional development agency. "Highlighting the business crime record of any particular area could make it harder to attract people to [government designated] regeneration zones in areas with poor crime records." A spokesman for Thames Valley police said it recognised that business crime was a serious problem and it was doing all it could to tackle it. But he pointed out that many businesses only took prevention seriously immediately after a break-in. A few weeks later they tended to forget about it, he said.