The owner of a Staffordshire bull terrier that decapitated another dog in public faces a possible jail sentence.The Pomeranian dog Elvis was attacked at the front gate of his home in Warrington, Cheshire, last month. A number of passersby, including a four-year-old girl, witnessed the incident.David Savage, 44, of Folly Lane, Warrington, pleaded guilty to being the owner of a dog dangerously out of control in a public place.Runcorn magistrates said the defendant had shown no remorse over the offence which they ruled was at the serious end of the scale and which could attract a maximum six-month custodial term. The court also heard that one witness said they saw Savage pick up Elvis's body after the attack and throw it under a car.The incident on 6 July took place at the home of Margaret Antell who had let out the small dog into her garden. Antell said Elvis sat in his normal position at the front gate in Kingsway South which she believed was secure, said prosecutor Catherine Whincup."Mrs Antell said she then heard her little dog bark and a noise she could not really describe," said Whincup. "She ran up the path and could no longer see her own dog."She then saw a woman – Savage's co-defendant, Susan Campbell –– struggling to pull away a "muscular-looking" white dog."The dog had Elvis in his mouth with the body hanging down and his head visible with his eyes open," said the prosecutor. "Elvis's body then fell to the floor and the other dog walked off with the head of the little dog still in its mouth before eventually dropping it to the floor."Members of the public witnessed the attack, including the young child, and said the white dog had pushed open the gate.When interviewed by police, Savage said he was given the 18-month-old dog, called George, by a friend four months ago."He said the gate was open and the small dog flew out and jumped at his dog's face," said Whincup. Savage described George as "soft" and said he did not go for other dogs.The prosecutor said Antell had "suffered emotionally from what she saw".The court was told Savage had a similar previous conviction in 2006 for not keeping a dangerous dog under control and was ordered to keep it under control in future.Gary Heaven, defending Savage, said there was nothing in George's history to suggest it would commit such level of violence, although the defendant thought it may have been mistreated in the past.The defendant said he was on medication at the time and was unable to walk the "athletic" five-stone dog himself so let his friend Campbell assist him by holding the lead."He and Miss Campbell and his girlfriend were passing the gate," Heaven said. "The gate was clearly not secure to his mind."The other dog appeared at the gate and although things happened very quickly his impression was [that] the other dog barked and made some advance movement to his animal."What Mr Savage says is that he did personally attempt to pull his dog away."Adjourning the case for pre-sentence reports, the chair of the bench said: "We are struck by a lack of remorse. We note the previous control order, the ongoing effects on the victim and witnesses and the allowing of someone inexperienced to handle the dog."Magistrates will also consider at the next hearing whether the Staffordshire bull terrier should be put down.Savage was granted unconditional bail until 16 September.Campbell, 44, of Thelwall Lane, Warrington, faces the same charge and was also bailed to appear at court on the same day. Both defendants were arrested after they failed to appear in court on Wednesday.Campbell did not appear in court on Thursday after it was understood she was bailed because her partner was said to be seriously ill.Outside court, a woman called Donna Clarke told reporters that she was the original owner of George and that he had not been an aggressive dog. She said she did not know Savage and had given George to a friend of hers."I have got George's family and they are all fine. He has obviously been turned," she said. "Now that family has lost a dog which is terrible but George shouldn't be put down. The owner is to blame for this, not the dog."