The home secretary, David Blunkett, is to launch an independent inquiry to find out why Ian Huntley was cleared to work with children despite a string of past allegations against him.The announcement came as headteachers called for the overhaul of the system of vetting school staff, warning that the current system was a "lottery". Huntley, who was today convicted of the double murder of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, was cleared to work as caretaker of the girl's school, Soham Village College, in November 2001 despite past allegations of rape, sexual abuse of an 11-year old girl and sex with underage girls. Mr Blunkett said there were "real concerns" about the way police handled intelligence on Huntley's past. He said: "This has been a shocking and horrific case and my thoughts are with Holly and Jessica's families. I cannot begin to imagine the pain they must have endured during this dark time. "I hope they will find some comfort in seeing the man responsible for this wicked act brought to justice." David Hart, general secretary of the National Association of Headteachers, called the vetting system a "lottery"."It is clear that the current system of vetting school staff needs a radical overhaul. Support staff should be treated in the same way as teaching staff and be the subject of higher level (enhanced) disclosure."The current practice of allowing each individual police force to decide what information, beyond a criminal conviction, should be disclosed must be brought to an end. It is a lottery that throws up totally different sets of information, depending entirely upon the discretion of the chief constable." He added: "This must be dealt with as a matter of extreme urgency because heads must not be misled, however inadvertently, into employing staff who are a danger to children."John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, said Soham schools were to be congratulated on how they had dealt with an "immensely difficult period".He said: "The Huntley case raises the question of the amount of information that should be available to headteachers when they are making appointments of people to work with children. Heads have to make judgments on information received from the Criminal Records Bureau and this needs to be as full as possible."SHA's paramount interest is in the protection of children, but this has to be balanced against the possibility that an applicant for a job may have been falsely or maliciously accused. This is a very difficult balance and secondary heads will support an inquiry to resolve this dilemma."The Criminal Records Bureau, a joint venture between the Home Office and the private contractor Capita, is used to vet anyone who works with children or vulnerable adults. It was introduced in 2002, six months late and six months after Mr Huntley was appointed caretaker at Soham Village College. Huntley was checked under the Department for Education and Skills' previous system, List 99, a confidential register of all people convicted or suspected of child abuse.But authorities fear he could have been allowed to get his job under the new system too. The CRB runs checks on List 99 as well as contacting police forces in every area of the country in which the applicant has lived or worked for details of any relevant convictions. Huntley is believed to have given his mother's maiden name when applying for the Soham job.