Police hunting the killer of the teenager Mary-Ann Leneghan yesterday arrested a fifth man as the 16-year-old's uncles made a joint public appeal for help.Thames Valley police said the man, in his 20s, had been arrested in London. Soon after, Paul and Tony Harris, the brothers of Mary-Ann's mother, faced the press in Mary-Ann's hometown of Reading and spoke of the family's grief.Mary-Ann and a friend, 18, whose identity has not been released, were abducted and held for several hours by a gang of at least six men early last Saturday. They were sexually and physically assaulted for up to three hours in a room at the Abbey House Hotel in Connaught Road, Reading. Police said yesterday that they believed the girls had been sneaked into the room.The girls were then driven to a remote part of Prospect Park on the outskirts of Reading, where, said police, they were "left for dead". Mary-Ann was stabbed once in the neck and died from her injuries. Her friend was shot in the head but managed to make her way to a nearby road and flag down a motorist. Police said she was "very fortunate" to be alive. She is in a stable condition in hospital.The other four men arrested after the attack have been released on bail. Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick, leading the investigation, said: "We will be arresting and releasing a lot of people. It is in the nature of the investigation we are dealing with."Tony Harris said his niece was "a normal bright 16-year-old who was looking forward to a life caring for children."She had lots of friends in all parts of the town and was always spending time with them. She did not deserve what happened to her."He said the family were "united in grief".Appealing for the public to help police, he said: "We believe there are people out there who know exactly what happened and we need those people to come forward."Superintendent Dilip Amin said the attacks were evil but he did not believe they were random, although police have yet to establish a motive. Police said Mary-Ann and her friend had been sitting in the disused Wallingford Arms pub car park on Friday night.The girls were "chatting, just sitting and talking, causing no harm to anyone". They were taken against their will into a burgundy or white car. Police said there had been other youths in the car park.Reports of a suspected arson attack at the 18-year-old girl's house were "being looked at" to see if there was a connection. Police refused to comment on reports that the girls had had their heads shaved or been forcibly drugged.The Reading Evening Post reported a friend of Mary-Ann's as saying she had been mixing with the wrong crowd and feared she was getting into trouble. "One of my friends said she saw her on Friday and Mary-Ann said she was in 'big trouble' and was scared," the paper quoted Shanice Johnson as saying. Police declined to comment.At the spot in Prospect Park where Mary-Ann's body was found, a bench was covered in the striped red and grey ties of Prospect college, where she was a pupil, and an exercise book had been left into which condolences were written. Flowers and cards were strewn nearby. "I know u hated people being sad so every 1 is trying their hardest to stay brave just 4 u," read one. "We will always remember laughs and good times we had," said another. "It's so sad," said a man in the park. "That girl had her whole life ahead of her and they took it from her. They're animals, that's what you call them."A £15,000 reward is being offered for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the killers.