Two firearms experts have been brought in to look at the circumstances surrounding the death of a man shot at six times on the walkway of a block of flats in Brixton, south London, in July last year.The review of Derek Bennett's case has been sanctioned by the police complaints authority which has brought in former superintendent Alan Bailey, of the West Mercia firearms school, who has already filed his report. A retired Royal Ulster Constabulary superintendent Colin Burrows, who advises senior officers on firearms policy, will also look at the case. He investigated the 1998 shooting of the naked and unarmed James Ashley in Hastings, East Sussex. Last year, PC Christopher Sherwood was cleared of murder after the trial judge ruled that he believed he was in danger and had acted in self-defence. An initial inquiry into the death of Mr Bennett, 29, which was conducted by Northumbria police and involved 35 officers who took 600 witness statements, has proved inconclusive. The death of Mr Bennett, a father of four, prompted calls for senior officers to review their firearms policies. In the week before his death, Andrew Kernan, who had schizophrenia, was shot dead by police in Liverpool as he carried a samurai sword. Officers were called to Brixton amid reports that a man was waving a silver handgun. Several patrol cars and an armed response vehicle arrived and when Mr Bennett pointed the novelty cigarette lighter at officers he was shot at six times. At least four of the bullets hit him and he was pronounced dead in hospital. Two officers, from the Metropolitan police's S019 armed unit, were taken off firearms duties after the shooting. Four days later a policewoman was injured in a demonstration against the shooting and a public meeting was organised to appeal for calm. Mr Bennett's family have called for a public inquiry. At the time of the shooting, the Home Office confirmed research was under way into new technology which will reduce the need for officers to carry guns. In another high profile case, the crown prosecution service is reviewing its decision not to charge two officers over the shooting of Harry Stanley in Hackney, east London, in 1999. Mr Stanley, who had convictions for armed robbery, was killed when police mistook a table leg he was carrying in a plastic bag for a sawn-off shotgun. Police marksmen must stick to strict rules of engagement - they may shoot a suspect only if they fear their life or someone else's is threatened by an armed individual. A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers said yesterday its guidelines on the use of firearms were constantly under review and a manual was sent to every police force. The deputy chairman of the Metropolitan police authority, Peter Herbert, has been reported as saying there is a "culture of impunity" surrounding officers involved in cases where a suspect has been killed.The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday August 28 2002Peter Herbert, who was referred to at the end of a report headed Firearm experts to investigate killing, page 12, August 24, is no longer a deputy chairman of the Metropolitan police authority. The current two deputy chairs of the authority are Richard Barnes and R David Muir.