A consultant surgeon who admitted the manslaughter of a patient through gross negligence after she bled to death on an operating table received a suspended prison sentence at the Old Bailey yesterday.Steven Walker, 47, was given a 21-month sentence suspended for two years by Judge Sir Stephen Mitchell. Last week he admitted killing Dorothy McPhee, 71, at Blackpool Victoria hospital nine years ago. The judge said the hospital had not done enough to stop Walker operating, and he was suspending the sentence because of the exceptional circumstances which involved "lamentable systematic failure". At an earlier hearing two other manslaughter charges were left on file. The General Medical Council's disciplinary panel had been told that 16 anaesthetists refused to work with Walker. He was suspended from the hospital in 1999 after Mabel Saville, 86, lost a large amount of blood during an operation. She died three months later. Walker, of Camberley, Surrey, was struck off the medical register in November 2001 after complaints of botched operations were proved. The GMC said he had performed surgery beyond the limit of his confidence and skill. He appealed and his name was restored to the register on the condition he did not operate. He was suspended again last year after his arrest. Sir Stephen said: "The hospital trust failed to act with the vigour that the public is entitled to expect." This had been compounded by the coroner's failure to order an inquest into Mrs McPhee's death and an in-house autopsy which had been "misleading". The judge said there had been an astonishing delay in setting up a determined investigation. He told Walker: "It was not your fault that you were allowed to go on operating, subject to restrictions, for another two years. Much of the evidence of these events was known at the time and the balance of the evidence was so easily discoverable had it occurred to anyone to make elementary inquries." He added: "In my judgment your one acute personal failing is that you seemed to have insufficient appreciation of your limitations as a surgeon." Mrs McPhee, of Blackpool, was diagnosed with bowel cancer in 1994 and underwent an operation carried out by another surgeon. The next year she was referred to Walker after a tumour was found on her liver. He had told colleagues at the hospital he was an expert in liver surgery. But during the operation Mrs McPhee suffered catastrophic blood loss. She died after losing 36 pints of blood. While she was bleeding to death, Walker turned his back on her to have his photograph taken. His actions horrified other theatre staff who were trying to save her life. A coroner certified the death as due to natural causes. But three years ago the same coroner invited Lancashire police to investigate. Walker was charged with manslaughter in June last year. Yesterday the hospital trust apologised to Mrs McPhee's family: "It is now more than five years since Mr Walker worked at Blackpool Victoria hospital. Since then, a number of changes have taken place - both at the trust and across the wider NHS - to improve patient safety. This has been a long and difficult case and we would like to offer our sympathies to the families involved."