Everyone knows politics is a dirty business, but even by Westminster standards the ambitious Tory prospective parliamentary candidate for Watford took it too far. Ian Oakley, 31, may have been trying to "change the political landscape" when he vandalised the property of his rivals and bombarded them with hate mail. But after admitting to 75 offences yesterday during a two-year campaign of intimidation and harassment against local Liberal Democrats, the former chairman of Durham University's Conservatives can now add crimes including falsely accusing opponents of being paedophiles and making menacing phone calls to his political résumé.Oakley was warned by magistrates that he could face a prison sentence for his hate campaign, which included among its targets his Liberal Democrat rival for the Labour-held seat of Watford, Sal Brinton. She received gay and lesbian magazines through the post and letters variously saying "go back to Cambridge you evil bitch" and addressing her as "Sal Bitchton". Between August 2006 and March 2008, Oakley, of West Drayton, west London, also made silent phone calls to Brinton's home late at night, sent defaced campaign leaflets to her office saying "Sal is a bitch", and distributed pamphlets, purporting to be from Lib Dem supporters, urging her to be dumped as the party's candidate.Police acted after being handed a dossier by the Lib Dems of more than 150 alleged offences stretching back to early 2005, during the general election campaign, and continuing up until Oakley's arrest. St Albans magistrates court heard that on his arrest Oakley denied all the allegations but said that he was "actively involved in campaigning personally in town". He also said the Tories and Lib Dems had been engaged in "robust campaigning". But Oakley had left a trail of evidence that would lead to his arrest.In February he daubed "scum, scum perv" on the outside of Watford councillor Russell Willson's house, not noticing the presence of CCTV cameras. Like Brinton, Willson was a repeat victim of Oakley. He received post accusing him of being a child molester and calling him a "cunt", while his neighbours were sent letters alleging Willson was part of a paedophile ring. Donna Rayner, prosecuting, said Oakley had made a full confession when presented with fingerprint evidence linking him to hate mail, saying his behaviour had been driven "by the desire to change the political landscape in Watford for the benefit of the Conservative party". But his policy was more scorched earth than change. Mark Watkin was another councillor accused of being a paedophile in post sent to his home and to his neighbours. Watkin also had all four tyres of his car slashed, while Nasreen Ajab, the wife of a former councillor, had her car light smashed. Oakley also attacked the local Lib Dem headquarters, daubing "liars" across the building's shutters.Oakley, who resigned as prospective Tory candidate after being arrested on July 18, but remains an independent councillor in Hillingdon, west London, pleaded guilty to five counts of criminal damage and two of harassment, and asked for another 68 to be taken into account. The 68 offences comprised 53 incidents of criminal damage, one of harassment and 14 of malicious communication.He was bailed and sentencing was adjourned until September 16 for psychiatric reports to be compiled. Barry Northrop, chairman of St Albans magistrates, described Oakley's offences as "very, very serious indeed" and said the bench would consider a custodial sentence. After the hearing Watkin said: "It was the individual impact of what he did that was so appalling. I find it quite extraordinary. My daughters were very upset. To see it come to a point of determination was a great relief."Brinton said she was relieved her nightmare appeared to be coming to an end: "This has been a traumatic period for all those who have suffered from his vile campaign."