Of the many things we thought we had to do to rebuild our business after last year's riots razed to the ground our historic furniture store in Croydon, being involved with young people was not one of them.After the initial shock of dealing with the business recovery, insurance demands, media attention and indeed the overwhelming passion and support from all over the world, it became obvious that there were many young people who were really upset they were being tarred with the same brush as the rioters. Likewise, there were many community leaders who wanted to redouble efforts to bring those inclined to the dark side out of the violent and criminal mindset that was indicative of many rioters.Maurice, my dad, met a few of the rioters while making the programme Up in Flames: Mr Reeves and the Riots for the BBC. His overwhelming impression was one of people with no standards, no comprehension of right and wrong, no role models (well, not in the good sense) and no consideration for anyone but themselves. At the same time Tony Harrison, the man who introduced him to these people, was so determined to turn these people round that we were convinced the next generations can't be allowed to grow up like this.So, when Vinspired contacted us to talk about their Reverse Riots campaign, it fitted in with not only our own thoughts, but aligned perfectly in making something positive out of the anniversary of a terrible time in our history.The idea of covering our remaining building, which has been refurbished next to the site of the fire, with positive Reverse Riot messages seemed too good an opportunity to miss.With the money donated to us by the public after the riots, we created this new furniture showroom, which will also house memorabilia about the 140-odd year history of the shop including an old, charred sign from the riots. The problem was we had been searching for a way to make its opening today an event without it being a celebration of a riot. Vinspired has given us that opportunity.The messages on the covering on the building, which say things such as "I've turned my life around" and "I believe in me", have been uploaded by individuals showing how they have done something. Celebrities have aligned with the campaign on their Twitter feeds.This is only part of how we as a business have become more community-focused post-riots. We are a small company with only 15 staff and limited resources, but the support of local people has kept our business afloat so we feel that we owe it to them to be more engaged. We joined the Citizen UK campaign City Safe, promoting retail stores as safe havens for youngsters who feel intimidated or in danger when they are on the streets.You would have thought it was a normal reaction for a young person to seek help if they were being chased for their mobile phone, but many said they feel they would get a negative response if they were to seek sanctuary in such a fashion. How ridiculous is that, but that's what they say they feel. It's also a campaign to help the youngsters themselves dissuade their friends from destructive and negative actions.I have also responded to requests from local schools to go in and talk to pupils about citizenship and the riots and how to run a business. I hadn't been in a school since 1997, for my daughter's last parents' evening. Faced with two classes of 15- to 17-year-olds three months after the riots was definitely not a natural environment for a 56-year-old furniture shop director, but it was a start.