The widow of the murdered financier John Monckton broke down in the witness box yesterday as she relived the moment when two intruders tried to force their way into the family's multimillion-pound Chelsea home before attacking her and stabbing her husband to death.Homeyra Monckton, 45, was giving evidence on the second day of the trial that bought her face to face with her husband's alleged killers, Elliot White and Damien Hanson.Mrs Monckton was helped to and from the witness stand and used a walking stick for support. When Richard Horwell QC, prosecuting, asked her to describe what happened on the evening of November 29 2004, the date of the attack, she wept and asked if she could have a minute to compose herself.In her evidence she told the court she had been at home with her husband and nine-year-old daughter, Isobel, when the doorbell rang at about 7.30pm.She picked up the intercom handset and a male caller told her he had a parcel for her husband.She described the voice as "calm and confident" and added that the caller had "articulated his [John's] name properly".She went upstairs to ask her husband if he was expecting a parcel. He looked "very apprehensive" because he was not expecting anything.Mr Monckton looked through the spyhole and, with the security chain still on, opened the door and looked outside. Mrs Monckton saw one man holding a parcel and said he was wearing a "Postman Pat uniform"."My husband then started shouting 'no no no'. I don't know why. He was trying to push the door firmly so he could shut it. We were pushing the door as hard as we could but we weren't strong enough."One man came in first. He was the man who was wearing the balaclava and he's the one who stabbed me. He stabbed me almost immediately without saying anything."We couldn't keep the door shut. All I could think was the panic alarm was in our bedroom and I needed to get help. I was stabbed as I was going up the stairs."She said that the man who attacked her also took her jewellery and demanded cash.Isobel also gave evidence, from a videotaped police interview four days after the attack. She said: "I heard my mummy screaming."She was screaming for my daddy. She was saying his name lots of times. I heard running in the street. It sounded fast. I didn't come down because of the burglar people. I heard a growling noise. My door was open. My mummy called me. I ran to my mummy. I saw her lying on the floor. She was lying at the bottom of the stairs. I saw the door was open."He [one of the attackers] was just wearing black. He was on the steps. I was looking through the banister on the top floor. His right hand was scrunched up."The defendants, both 24, deny murder and attempted murder. Damien Hanson also denies robbery but Elliot White has pleaded guilty to the charge.The case continues.