A man facing a retrial over the murder and dismemberment of an elderly vicar has changed his defence to claim that the clergyman sexually abused him before his death, a court heard today.Christopher Hunnisett was 17 when he was convicted in 2002 of drowning 81-year-old Ronald Glazebrook in his bath and then chopping up his corpse, a jury at Lewes crown court was told. Hunnisett went on to scatter the vicar's body in woodland across East Sussex, helped by a friend, Jason Groves.The court heard that Hunnisett, who was a church server and lodged with the vicar in St Leonards-on-Sea, East Sussex, later repeatedly lied to the dead man's family and the police but confided in Groves that he had drowned Glazebrook.Jurors heard the vicar had been an active "independent spirit" who helped many people, and that when he learned of Hunnisett's difficulties with his parents, he gave him free run of his flat. The teenager also had use of his boat, moored at Newhaven harbour. Philip Katz QC, prosecuting, said the arrangement broke down, with Hunnisett allegedly physically abusing Glazebrook, force-feeding him and removing lightbulbs around the property.Opening the case, the lawyer told the jurors: "There is evidence that the relationship between the deceased and the defendant had deteriorated to the extent that the priest wanted the defendant out of his flat and the defendant knew that." The jury heard that the case was a retrial after the appeal court quashed his original murder conviction this year.Katz said Hunnisett was introducing a "wholly unlikely story" at his retrial; no suggestion of sexual abuse had been raised at the first trial. "Throughout the entirety of the first trial in 2002 this defendant specifically denied that there was anything sexual about his relationship with the Rev Glazebrook," said Katz. "However, as the crown understands it, the position has changed. Now he is going to say that he was sexually abused by the Rev Glazebrook and the [vicar's] death arose out of an occasion where he was being sexually abused."He added: "His case will be that, on the evening of [the] death, he was fending off a sexual advance by the Rev Glazebrook and struck him, causing him to fall into the bath." He said that the fact that Hunnisett had admitted disposing of the vicar's body parts pointed to his having murdered him.At the original trial Hunnisett claimed he woke on 28 April 2001 to find the vicar drowned in his bath, the court heard. Having failed to alert the emergency services he panicked, he said, and went out for the day before returning to the flat with Groves and later disposing of the body.Groves and Hunnisett were arrested on 5 May 2001 in connection with the missing vicar. Both lied to police and claimed to know nothing about his disappearance. Days later, after they were bailed, body parts were found in woods near Summerfields sports centre in Hastings.Katz said that when Hunnisett was interviewed he gave a "complete fantasy story" involving a "duplicate body".Hunnisett was seen by doctors but not diagnosed with a mental illness. "The crown says that was his own tactical decision to play mad," said Katz.The hearing continues.