Ten girls and women have been attacked by a serial rapist in South-East England. The assailant pounced on his victims in wooded or parkland areas. Armed with a knife, he dragged them off the path; he punched most of his victims in the face.Ulrika Jonsson writes that she has been raped. She says she was 19 and had a superficial acquaintance of her assailant when she invited him back to her hotel room. She says her attacker forced himself on her and abused her so brutally she spent four days in hospital.Spot the difference between these accounts. No one will question that the 10 women attacked in South-East England were raped. Yet more than one article has appeared asking whether Jonsson's experience constituted a 'rape'. The reasoning is simple: She knew the man, probably flirted with him - second nature to a Swede - then invited him back to her room, probably offered him a whisky - what's a poor boy to think? And as for the physical abuse she claimed: well, girls today like a bit of rough, don't they? Date rape gets a bad press - but at least now it will get better laws. About time, too. Until now, the accused could plead 'honest belief' - 'she said no, guv, but I honestly believed she meant yes' - and get away with it. Now the accused will be on the spot, with investigators and courts explicitly examining his story in terms of her consent: What precisely does he mean when he says she gave him 'signs' that she was hot for him? What exactly was the 'green light' he claims she showed him? As Ian Blair, the deputy commissioner of the Metropolitan Police (and author of Investigating Rape: A New Approach for Police) puts it, this is the 'key component' in any rape trial. The proposals are welcome in that they recognise that most rapists (like most murderers) are known to their victims. They are welcome, too, because they might improve conviction rates in this crime - one in 10 of cases reported at present - and thus encourage women to report rape. Yet even this new law will struggle to change our attitude to rape by acquaintances. The frequency with which films, television programmes and books portray violent sex has numbed our reactions to it. Ulrika can write of the painful aftermath of her vicious attack. Another rape victim can describe how her assailant pushed her up against the wall without so much as a 'how-d'you-do' and forced himself on her. A third woman can describe how her rapist pushed her on the floor and repeatedly banged her head during intercourse. But didn't we just see that same carry-on on our screens between the lovers scuffling in the explicit Vodafone ad? Didn't we just read that 'erotically charged' novel where the couple went in for kinky sex games of abuse and self-abuse? A bit of slapping about and knocking around - it's a sign of steamy passion isn't it? It is, according to movies such as Madonna's disastrous Swept Away, or The Piano Teacher or Blue Velvet; and the soaps (the on-going drama on East Enders has Little Mo finally rebelling against Trevor, her bruiser of a husband, after years when, despite being reduced to black and blue, she looked as if she couldn't do without it). Violent sex is not only acceptable, it is trendy and highly marketable. Couture ads and even catwalk photos parade models bearing the bruises and even the black eye that hint at a spot of S and M. Photographer Helmut Newton made a whole career out of violent sex, and in Irvine Welsh's fiction, it provides a leitmotif. It's the scent of danger that lifts a pedestrian production into a 'remarkable' and 'troubling' one; the element bound to get your work noticed. You may be condemned for pushing the bounds of propriety and slammed for bad taste: but you'll be the talking point for weeks at middle-class dinners where no one wants to be painted a prude. Bombarded by images of violent sex, any man or woman could be forgiven for thinking that a bit of rough acts as an aphrodisiac and that violence is but an expression of lust. Twenty-first century sensualists are not the first to discover the frisson that comes from pain, or the thin line that divides abuse from arousal. Writers, painters, even mystics, have down the ages exhibited a penchant for (very) tough love. But what was once a bizarre aberration is now as quotidian as a snog. If the Marquis de Sade were alive today, he wouldn't be in jail, he'd be a script writer for Coronation Street; Charles Kingsley's erotic drawings of flagellating couples, considered so risqué that they had to be published posthumously, would decorate the walls of a department store's cafeteria. Violence in sex is so run-of-the-mill now that to truly shock you must admit to a preference for the missionary position. Bruises, cuts, burns and welts: we have pasteurised the use of force into our diet of sex. Talk of censorship remains taboo: better that a million people's imaginations take a nasty turn than that one film be edited or pulled. And yet in such a culture the danger is that a woman's cry of rape risks being dismissed as just a rough game that got out of hand. · Cristina Odone is deputy editor of the New Statesman.