Two recent and highly publicised cases in the London area over the past two weeks involving John Worboys and Kirk Reid have highlighted the growing public concern about the way police investigate rape.Two quotes from these cases demonstrate all too clearly the stark conundrum over our response. On the positive side, we have a victim of the black cab rapist who wrote to the investigating officer over the weekend following his conviction, thus: "I just wanted to reiterate how thankful I am to you all for catching this man. I remember, after he discarded me at my home address, thinking along the lines of - what's the point, he's never going to be caught, who would believe me when I'm not even sure myself … I thought I was going crazy and felt very alone … The most amazing thing you said when I first called up was 'You will be believed'. I will never forget how comforting those words were. I have had my faith in humanity restored". Believe me, these words can bring tears to the eyes of the most hardened investigators. Contrast this, though, with a quote from the prosecution counsel's opening speech in the case of Kirk Reid: "The investigative techniques employed by the police officers at that time were inadequate and failings in following up evidential leads allowed Kirk Reid to remain at large and to continue to prey on women". Reid should have been arrested in 2004. Ten of the cases at trial took place after this time. Whatever one says about competing pressures and investigative burdens, it appears that nothing possible can adequately excuse the failure to follow up the straightforward lines of enquiry that should have seen Reid arrested at that time.I write this article as the Association of Chief Police Officers' (ACPO) national lead for rape investigation. I am also about to take responsibility for the investigation of all rape and serious sexual offences in London. I can therefore contribute views from a position of strength and experience on this important topic and know in some depth the challenges that we face in relation to how we can improve our response.Before I talk about the challenges, let me provide some context and some of the improvements made, both by the Met and nationally. In 2001, the Met introduced Project Sapphire in recognition of the fact that there needed to be a change in the way that we investigated rape offences. Since then, there has been a consistent improvement in the police response with the detection rate for rape investigation rising from 25% to 33%. This has been achieved by taking significant steps to ensure rape investigation is treated as a specialist skill. The role of the sexual offences investigation trained (SOIT) officer is key to the investigation of rape. Since January 2005, all SOIT officers in the Met have passed an intensive three-week course, recently extended to four weeks, to allow further training in the use of video-recorded interviews of victims. This is in addition to the regular police officer training, which continues throughout their careers. All areas of detective training, from detective constable to detective inspector and senior investigating officer, include rape investigation. All Sapphire officers attend regular seminars and are kept updated on key issues such as forensic developments.The Met has established a unique partnership with the NHS in London in the joint funding of the three Haven sexual assault referral centres. The Havens provide the highest level of medical care and support, combined with forensic examination. The use of early evidence kits (EEKs) was pioneered in the Met to ensure that vital information is captured at the earliest opportunity. Thus through specialist training, a high level of medical care and innovative evidence-gathering procedures, the investigator is given the best chance to obtain the evidence required to present to a court. In addition to this, the Met's Sapphire cold case team has conducted forensically led reviews on more than 1,000 cases. This has resulted in the conviction of 50 men for more than100 offences. Although these offences date back to the 1980s, the offenders involved present significant risk to the public now. The Met's commitment in this area has led to the development of national policy and new forensic techniques.We also are working closely with our key partners in government, such as the Home Office, as well as the crown prosecution service (CPS), to improve the quality of investigations and prosecutions and ensure a joint approach to case-building. Nationally, the CPS and ACPO are promoting a new joint protocol for the investigation of rape; in the Met, it has been adopted between Sapphire teams and local CPS offices in every borough of the city.So, with all this apparent progress, how is it that cases like those of Worboys and Reid have apparently fallen through the net? Put simply, there are too many and significant inconsistencies in the investigative response at every level. This is not only in London, but throughout England and Wales. National inspections by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary have come and gone. Straightforward recommendations have been picked up and run with by some but not all forces. The policies are there, the training is in place but they are not embedded. We are policy-rich and implementation-poor. That is not to say that many individual cases are not dealt with expertly, sympathetically and professionally and receive proper and just outcomes, but no chief constable can be confident that every case is dealt with in this way. Chief constable colleagues may therefore wish to reflect on the issues arising out of these current cases and consider how their force is currently responding to this type of crime.Over the last five years, ACPO has done a huge amount of work with colleagues across the country to raise standards. We are about to launch new and comprehensive guidance on rape investigation with the CPS to help further raise these standards. However, my concern remains that among a range of heavy and competing priorities, rape cases simply do not get the attention they deserve. Again, I add the caveat that there is clear evidence that some forces are doing exceptional things, and they are to be applauded. But I know that this is not the case everywhere. This must change.My wish list is this. Rape investigation is a specialism, and must be treated as such. It requires specially trained detectives to properly and thoroughly investigate complex cases where corroborative evidence is often difficult to find. We need leadership at all levels, but particularly at the most senior level, to grip this issue and lever resources into this crucial area of work. In essence, we need, as a service, to reinvent our response in the way that we did in relation to homicide after the tragic murder of Stephen Lawrence. We need to embed the policy of joint working with the CPS from the outset to ensure the best evidence is obtained and presented to court. We need a comprehensive public awareness campaign that ensures that sexist and wholly objectionable views, such as those evidenced in a recent Amnesty International report – 33% of people believe that a woman is partially or completely responsible for being raped if she has behaved flirtatiously, 25% believe she is partly to blame if she has worn revealing clothes or been drunk – are stamped out. Finally, we need to ensure that all forces apply guidance on counting and recording consistently and start from the point of believing the victim. ACPO is working closely with the Home Office on this issue. The Met's announcement that rape and serious sexual offences in London will now be dealt with by its specialist crime directorate is a hugely important step. It will build on the work of Project Sapphire, emphasising the fact that victim's needs must be at the heart of every rape investigation. It will apply techniques and learning from other serious crime investigations relating to these offences. It will further improve our intelligence gathering to ensure that potential series are identified at the earliest possible stage. Publicly, it is likely that there will be a continued and singular focus on the low conviction rates. This is far too stark a measure in my view, and fails to acknowledge the complexities involved in these investigations. This is particularly so when one considers that many victims do not want to follow a prosecution route.What really matters is how victims are treated, that their immediate needs, medical or otherwise, are dealt with properly and sensitively; that they know they have been believed, that their wishes are followed and if appropriate every possible line of enquiry has been exhausted in an attempt to bring any perpetrator to justice. The new approach in the Met will hopefully further professionalise our response to this awful crime. If, as is hoped, significant improvements result, others across the country may wish to follow the same course. None of this alters the fact that Worboys and Reid have carried out the most horrific series of attacks that will have left victims and their families devastated. We must do everything we can to stop the same situations occurring again.