Police hope to appeal against a ruling yesterday that a "highly suspect" driver arrested in possession of a stolen car was entitled to have it returned to him, plus damages for its wrongful detention by police since 1997.In what Derbyshire police say amounts to a "thieves' charter," three judges ruled that because the car's identity had been changed it was impossible to trace the legal owner and therefore the person found in possession of it was entitled to keep it. The three judges backed an appeal by Jason Costello against a decision by Derby county court not to return the car to him on the grounds that he knew it was stolen. A spokesman for Derbyshire police said the force would be meeting next week to discuss an appeal. He said any damages awarded Mr Costello would probably not be large because the car was "a shell". The case illustrates the old legal maxim that "possession is nine points of the law". The rule is that the person in possession of goods is deemed to be entitled to them unless someone with a better claim to them comes forward. The owner of the Ford Fiesta could not be traced because the car's identification number had been obliterated and a new one welded on, and its engine number had been ground off. "Possession is entitled to the same legal protection whether or not it has been obtained lawfully or by theft or other unlawful means," said Mr Justice Lightman after a review of previous court decisions. "It vests in the possessor a possessory title which is good against the world, save against anyone claiming under a better title," said the judge, sitting with lords justices Robert Walker and Keene. Earlier cases include one in which money was found in the public part of a jeweller's shop and another in which a bracelet was picked up at Heathrow airport. When the true owners failed to come forward, the finders were allowed to keep the goods. Seeking permission to appeal against the decision to the Lords, Fiona Barton, for the chief constable of Derbyshire, said the judgment placed the police in real difficulty. It meant that it was in the interests of thieves and handlers to obliterate the identity numbers of stolen items so they could claim the goods back in the absence of the true owner. Lord Justice Walker said the court was "not wholly unsympathetic" with police concerns. But the judges refused permission to appeal, leaving it to the police to ask the law lords themselves whether they will allow an appeal. Mr Costello was stopped after a short chase in Derby and another man in the car was arrested and later convicted of stealing a different vehicle. Mr Costello was never charged. Police retained the car under the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act. A "ringing" kit - used to "ring the changes" in a car's identity - was found under the back seat. Mr Costello claimed there could have been an honest and innocent explanation for the number changes - such as a change of body shell or engine - but the Derby county court judge who originally dismissed his claim to have the car returned in 1999 held that the car was stolen and that Mr Costello knew this. Mr Justice Lightman said the judge had been fully entitled to reach that conclusion. Mr Costello's behaviour when the car was seized was, at its lowest, "highly suspicious", and he gave false evidence to the county court. But the 1984 act gave police only a temporary right to retain goods for the purposes of a criminal investigation, for use as evidence at a trial or to establish lawful ownership. The limited right of the police to retain property and their obligation to return it to the "owner" after completing their inquiries were "unaffected by any perceived public policy consideration that the fruits of his criminal activities ought to be withheld from a criminal", said the judge. This conclusion was in accord with a principle"that even a thief is entitled to the protection of the criminal law against the theft from him of that which he has stolen". The judges ruled that damages should be assessed by the county court.