I thought we all missed a trick last week in not giving assorted regulators, the people who struggle to control the rascals who try to rip off society one way or another, a well-deserved pat on the back. Thursday morning's £290m fine against Barclays bank for outrageous market manipulations gives us a chance to make good the omission.Did you notice? A greedy City trader and his greedy wife, James and Miranda Sanders, were jailed last week for making millions out of insider dealing on information provided by a family member now serving time in the US. A high court judge – good for him – slammed HBOS for its cruel deception of customers of Farepak, the Christmas club that it allowed to go bankrupt while continuing to take the punters' money.In his capacity as business secretary, Vince Cable also moved to curb pay excesses in the boardroom last week, albeit in a form of shareholder regulation diluted – AGM votes only every three years – by you-know-who. I'll save my week's favourite societal blow against bad behaviour, the sheer chutzpah of the lottery rapist, for later. Let's examine the bankers first.Three bank regulators on both sides of the Atlantic were involved in bringing Barclays to book for what the Commons Treasury committee chairman, Andrew Tyrie, calls "lying for profit".As with Bob Crow's strategy for Olympic bonuses, it's what economists call "rent extraction", common enough in developing countries, but a form of activity that needs to be slapped down hard in more sophisticated ones. It's inefficient as well as greedy and dishonest.Tyrie is a Tory City man, by the way, and an impressive witness. But other worldly City politicians, Labour's Lord Paul Myners (the worst case of moral misconduct he's seen in his career) and the Lib Dem Lord Matthew Oakeshott, piled in. It was tawdry of No 10 to try to blame New Labour's enthusiasm for "light regulation" of the City – not because that's incorrect, but because the then shadow cabinet was usually even worse.Will anyone be sacked – or charged with criminal offences? Will up to 20 other banks be hammered by the vengeful American regulators, whose tough enforcement culture our own Financial Services Authority belatedly seeks to emulate? Too soon to say, but let's hope so.Diamond Bob comes across as cynical and complacent in his public appearances and his overnight renunciation of one of his bonuses is just that.It doesn't sound like the "good citizen" culture of which he spoke so earnestly last year when he must have known of the investigation into the bank's manipulation of inter-bank interest rates between 2005-07. Traders in its investment bank wing rewarded each other with bottles of Bollinger, doubtless purchased at the expense of the bank's customers and shareholders.Naive or not, I cling to the belief that in open societies excesses in a particular section are usually corrected by remedial action in the end – or else society decays into sloth and corruption. Unions, industrialists, MPs and officialdom, even the over-mighty press is finally being called to account along with the banks, another case of failed corporate governance.It's an endless process of renewal and we've had a tough education about the in-built excesses of the market model of economic management which Margaret Thatcher bequeathed. Yet the BBC's report this week that Ray Mawby, a working-class Tory minister in the gentler, mixed-economy 1960s, was taking cash and cigars from the cold war Czech embassy is a useful reminder that the good old days were not that good. I doubt if the old-fashioned "word is his bond" City of London – before the Thatcherite "big bang" of 1986 – was as clean as nostalgic insiders say either.So I was pleased to see the Sanders couple go down, Miranda for only 10 months because among the greedy pair's egregious amassing of ill-gotten gains are two small consumer durables, aged five and six. Press reports highlighted the interesting fact that it's her sister who is in the slammer in the US for providing the lucrative commercial insider share dealing.The FSA had to trawl through 26m emails and 800,000 phone calls to nail them. These cases are labour intensive and complex. Even sitting through a day of the five-month (and counting) theft trial of the Polly Peck absconder, Asil Nadir, at the Old Bailey this week made my head spin.Mr Justice Peter Smith's condemnation of HBOS's "hardball" tactics over Farepak in the high court sounds more stimulating.Instead of rescuing low-income customers' savings (their "Doris money" as HBOS bankers called it) they prevented Farepak directors – later wrongly blamed for the crash – from saving it while insisting that they keep on taking the money. Customers lost £37m just before Christmas, including £3m-£5m invested as the crash loomed. British taxpayers later rescued HBOS, as the bank had not rescued Farepak, the judge noted.Well, good for him. We need more outspoken summings up, more judgmental language. Judges often get it wrong too, but there is an appeal process that sometimes rectifies error and excess.Perhaps I shouldn't lump the low-life ex-bricklayer Edward Putman with serious dirty dealers handling large sums of other people's money. But it strikes me that they all swing to the same moral compass and readers of broadsheet newspapers are often spared unsettling glimpses into the world of the Putmans.In summary, Putman, 46, declined publicity when he won £4.5m in the national lottery in 2009; no cameras at Camelot that day as staff handed over the cheque. Modesty? No. He was planning to carry on claiming housing benefit and income support. A recent unrelated court case may have made him shy.Who knows, he might have got away with it had he not done a very pleasingly stupid thing: Putman tried to buy his former council home for cash and fetched up this month in St Albans magistrates court where his solicitor said he would be pleading guilty to £15,000 worth of benefit fraud and promising to repay the money.All this brought his name and winnings into the public domain. It's a hard fact of life that most of us find the financial manipulations of Barclays' Bollinger brigade difficult to comprehend. But we can all follow the Putman saga and tut-tut. The Daily Mail's coverage has been extensive and thorough because the process – did the Mail help, I wonder – alerted two women who had suffered violence at his hands.It's a familiar underclass story which needs no repeating, of broken relationships and children raised in fear of violence. In 1993 Putman was convicted of rape, witness intimidation and perverting the course of justice. He served four years of a seven-year sentence. His victims got no compensation and little maintenance.But, thanks to a plucky widow called Shirley Woodman, then known as Mrs A, who sued the man who tried to rape her in a park 20 years earlier after learning he had won £7.2m in the lottery, the courts have extended the six-year time limit under which victims of serious assault can sue for compensation. Now 82 and a retired teacher, Woodman got a £100,000 out-of-court settlement in 2008 from serial rapist Iorworth Hoare after a four-year battle.Did Putman read the well-publicised case, the Mail speculated? Either way, his victims say they are coming after his money.Woodman, who was awarded an MBE this year for service to the community, gave her award to charity.Putman, the Sanderses, Barclay Bob, Woodman: who best represents modern Britain? I like to think the positive answer is the right one.