A 500-strong squad of police officers is being set up in a drive to tackle the increase in street crime in London, it emerged yesterday.The initiative includes pulling hundreds of officers off traffic duty and using traffic wardens to carry out anti-terrorist duties, moves which have angered the road safety lobby. But police said they were determined to keep 320 of the most persistent street offenders under constant surveillance and to arrest them if found committing even the most minor of offences. They will also try to break up gangs and identify "hotspot" areas where resources will be concentrated. The commissioner of the Met, Sir John Stevens, denied the measures were a form of "zero tolerance", the controversial tactic used successfully to tackle crime in New York. But it emerged yesterday that the home secretary, David Blunkett, is planning to meet the pioneer of "zero tolerance", criminologist George Kelling, when he visits the US. Launching the initiative, Sir John admitted the new measures were "radical and perhaps controversial" but said they were necessary to combat a dramatic rise in street crime. Since September 11 hundreds of officers have been redeployed from London boroughs into the centre of the capital to thwart any terrorist attack. But the move is blamed for a 40% increase in street robberies across the city.At the heart of the initiative is the transfer of 250 traffic officers, members of the territorial support group and officers from the dog and marine sections into the street crime squad. Another 65 traffic officers will be sent to work in the boroughs. The deployment of 160 traffic wardens to act as the "eyes and ears" of the force in areas judged to be at risk from terrorists means that officers who have been on patrol there since September 11 can return to their normal duties. Sir John admitted that the initiative, which will result in the number of traffic officers being cut by half and wardens by a third, will result in drivers escaping prosecution and may lead to more congestion. But he added: "This initiative is part of giving our streets back to law-abiding Londoners." Eight London boroughs - Lambeth, Westminster, Hackney, Southwark, Camden, Tower Hamlets, Haringey and Brent - are to be targeted for anti street crimes operations. One tactic will be to have fast-response patrols available to get to victims quickly. The new squad will also use "targeted" stop and search, a tactic which has caused contro versy because research has shown that black people are more likely to be stopped. Sir John also called on the government to consider a "three strikes and you're out" sentencing policy for street robbers which would see them getting a mandatory six to 12 months in jail for a third offence. He also demanded that bail conditions for persistent offenders be more stringent. Speaking in Sheffield yesterday Mr Blunkett said that overall crime was falling with statistics showing the chances of becoming a victim were at their lowest for 20 years. The government yesterday announced a further cut in the time it takes to fast-track persistent young offenders through the court system, one of its five "early pledges" made when it came to office. It now takes 68 days to get such offenders from arrest to sentence - compared with 142 days in May 1997.