The body of 12-year-old Tia Sharp was found wrapped in a black bedsheet in a black bag in the loft of her grandmother's house, it has emerged.Separately, Stuart Hazell, the 37-year-old man accused of her murder, was remanded in custody as he was sent for trial at London's Old Bailey after appearing before Camberwell Green magistrates via videolink.Wearing a blue T-shirt, he was seated at a table in Sutton police station during the five-minute hearing. A policewoman stood behind him throughout.Hazell, the partner of Tia's grandmother Christine Sharp, 46, is charged with the murder of the schoolgirl on a date between 2 and 11 August.He confirmed his name, date of birth and address at The Lindens, New Addington, south London. He gave no plea. When asked by the clerk of the court if he understood the charge, he replied: "Yes. I do".He will appear before the Old Bailey by videolink on Wednesday and a plea and case management hearing is set for 19 November.Details of the case were not opened in court as the chairman of the bench, Charu Joglekar, said it was an indictable offence and magistrates did not have jurisdiction. No family members attended the brief hearing.Tia's body was discovered on Friday afternoon in the terraced council house where her grandmother lived with Hazell. Hazell was arrested several hours later in a field in nearby Merton.The schoolgirl, who regularly visited her grandmother, was reported missing on Friday 3 August. Police had visited the premises frequently since then.A specialist team searched the house in the early hours of Sunday 5 August and apparently examined the loft where Tia's body was discovered five days later by another team.The Metropolitan police has apologised to Tia's mother, Natalie Sharp, 30, saying that human error was to blame for their failure to find her body sooner. That failure is now the subject of an internal Metropolitan police inquiry.The cause of Tia's death has not yet been established but it is understood that police are examining a theory that she may have been smothered. A postmortem examination was halted on Saturday night and is expected to recommence this week. Although officers await formal identification of a body found at The Lindens on Friday, the alleged victim is named in the murder charge as Tia Sharp.More than 100 officers were drafted in to search for the missing schoolgirl. Friends, neighbours and members of the local community carried out their own searches and handed out thousands of leaflets bearing Tia's photograph.Christine Sharp, Tia's grandmother, was arrested on suspicion of murder on Saturday but bailed on Sunday until October.Her neighbour Paul Meehan, 39, was bailed on suspicion of assisting an offender.Tia's mother, Natalie Sharp, and her partner, David Niles, 29, who live 10 miles away in Mitcham, Surrey, visited a shrine of hundreds of flowers and cards on the pavement near The Lindens on Sunday. The couple left a white orchid, a teddy bear and a card before Sharp was led away sobbing.Tia's natural father, Steven Carter, who lives in Northampton but came to London to help with the search, said he would miss her for ever. He told ITV News: "I'm heartbroken, angry, robbed. Robbed of my beautiful little girl who I will never see again, hold, kiss, touch. I don't know what to say … I want justice for my daughter – the proper way."Of the last time he saw Tia, he said: "She jumped in my arms, she told me she loved me, we spoke about her school, what she was doing … she called me Daddy. I'll miss her forever."Detectives examined more than 800 hours of CCTV footage and received more than 300 calls to the incident room during the search with 60 reported sightings.