In his article on Prevent, the government's anti-terror strategy, Mehdi Hasan attacks the "conveyor belt" theory of radicalisation where individuals become angry, turning religious or political, and then to terror (So, prime minister, are we to call you an extremist now?, 9 June)."Radicalisation shows no such linear progression," he argues. Well, this is exactly what happened in the case of Roshonara Choudhry, here in Newham, east London, who attempted to murder our MP, Stephen Timms. She was inspired by jihadi sermons on the internet and sought "revenge" for the Iraq war.Hasan attacks Prevent's lack of distinction between "non-violent" and "violent" extremism. But if one does not counter the basis of extremist ideology, isn't it then too late to stop it being translated into terrorist action? Non-violent extremism encompasses those who condemn terrorist attacks in this country but are happy to justify suicide attacks against British troops in the Middle East. These views poison the minds of young people for whom the next logical step is to translate their anger into violence. "Non-violent" and "violent" extremism are different sides of the same coin, and both have to be fought together.For too long we have allowed communities to go their own ways and live separate lives. Building "Britishness" and a multicultural cohesive identity has to be done in practice, developing common values around a common agenda.Hasan defends the Federation of Student Islamic Societies against claims of not doing enough to challenge extremist ideology by saying that, in holding a conference on campus extremism, they have done their bit. One wishes it was so simple. Many of these societies have over the years invited odious, hate-filled speakers who are virulently antisemitic, anti-gay, anti-west and ideologues of terror. Unchallenged by a liberal academia who prefer to view such activity through the prism of academic debate and free speech, is it any wonder that such an environment has produced people like the alleged transatlantic bomber, Umar Abdulmutallab, ex-president of the University College London Islamic Society?Hasan claims that the "most egregious aspect of the counter-extremism strategy is how little it has to say about the links between extremism and foreign policy". He claims this to be "a key driver of radicalisation". But to use foreign policy as an excuse is lazy thinking. There are many diaspora communities in our multi-racial society who have cause to be unhappy with our foreign policy and have not resorted to terror. Take British Tamils, who last year occupied Parliament Square in protest against Sri Lanka's treatment of Tamils, demanding tougher government action.In Newham our Prevent strategy has focused on fighting extremism in all its forms. It is not about tackling a "problem" but about building a resilient community that acts on what it has in common rather than what divides it. We do this by avoiding funding of narrow sectional interests via self-appointed community leaders. We organise events that bring all our communities together, such as our sports and volunteering programme. So, when Hasan says "combating extremism and terrorism requires a nuanced, less confrontational approach", he's right – as he can see from our work.