Scotland Yard is expanding its pioneering civilian policing scheme, despite concerns at the behaviour and suitability of some recruits.Hundreds of police community support officers will be sent to London suburbs to assist with visible policing strategies. By next May the Metropolitan Police Authority expects to have 700 support officers in the outer boroughs. A further 300 will be deployed on security duties and 250 on transport policing.There are now 1,601 community support officers, who cost 25% less than regular officers, nationwide. The home secretary, David Blunkett, wants a further 2,400 recruited in the next two years. The scheme has been under intense scrutiny after it emerged this month that dozens of recruits are under investigation for crimes ranging from drug dealing, fraud, and assault, to bigamy and racism. One was deported after it was discovered he was an illegal immigrant. Last month it was revealed that Scotland Yard had employed a sex offender, and a man who had to be sectioned under the Mental Health Act and was later charged with attempted murder. At one police station in central London, where the first batch of recruits was based, 16 of 100 support officers had disciplinary proceedings begun against them. The string of incidents led an inquiry, commissioned by the Met and conducted by an outside consultant. Its preliminary findings suggest there are no fundamental problems with the standard or behaviour of recruits, but there is a need to improve their training. Their treatment by regular officers will also have to change. In a report to the Metropolitan Police Authority, Commander Brian Paddick said: "The failure of some regular officers to fully recognise the capabilities and limitations of PCSOs, and to task them appropriately, may have given rise to morale and retention problems in some places." He described them as "valuable members of the extended police family, when deployed in appropriate geographic locations and for appropriate policing purposes". Regular officers train for two years, spending 18 weeks at the Met's facility in Hendon, north London. Support officers receive three weeks' training, are paid around £19,000 a year, and have only limited powers of arrest. In all normal circumstances they are obliged to call for assistance from regular officers. The fact that many support officers are black is politically significant for the Met. It has been told that a quarter of its workforce should be from ethnic minorities by 2009. The present level is 8%. Toby Harris, the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said the scheme had been a "substantial success story" and that specific problems would be resolved: "Most of the PCSOs I have met are very much the right people, indeed they are very impressive." Chief Inspector Leroy Logan, the chairman of the Metropolitan Black Police Association, said the programme had been valuable, but called on senior officers to learn from past mistakes. "There was disproportionate haste in bringing the scheme in; and there have been issues about supervision, management and development," he said. "But PCSOs must also look at how they interact among themselves. There must be a process of spreading best practice and a recognition that they are part of a professional service which will require a lot of them."