The key witness in the Damilola Taylor murder trial and her mother ran up a £4,000-plus hotel bill in a week, the Old Bailey heard today.The bill was paid for by police, who had placed the then 13-year-old girl in a witness protection programme after she told them she witnessed the murder of 10-year-old Damilola. During day-long questioning by Baroness Mallalieu QC, defending one of four youths accused of murder, the girl, now 14, also admitted: · Being taken to hospital after drinking too much cider· Selling a personal stereo loaned to her by a policewoman · Running up a bill of almost £1,000 in phone calls paid for by the police · Chasing pupils at school with a pair of scissors and a compass · Leaving a public school where she was placed by police after one day The girl agreed that she and her mother had been placed at the Selsdon Park Hotel, Surrey, after completing police interviews in February last year. Shown the bills for the two rooms occupied by her and her mother, the girl agreed they came to £4,133 for one week. One telephone call had been logged at £226.40, there were bills for room service, drinks and £33 for night porter refreshments at 4.45am one night. One day, the bill said 60 phone calls had been made from the mother's room. Lady Mallalieu asked her: "You have taken the police for a bunch of mugs, haven't you? You have taken them for a ride?" The girl replied: "No." She agreed that they had been asked to leave the hotel "in the middle of the night" after only a week because of a fire in her room. There was also a bill one day for nearly £100 worth of wine and alcohol charged to her room. Asked to explain the high bills, she said: "I am stuck in a hotel, what am I supposed to do? I wasn't allowed out." The girl today again denied she had named the four youths accused of the killing in order to get a £50,000 reward. Two brothers aged 16, a 17-year-old and a 14-year-old deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The girl, say the prosecution, was the only witness to the killing of Damilola, who bled to death after being surrounded by a gang and stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle on the North Peckham Estate, south London, in November 2000. Earlier, the girl's school records were shown to her. She denied she was an "attention seeker". But she agreed she had been asked to move schools and had been accused of dishonesty and violent and disruptive behaviour. Lady Mallalieu continued her questioning into allegations of drunkenness, selling a policewoman's personal stereo.The girl agreed she sold a Walkman lent to her by Pc Crooks. Lady Mallalieu challenged her: "Do you have any conception of right or wrong, honesty and dishonesty?" The girl replied: "I should not have sold it but I did."Police had bought her a mobile phone when she said she had sold hers to raise cash. They had also bought her clothes on several occasions. On March 28, she agreed she was taken to hospital by ambulance having drunk a lot of cider. Two women police officers and her mother had stayed up all night at the hospital. "No long term damage and very little remorse," commented Lady Mallalieu. "I was under pressure," replied the girl. She had then had four sessions with a professor in traumatic stress disorder at a London hospital. Asked if she had found it difficult to refuse because of all the kindness shown to her by Pc Crooks, the girl said: "I could have said no if I wanted to." She replied "yes" when Lady Mallalieu asked her: "You have been put in an impossible position and under a lot of pressure from a lot of different directions." When the QC gave her a last chance to say she was not there when Damilola was attacked, she retorted: "No, I was there." The hearing was adjourned until tomorrow.