A taxi boss who ran over and killed his estranged wife’s boyfriend in a revenge attack has been told he will serve at least 18 years of a life sentence.Nasser Rezaie, 63, mounted the pavement and mowed down Allan Frampton in a cul-de-sac in Chelmsford, Essex.CCTV footage showed Rezaie’s silver S Class Mercedes smash into the 60-year-old before stopping and reversing over his body five more times, then dragging him along the street.Rezaie, from Petersfield, Chelmsford, was convicted of murder after a trial at Chelmsford crown court last week and appeared for sentencing on Monday.Judge Charles Gratwicke jailed Rezaie for life with a minimum term of 18 years, the court said.Prosecutors said the “revenge killing”was premeditated and the culmination of months of threats towards his wife, Jane Rezaie, and her new partner. Opening the case at Chelmsford crown court, prosecutor Peter Gair said Nasser Rezaie had secretly fitted GPS tracking devices to his wife’s car. These sent alerts about her location to his mobile phone so he could follow her every movement – eventually tracking down her and Frampton on the day of the attack. Gair added: “The defendant was not willing to accept the marriage was over despite being told a number of times by family and friends. He clearly wanted to discover their whereabouts. On 9 May, no doubt as a result of those tracking devices, he knew where they were and had them in his hands.” At 2.31pm on 9 May the tracker sent an alert confirming Jane Rezaie’s car was in Osea Way, where the couple’s son and daughter lived. The estranged husband arrived later that day and Framptondecided to confront him. The defendant drove his car at Frampton as he stood on a grass area by the roadside, then repeatedly reversed, aimed and drove over him, the court heard. After the killing, Rezaie drove to Chelmsford police station and told officers he had been involved in an accident. Rezaie did not dispute he was driving the car, but claimed he was not guilty because of “loss of control” owing to the emotional turmoil. The Rezaies had been married for more than 30 years. They have three adult children and ran the firm Ali’s Taxis together. She became very unhappy in the marriage, the court heard, and began a relationship with Frampton, who maintained some of the firm’s taxis, in 2012. This relationship further blossomed as Nasser Rezaie began spending more time in his homeland, Iran.Frampton’s daughter, Katie, said outside the court on Monday: “I don’t get any comfort from this sentence. I’m just sad that all this heartache and pain has been caused in the first place. “I don’t hate Rezaie, I pity him. I feel for his children and future grandchildren. They’re not going to have a father and grandfather. I am not going to be consumed by anger and hatred toward him. It’s now time for my family to try to move on a rebuild our lives.” The family’s lawyer, Oliver Jeffcott, of law firm Slater and Gordon, said Rezaie had acted with “callous contempt” for the feelings of Allan Frampton’s family and loved ones. He added: “He fought this case to the bitter end, forcing them to go through the trauma of a trial, despite overwhelming evidence against him. No sentence can undo the harm Rezaie has done, but at least now with this sentencing Mr Frampton’s family can begin to grieve.”