The prisons minister, Paul Goggins, yesterday announced emergency measures to squeeze a further 800 places out of the overcrowded jails of England and Wales as their population passed the 75,000 mark for the first time.Ministers cut the safety buffer - the maximum number of places kept free to allow room for manoeuvre - by 300 and said they would accelerate the return of 500 cells undergoing refurbishment.They hope that the few weeks' breathing space provided by the emergency measures will defuse the immediate overcrowding crisis sparked by a growth in the prison population of 200 a week.The jail population reached 75,191 yesterday - more than 8,000 higher than the official capacity of the 138 prisons in England and Wales.It remains about 1,700 below the new official "bust" level of 76,891 but prisoners are now having to be bussed around the country at short notice as prison managers try to use every available space.Much of the remaining "head room" in the prison system is either in the wrong parts of the country or is the "wrong type of cell" for the security category of the prisoners involved.A further 1,500 places in new prison accommodation are due to open this year. The Prison Governors Association has said that jails are at bursting point. The government plans to cap the rise in the prison population at 80,000 by diverting non-violent and minor offenders away from prison but the courts continue to jail more and more people. The governor of Wandsworth in London yesterday highlighted the sharp increase in shoplifters in prison at any one time, from 129 a decade ago to 1,400 now. Mr Goggins has ruled out the routine use of police cells as emergency accommodation to deal with the crisis. A Prison Service spokesman said yesterday that overcrowding pressures were greatest in London, the West Midlands, West Yorkshire, Manchester and Durham. In some areas courts are already having to hold remand prisoners in police cells, but they cost on average £363 a night - three times the cost of a normal prison place - because of the police overtime involved.In areas such as London, the police have made clear they do not want to take part in a repeat of Operation Safeguard, under which thousands of inmates were routinely held in police cells in the last overcrowding crisis in July 2002. Juliet Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust said the record prison population meant it was time to ask some hard questions: "Do we want to live in a society where more young black men go to prison than to university and where the mentally ill rot in jail instead of getting the treatment they need?" Frances Crook of the Howard League for Penal Reform added that "overcrowded prisons are not rehabilitating prisons" and the crisis meant that the public was being put at risk. "If this government is serious about reducing crime then it must show the necessary political leadership to divert minor offenders into community sentences. Prison must be reserved for use only for violent and dangerous offenders."