 Jay Bharat, 22 Sentence: three months Crime: theft  I was sentenced to three months and spent my time in two young offenders institutes, Hindley and Thorncross. It wasn't the best experience, but obviously I did learn from it. At the time of being sentenced I was at university and I was quite lucky because they decided to keep me on. If they had thrown me out then I would have been in trouble and it would have achieved nothing because obviously, with a criminal record, I wouldn't have been employable. The head of my department was very supportive and sent me details of the weekly tutorials to keep me up to date. Without that, I know that I would have just started a life of crime when I came out. When I left prison I was still very worried about my employment prospects and having a criminal record. I spoke to my probation officer about it and she advised me to just be honest when asked. I've had quite a few temporary jobs in retail, and a lot of the time they don't ask, but there were places which found out and didn't want me to stay. There was one shop where they offered me a permanent position which I accepted, but when they found out about my record they withdrew it, saying it was because of unsatisfactory references from previous employers. They had to say that because it's against the law to discriminate because of a criminal record. I knew the real reason and sought legal advice but didn't pursue it. With the graduate positions that I'm looking at now, a lot of them don't ask. But if they did, I reckon I'd have to be honest. I tried to keep myself to myself when I was inside, so I didn't experience much racism. When I arrived on the first day there were some people having a go, but I just tried to ignore it. In Thorncross, some of the other Asian lads had got into a lot of trouble because of racist attitudes from other inmates, but basically it wasn't dealt with as racism because it always resulted in a lot of fighting. People would attack the Asians, they would have to fight to defend themselves, and then it was the Asians who were given extra days on their sentence and sent to the block as punishment. There's not really anyone you can turn to about that sort of thing, and if you do start to report racism because of the mentality in prison you're just seen as a grass.