The Conservative high command today tried to pre-empt the home secretary's reclassification of cannabis by declaring the Lambeth police pilot a "disaster".The Tory leader, Iain Duncan Smith, and his shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, are visiting Brixton today to highlight their opposition to the policing policy of issuing an informal caution to those found in possession of cannabis.Mr Blunkett is expected to formally announce tomorrow his decision to reclassify cannabis as a class C drug, therby making possession a non-arrestable offence.Although the Conservatives do not oppose the cannabis reclassification per se, they have joined forces with the Daily Mail and the London Evening Standard to criticise former Lambeth police commander Brian Paddick's scheme. The trial was launched to give police more time to combat hard drugs.Mr Letwin said today: "We are going to Brixton to highlight the disaster that the Brixton cannabis experiment has become. "Community leaders, local police officers and local residents have all rightly pointed out that this experiment has caused a significant increase in drug dealing of all kinds in Brixton. "Worse yet, it is clear that this experiment has handed over control of the estates to drug dealers and their gangs." He added: "Ultimately, this issue is about whether the forces of law and order control an area or whether it is controlled by other forces." In a bid to sugar the pill of the drug reclassification - which was recommended by both the police foundation and the home affairs select committee - Mr Blunkett is expected to announce a doubling of the maximum sentence for dealing cannabis.However, the Tories say there has been a significant overall increase in drug trafficking in Lambeth and that drug dealers are in control, not the police. Kate Hoey, one of the local Labour MPs, has also condemned the experiment, saying it has made drug trafficking socially acceptable. Last week, Mr Paddick defended the scheme, saying there was no evidence to show his relaxed approach had attracted an influx of "drugs tourists" to Brixton. Figures from Scotland Yard last month showed street crime in Lambeth had fallen dramatically. The policy of issuing police warnings might be extended to other parts of the country if - as seems likely - Mr Blunkett announces on Wednesday that the penalties for cannabis are to be downgraded. He told MPs last October there was a case for reclassification, although he declared he was not in favour of shifting ecstasy from class A to class B.