Police today arrested 23 people when they raided a Rastafarian temple in south London to search for drugs and weapons.Around 250 officers, some armed, targeted the temple and cultural centre - housed in four Victorian terraced homes in St Agnes Place, Kennington - at just after 3am. The buildings, decorated in the green, yellow and red colours of Rastafarianism and topped with an Ethiopian flag, are the last remaining part of what was once London's longest-established squatters' community. Police cleared the remainder of the properties in November 2005, and Lambeth council, which owned them, said it had lost around £4m in unpaid rent over the decades. Officers said the site had been taken over by drug dealers in recent months and was linked to "a high level of serious criminality". Chief Superintendent Martin Bridger, the area commander for the London borough of Lambeth, said the raid had followed months of surveillance of suspected drug dealing. "In the past few weeks, we've arrested around 200 people coming away from the premises and they have even had cannabis or crack cocaine on them," he said.Senior members of the temple had contacted police to express their concerns, he explained. "These other people have taken it over," he said. "It has a long history of being a Rastafarian temple, but that is not what it is being used for." At a later briefing, Mr Bridger said police - who have so far searched only two of the 32 rooms in the complex - had found several kilos of cannabis, crack cocaine and six rounds of ammunition.He said the temple was being used as a "market", adding: "We believe people wanting to buy drugs would approach the temple, speak to a man on the door, tell him what type of drugs they were after and be shown to a relevant room."During a surveillance operation that began in October and became 24-hour over the past eight weeks, police saw up to 600 people a day visiting the temple.Of those stopped as they left the building, Mr Bridger said 80% were carrying drugs.One regular at the temple said police had unfairly targeted it, claiming it was suffering because of crime in the wider community."We don't know anything about class A drugs or firearms," Derrick Clarke, who has been going to the temple for more than 20 years, said. "It is a problem within the Kennington community. It is not as if we are harbouring criminals - we are victims of it."However, another man who said he had worshipped at the temple until two years ago, claimed it had changed from being a community focal point once the area was cleared of squatters."I'm shocked that what was once a friendly, happy place to be seems to have been taken over by criminals," the man, who gave his name only as Ed, said. "Everyone locally supports the police when they take action against drug dealing."