A teenager convicted of murdering a jeweller as she tried to shield her daughter was ordered to serve a minimum of 22 years' imprisonment yesterday.Peter Williams, 19, was described as "brutal and callous" by a judge who echoed public outrage at the crime, which took place in a busy area of Nottingham. Police meanwhile renewed an appeal for information about the man suspected of pulling the trigger in the attack, shooting 64-year-old Marian Bates while Williams prepared to set about her husband with an iron bar. Detectives believe that James Brodie, a serial armed robber from Nottingham, may have been killed soon after the raid in a gangland settling of scores, but they have found no conclusive proof. The Bates murder caused a furore over allegedly ineffective policing in Nottinghamshire, whose chief constable, Steve Green, in turn accused the government of bogging down his force in budget curbs and paperwork. Passing sentence yesterday, Mr Justice Gibbs told Williams: "This murder has aroused outrage at a situation in which a robbery can be committed with a gun discharged in broad daylight in a busy shopping centre in Nottingham." Williams was convicted in March after a trial at Stafford crown court, which heard that he had helped the gunman to escape by attacking Mrs Bates's husband, Victor, 66, with a crowbar. Mrs Bates had slumped to the floor fatally wounded, after stepping in front of her daughter, Xanthe, "in an instinctive act of bravery" to protect the mother of her two small grandsons. Mr Bates, who had picked up a fencing foil to attack the raiders, said after yesterday's hearing: "It is a decent outcome to an indecent act." He described the judge's comments about public outrage as "exceptionally accurate". The judge told Williams that the sentence had been mitigated by his age and the fact that he had not actually fired the fatal shot. But these points were "greatly outweighed" by aggravating factors, including his brutality and callous contempt for human life. An inquiry is under way into Probation Service and Court Service monitoring of Williams, a cocaine addict and habitual cannabis user with a criminal record from the age of 13. It emerged after the trial that he had frequently removed an electronic tag without any apparent intervention from the authorities. Detective Superintendent George Frame of Nottinghamshire police said: "We are delighted with the severity of the sentence handed down by the court ... However, we still need people out there to help us. Our detectives are actively looking for James Brodie in connection with this murder, and I would ask anyone who has any information about Brodie, or his whereabouts, to contact us."