The parents of a man shot dead in a botched robbery on their village post office store yesterday called for the return of hanging. Ken and Judy Hodson-Walker, both 57, were speaking after three men were convicted of murdering their son Craig in January.Craig Hodson-Walker, 29, described by his mother as a "beautiful person" who had been planning his wedding, died after he was shot through the heart during the robbery at the shop in Fairfield, Worcestershire on 9 January. His father, Ken, was shot in the leg.Yesterday, a jury at Birmingham crown court found the three men, Christopher Morrisey, 32, of Birmingham, his brother Declan Morrissey, 34, of Solihull, and Anselm Ribera, 34, also of Birmingham, guilty of murder after a 10-week trial. They were also convicted of attempting to murder Ken Hodson-Walker. A fourth man, Adrian Snape, 25, was cleared of both charges but admitted attempted robbery. The four men will be sentenced on Friday.Judith Hodson-Walker described her son as a bright person who had loved life and the simple things. "Craig was more than a son, he was our friend," she said in a victim impact statement that was read out to the judge. "He was a great mediator, a listener, but most of all he was our rock. That rock now has been taken away from us and life will never be the same again."I have had to endure living and working in a place where my son was so brutally shot, walking daily past the spot where I held him in my arms, dying, as his beautiful blue eyes slowly turned lifeless. Our lives have been destroyed by the mindless dregs. They have no thought but to take what was not theirs, materially but also emotionally."After the men were convicted Mrs Hodson-Walker said: "They took away Craig's right to live, so why should they have any right to live? Bring back hanging. Make the deterrent harder, make people think twice before they go to commit a crime."Lisa Bundy, 26, who was engaged to Craig, wore black as her victim impact statement was read. The couple had been planning to move in together. His death had been an "emotional bombshell", she said, which had left her life empty. She no longer lived, merely "existed".She said: "It was as if my whole world had collapsed and strangely enough, in hindsight, it has. It is funny how you go through life, sad things happen and you get upset, but it is not until something as tragic as this happens that you finally realise what really being upset is."Ken Hodson-Walker, 57, had told the court he had feared for his life when the gang stormed the shop. Ribera brandished an automatic pistol, cocked and ready to fire, while one of the brothers, holding a sledgehammer, demanded cash in a "threatening and evil" way.The robbery was a "pointless" exercise because the shop's safe, which contained about £20,000, had a time lock which prevented it from being opened until 9am, 40 minutes after the raid. His son responded to the intrusion by rushing to his parents' aid with a cricket bat. He was still in his boxer shorts. His mother, 57, joined in using a curtain pole.Timothy Raggatt QC, prosecuting, said the men had worked together and the gun was a "team weapon". They each knew perfectly well that Ribera had the gun and was prepared to use it.Ribera, who served part of a six-year jail sentence for robbing a post office in 2002, insisted that he had been out jogging that morning but CCTV and mobile phone evidence suggested that that was a lie.When Snape was cleared of murder, he jumped up in the dock and shouted repeatedly, "I told you. I fucking told you, didn't I?" He had to be removed from the courtroom by security officers.The Morrissey brothers shared a sledgehammer as they stormed the village store and demanded money and keys from Ken Hodson-Walker who was behind the counter. Raggatt had told the court: "The crime was ruthlessly carried out and carried out with great determination."At the time of the murder in Fairfield, Ribera had lost his job as a drain clearance worker because of a driving ban. He had repeatedly refused to answer questions about mobile phone evidence linking him to the scene.Mrs Hodson-Walker told a news conference her son would "always be our hero" and her husband's health had suffered since the raid. "Although we are happy with the verdicts, and pleased that justice has been done, the punishment for these mindless dregs who murdered Craig will never equal the pain they have caused us," she added."They may have started their life sentences, but ours began on the day that our son died."