Criminals are to be ordered to pay reparations to their victims and the wider community as part of their punishment in one of the most fundamental reviews of Britain's sentencing laws.David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, told The Observer last night he was considering new laws on 'restorative justice' even for the most serious of crimes, including sexual offences and rape. It will be the first time financial payments by criminals to victims will become a central part of the court process. Blunkett said he had been impressed by pilot schemes which had ordered young offenders to compensate the victims of their crimes. He said the schemes would now be extended to adults. 'We think we can extend this upwards [in age],' he said. 'Punishment can be a range of things as well as custody. Reparation, we are all agreed on, is a damn good thing; we will be putting much more substantial emphasis on that.' Blunkett will announce the plans on Thursday in his most important speech on Home Office affairs since he took over from Jack Straw. On the same day the Government will publish the Halliday Report on sentencing policy which will call for a root-and-branch reform of the court system in an effort to reduce the number of criminals who leave prison only to re-offend after a few months. Violent criminals will face tougher sentences, community-based punishments will be reformed, and a points system leading to longer sentences for repeat offenders will be revealed. Blunkett said he was well aware of the delicacy of the issue of reparations, particularly for more serious crimes. Critics of the idea have suggested that it is bringing 'blood money' payments into the British criminal system. 'I shall come to a conclusion on Thursday what my view is about the severest violent and sexual offences - we'll need to look at how reparation can possibly work in those circumstances,' Blunkett said. 'It is very much more difficult, not least because of the horrendous damage to the victim and the victim's attitude towards the perpetrator.' Home Office officials said ideas being considered would include rapists paying money to victim support charities or doing work on their behalf from prison. They made it clear that any moves - particularly if they involved the offender meeting the victim - would only be made after a long period of consultation. 'The victim needs to have a say in this,' Blunkett said, revealing that a victims' charter will be published in the autumn, giving new rights to people affected by crime so that they are treated more favourably by the courts. The reparation plans were last night welcomed by prison groups, which said that it would give criminals a better understanding of the cost of their crimes and reduce re-offending rates. 'It is a different type of justice, something that imposes on the offender the costs of what he or she has done,' said Tim Colbourne of the Howard League for Penal Reform. In a stark admission, the Home Secretary said that the present community service orders are not working. He said the 'plethora' of orders would be slimmed down so that the public could understand how sentences were handed out. He also said he would push for 'acceptable behaviour orders' for adults.