Police have warned women in Northampton not to go out alone at night following a series of rapes and attempted abductions.Five women have been targeted by what police fear is a gang of sex attackers. Detectives said the gang had raped three victims in the past 10 days.The women - the youngest aged 15 - were approached while out alone in the early hours of the morning in the centre of the town, police said.Three were raped but two, including the young teenager, managed to flee from the men, who are believed to work in unison to abduct their victims.The attackers are described as tall, black men with South African accents, who were driving a blue BMW car and a light-coloured Fiat Punto for some of the attacks.Detective Chief Inspector John Jones, of the Northampton police homicide and major crime team, warned women in the town to be careful when going out at night."Wherever possible ... avoid being out alone at night or in the early hours of the morning," he said. "Use your common sense to keep yourself safe - plan your evening out and avoid engaging in conversation with strangers."He said a squad of 10 officers had "received a number of very positive leads" in their hunt for the gang."We are keeping an open mind about the incidents, whether they are linked or not," Mr Jones said. "It is reasonable to assume there is a certain amount of premeditation - with a group of three there has got to be some premeditation in what they have done."Police said none of the women had been robbed during the attacks. Only one, the most recent victim, was physically hurt during her ordeal. She was found early on Monday and had been hit over the head.Uniformed officers have stepped up patrols, and CCTV footage of the areas involved is also being checked.Police are also stopping and searching cars and men matching the descriptions given by the victims.Of the five attacks, the first two reported to police happened within an hour of each other during the early hours of Monday August 1.The 15-year-old girl was dragged into a white or silver Fiat Punto by two black men. She managed to escape uninjured and ran to a nearby entertainment centre, from which she phoned police.Forty-five minutes later, an 18-year-old woman was approached nearby by a man in a blue 7-series BMW. Behind the BMW was a light coloured Punto.The woman was pushed into the BMW by one of the men in the Punto and driven to the Duston area of Northampton, where she was raped by the BMW driver.On Wednesday last week, a 25-year-old woman was approached by a man driving a BMW. She was followed into the car park of Northampton general hospital by the man, who said he wanted to give her a lift home, and escaped after telling him she was meeting friends.Publicity surrounding the first two attacks resulted in a woman coming forward to tell police she had been raped by a man matching the description of the attackers. The 18-year-old was in the centre of Northampton at 1am on Sunday July 31 when she was approached by a single black man. She was marched across the dual carriageway and down a side road where she was raped.The most recent attack, which happened early on Monday, was on a 30-year-old woman who was raped and apparently hit over the head.Mr Jones said the first and third incidents were being treated as attempted abductions, and that all the women were being offered specialist counselling.