The home secretary, John Reid, was under renewed pressure tonight after it emerged that a terror suspect held under control orders had absconded, and five offenders convicted of crimes abroad but not listed on the UK police database are still working in Britain after passing vetting tests.After an afternoon in which the prime minister, Tony Blair, had expressed his complete confidence in Mr Reid, his department announced the double-whammy of failures in a written statement to MPs. However, the Home Office attempted a damage-limitation exercise, pointing out the government had been forced into accepting control orders for terror suspects after the law lords ruled that internment was a breach of human rights. Tonight the Tories immediately called for the terror suspect to be named. The government said it was not intending to rescind his anonymity and that he was not an immediate risk to the British public. Mr Reid said of the individual: "The control order was designed to address the risk posed by an individual who had recently been radicalised and wanted to travel abroad for terrorism-related purposes. "Obligations included a requirement to report daily to a police station, to surrender travel documents and to reside at a specified address. "The individual is not believed to represent a direct threat to the public in the UK at this time." He added: "Locating the individual is an operational matter for the police. Investigations are ongoing." The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "Far from getting a grip since John Reid took over, the Home Office has been marked by murderers walking out of open prisons and suspected terrorists escaping from control orders. "This legislation has achieved the remarkable double of being both repressive and ineffective at the same time. A Home Office spokeswoman said: "We have always made clear that control orders were introduced as a next best alternative for dealing with suspected terrorists. "We have sought stronger controls to deal with suspected terrorists who cannot be prosecuted, but have been prevented by parliament and the courts." There are currently 18 control orders in force. Seven or more are against British citizens. In December, two men were reported to be still on the run after absconding earlier in the year. Separately, five serious offenders convicted of crimes abroad are still working in jobs in Britain after passing a vetting test, Mr Reid admitted. He revealed that nine offenders whose crimes were not entered on to the police national computer because of a Home Office bungle had been cleared by the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB), bringing the total so far revealed to 14. Although none had violent or sexual convictions, the disclosure that criminals are working in jobs which require them to be vetted by the CRB will intensify pressure on Mr Reid and his beleaguered department. In all, nine offenders took up vetted jobs because of the fiasco. Five are still in those positions and four have since left the jobs concerned, Mr Reid said. At his monthly press conference today, Mr Blair said Mr Reid held the "toughest job in government" and claimed similar departments around the world faced the same difficulties. Asked whether Mr Reid was any better than his predecessor, Charles Clarke, the premier said: "I think the changes John is introducing are the changes that will improve hugely the quality of what the Home Office does." 