Britain's 170,000 police officers could soon begin a work-to-rule that would severely effect the force's ability to combat crime. The threat, by the Police Federation, the body that represents rank and file officers, would see police refusing to carry firearms, drive police cars above the speed limit, carry riot shields or attend public order training programmes.The work-to-rule is being planned in response to the government's decision not to award an index-linked pay rise to the police for the first time in almost 30 years. The Police Federation of England and Wales said its members would look to register their anger by refusing to carry out anything other than their core tasks.'There are a number of things that officers do voluntarily, such as carrying firearms,' said Alan Gordon, the federation's vice-chairman. 'The police only operates as efficiently as it does due to the goodwill of the officers. If that goodwill is withdrawn, then it creates severe operational difficulties. Working to rule would cripple the service.'The federation will also hold rallies across the country, including a possible march on the Labour party conference, a prospect that will alarm ministers attempting to boost the government's flagging fortunes in the polls.The decision not to give police an index-linked rise has shocked rank and file police officers. They are barred by law from striking, a formula established in 1979, but thought they were guaranteed rises based on an index of awards to other public sector workers.But for the first time in living memory, the Home Office has declined to approve a pay rise - which was expected to be 3 per cent pay this year - despite pledging last October that it would do so. Instead the Home Office is believed to have offered 2 per cent. Police negotiators are furious at what they claim is a betrayal of promises which appears to be linked to attempts by the government to curtail public sector pay increases. The Home Office, like all government departments, is being ordered by the Treasury to make efficiency savings and wants to negotiate a new deal with the police.The extent of police officers' anger is revealed in the current edition of Police magazine, published by the federation. 'Reneging on a 27-year pay deal and pinching coppers from coppers may yet make you the most unpopular Prime Minister this country never had,' it warns Gordon Brown in an editorial.'Chief police officers are facing stark choices,' Alan Gordon said. 'Either you start reducing the numbers of police officers or you reduce police pay increases. This is a critical time.'The matter will now go to arbitration. But the room for manoeuvre for Home Secretary John Reid is limited. Agreeing to an increased offer would risk a feud with the Treasury.