The owner of a fireworks company and his son were jailed today after being convicted of the manslaughter of two firemen killed in a huge blast at their family-run company.Martin Winter, 52, was handed a seven-year jail term and his 25-year-old son, Nathan Winter, was sentenced to five years for the deaths of retained firefighter Geoff Wicker, 49, and support officer Brian Wembridge, 63.The pair, both long-serving members of East Sussex Fire and Rescue Service, died in the blast at Festival Fireworks UK Ltd at Marlie Farm in Shortgate, near Lewes, on 3 December 2006.After a five-week trial at Lewes crown court, both Martin and Nathan Winter were found to be "grossly negligent" through knowing an unlicensed metal container packed with fireworks could explode if a blaze broke out.Their firm, now called Alpha Fireworks Ltd, was convicted of two counts of health and safety breaches in connection with the blast, which injured some 20 others, mainly police and fire officers. It was fined £30,000.The judge, Mr Justice Cooke, told the father and son in the dock: "You had deliberately placed fireworks capable of causing mass explosion knowing that you didn't have the authorisation.  The Festival Fireworks site near Lewes, East Sussex, where two firefighters died after an explosion sparked a fire. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PA"You deliberately flouted the explosives regulations for profits; no doubt familiarity bred contempt."He described Martin Winter as "reckless" in the handling and storage of fireworks and failing to give full and accurate information.The alarm was raised at 1.45pm on 3 December 2006. Nathan Winter had been preparing for a fireworks display that evening in Eastbourne town centre. Due to windy conditions, he did the preparations inside, but an igniter flared up and sparked a fire, which spread as fireworks exploded.The fire brigade was called and the command passed upwards as more senior fire officers arrived.A decision was made to evacuate the site, but a number of officers, including Wembridge and Wicker, were near the firework-packed container. What followed was described as a "mass explosion" which sounded "like a bomb" and shattered the container.The two firemen were killed and, 20 others, mostly fire and police officers, injured.Another firefighter, Michael Sweetman said: "I was picked up and blown several feet into the wall beside me. My whole body went down immediately. I remember screaming and swearing. I honestly thought, 'This is it'."Station manager Steven Wells said: "I ran round to be confronted by a scene that looked like war must look like. It was still smoking. A lot of the house had been blown over and there were khaki-coloured lumps lying down."I realised they were firefighters. Nobody was moving."Jurors were told the container which exploded was not licensed to store fireworks, and that Martin and Nathan Winter were aware of that.Under the Manufacture and Storage of Explosives Regulations 2005, they would have been permitted to store a maximum of seven kilos of fireworks for no longer than 24 hours.In interview, Martin Winter said the container was due to have been shipped out to Oman within 24 hours of the explosion.