Two teenagers who forced their way into the burial chamber of one of Scotland's most brutal historical figures and cut the head from a corpse were sentenced to probation at court in Edinburgh yesterday.Sonny Devlin, 17, of Edinburgh, and a 15-year-old boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, took the skull from the mausoleum of Sir George "Bloody" Mackenzie and played with it in the grounds of Greyfriars Kirkyard. The youths were charged under ancient legislation used to prosecute Edinburgh's notorious 18th and 19th century grave-robbers. It was the first time for over a hundred years that anyone had been accused of "violation of sepulchre". At the high court in Edinburgh yesterday, Devlin was sentenced to three years' probation and the 15-year-old to two years' probation. The judge, Lord Wheatley, said they had committed a "gruesome and revolting offence". He said that although the younger teenager had only been standing guard, he was equally guilty in the eyes of the law. The court had heard how the youths caused around £10,000 worth of damage during the incident on June 30 last year. The doors of the Mackenzie mausoleum were forced and the mummified head of a male corpse cut off with a penknife. Devlin then put his fist into the neck and talked to the head "like a glove puppet". He was later caught after returning to the graveyard to show off to a girl who did not believe his claim that he had broken into a tomb. Police had been called after the operator of one of the city's ghost tours challenged the teenagers in the cemetery after seeing them carrying something in a blanket. Officers who arrived at the scene found the headless remains of a body in the lower level of the vault. The identity of the corpse is not known, but it was in a mummified state and was thought to have been there for many years. Devlin's lawyer, Jim Stephenson, told the court his client was "aware of the serious nature of the offence and has shown some regret". Richard Goddard, counsel for the co-defendant, said his client was a "likeable young man" from a "fairly complicated personal background". The youths were found guilty after a trial last month. Sir George Mackenzie, a former Lord Advocate during the reign of King Charles II, died in 1691. He earned the nickname Bloody MacKenzie for sending hundreds of Protestant Covenanters to their deaths.