My charity, although it has been functioning for a while, launched recently. Gathered together in one room were politicians, public servants, professors, the media and donors. Most of them would once have jumped in a taxi to avoid the group at the centre of the room: ex-offenders.As I've often whinged before, there are no skinny donkeys or big-eyed kids to help promote our cause. We want to change the way society approaches offending because we know that is the only way to change offenders. We believe there's a moral need to overcome the democratic deficit for society's most disadvantaged. Engagement is the key, and we gave a presentation about our scientific, innovative experiences of engagement.Our problem is that engagement is already turning into a meaningless buzzword. There are now plenty of engagement programmes starting up throughout the criminal justice system. But many of the professionals who design them have stepped off the frontline and, consciously or unconsciously, they could be preventing change instead of causing it.Anyone who thinks that the inevitable cuts that lie ahead mean the criminal justice system can carry on doing things the same old way is kidding themselves. We have to recognise that we're chucking too much money at interventions that don't deliver. They've been carefully crafted, and with the best of intentions, by the educated for people whom they can't begin to understand. The only way to stop wasting money is to engage, and I'm talking about real engagement, not superficial consultation, with the frontline users of services.Participation at this level cannot be led by people who design or implement interventions. They should not create an agenda, nor can they attempt truly receptive dialogue, with the offenders who take part in their interventions. There is only one way to deep trawl for the truth, and that is by allowing offenders their own forums, facilitated by peers, many of whom will be ex-offenders. Anything else is consultation.Engagement will save a fortune in the long run but doing it right is not a cheap option. It costs. We're talking partnerships, contracts and proper pay structures for respected work. My organisation is 90% staffed by ex-offenders and I believe one indicator of true engagement is the number of ex-offenders on the payroll (another is how high up the internal ladder they are allowed to climb).Our teams go into jails to set up our own model for prisoners' councils. These councils enable a free flow of information up to the governor and down to the wings. Some people say prisoners are being punished and so their rights should be taken away. We say that involving prisoners to improve the running of the jail gives messages about inclusion that are essential if we want effective jails and prisoners who can start taking responsibility in their own lives. There's no power without responsibility but there's no responsibility without power either, and the only way forward is to share it.That's what scares some service providers. The provider who has devised, nursed and implemented an intervention for offenders seldom welcomes the offenders' scrutiny and honest appraisal. The provider wants the intervention to work, and he can usually manipulate figures to convince himself it does. It's hard for him to hear the voice of the offender saying it hasn't helped and should be modified or abandoned. At worst, such scrutiny could put the provider out of a job. He'll try to defend his intervention no matter how redundant it is. Only the bravest want people like us coming inside the jail or community and promising to deliver the truth.We'll always remain the unwelcome guest at the criminal justice party. We stand for true engagement, we offer a scientific level of scrutiny, we're asking for power, we want to be paid for the work we do. And we believe that our participation in the process of government is the key to a lower crime rate and a more economic prison service. It will take years. But now we've launched, we're on our way.• Mark Johnson, a rehabilitated offender and former drug user, is an author and the founder of the charity Uservoice.