Britain's police forces are on the brink of financial crisis, raising fears that key areas of policing will be cut back.At an emergency meeting this week, representatives from the 43 forces of England and Wales will warn that the looming cash shortage will put the public at greater risk. This predicted crisis is largely due to a Treasury commitment to curb spending between 2008 and 2011, at a time when there has been a sharp rise in police numbers. As a result, the Home Office is receiving an increase of only 2.7 per cent a year - level with inflation.The Police Federation, which campaigns on behalf of Britain's 145,000 police officers, claims 999 calls will take longer to answer and that the number of fully trained officers will be reduced.The Hampshire force is looking to make a 10 per cent cut in services next financial year, according to its local federation. If there is no significant increase in funding, its police authority predicts it will have to make a cut of 20 per cent the following year. Durham Constabulary is to axe 100 police officer jobs in the next financial year as the force plans cuts of £3m, replacing them with an extra 70 police community support officers. Surrey has described its budget for 2007/08 as 'insufficient' and is looking to replace officers with more support staff. Sussex predicts it will have a budget deficit of £6m and will have to make cutbacks.North Yorkshire police consider the situation so dire that the police authority predicts even a 5 per cent increase in funding will still leave it with a £3m deficit next year. West Mercia predicts a £1m gap in funding, with further, more acute, financial concerns to come over the next three years.In 2000 there were 125,000 police officers in England and Wales. By 2005 this had increased to 145,000. 'If you're going to increase police numbers you have to make sure you've got the money to maintain that,' said Jan Berry, chair of the Police Federation.In a document submitted to ministers and obtained by The Observer, the Association of Chief Police Officers and the Association of Police Authorities warn that the implications of a funding freeze on 'the level of policing services which can be delivered to communities' will be 'significant'. The document states: 'With a national total police budget of £10,570m in 2006/07, this projected funding gap represents a significant proportion of the overall police budget and poses a very real risk to maintaining current services and capability. As over 80 per cent of the police budget is accounted for by officer and staff costs, such a deficit would inevitably impact on the level of service.'The police argue that, due to increased demands on the service - including expanding community policing and taking action against antisocial behaviour - they need an annual funding increase of more than 5 per cent just to stand still.But the government insists forces can make efficiency gains to save cash. 'The government funds the police extremely well,' said a Home Office spokesman. 'If any force feels it needs extra funding it should contact the Home Office.'