An overhaul of the way police and landlords can tackle anti-social behaviour, including "neighbours from hell", was announced by the home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday as he urged chief constables to adopt a "can-do" attitude on modernising the service.Police and landlords will be able to apply to the courts for immediate action to tackle teenagers who torment their neighbourhoods and to evict noisy residents under changes to anti-social behaviour orders announced yesterday.The reform is an attempt to reinvent "asbos", first introduced by Labour in 1999. Local authorities and the police have complained that at present applying for the orders is too complicated and time-consuming. Only 466 orders were issued during the past three years. The announcement was made by the home secretary at a special police reform "summit" attended by all 43 chief constables in England and Wales. Bill Bratton, the former commissioner of the New York police department was invited to London by Mr Blunkett to provide "inspiration" and talk about his success in turning around a poorly performing police force. "I am particularly pleased to welcome Bill Bratton, not to lay down the law to us but to give us a little inspiration on what can be done in one of the most crime ridden and drug ridden cities of the western world. Not least to build my confidence that you can do something similar here and increase your confidence that a can-do mentality with the right investment and backing can make a difference," Mr Blunkett said. For his part, Mr Bratton disowned his reputation as a "zero tolerance" police chief saying that the term "smacked of over-zealousness" and was not a credible policy because it promised an unrealistically tough message that the police could never deliver on. Mr Bratton attributed the improvement in New York crime rates to strong political leadership that provided extra officers and clear crime prevention goals, including tackling victimless "quality of life crimes" - which meant the police were no longer just passing on crime reports. Mr Blunkett said he had no intention of using precisely the same methods as those in New York but believed his new proposals on anti-social behaviour on housing estates and on the streets of the most difficult areas, was the key to reducing fear of crime. The changes, to be introduced in the police reform bill, include a new interim anti-social behaviour order that will enable the police and others to take immediate action before going through the entire court process. An order will be made at the first court appearance, pending a full hearing, to enable the community to be protected from a persistent offender without delay. So far the orders have been used mainly against individual adults and families. A breach of the order can be punished by up to five years' imprisonment. The scope of the orders may be extended letting the documents "travel" with offenders who move to other areas, and enabling housing associations and other registered social landlords to tackle troublesome tenants in consultation with the police. Ministers are also looking to see whether the orders can be issued by county court judges to avoid delays at magistrates courts.