The mother convicted of murdering her severely disabled son after giving him a lethal shot of heroin has said she would have been prepared to face the death penalty to stop his suffering.Frances Inglis, 57, was given a life sentence and told she must spend a minimum of nine years in jail after being found guilty of killing her 22-year-old son, Tom, who suffered severe head injuries when he fell out of a moving ambulance.In a phone call to her family from Bronzefield prison in Middlesex, which was related to the Daily Mirror, she said: "Being in prison is nothing compared to what Tom was going through. If I had to face the death penalty to put him out of his suffering, I would still have done it. Parents should do anything for their children."She added: "I just am thankful to my family for supporting me. I was expecting to be convicted and I expected to go to prison.  Undated photo of Tom Inglis. Photograph: Hertfordshire police/PA"I knew what I was doing when I ended Tom's suffering. But this way, I've got a life sentence rather than Tom."Inglis, of Dagenham, east London, insisted throughout the two-week trial that she was innocent because she had killed her son out of love, not malice.Tom Inglis was left severely brain­-damaged after a road accident in July 2007, and his mother believed he was locked in a "living hell" with no hope of recovery.Giving evidence, the mother-of-three maintained that, as far as she was concerned, her son's life ended on 7 July 2007 when he fell out of the ambulance. He had been injured in a fight outside a pub and suffered the head injuries in Romford on the way to hospital.Police said they understood he was being taken to hospital against his wishes and that the ambulance door opened three times.The head injuries were so serious that his mother said she believed he would never lead a normal life again.She told the court that when she injected him with heroin 16 months later as he lay in a care home, mute and in need of 24-hour care, she didn't feel it was murder. She was releasing him, she said.He had not spoken since the accident, nor communicated in any way beyond squeezing his mother's hand, but Inglis said she felt certain he was in constant pain and would have no wish to continue living like that.After researching her son's condition on the internet, Inglis said she decided to end his misery in the most painless way she could: a drug overdose. Not knowing any drug dealers, she started hanging around places she knew drugs were sold – outside a local station, outside the jobcentre and needle exchanges – until she managed to buy the 2 grams her internet research told her would be enough to kill.Outside court her older son Alex, 26, said he and his family supported his mother "100%" and demanded a change in the law on mercy killing.He told the Mirror: "We're devastated she's being punished for ending his life humanely. Tom was always really, really independent. He always said, 'Don't make a fuss'. Being in that state, he would have hated it."