Teenagers who carry fire-arms could face jail sentences of up to 10 years in a crackdown on Britain's flourishing gun culture.Home Secretary David Blunkett will introduce a minimum sentence of three years and a maximum of 10 for 16- and 17-year-olds caught carrying or distributing guns. The maximum sentence was previously only two years. As firearms become cheaper and more accessible, police say children as young as 13 are being caught with guns, copying older criminals. A survey for the Youth Justice Board last summer found one in 12 young offenders claimed to have carried a gun. The spread of gang activity to younger teens, and the impact of a generation of Yardie-style criminals who now have children of their own old enough to get involved in gang violence, are thought to be factors. The move to introduce tough new sentences, which will come in an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill this month, follows a fresh spate of shootings, including the killing of a 27-year-old after shooting broke out at Turnmills nightclub in central London at Easter. The Turnmills shooting - on a night when Lisa Maffia from So Solid Crew, the south London garage outfit which has become uncomfortably associated with gun culture, was due on stage - marked gun violence spilling over into an area of the capital so far relatively untouched by the wave of shootings. Adults caught with firearms will also face a new minimum sentence of five years, as Ministers announced at their gun crime summit in January. Last year 62 juveniles were convicted of carrying or distributing firearms. So Solid Crew's Asher D was only 19 when he was sent to a young offenders' institution for carrying a firearm. The New Year's Eve shooting in Birmingham which left two teenage girls dead has triggered an intense debate about the rise of 'gun culture' in Britain, with the Metropolitan Police's assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur warning that the music industry and violent video games were influencing 'young men at an impressionable age' who saw guns as glamorous accessories to a 'gangsta' lifestyle. The number of recorded gun incidents almost doubled between 1997 and 2002, with one in six gun crimes in London now involving 'respect' issues - punishment for perceived minor slights, such as arguments about women - rather than the more traditional robbery. Replica guns, which may not be capable of firing a shot but are used to engender respect, are thought to be particularly popular with teenagers. Thames Valley police recently launched a scheme offering children free CDs in return for handing over their replicas.