For 48 years I waited for a summons for jury service. After all, there used to be 250,000 issued a year, and even now, when refusal is more difficult, there are 180,000. My 24-year-old youngest son has already been a jury foreman. But at last his father has done his time too. My two weeks' experience lines me up with Lord Devlin, a judge with a famous turn of phrase, who said: "Trial by jury is more than an instrument of justice and more than one wheel of the constitution. It is the lamp that shows freedom lives."In an age when all main parties seek to strengthen civic society, the moves by successive governments to reduce the role of juries makes no sense. I found the experience inspiring. I have never participated in such a democratic dialogue - such a mix of people drawn from different classes, races, religious beliefs, age, and gender - where each participant did have an equal say and where each was given an equal hearing.This spirit was not confined to the deliberations of the jury room, but permeated the jury assembly room, where some 130 jurors at any one time wait for the ding-dong bell that precedes announcements of reconvened court hearings in London's Blackfriars crown court, or the selection of new juries. In the many intervals, jurors mix with a readiness that would surprise regular train commuters.Blackfriars, which has nine courts, is just one of 11 sets of crown courts covering London, not counting the Old Bailey or the royal courts of justice. It is a brutal building on the outside, but businesslike within. The walls in the reception hall are covered with bar charts and graphs documenting how well the complex is performing - in terms of sitting hours (4.37 hours daily) and cases completed (up to 110 a month).All participants use the same entrance and security check, but then jurors enter their own quarters and stay separate from other parties. The waiting room has the look of an airport departure lounge. There is a dining section at one end, where breakfast or lunch can be taken with up to £5 of purchases paid for by the court. The other two-thirds is filled by a succession of chairs, pushed together to form sofas, where exchanges of views and experience take place.First-day attendees, who arrive 90 minutes earlier than existing jurors, are shown a video explaining the procedures that trials follow. Experienced "second weekers" fill in the gaps that the video misses. Like any institution, it is the providers of food - outside contractors - who get the most grumbles.Court hearings follow a seemingly permanent stop/start process. Judges, jury managers and notices on the jury waiting room walls all seek to explain the various reasons for interruptions and delays. They fail to include forgetful photocopying, but there can be few public services that try harder to be customer-friendly. There is a list of responses made to juror complaints: bare walls are now full of pictures, some by local schoolchildren; poems are on the stairway; and yet more charts documenting earlier jury satisfaction surveys with remarkably high scores.There is no guarantee those called get selected. A neighbour in my group waited eight days. I had a trial in both weeks - four days in the first week, two days in the second. The 1981 Contempt of Court Act prohibits revealing "opinions expressed, arguments advanced, or votes cast" in jury deliberations. Both mine took over three hours. I will not break this injunction. What I can say is that if Lord Devlin had been there, his beliefs would have been reinforced.Different jury members recalled different parts of the evidence, creating a more powerful collective conclusion. Some shifted their opinions, some remained resolute. All applied themselves conscientiously, searching for a certainty that sometimes was not there. Both cases involved majority verdicts but with the minority respected. A bright lamp of freedom indeed.· Malcolm Dean is the Guardian's leader writer on social affairs