A couple murdered on the orders of a gangland boss had been offered inadequate protection by the police, a report published today concluded.John and Joan Stirland were shot dead at their seaside bungalow in Lincolnshire a few months after fleeing their previous home when it was targeted by gunmen.The pair, originally from Nottingham, were forced into hiding when Mrs Stirland's son, Michael O'Brien, murdered a man connected to a criminal gang in 2003. Eight months later, after beginning a new life in Trusthorpe, Lincolnshire, they were tracked down to their new home and killed.Today, the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said police had failed to take "structured action" to protect them."The report has concluded that the protection provided to Mr and Mrs Stirland by Nottinghamshire police was below an acceptable level. "They did not receive any professional advice on witness protection and their care was left to untrained officers."Nottinghamshire police had offered protection to the Stirlands on condition that O'Brien's mother, 51, gave evidence against her son. Mr Stirland, 55, was O'Brien's stepfather.The couple declined to join a witness protection programme and instead decided to leave their Nottingham council estate.On the day of the murders, they called the police because a neighbour had spotted a prowler. It took three hours for an officer to return the call, and they were shot shortly afterwards. The killings in August 2004 came less than a week after the death of Jamie Gunn, nephew of the Nottingham crime boss Colin Gunn. Gunn, 19, died of pneumonia having turned to drink and drugs after his friend Marvyn Bradshaw was shot dead by O'Brien. Colin Gunn, 40, was sentenced to 35 years in prison in June 2006 for conspiracy to murder. During the investigation of the Stirland murders, police found that corrupt BT workers had given out details of where the couple had moved. As a direct result, Gunn was able to track them down.Today's report said: "It is accepted that the protection afforded to them (the Stirlands) on the night of the shooting at their home was good and the advice to move house was also sound."However, it was ill-conceived to allow them to leave Nottingham when their destination was unknown. "There is evidence that Joan Stirland was confused at the time and didn't know what to do. "The police should have closely managed their movements at that vulnerable time by taking some form of structured action to reflect their vulnerability and provided a degree of immediate support and protection, eg by accompanying them to a hotel or place of refuge."The IPCC commissioner Len Jackson said today: "It is important to note, however, that none of the failings identified within the investigation amounted to serious misconduct by any individual officer."These were errors of judgment which, if more robust information-sharing had been undertaken across the organisation, may have resulted in different decisions being taken by the officers concerned. "That said, I cannot categorically say that even this would have changed the outcome of events on August 8 2004."The Crown Prosecution Service has said it will not charge any officers over the case. Jackson said it was up to Nottinghamshire police to decide whether individual officers were disciplined.