A system of income-related "day fines" is to be urgently explored as part of a radical package to cut the growth in the prison population by 13,000 over the next five years, the home secretary, David Blunkett, said yesterday.The measures, designed to end the growing tendency of the courts to send people to prison, include a boost for community punishments and a merger in June of the national and regional managements of the prisons and probation service. The "national offender management service" as it is to be called is to be headed by Martin Narey, who is currently the Home Office's commissioner for correctional services. He will be the chief executive of the new £3.2bn a year service and will be charged with the task of bringing down reoffending rates and directly accountable to ministers who hope the package will cut recidivism rates by 10%. A network of 10 regional "offender managers" will be given powers to buy in programmes from the private and voluntary sectors as well as the probation service based on what works in cutting crime. The package comes in response to a seven-month inquiry by Patrick Carter, the government's businessman troubleshooter into the operation of the "correctional services". His report, published yesterday, rejects increasing prison numbers as a way of cutting crime. Mr Carter says the use of prison and probation has increased by over a quarter since 1996 even though the numbers arrested and sentenced each year has remained broadly constant. He says the record prison population in England and Wales is not due to more criminals committing worse crimes but to the courts giving tougher sentences and the general drift upwards in punishments has been triggered by a collapse in the use of fines. He recommends that an income-related system of fines should be re-introduced (it was abandoned in 1992) alongside a "full range of tough, credible and effective sentences" including a new generation of electronic tagging. Mr Blunkett said he would explore Mr Carter's proposal for the introduction of the German system of income-related "day fines". Under this system the fine is set as a number of days linked to the ability to pay, for example five days times £10 or times £100 depending on income. A failure to pay the fine will result in the offender being jailed for the set number of days.