If it's job security you're after, then look no further. Now that the government has shown that its only real response to crime is to bang up as many people as possible, prison warders have got to step well out of line to even get their knuckles rapped.Earlier this week, on the day the prison population reached a record high of 78,897 - just 817 shy of the total capacity of the 139 jails in England and Wales - a leaked report from the Metropolitan police and Prison Service's anti-corruption unit revealed that 1,000 prison officers are bent.The type of corruption is all pretty much what you might expect; taking bribes to get prisoners a move to a cushier jail and bringing in drugs and mobile phones for others. But the indifference with which it appears to be tolerated isn't. One unnamed prison governor is quoted in the report as saying that "corruption is endemic ... I have identified 20 corrupt staff, but there may be more," while another said: "I currently have 10 corrupt staff and I am managing the threat they pose to my prison."By any standards, this all feels a bit casual. It's not that senior officers suspect their staff may be on the make; they know. And yet they don't appear to have the power or inclination to do much about it. In almost any other job you care to name, you'd be out on your ear, but not, apparently, in the prison service. Here, your bosses just keep a benign eye on the situation to make sure it doesn't get too out of hand.But if you demand rather more than just a job for life - and Daily Mail readers can be reassured that this is one part of the penal system where life really does mean life - together with the prospect of unlimited opportunities to supplement your income, then you might find looking after prisoners unfulfilling. When prisons are as full as they are now, maintaining order is a matter of crowd control - with many inmates confined to their cells for 23 hours a day.This has the inevitable knock-on effect of making prisoners even more pissed off than they already are. And given that anger management isn't most criminals' strong point, the person who is going to take most of the flak is you. Which is OK if you are up for a bit of rage, but not if you prefer more normal human interaction. There again, with so much time spent indoors, you'll never have to worry about skin cancer.