A teenager who was labelled a danger to young girls after he smothered a 10-year-old ballet dancer to death at a Christmas party was jailed for life today.Paul Smith, 18, stripped Rosie May Storrie half-naked and pushed her face down on to a bed while her parents were downstairs with friends at the house party in Normanton, Leicestershire.The apprentice electrician was found guilty of murder by the jury at Nottingham Crown Court following more than nine hours of deliberations. The high court judge, Mr Justice Astill, said there was a sexual motive for the attack in December last year and ordered Smith, of Sedgebrook, Lincolnshire, to serve at least 14 years in jail.Outside court, Rosie May's father, Graham, said that he and his wife Mary were "overwhelmed" after the trial. "We were on the edge of our seats, just praying for the right result and thankfully we got that." The Smith family solicitor, David Watts, read a statement outside court on behalf of Paul's parents and said the family was now in discussions with the teenager over a possible appeal. The statement read: "We are deeply upset and shocked by this verdict. We remain convinced that Paul played no part in Rosie May's death and we will continue the fight to clear his name." The court heard that Smith, who suffered from Asperger's Syndrome, had a history of violence against young girls, including the abduction of a 16-year-old at gunpoint less than two years before his attack on Rosie May. The teenage victim was tied up and gagged before being marched by Smith to the garage, where he bundled her into the boot of his father's car. Sentencing him, the judge told him: "I do not know if this disturbing part of your personality arises from the condition from which you undoubtedly suffer but I am sure that you are, and have been for some time now, a considerable danger to young girls. "You made a determined attack upon this young child long enough and forceful enough to overcome the considerable struggle which she put up to survive, to prevent you from suffocating her. "I have no doubt that your reason was sexual. Once you had overcome her, you stripped her clothing from her and it is reasonable on all the evidence I have heard to assume that it was the shouts of your family wondering where you were that stopped you going further."Smith stared straight ahead as the unanimous verdict of guilty to murder was delivered at the end of a two-week trial. The court heard Smith attended the party at the five-bedroomed house owned by his uncle and aunt, Ian and Sharon Smith, on December 28 last year. He arrived with his mother, father and brother Neil, and spent much of the evening downstairs.Later, he was seen on the landing with the 10-year-old, chasing her after she grabbed a can of Guinness from his hand. Within minutes, they had both disappeared and it was not until Smith was leaving the party that the little girl was discovered face-down on a bed. Mr Justice Astill, who also disqualified the teenager from working with children for life, said: "The principal aggravating features of this offence are that you killed a young child and your reason was so that you could sexually assault her. "I am satisfied on all the evidence that this was not an impulsive attack. Your comments about feeling sexual at an earlier time in the evening when she was attracting attention demonstrated that your feelings built up during the course of that evening. "I cannot give you the benefit of good character because of your previous attacks on young girls but I do take into account your disability from which you suffer." Detective Superintendent Bob Small, of Leicestershire Police, said: "This has been an extremely distressing case and I would like to express my condolences to Rosie's family. I know nothing can bring back their little girl but I hope that today's verdict will help them to move forward, knowing that the person responsible has now been brought to justice."The National Autistic Society (NAS) issued a statement today saying there was "no established link" between Asperger syndrome - which is an autistic spectrum disorder - and crime.Stuart Notholt, director of policy and public affairs at the society, said: "There is no evidence to suggest that people with Asperger syndrome are more likely to break the law than anyone in the general population. "There is, however, concern that people with Asperger syndrome may themselves be more vulnerable to criminal acts against them by reason of their social difficulties."