It's not often that government legislation on prostitution has a direct effect on British theatre. But that's what has happened to the Everyman in Liverpool. This week, it presents a play called Unprotected, a verbatim work reflecting the campaign to establish a protected zone in Liverpool where sex workers could operate in increased safety. Led by Liverpool playwright Esther Wilson, a team of writers and researchers have spent two years speaking to local politicians, residents, sex workers and their clients, gathering arguments for and against a managed zone. But with recent government debates over prostitution, the work has had to be considerably rethought.The play traces how, at the end of last year, Liverpool city council forwarded its proposals to the Home Office for inclusion in its review of the prostitution laws - only for Home Office minister Fiona Mactaggart to announce in January that there would be no endorsement of managed zones. Instead, the legislation surrounding brothels would be relaxed, making it legal for a maximum of three women to work together from a private address. Liverpool's pilot scheme was shelved."It was quite incredibly frustrating," says the play's director, Nina Raine. "Not from the selfish perspective of having to rewrite the play, but because so many of the women we have spoken to feel terribly let down."Those women include Flo Clucas, the Liberal-Democrat executive member for social care at Liverpool city council, who spearheaded the campaign and makes an appearance in Unprotected (not under her own name) as a charismatic and forthright local politician. Clucas admits she makes an unlikely figurehead for the rights of sex workers. "My position is that I am a married, middle-class Catholic morally opposed to prostitution. But," she says, "I am even more strongly opposed to girls being raped, murdered and mutilated on my doorstep."Clucas isn't being melodramatic. The campaign to protect sex workers began following the deaths in July 2003 of Pauline Stephen and Hanane Parry, two Liverpool prostitutes killed within 24 hours of each other by a paranoid schizophrenic who believed he had a divine mission to murder prostitutes. Their bodies were dismembered and scattered in polythene bin liners around a public park."The government's proposals to put prostitution behind closed doors will not protect the most vulnerable women," Clucas believes. "Nor will it stop them from working on the streets. It will simply force them out into areas that the police aren't policing." She stresses that the principal focus of a managed zone would be on rehabilitation, providing support, healthcare and educational opportunities for women who wish to quit the trade and escape the poverty trap. "At the moment," she points out, "we have a ridiculous system whereby a girl is arrested, fined £50, then goes straight back out on to the streets to pay for it."But can a play make any difference to this situation? Clucas believes it can - simply by keeping the arguments for a managed zone in the public eye. "We will tell the government that we do not want a change in the law," she says. "We simply want permission to hold a three-year pilot. As no one has tried to tackle prostitution in this way before, nobody can say it will definitely fail."Pat Brown, the mother of Pauline Stephen, supports the idea. "I think it's brilliant. All these people who say it's not, put yourself in my place. If they'd had this two years ago, maybe my daughter would still be alive today."Yet there are many opponents - and Unprotected doesn't shy away from them. The script includes testimonies from those who dismiss the concept of a managed zone as a "sex car park", or who accuse the city council of favouring an official red light area as a tourist attraction. Among the dissenting voices is a sex worker with the fictional name of Ali. Her story is one of many horrific experiences recounted in the play: she was abducted by a kerb-crawler who held her captive for 12 hours and threatened to kill her. She has doubts about whether a managed zone will protect girls on the street."We're told it will be somewhere out on an industrial estate," she says. "Yet if someone follows you out of the zone, where are you supposed to run if the nearest house is half a mile away?"She is more dismissive, however, of the government's proposal to sanction small brothels. "There are three grades of prostitute: escorts, who work in hotels; then you've got the sauna girls; then there are us - who are regarded as the filth, because we work on the street. Most of these girls go around with their lives in a carrier bag. How can they suddenly be expected to set themselves up in an apartment?" As far as Ali is concerned, "The only solution is to decriminalise prostitution altogether. Because, in the end, who are we harming apart from ourselves?"Despite the deeply personal nature of the material, Ali remains positive about seeing herself portrayed on stage. "It will probably take me a few times before I can watch it all the way through. But I think it's brilliant that the Everyman has the guts to do something like this, because it says to people, 'This is how it is - now go and sweep it under the carpet.'"Even as the final drafts of the play were being developed, the personal tragedies were far from over. In September 2005 a third prostitute, Anne Marie Foy, was murdered in Liverpool city centre. She had been among the sex workers interviewed, and the finished play contains a tape of her talking. "You're never safe," she says. "It's like, every car you get into, you don't know whether you're going to get out."This is why the play is so important, argues Clucas. "I can quote all manner of statistics, which will not change a single person's opinion," she says. "But putting the issues in dramatised form brings home the real cost of leaving these girls unprotected"· Unprotected opens at the Everyman, Liverpool (0151-709 4776), tomorrow. A radio version will be broadcast on Radio 4 on Friday