Portuguese police tonight said they did not have enough evidence to arrest anyone over the abduction of Madeleine McCann.Chief Inspector Olegario Souza, one of the officers leading the hunt for the four-year-old, who disappeared from her family's holiday apartment two weeks ago, said the investigation was "very dynamic".He told reporters in Portimao, near Praia da Luz, where Madeleine vanished, that several lines of inquiry were being pursued."We are still collecting evidence in this investigation," he said, adding that "we have not got enough evidence to arrest anybody". However, when asked whether the search was "struggling", he insisted: "No".Chief Inspector Souza confirmed that police had interviewed another person in connection with the case and searched their home, seizing some items for examination, but refused to say what the items were.Earlier today, Sergey Malinka, a 22-year-old Russian, said he had been questioned overnight, insisting he was innocent.Plain clothes officers took two computers and other items from the second-floor Praia da Luz apartment he shares with his parents, a few hundred yards from the holiday complex from which Madeleine vanished.Mr Malinka, who had helped to design an estate agency website for the only formal suspect in the case, 33-year-old British expatriate Robert Murat, said he had been interviewed as a witness and not a suspect, and was "completely" innocent. "I've invested seven years of my life in this country trying to succeed, and suddenly in one hour it's all fallen apart," he said. Mr Malinka accused the media, especially Portuguese newspapers, of being "hostile" towards him. "They said they found some paedophile content on my computer. That's a lie - nothing was found," he said. An international appeal to spread news of Madeleine's disappearance around Europe was launched yesterday by the McCann family - who have remained in Praia da Luz - and rapidly picked up speed today. With a series of multinational corporations signing up to help, posters of the four-year-old are to be put up in aircraft and at fast food restaurants, petrol stations, supermarkets, banks, airports and car hire offices.Telecoms companies will also send out text messages to customers calling for help in finding the four-year-old.This afternoon, family spokesman Michael Wright said the campaign's website had prompted a "huge response". A statement on the site attracted 25 million visitors today. Mr Wright said Madeleine's parents were "taking immense strength" from the scale of support for the fund. The couple were staying "positive and focused on what they can do," he added.