A murder inquiry is under way after a fatally injured man was found in the back of van pulled over by police in Berkshire.Witnesses said the victim had been badly beaten, wrapped in plastic and was barefoot. Police said he was "seriously injured" when he was discovered in the van on London Road, Sunningdale, where an officer at the scene said the man appeared to have been tortured.Attempts were made to save his life but he is understood to have died shortly after being found.Thames Valley police said four men were arrested on suspicion of murder.Television pictures showed a green tarpaulin thrown over what appeared to be a body on the pavement beside a white van. Police officers and vehicles were positioned on the road, which was cordoned off.Details surrounding the incident were sketchy, while speculation locally centred on two possibilities - a botched armed robbery or kidnapping. A number of eyewitnesses reported seeing two bodies but the confusion seemed to stem from one of the arrested men on the ground being mistaken for a victim.Witnesses said the van was pulled over by police without a chase. Three men said to be in their 40s or 50s were told to lie on the ground. No shots were fired and there was no struggle, but a fourth man ran off before being caught, according to the witnesses. Onlookers said a sledgehammer was recovered from the van.Marketing manager John McCann said his wife Samantha saw the incident unfold as she walked to a cafe nearby."As she came out from an alleyway on to the road she bumped into somebody who was one of the armed suspects," he said."She noticed that there were three others already in custody, handcuffed by police and surrounded, and this guy was running away."The man was eventually caught." He added: "She had her back to him and it was only afterwards police told her he was armed with a gun."David Redding-Lang, 52, landlord of the Sunningdale Lounge, saw the drama unfold outside his pub.He said: ""I was up in the office and I noticed a van being pulled to the side of the road by a patrol car."I thought it was just a minor offence, the van was a bit shabby."The next time I turned I saw the police chasing someone down the road. There were three other men on the ground. I later saw the police bring back the fourth man."The men being held were in their 40s or 50s, according to Redding-Lang. He added that they appeared not to be struggling and were just sitting, cuffed on the floor.He added: "I could see a body underneath the van, the van is directly opposite and I could see the body on the floor. The person had no shoes on and was very still."Another eyewitness who saw the van being stopped said: "We saw a white van pulled on to the side of the road by police and then three men being led around the side of it and into a police car."They didn't struggle, they just got out. There weren't any sirens or screeching of brakes. It didn't seem like a chase."Thames Valley and Chiltern Air Ambulance attended, along with a doctor and a rapid response vehicle after receiving a report of "a male assaulted, breathing shallow". The spokesman said the man was not taken to hospital. A police spokesman said: "Thames Valley Police can confirm that four men have been arrested on suspicion of murder in connection with the Sunningdale incident."