When Derek Wright first saw the young boy walking dazed and distressed past his house in Edlington, South Yorkshire, on 4 April, he assumed the substance the youngster was plastered with was red paint. It was only when he left his front door to take a closer look that he realised it was blood."We brought him in and my husband calmed him down," Wright's wife, Jean, recalled. "He had a big gash on his arm and he was covered in blood on his head. He was shaking very badly and going into shock. We managed to get his name out of him and my husband told me to call an ambulance."As the couple cared for the deeply traumatised nine-year-old, their son, Ian, went to Brick Ponds, an expanse of semi-wild parkland and lakes on the site of an old claypit used for brickmaking. The local beauty spot was popular with children, anglers and dog walkers.There, in a small ravine where a rail line had once run, he found the boy's 11-year-old uncle, unconscious, with severe wounds to his head. An air ambulance crew called to the scene took more than an hour to stabilise the boy before he could be moved. He survived, but only after spending two days on a hospital ventilator.While news soon emerged of an apparently horrific attack by two children on equally young victims – prompting swift and inevitable comparisons with the murder of James Bulger in 1993 – the details of what happened took time to emerge, in part because the victims could not be interviewed immediately.But several days after the attack a prosecutor laid out the essentials of what had taken place as the defendants appeared before Doncaster youth court in proceedings which have not been allowed to be reported until now.Graham Measures told the court that the younger victim had described how he and his uncle were lured to Brick Ponds by two brothers, who said they could show them the bodies of animals such as toads and foxes.But after going there willingly, the younger boys were threatened, and robbed of a mobile phone and £5 in cash. They were then subjected to what Measures called a "horrific, violent, sustained physical attack", during which the victims were forced to perform sexual acts on each other.The nine-year-old said his ear and eyelids were burned with cigarettes, rocks were thrown on him, and his genitals and face were stamped on. His most serious injury, the court heard, came when one of the brothers stabbed him in the arm with a sharp stick, causing a wound down to the bone which was then burned with cigarettes.The brothers said they would strangle him, the younger victim said, and he was told to "go away and kill himself".However, he said, the attackers "picked on" his uncle more, causing the 11-year-old to say at one point: "Leave me, I can't see. Leave me to die."The older victim was discovered naked from the waist down with serious head injuries. The younger victim said these were caused when the 11-year-old was knocked to the floor when a broken sink was dropped on his head. He had ligature marks round his neck and a noose was found at the scene.The younger victim said the attack only ended when the two defendants said they had to meet their stepfather. But he said one of them added that "they couldn't go yet because they'd not killed them and they would be able to identify them to police".