No one stopped to stare at the diminutive figure shuffling along Upper Denmark Road last week. Clifford Norris, one of the most notorious gangsters in Britain, now lives in a pokey bedsit in one of the rougher parts of Ashford, Kent, and no longer warrants a second look.A slim, almost fragile man of no more than 5ft 7in, it is hard to believe this was the ruthless criminal that masterminded a multimillion-pound drugs empire of such corruptive influence that it was said he could bend the very tenets of justice itself.The reputation of Norris remains undimmed by time: a man of intrigue mythologised for an unerring knack of disappearing into thin air whenever the heat was on. Until now, he has never spoken to the media.Last week, however, the 47-year-old gave The Observer a first account of his rapid rise and even steeper fall from drugs baron to a member of the unemployed. He also answered fresh allegations that he corrupted the investigation into Britain's most notorious racist murder, that of black teenager Stephen Lawrence.'There was a time when I had it all - the flash house, the cars, the business,' he said. 'Things grew pretty quickly, but they went quickly too.'At the age of 30 Norris controlled much of south London's drugs trade, lording it over rivals with a mock-Tudor home and fast cars as he presided over scores of criminal associates. Little remains of his materialistic, moneyed past. Norris now lives in a mud-coloured hostel on a jobseeker's allowance of £56.20 a week. Housing benefit pays for a single room above a DIY store.Norris has nothing. There is no woman in his life and visits from friends and family are notable only for their rarity. The ambling figure in Upper Denmark Street is proof, perhaps, that crime does not pay. Norris admits he made mistakes, that his drugs empire was 'out of control'. Crucially, too, he also reveals that police corruption did exist in south London during the period Stephen was murdered, allegedly with the involvement of his eldest son, David, who remains a prime suspect in the case.Norris will spend today drinking tea and watching television alone in his small room. As he does every day. At some point he may choose to break the routine by popping out to the Wheatsheaf off-licence - six cans of Stella Artois for £6.49 - and sipping them on the bench opposite Ashford's branch of the UK Independence Party. Luxury for Norris these days extends to a game of pool inside The Locomotive pub. Tomorrow he'll contemplate the same routine. Just as he did yesterday. Those that know him suggest his behaviour betrays a man who remains 'institutionalised' from a seven-year stretch in jail.Most people had forgotten about Norris when he was finally released from Maidstone prison in January 2001 after serving his sentence for intent to supply drugs and possessing a submachine-gun. Norris gravitated to nearby Ashford and effectively disappeared. Rumours gradually surfaced that the former criminal had reunited with his former associates; somewhere, somehow, Norris was back pulling the strings.The truth turns out to be more prosaic. Clifford attempted to integrate himself into society, securing work as the supervisor of an Ashford cleaning firm until he was made redundant earlier this year. 'I'm still finding my feet. Little by little I'm getting there, and right now I'm looking for work, but it can be difficult because of who I am.'Norris will spend this week waiting for the results of two job applications; both menial part-time positions. Anything will do, he says. 'It's tough starting out again. To some people you'll always be the lowest of the low.'There was a time when people did whatever he asked. Towards the end of the Eighties, Norris presided over a nexus of south-east London criminals, a number of whom were connected to the 1983 Brinks Mat gold bullion robbery. Some, like Kenneth Noye, now in prison for a road-rage murder, were regarded as having links with corrupt police officers, allegations that would prompt the current head of Scotland Yard, Sir Ian Blair, to launch one of the force's largest corruption inquiries shortly after Stephen's death.How deep the tentacles of Norris and his associates stretched into the ranks of the Metropolitan Police remains unclear, but almost overnight the mastermind would find his power base crumbling. By the time of his release, he had been abandoned by even his most trusted lieutenants.'All my businesses, all my contacts, all my business associates had fallen flat. That was that, it was all gone.' Norris, whose silvery hair and browning teeth suggest a man older than his years, learnt not to mourn the passing of his criminal empire. 'It was not that exciting, to be honest, having to look over your shoulder can wear you down,' he said, before looking towards the outline of Ashford's gleaming international rail station, the fast track to mainland Europe where Norris once negotiated his huge cannabis deals. The other direction would take Norris back to the streets of Deptford and then Eltham in south-east London, where a plaque near a bus stop on Well Hall Road marks the spot where Stephen was murdered one spring night in 1993.Norris, like his son, has struggled to distance himself from a case that has become one of the defining incidents of Nineties Britain. Ten days ago allegations emerged that the investigation into the 18-year-old A-level student's murder was deliberately botched because an officer investigating the murder was on Norris's payroll. It was a well-versed concern. The 'Norris factor' emerges at key points in Sir William Macpherson's 1999 report into the murder of Lawrence. Macpherson's report deemed Norris an 'evil influence' whose 'very damaging' role prevented witnesses from coming forward.Claims that he 'fixed' an earlier trial in which his son David was acquitted of a stabbing are also noted in the report. His influence may have extended further. The one key witness that did come forward, Duwayne Brooks, was assigned a police escort during the private prosecution of three Lawrence suspects at the Old Bailey in 1996. That escort, Detective Sergeant David Coles, was well-known to Norris. Surveillance officers recorded the detective meeting the criminal at least three times at the Tiger's Head pub in Chislehurst, Kent. Packages were recorded being exchanged. Coles has explained that he was grooming Norris as an informant.Recently a former corrupt policeman turned informant, Neil Putnam, alleged that Det Sgt John Davidson, at the heart of the bungled Scotland Yard investigation, deliberately sabotaged the murder hunt after allegedly receiving money from Norris. Davidson denies the claims.Norris claims he did not have a corrupt relationship with Coles, never met Davidson, and that the first he knew of Putnam was when he heard details of the latest allegations against him, broadcast in a BBC documentary.'I never became involved with underhand dealings or giving money to coppers. Never did I give the police any money or a retainer to get them on the payroll. I don't know any bent coppers.' Norris admits, however, that he was aware of corruption between officers and other criminals in the period around Stephen's murder, although he is not in the business of naming names.'I was not involved, but there was corruption going on with police and other heavier gangs,' he said. By the time his son was implicated in Stephen's murder, Norris's power base in south-east London was so extensive that he felt he could operate almost with impunity. 'We were doing so well,' he said, 'there was never any reason for me to give money to the police.'Born in 1958 in St Alfeges Hospital, Greenwich, and raised in nearby Deptford, Norris had a reputation as a violent tearaway by the time he was a teenager. Yet along with his elder brother, Alexander, Norris seemed destined for little more than a career as a small-time crook. The emergence of the drugs trade changed everything. Suddenly every petty villain could enter the big time.Norris first came to the attention of the police when he was 25, after officers found a safety deposit box belonging to him stuffed with £17,000. Norris denied all knowledge, but it was clear acquiring cash was no problem. By the age of 27 the man from a south London working-class family was practically a millionaire. In 1987 police records named Norris as being involved in 'high-level drug activity'. And in the following spring, he and his wife, Teresa 'Tracey' Norris, procured a £600,000 mock-Tudor property at 7 Berryfield Close in Chislehurst - a private cul-de-sac with electronic gates and wrought-iron gates.His rapid accumulation of wealth would not have gone unnoticed. Several years earlier the couple had scrimped together to buy a modest home for £43,000. Norris's thirst for fast cars blossomed in tandem with his wealth. He remembers buying a Porsche 911 with white leather trim from a Billingshurst dealer, using cash stuffed in a plastic carrier bag. 'You could get this and that; cars, a decent house, the lot. It was a good lifestyle,' he said.By this stage, though, his criminal network had almost assumed a life of its own. Norris was losing control. 'You'd meet people who were unemployed, people with criminal records, unethical people, and it just grows from there. The illegal businesses just kept on getting bigger and bigger.'His network of contacts continued to widen, links were strengthened with underworld figures such as Noye. 'I was never into that [violence], there were much heavier people around than myself, much more serious operators.'Norris believes that the drug entrepreneurs of the Eighties were so successful they created a demand that has not subsided since. 'Over the years business just sort of blew up, but when it popped it never really came down [to what it was before].'Norris was among the first criminals to create a network of dealers across Europe. Throughout 1987 and 1988 he was working extensively with Dutch suppliers. Customs covertly photographed him in Geneva. Flush with the riches he was making, Norris had got slack. On 21 June, 1988, customs officials intercepted a quarter of a tonne of cannabis in Barking and arrested criminal associates of Norris. Less than 12 months later a 24-year-old man was shot in the chest outside a Deptford pub. Norris's elder brother was arrested in connection with the shooting and sentenced to nine years for cannabis smuggling.Aware that the net was closing, Norris went on the run. Teresa would unwittingly betray him in August 1994 when police followed her to a holiday cottage in East Sussex. Inside, next to a set of golf clubs, officers found a silenced Ingram submachine-gun. After five years in hiding, they had found their man. Norris was sentenced to nine and a half years for drugs and firearm offences.'I got arrested over money, to be honest. It was fair game, there was never any complaints from me. I just served my sentence.' Yet questions soon arose. How did a professional gangster manage to evade detection for so long? Speculation grew that Norris did, in fact, have officers on the payroll. He will always deny it.Memories of the six-bedroom Chislehurst home seem almost surreal these days. Norris now inhabits a sparse single room, barely 10ft by 10ft. Those who knew Norris in prison describe a contemplative character who completed several NVQs while there but who has struggled to adjust to life outside. One former inmate told The Observer: 'Cliff's room is tiny and laid out like a prison cell. The toilet roll, bed and television are exactly where you'd find it inside. He's proper institutionalised.'It was during his seven years in jail that Norris lost everything. Customs ordered him to hand over £386,000 in drugs profits and later seized 7 Berryfield Close, claiming that the property was bought with the proceeds of crime. Teresa also left him. They have not spoken since he settled in Ashford. 'But it was amicable, we always got on. I suppose we just drifted apart,' he said.Rarely does he hear from his son David. 'He's always having to change his mobile phone because of the stick he gets over the Lawrence case. He dreamt of becoming a plumber, but he lost his apprenticeship and then got sacked from two jobs over the case. It's been very difficult for him to get employment.'But I have always thought he was innocent, otherwise he would have been convicted, wouldn't he?' Accusations that his family are racist are rejected with a firm shake of the head. He has no explanation as to why in 2002 David swerved a car at a black off-duty police officer and called him 'nigger' close to where Stephen was murdered.The police, meanwhile, are pursuing more than 60 potential new leads following the BBC documentary, including, possibly, fresh witnesses to the murder of Stephen that could yet implicate Norris's son. Norris, though, claims he just longs for a quiet life and the hope that one of Ashford's 4,550 employers grants him another chance. 'I just want to get on, find a job and live normally. Everyone deserves a chance, don't they?'Career in crime1958: Born in Greenwich. 1976: Wife Teresa gives birth to David, one of the Stephen Lawrence suspects. 1981: Norris and family move into £43,000 home in New Cross, south-east London. 1988: Family move to mansion in Chislehurst worth £600,000. 1993: David appears in court over alleged knife attack. A month later he becomes suspect in murder of Stephen Lawrence. 1994: Norris arrested over firearm and drugs charges. Sentenced to nine-and-a-half years in jail. Serves seven years. 1999: Sir William Macpherson names Norris as 'evil influence' on Lawrence murder inquiry. 2002: Eldest son David jailed for racism after swerving car at a black man. 2006: Norris accused of corrupting officers in Lawrence murder inquiry.