One million legal problems go unsolved each year because people are ignorant of their basic rights or unaware of how to find help, according to the largest national study of how people deal with a wide range of problems including divorce, homelessness and job loss.One in five people with legal problems took no action at all, according to government-funded research which surveyed nearly 6,000 adults around England and Wales. The study, carried out by the independent research arm of the Legal Services Commission, which administers legal aid through the Community Legal Service, found that legal problems are common, with 37% of those surveyed experiencing at least one in the past three-and-a-half years. Problems were divided into a range of categories including discrimination, domestic violence, consumer problems, welfare benefits, neighbours, debt, divorce, children, personal injury, medical negligence, immigration, mental health, housing and employment. A parallel survey looked at the problems experienced by 197 adults in temporary housing. The study found that people in disadvantaged groups - lone parents, those with ill-health or disability, the unemployed, those in temporary housing or high-density rented housing - experienced the most problems. Four out of five people in temporary housing, two out of three single parents, and over half of unemployed people had encountered legal problems. Problems occurred in clusters or cascades, with one event often triggering others. For example, losing a job could trigger homelessness, divorce and debt. An accidental injury could lead to unemployment and loss of income and home, and domestic vio lence triggered problems such as divorce and homelessness. Of the one in five people who took no action, the biggest category (31%) did not understand their rights or did not know how to seek help. Others were scared to take action - for instance, over domestic violence or problem neighbours - or felt it would take too long or cost too much. Of those who took action, 63% sought advice, while 37% acted alone, often talking or writing to their opponent in the dispute. Of those who sought advice, 15% failed to get it. The study comes days after Citizens Advice warned that the legal aid system was "close to collapse", and that one in four citizens advice bureaux (CABs) was in an "advice desert" unable to find legal aid solicitors for many cases. A survey of more than 200 CABs found an advice "postcode lottery" with some people facing domestic violence or homelessness having to travel more than 50 miles to find a legal aid solicitor. Janet Paraskeva, chief executive of the Law Society, said: "This survey reveals a worrying level of unmet legal need. People threatened with eviction, problems at work, and domestic violence are going without the legal help that would radically improve the quality of their lives." She called for a public information campaign. "Such a campaign could save public expenditure in the long term, as early legal advice can prevent social problems from escalating." ·The solicitor general, Harriet Harman, accused judges of sentencing too leniently in cases where the rapist and victim know each other. Cases in which the attorney general has referred sentences to the appeal court as "unduly lenient" show that judges are disregarding guidelines that rape by a relative or acquaintance can be just as traumatic as rape by a stranger, she said.