The government today began a new push against gun and knife gang crime.The initiative is intended to halt the increase in the number of people being killed in violent attacks throughout Britain.Addressing a conference in Birmingham, the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said £5m would be committed to tackle gun and knife crime, while witnesses would be offered anonymity to encourage them to come forward.Smith called on parents to get involved in the campaign, saying: "Talk it over with your kids. Point out the dangers. They'll listen. "Give them support, the advice and the dose of good old fashioned common sense they need, and they'll thank you for it." Last year, 26 teenagers were killed in London - nine in shootings – and 13 have died so far this year. There were 566 serious or fatal incidents involving guns across the UK. The Met police estimated that more than 170 gangs were operating in London, and this month admitted that attempts to crack down on knife crime had not solved the problem. The £5m will be spent in 10 areas piloting the Tackling Gangs action programme scheme designed to combat knife crime and gun and gang violence.There has been a 27% decrease in the overall number of gun offences in four of the areas - London, Liverpool, Birmingham and Manchester - with the numbers falling from 165 in October to 120 in February. A new anti-knife campaign, in which the government will appeal directly to mothers in a series of advertisements, was also announced. The advertisements, which will be placed in women's weekly magazines, are designed to encourage mothers to talk to their children about the dangers of carrying knives. One reads: "He already knows about the birds and the bees. You need to talk to him about the knives and the blades." Smith renewed a pledge to ensure that witnesses who want to give evidence in court against gang members are granted anonymity from the earliest stages.Senior police officers warned the government that members of the public needed protection earlier in order to convince them to come forward. A Guardian report today revealed that the Department for Children, Schools and Families was launching guidance for teachers on how to tackle gang-related incidents in schools. "Schools are uniquely placed to spot the early signs of pupil involvement in gangs, and to work collaboratively with other agencies to tackle it," the children and young people's minister, Beverley Hughes, said. "The guidance ... provides straightforward advice to schools about what to look for and how to reduce risks of pupils becoming involved with gangs." A trio of senior judges yesterday warned that knife offences were reaching "epidemic proportions" and must bring severe sentences. Sir Igor Judge, sitting with two other judges at the court of appeal, in London, said "carrying a knife or an offensive weapon without reasonable excuse is a crime which is being committed far too often by far too many people".