For 13 years John Worboys portrayed himself as a respectable, hard-working London cab driver. But to the women he attacked he represented a figure of terror.Having picked them up late at night he elicited their sympathy and pity, before manipulating them into taking a drink spiked with a combination of powerful sleeping tablets and an over the counter medicine - a date rape cocktail police have never seen before. Once his victims were insensible he assaulted or raped them.Like many of the capital's 25,000 black-cab drivers Worboys worked late at night, ostensibly because trade was more lucrative but also because at that time he could target women who were alone, vulnerable and desperate to get home.His tactics proved financially successful. Earning £1,000 cash in hand a week, he bought a £520,000 flat in east London, and owned properties in Enfield, north London, and Harpenden, Hertfordshire.But it was his life on the south coast in Poole, Dorset, where Worboys owned a £230,000 studio, that held the clues to a sordid secret life as an amateur porn actor, stripper and sexual obsessive who went on to take his dangerous frustrations out on women who were not able to fight back.Born and raised in Enfield, in June 1957, he grew up with his younger sister, Barbara. His mother Kezia was diagnosed with cancer when he was nine and died four years later leaving the children to be brought up by their father Alan.It was an event which Worboys said haunted him for the rest of his life. In a letter from Belmarsh prison to a friend, he said: I never got over her and I am still having a terrible time when I think about her. Sometimes I find it hard to cope." In an attempt to elicit sympathy he claimed to the jury that his mother's death left a well of loneliness in him. "All my friends were getting the attention and cuddles and I don't think I was getting the attention. No disrespect to my dad, he was bringing two children up, I just didn't get the attention at home."Worboys left school at 16 with four CSEs and joined the Express Dairy in Potters Bar as a milkman before becoming a security guard. By the time he was in his early 20s his father had remarried, and the couple lived in Hemel Hempstead until Worboys's father died in 1990.In 1987 when Worboys was 30 he tried something more exciting to him than his run of the mill jobs. He adopted the alter ego "Terry the Minder" and for 13 years performed as a male strip artist at hen parties, gay venues and as a kissogram. The backdrop to his gyrations was the theme tune from the Minder series.At the same time Worboys owned a studio flat in Poole which was rented out to an amateur porn film director as the backdrop for movies which gained a cult following on cable television and the internet.Worboys starred in some, using the name Tony or Paul, acting out the fantasies that he could never achieve in real life. He saw his connections with the pornographic industry and topless modelling as a badge of honour, boasting about them to his victims, even as he eyed them up to assess their suitability for film work.He asked two 19-year-old passengers whether they would consider topless modelling, telling one of them "you fit the boat".Forced by his age and deteriorating looks to give up the stripping, Worboys passed the knowledge in 1996 to become a taxi driver.Despite his claims to be lonely and unloved Worboys had a string of relationships, and married Jean Marriott in October 1991, becoming stepfather to her three children Stephen, Clare and Carrie-Ann. But their marriage was never happy and in eight years she had divorced him, married again and moved to Bulgaria.Five years into his cabbing life, Worboys was prescribed a heavy sedative, which he continued to stockpile for six years as part of a rape kit that would knock his victims out and leave them with little or no memory of what had happened, thereby making it all the more difficult for the police to investigate his crimes.Dressed in tracksuit bottoms, reeking of Issey Miyake aftershave and with a bag filled with Tesco own-brand drink, sedatives and an ashtray to grind up the drugs, he made sure he had everything needed to carry out his plans.The women he picked were always professional, clever, attractive and independent - and, he admitted, out of his league. He would tailor his lies to them accordingly, claiming he had been to university or, if he wanted to elicit pity, that he was lonely.In every case Worboys backed up his story with a fat wad of cash, on one occasion fanning it out like a quiz show contestant, and his tall tale about winning a fortune on the lottery or at roulette.Worboys protested his innocence throughout, claiming it was the women who had consented to having sexual relations in the cab with him. When police searched his tidy flat in Rotherhithe, south-east London, however, they found neat handwritten notes explaining away some of his sexual attacks, clearly in preparation for if he was ever arrested.One note read: "If I s/a (sexually assaulted) her, my DNA would be down below so she SA me." Another note "If they say 'Oh Mr Worboys what was your DNA doing in her mouth?' say firstly on 27th July you asked me if I had made any sexual contact. I did not make any sexual contact but she made sexual contact on me. I am a private person and I did not like what she was done to me. She sexually assaulted me (I have been told in the past by so many people that I am too nice and I should not have tried to protect her but seeing her my livelyhood could be ruined through her I have to tell you that she sexually assaulted me)."Other notes included "Pharmacist + ask what happens if u mix booz with (sedative) + how long. Does (sedative) take time to get to sleep."Police said the man they were investigated was a Jekyll and Hyde. "In court we saw John Worboys, but the man we investigated was Tony the porn star and stripper," one source said.