The prisoner who heard Michael Stone confess to the murders of Lin Russell and her six-year-old daughter, Megan, had a motive for telling the police that was "devastating to the defence", an appeal court judge said yesterday.Lord Justice Rose, giving the reasons why the appeal court on Wednesday upheld Stone's life sentences for the killings, said Damien Daley was asked at the trial why he had reported the confession and replied: "I just felt guilty, sort of thing, towards that little girl." The judge said Stone's counsel, Edward Fitzgerald QC, had suggested during the second appeal that Daley had fabricated the confession to gain benefits for himself from the prison authorities or police. But the judge said Daley had spoken of his "repugnance of what had happened to the Russell family". Lord Justice Rose said new evidence that Daley had lied under oath about not using heroin should not alter the findings of guilt. "We are unpersuaded that it significantly devalues Daley's evidence so as to cast doubt on the safety of the verdicts," he said. Stone, 44, was found guilty in 1998 of killing Dr Russell, 45, and Megan, and the attempted murder of Megan's sister, Josie, in Chillenden, Kent. The convictions were quashed in February 2001 on appeal and a retrial was ordered. Stone was convicted again at Nottingham crown court and the sentence reimposed. This week Stone appealed a second time, saying Daley, described as a heroin-addicted career criminal who admitted lying to get by in life, had framed him. Yesterday, Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Moses and Mr Justice Walker also turned down a request to take the case to the House of Lords on a point of law of public interest. Stone's legal team admitted that because the judges refused to certify the point of law - whether there was an obligation on the trial judge to warn a jury about the unreliability of cell confessions - it made it difficult for them to take the case further. Lord Justice Rose said Stone had successfully appealed the against verdicts of his first trial by questioning the reliability of evidence given by witnesses. At the centre of his second appeal was the reliability of Daley, and the judge's directions and summing up over the cell confession evidence. The judge said Daley was in a segregation unit at Canterbury prison when Stone was put in an adjoining cell. Lord Justice Rose said details revealed by Daley could not have been inferred from newspaper reports. Stone also had previous convictions for violence, including using a hammer, and although this was now available to put before a jury it was not when Stone was tried, said the judge. 