Sunday May 6 2001, 19.38. The room is anonymous. There's just a padded vinyl chair, an examining table, a small white drugs cabinet and a large number of plastic speculums. The Haven, in south-east London, is a 24/7 centre for victims of sexual assault.The examination is from head to toe. The doctor, a female specialist in forensic gynaecology, examines the alleged victim's face, hair and mouth for haemorrhages from oral sex. She looks under her fingernails. She checks all over for bruising and scratches. Each mark must be measured and described; she finds a tender area on her scalp and abrasions on the back of her left hand and on her right thigh. There's a clock, so the doctor can accurately time her observation of every item. It's very important to be meticulous. Allegations of serious crimes are being made. Swabs are taken from inside and outside the genital area, very carefully. Samples of blood, urine and saliva are collected. At 20.45, the doctor observes "slightly swollen eyelids and mildly injected (red) conjunctivae (the very thin covering of the white of the eye), consistent with recent and ongoing crying". In the drugs cabinet are painkillers, drugs for tetanus and hepatitis B, and prophylaxis to help prevent HIV infection. The young woman is offered - and accepts - all of these. Three hours after arriving at the Haven, she is taken with her aunt and a police constable back to Peckham police station, then home. Two years later, Friday June 13 2003. It's the same young woman, crying again. She's at Middlesex Guildhall crown court, directly opposite the Houses of Parliament. Neat and petite in a light grey trouser suit, diamond stud earrings, and with her blond bob pushed behind her ears, she seems too small for the dock in which she stands. She's 29, but looks far younger; you'd never guess she is a mother of four. Nadine Milroy-Sloan had gone to the Haven after she claimed she had been raped by Barry Lehaney, 61, and seriously sexually and indecently assaulted by the former Tory minister Neil Hamilton and his wife Christine, in Lehaney's flat - allegations that proved to be false. Milroy-Sloan, once the accuser, became the accused. After a six-week trial at the Old Bailey, she was found guilty of perverting the course of justice on two counts. A month later, she is here at the crown court for sentencing. A slight scuffle erupts at the back of the courtroom as the offender's solicitor insists that her husband, Terence Squires, be allowed in. Milroy-Sloan mouths to Terry, "I'll be OK", even though she doesn't look it. Judge Simon Smith declares, "It's becoming all too easy for people to sell false allegations against well-known people, or about well-known people, to the press, and courts have got to deal firmly with it." He sentences her to three years in jail - more than the recommended sentence for killing someone through dangerous driving. It's the toughest sentence ever passed on a woman who has made a false accusation of rape; previous cases have resulted in probation or a few months in jail. It is generally accepted in Britain, and quoted in Home Office reports, that 2% of all rape and sex allegations are false, the same percentage as for other crimes. This is based on a 30-year-old study in New York, which was brought to public attention by Susan Brownmiller in her ground-breaking book Against Our Will. Brownmiller reported that false accusations dropped from 15% to 2% in New York City when police began using female officers to interview complainants, for the simple reason that "women believe the word of other women. Men do not." Since then, further research has thrown up wildly varying results: a study tracking sexual assault allegations in Ontario, Canada, found 5.7% to be false; a US air force study, False Rape Allegation In The Military Community, put the figure at 60%; the FBI claims that false reporting of forcible sexual assault stands at 8%, four times higher than other crimes. One of the difficulties is that each study defines false rape claims differently. Many include instances where allegations of rape were made but the case dropped before reaching court. Only the Canadian study excludes all cases except those that are actively proven to be false. When a rape allegation is proved false, it receives disproportionate attention, and women who make the allegation attract particular odium. The associated, relatively minor charges - perverting the course of justice and wasting police time - would not normally receive national press coverage. But false rape makes headlines, of which "Rape claim was pack of lies" is typical. In addition, each well-publicised false rape allegation is seen as part of a far larger trend - when the case collapsed against a man accused of raping a 16-year-old girl after Teesside police discovered that she had made earlier false claims, the judge called for a register of women who make false rape allegations, similar to the sex offenders register. Long before sentencing, Milroy-Sloan's claims had been held up as an example of the sort of lies greedy women tell when it comes to rape. On August 20 2001, while the Hamiltons and Lehaney were still being investigated by police, she was described by one newspaper as "the manipulative Miss Milroy-Sloan". On the day her trial opened at the Old Bailey, another newspaper ran a picture of her, captioned "Fantasist". Neil Hamilton called her "a gold-digging little slut". When she was found guilty, calls were made in parliament to grant anonymity to all those accused of serious sexual assault. Nadine Milroy-Sloan describes the early spring of 2001 as the best time of her life. "I'd got my life together at last and was doing a job I really enjoyed. I had a career." After leaving her Catholic convent at 16 with seven GCSEs ("at C grade and above"), she'd had a series of jobs, from cook on the ferries to barmaid at Butlins, before eventually enrolling at Grimsby College for a catering course in September 2000. It was a work-based qualification, which involved teaching practice, and Milroy-Sloan liked to call herself a "college lecturer". She was living in a rented house in Grimsby, around the corner from her parents, Doreen and Martin Checksfield, and her elder half-brother Robert and his family. When interviewed by police, Robert said, "I didn't pay much attention to her, as she had a tendency to exaggerate." Her eldest child, Samantha, 10, lived with Doreen, while her youngest, Tommy, two, stayed with her. Her two middle children - Summer, four, and James, six - were with their father, Scott Sloan, in Skegness. He had won custody of them when the marriage broke up in 1998. Milroy-Sloan had bought a computer for her course, and late at night, after her work was done, would enter chatrooms. Matchmaker.com was her favourite; she found the sexual repartee funny. She describes how she and a girlfriend used to down a few drinks, log on and have a laugh. The messages they sent detailed all sorts of exploits, from three-in-a-bed to lesbian sex. "I'm not always a very nice person. I'm no angel," Milroy-Sloan says. Although she didn't know it, one of the people she shared these fantasies with was a pensioner who lived in a flat in Ilford, Essex. His name was Barry Lehaney. Lehaney was a veteran chatroom surfer. He used matchmaker.com under a number of pseudonyms, including Lady Joan Hamilton, Lord James Hamilton and Sir Barry, who he said was the Lord and Lady's chauffeur. (Later, Lehaney said he had thought of the name because he had a relative called Hamilton.) Milroy-Sloan talked to "Lady" and "Lord Hamilton" on a regular basis from her address sexybabe@tesco.net, and was soon exchanging phone numbers and postal addresses with them. Lehaney, posing as the fictional, aristocratic Hamiltons, sent her pornographic pictures by email and through the post, and even mailed her a vibrator. Up in her terrace house in Grimsby, Milroy-Sloan thought she was in touch with a ring of rich and powerful people who engaged in kinky sex. One of the women Lehaney sent her pictures of was fair-haired; she began to think it was someone she had seen before on television and in the newspapers. Confused about their first names, and thinking such prominent people must be titled, the thought formed that she was really chatting with Christine and Neil Hamilton. Milroy-Sloan, living on benefits, admits that she saw the opportunity to sell a story. But she says it was her uncle, Tony Iles-Blackmore, who first suggested approaching the publicist Max Clifford. On May 1, she took a coach down to London to see her 87-year-old grandmother at her home in Bermondsey. Two days later, Milroy-Sloan went with her uncle and his son to see Clifford in his Bond Street offices. Milroy-Sloan, overdramatically anxious about being recognised, borrowed a pair of sunglasses and a baseball cap from her aunt. According to Milroy-Sloan, Clifford was encouraging. She says he told her that she could earn six-figure sums if her story stood up - a vast amount to her. She just needed proof. Clifford said, "On this occasion I did what I always do - asked her whether she had any way to prove the allegations that she was making." These allegations did not involve criminal acts, simply internet chat. Milroy-Sloan admits that she arranged to see Lehaney to gather evidence. She hoped he would phone the Hamiltons in her presence, and perhaps she could tape conversations with them in which they might make the same sort of sexually explicit comments she believed she'd been receiving from them by email. She text-messaged Lehaney to send her some "juicy pics of Lady Hamilton and you", and let him know she was in London. Lehaney offered to take her for lunch on Saturday, and she agreed. She took a number 25 bus from Oxford Circus to Ilford. Lehaney was delighted. "It's not often I have young female company these days," he said. He drove to collect her from the bus stop in his dark blue Ford Granada, and they went for a pub lunch. Milroy-Sloan asked him where Lord and Lady Hamilton lived, and Lehaney, not wishing to disappoint her and discredit himself, waved in the general direction of some big houses and said, "Over there." Lehaney clearly wanted to impress the attractive young woman; in his evidence he said that he drove her back into central London for a tour of the sights - Trafalgar Square, Buckingham Palace, the Houses of Parliament. Despite having been born in Dulwich and raised in London for her first few years, Milroy-Sloan was a stranger in the capital; Lehaney thought it very funny that she didn't know Big Ben was attached to the Houses of Parliament. He says they drove back out to Ilford, stopping at Tesco to buy some food and wine for supper, then returned to his flat and watched Trigger Happy TV. Lehaney said he offered her the sofa, but she said she'd prefer to sleep in his bed, where they just cuddled. When they awoke the next morning, he said, Milroy-Sloan, completely of her own accord, began to masturbate him. Later, it would be argued that she did this deliberately to gather forensic evidence against him. Milroy-Sloan provided a different version of her weekend: when they returned from Tesco, "I went into the lounge, he went into the kitchen and brought me a glass of red wine. I remember thinking, 'This is so strong', because I just felt so woozy." With hindsight, she claimed that her drink had been spiked with Rohypnol, known as the date rape drug. Later, when the police searched the flat, they found a strip of Rohypnol. Lehaney said that it had been planted there. Then, Milroy-Sloan says, there was a knock at the door, "and in came a rather attractive young man and these two people. She came in and shook my hand, and said, 'You're the person we've been speaking to.' I recognised her immediately. I began drinking again, and I remember thinking, 'I'm just completely and utterly drunk.' " The three people, says Milroy-Sloan, were a man called Andrew and "Lord and Lady Hamilton" - or, as she imagined, Christine and Neil Hamilton. Next, Milroy-Sloan said, the conversation turned sexual. She was asked if she had sensitive nipples, and if she liked having sex with women. Milroy-Sloan says she begged to go home, but they wouldn't let her go. When her uncle called her on her mobile, they switched it off. Lehaney - in her account - pushed her on to a big rug on the floor and began to rape her; Andrew and Lord Hamilton stood over her masturbating, while Lady Hamilton, bedecked in a blue dress, attempted to straddle her for oral sex. The next morning, Lehaney drove her back to her grandmother's in Bermondsey. "I just felt like I'd been hit by a train. I can remember going to my nan's and just walking around her flat for ages in a total daze. She was still in bed. I ran myself a bath. I spoke on the phone to my uncle." Each of the many times she retells these moments over the next two years - to police, reporters, the jury - she does so in almost exactly the same words. That day, she began to keep a diary in her rounded schoolgirl hand: the first entry reads like a script, as if she were enacting the tragedy of a young and misunderstood woman. "Finding it difficult to cope. One minute I'm crying, the next coping, the next crying ... Nothing seems real any more." She makes a litany of emotions - embarrassment, anger, guilt, fear, loneliness - and rhetorical declarations: "Why won't anyone help me?" "Can't fight this on my own." There is no sense of a deceit being constructed, but there is something strangely distant in her outpourings. It's as if she can only pretend to be herself. Her uncle Tony called the police, who came and took her and her aunt, Gillian Iles-Blackmore, to the Haven. "It's the most humiliating thing a woman has to go through after being raped. To have your body violated, then have to lie on a bench, place your feet in stirrups while they take swabs," says Milroy-Sloan. While she was being examined, her aunt Gill handed her mobile phone to the police constable who had escorted them, saying that her husband Tony wanted to talk to him. "I spoke to a male on the phone who I believe to be Mr Blackmore," the constable recorded in his notes. "He said, 'That fellow Max Clifford telephoned me about an hour ago. I told him nothing, I said we weren't going to pursue it.' " At 8.05am the next morning, bank holiday Monday, police went to Lehaney's flat and arrested him. He has always denied rape and no charges have been brought.Read An unshakeable delusion part two