Judge George Bathurst-Norman's decision to stay the prosecution of the alleged Gibraltar money launderers will have "serious implications for all aspects of undercover policing", Scotland Yard said yesterday.The judge threw out the prosecution because the police had entrapped two of the defendants into committing the offence, making it a "state-created crime" and the prosecution an "abuse of the process of the court". The ruling and the amount of taxpayers' money wasted will guarantee closer scrutiny of undercover operations by the crown prosecution service to ensure that procedures pass muster in court. The police are resorting to stings to uncover big drug dealing operations, which are difficult to unmask by other means, but it can be hard to draw the line between entrapping a suspect and creating the opportunity for self-incrimination. The judge's decision, reversing his earlier ruling that the case could go ahead, follows a House of Lords judgment in October 2001 in R v Looseley, an appeal by two convicted drug dealers after an undercover operation. The law lords spelled out the rules for deciding whether a defendant has been entrapped or induced to commit crime by state agents. Officers must not induce or lure a suspect into committing a crime he would not otherwise have committed, they said. As a high court judge put it in an earlier case: "The state can justify the use of entrapment techniques to induce the commission of an offence only when the inducement is consistent with the ordinary temptations and stratagems that are likely to be encountered in the course of criminal activity." In the Gibraltar case, the police overstepped that line by offering "a wholly exceptional opportunity to others to commit crime", the judge said. They made "a wholly exceptional offer which no ordinary citizen or money launderer could provide". In R v Looseley, Lord Nicholls said: "Every court has an inherent power and duty to prevent abuse of its process. This is a fundamental principle of the rule of law ... It is simply not acceptable that the state, through its agents, should lure its citizens into committing acts forbidden by the law and then seek to prosecute them for doing so. That would be a misuse of state power and an abuse of the process of the courts." Where a defendant has been entrapped, the judge has a discretion to stay or stop the prosecution. Judge Bathurst-Norman called for either the court of appeal or parliament to change the law to make entrapment a defence - as it is in the US - rather than a ground for stopping a prosecution. If it were a defence, the prosecution would go ahead and the jury would decide whether the entrapment meant the defendants were not guilty. 