The Police Federation said yesterday it will launch a high court action over its pay dispute with Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, as 25,000 officers staged a protest march and rally around Westminster. The federation wants the court to overturn Smith's decision not to backdate the 2.5% pay award by an independent arbitration tribunal beyond December 1, to bring it within the government's 2% public sector pay limit.The march, the largest gathering of police on the streets of Britain, became embroiled in controversy when it emerged a senior member of the British National party was in the frontline of the procession. Brian Paddick, the former deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police, who is the Liberal Democrats' candidate for London mayor, expressed dismay that Richard Barnbrook, the BNP's mayoral candidate, was allowed to march at the front of the demonstration."I felt very uncomfortable that there was someone there from the BNP," said Paddick. "I was aware of him being there and I pointed it out to officials, but there was nothing more that I could do. I was very uncomfortable that he was near me."Jan Berry, the chairman of the Police Federation, replied "no comment" when asked about Barnbrook's presence. Barnbrook said he had been told by officers that he was welcome and said a number of the protesting police officers had agreed to be interviewed for BNP TV. A spokesman for the National Black Police Association declined to comment last night.In the Commons, Gordon Brown defended the decision to stagger last year's public sector pay awards, saying he would have liked to have paid police and nurses more, but the rises would have been wiped out by ensuing inflation.Later, politicians from all parties, including the Lib Dem leader, Nick Clegg, the shadow home secretary, David Davis, and Labour backbencher Keith Vaz, made their support for the police clear at a rally at Westminster. They repeatedly accused Brown and Smith of a betrayal of trust in refusing to pay the independent arbitration tribunal's award in full.Berry, who is retiring soon, accused Brown and Smith of having "crossed the road to pick a fight with the police" and of "showing total lack of respect for what we do". He said the refusal to pay the award in full amounted to a breach of trust, and the police would press for it to be made illegal to overturn an arbitration award.Clegg said it was a disgrace that the government had let the police down. Davis said he supported the police, but a Conservative government could not write them a blank cheque.Police Federation leaders were due to discuss the award and the prospect of a multi-year deal with Smith yesterday.