Ministers have drawn up plans to allow police to deploy water cannon at 24 hours' notice, David Cameron has announced.In a statement outside No 10, the prime minister insisted police will get whatever resources they need to bring the rioting across England under control, and that every contingency was being looked at.Cameron said there was evidence that the "more robust" approach being taken by the police was working, and also made a series of announcements showing the government's determination to maintain a hardline stance. He revealed that:• Police have permission to use rubber bullets if they want.• Water cannon are available if the police want to use them. "We now have in place contingency plans for water cannon to be available at 24 hours' notice," he said.• Courts will carry on sitting overnight to deal with riots cases. More than 160 people have already been charged. "Courts sat through the night last night and will do again tonight," he said.• Photographs of rioters will continue to be published to allow them to be identified. "Major police operations are under way, as I speak, to arrest the criminals who were not picked up last night but who were picked up on closed circuit television cameras," the prime minister said. "Picture by picture, these criminals are being identified and arrested, and we will not let any phony concerns about human rights get in the way of the publication of these pictures and the arrest of these individuals."• Those involved in violence would be sent to prison, he said, adding: "It is for the courts to sentence, but I would expect anyone convicted of violent disorder to be sent to prison."However, the home secretary, Theresa May, later played down the prospect of water cannon being deployed."The police are very clear – they tell me that, at the moment, they don't need water cannon," she told Radio 4's the World at One.Sir Hugh Orde, the president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, told the same programme he did not think that water cannon would prove necessary."Water cannon are used to deal with fixed crowds to buy distance," he said. "The evidence from your camera people shows that these are fast-moving crowds where water canon would not be appropriate."If the situation develops where we would need to use water canon, I would have no hesitation in seeking support from the chief constable of Northern Ireland to deploy them. I don't see it as necessary, and nor do the 43 chiefs I spoke to this morning."Cameron, who issued his statement after chairing a meeting of the government's emergency committee, Cobra, also used it to reject Boris Johnson's demand for police budget cuts to be reversed.At the Cobra meeting, Cameron said, he had asked the police if they had everything they needed, and they told him they did.Mayors and local authorities "always want more money", he said, adding: "I don't blame them for that – it's the government's job to make sure they get what they need and get the most out of what they've got."We won't do anything that will reduce the amount of visible policing on our streets. We won't do anything that will put the public at risk."Cameron claimed the riots showed there was something seriously wrong with society. "There are pockets of our society that are not just broken, but frankly sick," he said."When we see children as young as 12 and 13 looting and laughing, when we see the disgusting sight of a young man with people pretending to help him while they are robbing him, it is clear that there are things badly wrong with our society."Cameron he believed the problem was a "complete lack of responsibility"."People allowed to feel that the world owes them something, that their rights outweigh their responsibilities, and their actions do not have consequences. Well, they do have consequences."We need to have a clearer code of values and standards that we expect people to live by and stronger penalties if they cross the line."But he said the rioting had shown the strengths of British society. "We have seen the worst of Britain but I also believe we have seen some of the best of Britain – the million people who have signed up on Facebook to support the police, coming together in the clean-up operations," he said.The prime minister insisted the government would restore order. "We needed a fightback, and a fightback is under way," he said."Whatever resources the police need, they will get. Whatever tactics the police feel they need to employ, they will have legal backing to do so."We will do whatever is necessary to restore law and order on our streets. Every contingency is being looked at. Nothing is off the table."Cameron said he would set out further details of the government's response in the statement to the Commons on Thursday.Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, has urged him to ensure that the government helps individuals, businesses and authorities affecting by the rioting. Cameron said he would address this in his Commons statement.