A cyclist who caused the death of a man he crashed into while riding on the pavement at 25mph was facing jail yesterday after admitting "wanton or furious" cycling.Peter Messen, 28, ploughed into Gary Green as he packed his car in front of his house to go on holiday to Venice with his girlfriend. Witnesses watched as Messen sped "like a bat out of hell" down the hill in the village of Stenalees, near St Austell, Cornwall. Seconds before the collision one villager shouted out to him: "You are going to kill someone."Messen mounted the kerb as he came down the hill on his Apollo mountain bike just as Mr Green, 41, who lived with his partner and her four children, walked across the pavement to fetch his glasses from his house. He was knocked to the ground unconscious and died four days later in the Royal Cornwall hospital from head injuries including multiple skull fractures.Appearing at Truro crown court yesterday, Messen, of Swindon, Wiltshire, pleaded guilty to causing bodily harm by wanton or furious cycling. The crime, brought under the Offences Against the Person Act 1861, carries a maximum sentence of two years in jail.An inquest earlier this year heard how in March last year Messen had borrowed the bicycle from a nephew and had not ridden it before. He was cycling to another village, Bugle, and moved on to the pavement because the traffic was heavy.One witness, David East, a delivery driver from Devon, told the inquest: "My attention was drawn to him as the speed he was travelling at was far too fast for someone cycling on the pavement. I saw that he continued to pick up speed as he went down the hill and I said to my colleague that he would send someone flying if he hit them."He was on the pavement where he shouldn't have been. He had a total disregard for anyone else but himself. He was not giving the impression that he was having any difficulty in slowing down. He looked like he knew exactly what he was doing and travelling at the speed he was."Mr East's colleague Andrew Price said he saw Mr Green hold out his hands in shock just before he was struck by the cyclist.Don Lowe was walking back to his home from the local shop when he was passed by the cyclist. He told the inquest: "When he passed me I shouted after him 'You are going to kill someone' but I don't believe he would have heard me. I remember thinking that he had an arrogant manner as he didn't have a bell to warn me to get out of the way."In a police interview, Messen said he could remember riding down the hill but not the accident. He could only remember waking up in hospital. He said at the inquest: "I am really sorry about what has happened and I wish it had never happened."Yesterday's court hearing was adjourned until November 16 for pre-sentence reports.