It's a chilly afternoon in Walsall. Leroy McKoy is strolling with a group of teenagers, extolling the virtues of career change. The youths are captivated by the charismatic McKoy, almost awe-struck. At 6ft 2ins, in baggy jeans, sharp cream raincoat, denim cap and mauve mirrored sunglasses, he cuts an impressive figure. It is, however, the career advice McKoy dispenses that excites the most interest. He has, it might be said, a past. McKoy is is an outreach worker, a community worker if you like, with government and European funding and a £21,000 salary to run projects in the West Midlands. But he used to have a thriving career as an international drug smuggler, moving millions of pounds worth of cannabis between markets and clients in Britain, Germany and the Netherlands. In many of the inner cities, where agencies struggle to persuade disenfranchised young people that their future lies within mainstream society, McKoy and others like him - "street smarts" whose attribute is an interesting life experience - are making a significant contribution. Given the relative ease with which young men drift into the lucrative "alternative economy" of drugs and crime, McKoy is someone they can identify with, whose experiences they can draw on, whose warnings they might heed. Unlikely as it might at first seem, McKoy - the man once chased and thrown out of business by police in three countries and by Interpol - is part of that community involvement. The former convict, who served 10 years' imprisonment in Britain and Germany, is now officially a role model. "I am trying all the time to convince the young people that there is a better way and that they do not have to make the mistakes I made," he says. "It was exciting at the time. Being respected as the 'Number One Don' is an exhilarating thing. But I tell them about the other things too. How I lost 10 years of my life to prison, and how virtually everyone, no matter how smart they might be, gets caught in the end. You can't convince everyone, but most listen because they know that I know what I'm talking about. I try to keep it on a real-life level." Now a youthful 50, he has a track record working with young people in Walsall, Birmingham and London. But some still marvel at the transformation. Kirk Dawes, who works alongside McKoy on a number of youth projects, was until recently a detective with West Midlands police. He spent much of the 1980s on the drug squad, and one of his primary aims, during overt and undercover operations, was to send McKoy to jail. "We go back 28 years," Dawes says. "He was a serious player. His organisation had a structure and systems that were unheard of at the time." He says the experiences of "street smart" consultants such as McKoy are invaluable. "I believe a leopard can change his spots, and this guy is really committed. We have to think outside the box. It is not a matter of 'once a villain always a villain'. They have experiences that can be put to good use." McKoy's criminal career began in Germany. After completing a City and Guilds diploma in welding in Manchester, he worked for local firms, but he also joined the army as a part-time soldier. He left the army after two years but, having enjoyed his military trips to mainland Europe, he returned to Antwerp and then to Dusseldorf, where he became a fixture on the nightclub scene. "A lot of the black people there came from Gambia and Ghana and their passports didn't allow them to travel to places like Holland, so I used to pick up things for them," he says. "One day, one of them said: 'We want some hash.' I had never previously been involved with drugs, but I took a chance and was lucky that on that day I got through." The 2kg of Lebanese resin he brought back had cost him DM7,000 (£2,375), and he sold it for DM14,000. He was on his way. "It scaled up very quickly," he says. "The next consignment was worth DM21,000. The Africans who wanted to buy drugs were not as popular with the Germans and the Dutch as the Jamaicans. I filled the gap between the ones who had drugs and those who wanted drugs." The continental operation thrived for two years, until an immigration crackdown in Germany made it more difficult to operate around the nightclubs. McKoy headed for Holland and the Eindhoven area, and continued cross-border operations as before. But he was being watched and, unknown to him, informants were talking. In July 1982, as he sought to leave Schiphol airport, Amsterdam, for Britain to check on the delivery of a cannabis shipment, he was arrested by the Dutch, executing a warrant from the German authorities. After being held on remand for five months, he obtained bail and skipped the Netherlands for England. Police traced him to Birmingham and, on the understanding that the Germans had dropped the charges, he returned to the Netherlands. But once there, he was arrested and extradited to Germany, where he was jailed for five years. He served two. On his release, he returned to Britain, bought a plush flat in Golders Green, north London, and re-activated the business. "Before coming back, I had some of my people check things out," he explains. "My people were bringing Colombian weed over. I thought I was doing a good thing. It wasn't hurting anyone. I would give money to send people to see relatives in Jamaica and would help to fund Caribbean food shops and barbers. I made a lot of money. I had a big detached house in Solihull. The boys around me were driving Porsches. I had my place, a girlfriend. It seemed sweet." Sweet indeed. At its height, there was McKoy and four trusted "generals". Each of them had about 20 subordinates. But, he says, there was a reckoning. "I got done for cannabis smuggling in 1989," he recalls. "I had 200 kilos, £3.5m-worth of cannabis. The judge wanted to give me 12 to 14 years, and that shook me. In the end, I got 10 and did eight, most of them in Long Lartin maximum security prison in Worcestershire. I was sent there to reflect the seriousnes of the offence." In jail, with his son growing up fatherless and his assets seized, he began to look for another life. He got involved in Stressbusters, a self-help counselling initiative for prisoners, and created his own social change vehicle, X-Con 2 Icon. He was, he says, influenced by Nelson Mandela, who, on his release from jail, was asked how an ex-convict could expect to run a country. Mandela replied: "Have you never heard of the Christian teaching, from villain to saint?" After McKoy was freed, a friend noted that many of the social activities he undertook in jail would serve him and the community well on the outside. The friend introduced him to Gary Bowman, then project manager for City Challenge in Newtown, Birmingham. He sponsored McKoy to set up a music and creative arts studio. "He deserves the credit," says McKoy. "He took a chance on me." With finance from the social regeneration budget and the European Social Fund, McKoy's project, Akasha, now works with schools, colleges and drama projects. It runs a Caribbean cookery course with Walsall College and a hospitality training project. McKoy is also involved in a recording studio used by aspiring local musicians. X-Con 2 Icon co-promotes music events and a line of casual clothing. Paul Capo, 21, is an aspiring rapper and he says McKoy has credibility because of his experiences. "People listen because things are real coming from Leroy. It is not what he was taught by a tutor. He has been there. When he talks about prison, it has a big effect. He helped me grow up." Keniel Dacosta, 19, says the lure of gangs is ever present. "Leroy tells us it would be stupid to get involved," he says. "When it comes to the crunch, you can't control what someone thinks, but he shares his experiences. The rest is up to us." Claire Jackson, 16, is being trained as a DJ. She says: "He shows us how to handle ourselves in a lot of situations. He's a good listener and nothing fazes him; he's been there and done it." Ian Joseph, an independent researcher whose company, Action Research Consultants, has analysed strategies for dealing with urban youths, says that those considered "hard to reach" benefit most from role models such as McKoy. But there are pitfalls. "With some people, there is always the worry that they may over-glamorise what they did, that the upside outweighs the down," Joseph says. "There is also the risk that, without the right support, they may go back to their former lives. They face pressures one should always be aware of." He says the biggest mistake is to place people into positions they are not comfortable with. "Some may want to wear suits and attend meetings and write formal reports, but others won't," Joseph says. "They have a skill and lessons to pass on, but their approach to life is different. That's why they are able to do what they do." The stark power of street credBobby Cummines is an adviser to the Home Office on the rehabilitation of offenders. He is a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. In days past, he was also a hitman and a bank robber. As chief executive of Unlock, the national association of ex-offenders, Cummines says "street smarts" and workers with past experience of the criminal justice system are an antidote to the rash of celebrity criminals who make a life of crime seem glamorous. His organisation has access to ex-offenders available for outreach work. Though an adviser to government, Cummines refuses to take official funding. "It would destroy our credibility," he says. "One of the first things people ask is: 'Who is paying for you then?'" Cummines says that suitable people will not have committed any offences for at least five years. They must not moralise - they merely set out the stark realities. "We say that if you take or sell drugs, this is what will happen to you," he says. They even break down the income involved in some crimes, to show young people that many are not as lucrative as they might appear. "I can teach people to get that information across," he says, "but it helps if you have lived it." Ex-offenders have also been deployed by projects such as Not Another Drop, in Brent, north London, and the Haringey Peace Alliance, both of which target gun crime and its aftermath. Gary Bowman, director of the Sandwell Partnership in the West Midlands, says the system often misses out on harnessing "street" talent because it is risk averse. "Many people who have been through these experiences and have learned the hard way come out with a passion to do something better for the next generation," he says. "They can be a source of great inspiration." For some ex-offenders who transform their lives, there is the prospect of high recognition. Next month at Downing Street, Tony Miller, 39, a former drug dealer who now works as a church minister and community worker in south London, will meet Tony Blair at a reception for people judged to have made a contribution to their communities. Mark Leech, editor of the Prisons Handbook, says many ex-offenders are suitable and willing to engage in outreach work, but face frustrations. "For a short time after people have come out, if they go straight, they often have a desire to help other people," he says. "The problem is that, by the time the authorities take them seriously, it is five or six years down the road - by which time they may have gone off to do something else or have drifted back to crime." ·  Additional reporting by Hugh Muir