Football and music fans are being warned not to fall prey to an increasingly common and highly profitable crime – the sale of counterfeit or non-existent tickets.Fans of One Direction, Take That and Lady Gaga are among the victims who have paid thousands of pounds for tickets for sold-out shows only to discover the tickets were forgeries or did not exist. With the approaching bank holiday marking the start of the high season for festivals and other outdoor entertainment, the Local Government Association is warning people to beware seductive notices of last-minute availability for sold-out events. Simon Blackburn, the leader of Blackpool council and chair of the LGA safer and stronger communities board, said: “If the price seems too good to be true, it’s probably a scam.”The sale of fraudulent tickets is a boom industry, according to the LGA, which says many victims are targeted through social media. Its figures suggest rates of the crime have grown by 55% since 2014 but this is almost certainly the tip of the iceberg, since it is believed to be massively under-reported. The profits for the crooks are conservatively valued at more than £5m. The average loss for the unfortunate punters who fall for such scams is £444 – though some fraudsters reel in their victims by offering tickets for less than the claimed face value. Tickets for some of the biggest names in pop music, including Ed Sheeran, One Direction, Take That, Michael Buble and Lady Gaga, were among those offered by fraudsters last year. One woman thought she was paying £825 for VIP tickets for Take That, but was actually one of many victims of a Dudley man now awaiting sentence. Wolverhampton crown court heard that Matthew Thompson was back online selling tickets within weeks of a suspended prison sentence on similar charges in 2013, and since then had harvested more than £4,500 selling non-existent tickets.A Liverpool fan paid £700 for tickets and met the seller in person, only to find that a hologram on them peeled off. He arranged a second meeting with the seller, who claimed he had been conned himself and promised to repay the fan, but not a penny has been returned. The fan, who asked not to be named, told the Liverpool Echo: “He was a genuine Scouser and it’s made me lose a bit of faith in people.”Hundreds of would-be concert goers complained to Action Fraud, the fraud and cyber-crime reporting site, last year over an agency called Circle Tickets, when tickets they had bought for shows including Ed Sheeran and Taylor Swift failed to materialise. The Circle Tickets site has since shut down.Mike Andrews, lead coordinator of the trading standards officers’ e-crime team, urged victims to report cases to Action Fraud. “As summer music festival lineups are announced and the squads for Euro 2016 are being confirmed, we expect criminals to exploit fans’ excitement by flogging fake tickets on forums, sham websites and social media,” he said. “Criminals selling fake tickets online are becoming more and more prevalent. To avoid disappointment we urge fans to be on guard when purchasing sports and music tickets. Only those fans with official tickets will be guaranteed admission to concerts, festivals and sports events this summer. Tickets not bought through official channels could be liable for cancellation.”Some fans make life easier for the crooks by sharing triumphant images of their success in obtaining trophy tickets, which can then be scanned and copied. 