A Vietnamese court yesterday imprisoned the former rock star Gary Glitter for three years for sexually abusing two girls aged 10 and 11 in acts the judge described as "sick" and "abnormal".The court in the southern resort town of Vung Tau also ordered Glitter, 61, real name Paul Gadd, to pay each victim 5m dong (£190) and court costs. It ordered the destruction of his laptop's hard drive on which police found 2,231 pornographic images of children and 31 paedophile films. Under Vietnamese law Gadd, who served two months in jail in Britain in 1999 for paedophile offences, has 15 days to appeal. He is eligible for parole after a third of his sentence, which was backdated to his arrest on November 19.Gadd, wearing the same black outfit and white patent shoes as at his day-long trial on Thursday, listened to the 35-minute verdict without understanding more than a few words. When the sentence had been translated for him he said: "I'm innocent, I'm very disappointed in this judgment," as he was marched out of the court by eight police officers. Gadd claimed the trial had been a "conspiracy by you know who, one or two of the newspapers". His relationships with Vietnamese children in Vung Tau was exposed initially by the British tabloids. Judge Hoang Thanh Tung explained Gadd's crimes in graphic detail to a court packed with scores of journalists and about 150 locals. As the trial had been held in private to protect the children's identities, none of the facts had been made public.He described how in June 2005 Glitter twice molested "D", then aged 10, in the shower and bedroom of his seafront villa after performing sexual acts with the girl's 24-year-old aunt, Tran Thi Kim Oanh.D received less than £4 on each occasion for her services. Three months later, the judge said, Gadd met "Ng" - who had run away from home - through another of his prostitute friends, Hoang Thi Bong, 18. The singer took the two to a hotel.In the indictment, a copy of which the Guardian obtained yesterday, prosecutors said Ng alleged Glitter raped her on both occasions but that Ms Bong denied this and the claim was not supported by any medical evidence. The document also said: "Glitter has stated the girls were there for English tutoring, and wanted to be in bed together with Paul Francis Glitter because they were afraid of ghost[s]."Chris Beddoe, director of Ecpat UK, an organisation that seeks to combat child sex tourism, welcomed the verdict but was disappointed the sentence was not longer.