The furore over the Learco Chindamo case took on an overtly political dimension yesterday as the government vowed to fight the decision not to deport the killer of Philip Lawrence, and the Conservatives used the opportunity for an attack on the Human Rights Act.The headteacher's widow, Frances Lawrence, expressed in harrowing terms her dismay that a Human Rights Act with "something rotten at the core" had, as she believed, allowed the man who took her husband's life to "pick and choose" how he wanted to live his.The Conservative leader, David Cameron, called for the act to be abolished in favour of a British bill of rights setting out rights and responsibilities after also blaming human rights law for the ruling in the 26-year-old's favour by the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal.However, its ruling, a copy of which was obtained by the Guardian, revealed the decision was based primarily on the provisions of the European Union 2004 citizenship directive, while the Human Rights Act and the European Convention of Human Rights provided only secondary grounds for the success of Chindamo's challenge against the government's attempt to deport him to Italy, where he was born and lived until the age of six.The justice secretary, Jack Straw, said it appeared the issue arose from European Union law, but against a background of strident media coverage, he vowed the government would vigorously appeal against the decision.Mr Cameron persisted in his attack on the human rights law. He said: "The fact that the Human Rights Act means he cannot be deported flies in the face of common sense. It is a shining example of what is going wrong in our country. He is someone who has been found guilty of murder and should be deported back to his country...what about the rights of Mrs Lawrence or the victim?"Mr Straw said he would be offering to meet Mrs Lawrence to assure her of the government's backing. "I also want more widely to talk to her about this problem...of gang violence and violence in society," he said.Mrs Lawrence explained the difficulty she faced in reconciling her strong belief in the act with the hurt she now felt it was causing her family.Speaking outside her home in Ealing, west London, she said: "Chindamo went beyond the law and the Human Rights Act, taking away the most fundamental right of all, my husband's right to life. But then he was allowed to pick and choose from it to help him continue his life the way he wants it."I am passionate about the Human Rights Act, but over the last year I have felt more and more there was something rotten at the core."She admitted the news Chindamo would stay in the country had hit her harder than she had imagined. "I didn't anticipate that I would feel so utterly devastated as I felt," she said.She continued: "In Article 2 of the Human Rights Act my husband had the right to life. Chindamo destroyed that right yet he has used the legal process to enable him to live as described in Article 8. The act works in his best interest. It is ill-equipped to work in my family or for people in my situation. That seems to me a major conundrum."Mrs Lawrence also said she was "incensed" by Chindamo's lawyer. "I don't want his sympathy, which I find hypocritical, or his condescension and his ridiculous notion that it's a big world and I'm unlikely to know Chindamo if I bump into him. This misses the point spectacularly." Although she had probably forgiven Chindamo, her faith had been "sorely tested", she said."It has never given me any pleasure to see a young man locked away from society and I have never done anything other than wish him well and I hope that he understands the wrong of what he did and I hope that he makes something of his life and forms stable, loving relationships."She added: "We have always been given the impression that he would be deported. That was part of the whole justice system for me."FAQ The rulingWhy did the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal rule that Chindamo could stay in Britain?The three immigration judges said that the provisions of the European Union 2004 citizenship directive are "compelling".What does the directive say?He would have to represent a "genuine present and sufficiently serious threat" to justify deportation. The tribunal said he was low risk.But many other foreign prisoners are deported, why not Chindamo? The EU citizenship directive says that a citizen of one EU state who is permanently resident in another for more than 10 years can't be deported unless there are "imperative grounds of public security."So the Human Rights Act and the European convention on human rights has nothing to do with the case?Chindamo's right to a family life was an issue, but the judges made clear that EU law provided a higher protection against deportation.