Police investigating the murder of clerical worker Melanie Hall who disappeared 20 years ago have recovered DNA evidence from where her remains were found.Hall, who worked at the Royal United hospital in Bath, Somerset, vanished after a night out at Cadillacs nightclub in the city on 9 June 1996. She was last seen at 1.10am sitting on a stool near the dance floor at the nightclub, which has since been renamed ClubXL. A workman found her remains in vegetation next to the junction 14 northbound slipway of the M5 in Thornbury on 5 October 2009. The detective leading the inquiry into Hall’s murder, who will make a new appeal for information on BBC1’s Crimewatch Roadshow, confirmed officers have DNA evidence. It was discovered at the spot where her remains were found. Crimestoppers is also reinstating a reward of up to £10,000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the person or people responsible for the murder. DS Andy Bevan, of Avon and Somerset police, said he believed the DNA evidence would help the investigation significantly. “Melanie’s parents and sister have for the past 20 years been caught up in a living nightmare and my heart goes out to them,” Bevan said. “The discovery of Melanie’s remains in 2009 gave them some answers, but it’s the unanswered questions that continue to haunt them. “We’re doing everything we can to find these answers for them - most importantly, who killed Melanie and why.”Bevan said a police forensics team was using new techniques to develop a DNA profile.“We don’t have a prime suspect and we don’t have any conclusive evidence to suggest Melanie’s death is linked to any other murders or sexual offences committed in our force area, or elsewhere in the country.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Police forensic officers at the site where Melanie Hall’s remains were found by the side of a sliproad of the M5 motorway in 2009. Photograph: Ben Birchall/PASince the investigation began, officers have received 1,700 calls from the public about the case and completed 5,700 tasks or investigative actions. A total of 1,600 statements have been taken, while there have been nine arrests. No one has ever been charged. The force is asking for accounts of sightings of Hall after 1.10am on 9 June 1996, including of her leaving the nightclub. Those who were in the nightclub that evening – when England drew 1-1 with Switzerland in the opening game of the football Euro 96 championships – and have not yet spoken to police are asked to come forward. Police are also appealing for any witnesses to suspicious activity or a vehicle parked on the northbound junction 14 slipway of the M5 from the early hours of 9 June 1996 to contact them. People who are concerned about a change in behaviour of friends or relatives, or anyone showing a particular interest in Hall’s death, are asked to get in touch with police. Hall’s clothing and belongings have never been found and those with information about where they may be should contact Avon and Somerset police. Bevan said the recent conviction of Christopher Hampton, who admitted murdering Bath teenager Melanie Road in 1984, “justifies our belief that crimes can be solved no matter how long ago they were committed”. “Christopher Hampton was described as a normal family man. The killer of Melanie Hall could easily be someone who has moved on with their lives,” Bevan said. “They may have a family and be someone who is respected in their career or local community. What they do have is a very dark and terrible secret, which they must fear will one day be revealed.”The Operation Denmark incident room can be contacted on 0117 952 9788, while Crimestoppers can be contacted anonymously on 0800 555 111.