Sir Paul Condon, the Metropolitan police commissioner, yesterday accepted that aspects of the investigation into the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence could be perceived as evidence of a subliminal culture of racism in the force.But in the Met's compendious submissions to the public inquiry he denied accusations that the service was institutionally racist "knowingly as a matter of policy" - the narrow definition adopted by Lord Scarman after the Brixton riots.The inquiry also heard sharp criticisms from the counsel for three superintendents in charge of the investigation who claimed that Stephen's parents, Neville and Doreen, and their lawyer, Imran Khan, should take some responsibility for the breakdown of family liaison because of their mistrust and hostility towards the police. "Mrs Lawrence," said Sonia Woodley QC, "had been anti-police for years." Inquiry sources said yesterday that Ms Woodley's criticisms had been considerably toned down from the language used in her first submission distributed to the parties.Earlier Jeremy Gompertz QC, representing the commissioner, accepted many mistakes, some serious, had been made. "Cumulatively they may amount to systemic breakdown," he said. But the police did "not accept that the number of errors - or indeed their gravity - show that there must have been racism or corruption at work in the investigation team."These charges have been made to the inquiry by Michael Mansfield QC, for the Lawrence family, who has argued that racism permeated the investigation and that officers colluded with criminal families in south London to protect the five suspects.Stephen was stabbed to death by a bus stop in Eltham, south London, by a gang of white youths who have never been convicted.Drawing on 350 pages of at times contradictory submissions, Mr Gompertz opened his remarks with a foreword by Sir Paul who said: "I deeply regret that, in our efforts to pursue justice for Stephen and his family, the Metropolitan Police Service fell short of the standards to which we aspire." On the issue of racism, Mr Gompertz admitted the police team had not received racial awareness training. This led to a failure to treat Stephen's friend, Duwayne Brooks, who was with him on the night, as a victim as well as a witness. Some officers refused to accept that the murder was racially motivated. Others had been "culturally insensitive" and "racially unaware" when dealing with the Lawrence family, while a few used "inappropriate" language.Mr Gompertz said seven officers had used words - "coloured", "negro" and "negroid" - considered offensive by the black community. But the police submission concludes: "Even allowing for some racist inference to be drawn, these represent isolated areas and do not 'permeate' the entire investigation."Ms Woodley, who represented detective superintendents Ian Crampton and Brian Weeden and Detective Chief Superintendent William Isley, defended their conduct of the investigation which, she said, was severely inhibited by a lack of resources. The failure to arrest the five suspects for two weeks was a fine judgment based on the assumption that any forensic evidence would have been disposed of.