"Abbaaaarrrr..........tun!" The order was screeched out over a parade ground on a cold drizzly January morning in 1980. The group turned around neatly and crunched back across the tarmac towards the drill sergeant. That scream still reaches across the years. I can hear it sharply now. I could, just about, snap through the movement. But about turn is also what happens to a soldier when he leaves the army.A soldier is trained, from the moment he walks into barracks on his first day, to cease being an individual and to work for the team. He is the smallest, but the most important, cog in a huge machine. The fighting army is dependent on finding hundreds of these tough, brave, honest and often simple cogs so it can successfully complete the tasks required of it by government. But these virtues don't mix well in life after the army. The moment he departs from the big machine, the former soldier is just a little cog. Alone – with no machine.I remember standing at the edge of a group of raucous, carousing, suntanned guys, smiling as I listened to the quick wit and repartee whipping back and forth. Then a cold realisation swept over me – none of the jokes were coming my way. I wasn't included anymore. I'd injured myself on a UN tour so badly I'd been in hospital almost a year, packaged back to the UK. I was used to being independent from an early age and it shook me very hard. This was the first time I'd seen my section since the day I fell.The army machine also nurtures aggression. It needs to be simmering below the surface at all times. Not a hot-bloodied aggression, but one that is cold and instant. The social life in a regiment allows for a degree of swapping punches, or good natured scrapping. That's how platoon hierarchy is created. It keeps everyone sharp too. While inside the army the punishments for a bit of fighting – unless high profile – would be slight. Outside, however, this behaviour is outlawed.A friend, widely respected by all who knew him in the regiment, lost one marriage due to the overuse of his demonstration of his neck hold on his wife (who was tiny) when peeved with her. He was just used to being with the guys where this level of violence was OK. Another is serving jail for fighting civilians who wanted to test how hard he was in Stafford one Saturday night. Too hard for them, but not for the judge who gave him time for GBH. Another friend, with two tours in Iraq and three tours in Afghanistan, all with the parachute regiment (so they weren't picking flowers), is up in court for a third time for battering civilians while on leave. How can a human be expected to readjust from trying to kill people on a Monday to ignoring some drunken muppets in Coventry on Friday night.Employers are loth to employ ex-soldiers due to a suspicion that they will rock the boat. Soldiers are used to speaking their mind and if things are not being done justly, or they think some task could be done in a simpler, more effective way, they will talk back. But our cog no longer has a machine that either gives him orders or accepts his best intentions to help. He is rejected. And for many, this can be the beginning of a rough future.A mate on probation, having done two of a four-year sentence, explained how he wasn't allowed by his probation officer to do a 20-day security job that he'd sourced himself. It could have helped to offset mounting payments for his hostel, where intransigent probation rules say he must stay. So no job, and his overdraft/debt goes up.One forgets that when you are released from prison, you think, "Great, that's it, I can now get on with my life", well actually no, not quite, the probation service holds you in limbo. Why? To advise and help you adjust to civilian life. But soldiers are doers and they try to push against the system – usually by talking back, which in turn creates more pressure. The slide from frustration to drinking, fights and warnings, and eventually back to prison, is easy to visualise. Of the 10 people in his hostel until recently, five were ex-military.It amazes me how quick government is now to send soldiers into harm's way, with so little prior thought. Politicians have reduced the support structure for soldiers when they leave to almost zero. Even those with post-traumatic stress disorder, or more physical injuries, claim there is little support, and no respect for their service. We are transferring the distaste we feel for politicians' decisions into blame on those who actually do the dirty work. All organisations like the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association, the Royal British Legion and Combat Stress can do is advise and refer, they have so few funds. How fortunate I was. Being in a wheelchair, in hospital for 12 months, saved me. The leaving pangs and nostalgia weren't strong enough to mess with my head. I felt I had seen the underbelly of the army too, and perhaps recognised that we weren't a perfect match.