The killing of a 10-year-old boy in south London should be a wake-up call to British society, the home secretary said today.The murder of Damilola Taylor, who was stabbed to death in Peckham, south-east London, should alert the country to the urgent need for a new culture of responsibility to turn back the tide of thuggery, bullying and violence, Jack Straw said.Police are hunting for three boys seen near Damilola as he bled to death. He was stabbed as he walked home from school, where he had allegedly been bullied. Detectives are carrying out forensic tests on a broken bottle believed to have been a possible murder weapon. In the House of Commons this afternoon the prime minister, Tony Blair, told MPs that the whole country was "shocked and outraged" at Damilola's "appalling and brutal murder". "We must do everything we can to bring his killers to justice," he said.Earlier Mr Straw told an Institute for Public Policy Research conference in London that clamping down on street violence will be a key task of the next Labour government. His speech followed the publication of statistics which show that while property crime has declined since 1997, violent offences have soared. The home secretary called for a new sense of responsibility in British society to counter the so-called "lad" culture of excessive drinking, irresponsibility and violence. Mr Straw was backed by the education secretary, David Blunkett. He criticised passersby who failed to come to the aid of Damilola as he bled to death after being stabbed by older youths. "We have got to create a society where people do not run away from anything, but face up to it and are prepared to be engaged and involved," Mr Blunkett said.Offering his condolences to Damilola's family, Mr Straw added: "This tragedy is one that must teach and affect us all and one from which we have to draw very important lessons." Mr Blunkett also had critical words for the TV quiz show Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?, which he said undermined social responsibility by fostering a culture in which material wealth and consumption were all-important. Outlining government plans for new measures to tackle disorder on the streets, Mr Straw restated the government's commitment to fixed penalty notices for anti-social behaviour, which were widely derided when the prime minister, Tony Blair, first proposed that drunken louts could be marched to cash dispensing machines for instant fines. Mr Straw said: "Over the last three years we have shown that we can start to win the war against crime - especially burglary and vehicle crime, which we have specifically been targetting. The next three years, we have to turn the tide against violent crime as well. "I believe that we can do it. We will give the police the resources and tools that they need. But at the end of the day, it is each individual's sense of social responsibility rather than external sanctions that ultimately will control people's behaviour one towards another." Mr Straw promised new laws to regulate nightclub bouncers. He also new powers to shut down rowdy pubs and clubs; to stop on-street drinking; more investment in town centre surveillance cameras. Related special report Policing crime Related stories 30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a school boy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful links Metropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate