Duwayne Brooks has been waiting since 1993 for this moment. Now, 13 years after he and his best friend Stephen Lawrence were the victims of a racist attack in which Stephen was murdered, 13 years after the Metropolitan police treated Duwayne more as a suspect than as a victim of the attack, the Met has apologised to him."I have to admit it feels good," he says. It's seven years since we first met and he has changed so much in that time. Not physically - he is still handsome, youthful, swaggering, still wearing the same mini-goatee and shaved head, and those beautifully ironed white shirts. It's his demeanour that has changed.When I first met him, in 1999, he was surly and suspicious and, unsurprisingly, a little paranoid. He challenged me on everything - why did I have no shorthand, why did I not know more about his story, why was I doing a proper journalist out of a job, why did I smoke?Duwayne was going through hell at the time. The murder of Stephen was only the start of his misfortunes. Stephen's killers were never brought to justice, whether through cock-up (the police were slow and incompetent) or conspiracy (many people believed the police didn't want to investigate thoroughly because Met officers were friendly with Clifford Norris, a well-known criminal and the father of suspect David Norris). The Crown Prosecution Service decided there was insufficient evidence to bring the suspects to trial.Duwayne had suffered the most terrible post-traumatic stress, and was terrified of leaving the house and of being alone. At home, he barricaded himself in his flat, stacking hi-fi equipment and heavy furniture behind the door, too distressed to sleep. On the streets, he could not relax - he looked everybody up and down, making mental notes just in case they attacked and he had to give evidence against them.Three years after the murder, Stephen's parents decided to bring a private prosecution. There were no significant witnesses to the killing except for Duwayne, and he could give only "glimpsed-eyewitness" evidence - the attack had been over in 17 seconds and what he'd seen of it had been from a distance. Not surprisingly, his evidence was inconsistent. The judge threw out the case. Duwayne felt he was blamed by the Lawrence family and their lawyers, Imran Khan and Michael Mansfield, for "losing the case", and by the Lawrences for not being the kind of friend they wanted Stephen to have. Worst of all, he felt scapegoated by the Metropolitan police, and was convinced they were pursuing a vendetta against him because he was still alive to tell the story of what had happened that night in Eltham.In February 1999, however, Duwayne felt vindicated. The public inquiry into the death of Stephen Lawrence concluded that the police were institutionally racist. Lord Macpherson, who chaired the inquiry, said that a white man would not have been treated in the way Duwayne had been. Duwayne waited for his apology from the police. But it didn't come. He announced that he was going to sue the Met. That was when things went from bad to worse. Over the next year, he was arrested again and again - for stealing his own car on one occasion; on another, for possession of a dangerous weapon, which turned out to be a tool he used in his job as a photocopier engineer. Each charge was either dropped or thrown out of court. Duwayne felt that the Met wanted to bag him for something, anything, to show they had been right in the first place to treat him as a suspect.At the time of the attack, Duwayne had been a bright, confident lad with the world ahead of him, and here he was, now 25 years old, defined and damned by the murder of his best friend. He left a big impression on me. Although he was hard work, he seemed moral and brave.Then came another hammer blow: in September 1999 he was charged with attempted rape. After everything that had happened to him, I didn't believe a word of it. When we spoke soon after he had been charged, he was devastated but calm, and unsurprised. "I was giving a talk in Leeds about Macpherson recently and everything that had happened to me since Steve's death, and I said to the audience I was sure they were going to read that I'd been charged with some terrible offence," he said. "I told them I didn't know what it would be, but I knew there was something around the corner. I also told them not to believe it, to have faith in me. So I suppose I've been waiting for all this."He was charged after midnight, but the police still found the time to leak the story to the Sun. The attempted rape charge was quietly reduced to indecent assault, and seven months later at the Old Bailey it was thrown out before the defence even had its say. The judge expressed disgust that the case had ever come to court. That night, the friend whose house Duwayne had been staying at had his car firebombed.The following week, in April 2000, an interview with Duwayne in which he recounted his experiences, including his dramatic acquittal at the Old Bailey, was published in this magazine - the headline was Free At Last. As I should have anticipated where Duwayne was concerned, the headline was too optimistic. The arrests on spurious charges stopped then, but his case against the police would not be settled for another six years, until last week, in fact.How has he changed in the years since Stephen was killed? He smiles and says he doesn't know where to start. First of all, he was 18 then, just a boy. "I was starting off in life. I thought I was streetwise, but I was an innocent." In one way, he says, he has become more Thatcherite - if he can survive, he thinks anybody can, so he has no time for whingers. In another way, he has become more leftwing - more sensitive to injustice, more aware of how easy it is for the "system" to bury the individual.He is still angry about all that has happened, and every day he sees things that serve as reminders. "Things that frustrate me, things that hurt me." Such as? "The way officers talk to people in the street, their attitude is all wrong." Despite their lip service to anti-racism, he is yet to be convinced that the police have changed. When he was a teenager, the police picked on African-Caribbean boys; now, he says, they are more likely to home in on Muslim lads. Same prejudice, different target.He is also angered by influential black people who turn their backs on the community in which they grew up. "There are so many black people in prominent jobs," he says, "civic leaders, who automatically believe the police when they no longer have inner-city homes, so they don't know what happens in the city."For all that, Duwayne seems to have mellowed. "Yeah, I've calmed down. Before I was very ... the normal word is aggressive, but it was more truth-seeking. Now I'm more diplomatic when situations arise." Does that mean he has become part of the establishment? He laughs and says, "I'm even more rebellious than in the past, but I'm more controlled in my rebellion."He shows me the apology from the police. The letter is short and, for Duwayne, very sweet:Dear Mr BrooksOn behalf of the Commissioner I would like to apologise for the manner in which you were dealt with by police, following the murder of your friend, Stephen Lawrence, and the attack on you. You were let down. The Macpherson Inquiry identified police shortcomings and I wish to reassure you that important lessons about the proper treatment of victims and witnesses have been learnt.It is also a personal regret of the Commissioner and I that those who attacked Stephen and you have not yet been successfully prosecuted.Yours sincerelyAssistant Commissioner GodwinDuwayne doesn't attempt to hide his pleasure. His case has been settled out of court, at last, but he says he doesn't feel triumphant. "This should have been settled in 1999 after the public inquiry. The facts in 2006 are the same facts that were known in 1999." The Met is also to pay him £100,000.He feels proud of what he has achieved. "Knowledge is power, and I've gained a lot of power in these 13 years because I've gained a lot of knowledge about how things work in the background. You can't always see the mechanics of what's going on in front of you."What has he learned about himself? "How stubborn I am. Through all my lows, I never gave up hope of succeeding. I feel great because I know lots of people lost faith in what I was doing. They thought I was asking for too much. But the fact is that I was treated without the basic and common respect due to every human being, and now the police have had to apologise."Duwayne is most proud of the fact that he and his team of lawyers, headed by Jane Deighton, helped change the law. "Before the recommendation of my team at the Macpherson inquiry, the police commissioner was not responsible for the racist behaviour of his own officers. Now he is."The murder of Stephen Lawrence became one of the defining incidents of 90s Britain. A teenage boy was killed simply because he was black. And the police had refused to believe the evidence of the chief witness. There were plenty of similar cases, but this was the one the media decided to pick up and run with. One of the most curious elements of the story was that, while Stephen's parents became hugely respected, national heroes almost, Duwayne, in some quarters, was demonised.He decided to write a book about his life, and I agreed to help him. He felt that he had been silenced for so long and now he had the opportunity to put the record straight. He talked into tapes, which I transcribed and edited. He found the experience both traumatic (recounting the night, for example) and cathartic. He said he wanted to humanise Stephen - he felt his friend had been reduced to an abstract, a faceless martyr, rather than the "Steve" he had known and loved, and knocked around with. He also wanted to show how Stephen's murder was not to be seen in isolation - if you wanted a full picture of racism in Britain, you couldn't take the single vile act on its own, you had to consider everything that had happened afterwards.Time-Warner published the book, Steve And Me, and Duwayne received great support - often from strangers, sometimes from people who had known him and lost touch. He did "roadshows", which often provoked an emotional reaction. The most moving response to the book came from Quarry Mount primary school in Leeds. All the pupils in year six wrote to Duwayne; the class performed a play about his life and sent him a beautiful painted portrait of him on his birthday. This is typical of the letters he received from them: "Dear Duwayne, We are going to write an educational book about our drama work on you and Stephen because we feel so strong about it. The book will go out to other schools in Leeds to attack racism. Hope everything goes well. Write back. Luv Jade and Lizzy xxx"It was too good to last. The publishers were sued over the book by a friend of Stephen's who claimed that he, rather than Duwayne, was Stephen's best friend. And then by Doreen Lawrence, who claimed she had been portrayed as an uncaring mother. Time-Warner said they would fight all the way, but after almost a year's negotiation agreed to withdraw the book. Doreen Lawrence and Duwayne were each given £15,000 by the publishers to give to charity, she for damages, he as a goodwill payment.I worried that the libel case might knock the stuffing out of Duwayne. But it didn't. If anything, it had the reverse effect. He said he'd had so many setbacks, this was small beer. Since then he has turned 30, moved to a new job, studied for computer qualifications and campaigned for victims of crime.He is now planning to republish Steve And Me by himself, and is looking forward to a "post-Lawrence" life. He says he has already lost so many years ("When everybody was going raving and partying and discoing, doing the things that people in their teens and 20s do, I was at home by myself"), he is keen to get on with the future. There have been some benefits from the past 13 years. "The way others have treated me has made me more understanding, more caring, and I listen more. As a teenager, I don't think I listened enough because I was over-spirited."Whereas years ago Duwayne would have expected to have been stopped and searched by police officers, now he does not pre-judge. "I just try to see them as someone who could be a wife or a husband and is doing a job to make a living, and hopefully they are honest and abide by their code of conduct."Not only has he changed, he believes society has changed. There is less racism because the workplace in big cities is so multicultural and there has been so much intermarriage. At the same time, he says, there is no cause for complacency - only last year Anthony Walker was killed, in Merseyside, purely because of his colour.As for himself, Duwayne is optimistic in a way he has not been since he was a boy. I ask what his plans are. "To succeed," he says. "To be a success at whatever I do. And to be there for people. My fight for justice is over, but for lots of other victims of crime, be it criminal or police activity, I'm always going to be there for help. To offer advice and support and love and care." He pauses. "You know, sometimes people just need a shoulder."