You no longer need a talent for crime to be a successful criminal, it seems. A copy of the Radio Times and a few hours in front of the telly will do instead. Steve Finnegan, the acting chief constable of Lancashire, has claimed that programmes like The Bill and Merseybeat are giving away "tricks of the trade", providing recidivists with a plethora of handy tips for avoiding detection. A quick scan of the schedules provides ample evidence for the prosecution:The Bill A twice-weekly primer for the criminally minded of south London. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, the underworld can learn that the average police station fields just one Soco (Scene of Crime Officer), whose minimal training equips him or her only to dust the lower portions of door frames for fingerprints. This is why all offences south of the Thames are committed by people either wearing gloves or entering through windows. Career criminals do both.The Shield  A key text for those who wish to recognise at 20 paces the kind of poh-leece who shoot first and ask questions later. If you are set on a life of crime, it is best not to take up residence in a district patrolled by short, bald, bull-necked men for whom "presumption of innocence" is just college talk for "hasn't been caught yet". Especially not those who feel little compunction about tossing anyone in the vicinity of a drug bust into a van. And then bounce suspects' heads off the walls until a false confession and life imprisonment in a cell without Vic Mackey begins to look decidedly attractive.Midsomer Murders A vital resource for anyone who wishes to kill someone with an antique pitchfork. It teaches them not to do it in an English village where the ceaseless exchange of secrets and background information between aged neighbours will inevitably lead to detectives discovering that the killer was in fact the lover of the victim's father's doctor's half-brother's third cousin who is exacting revenge on the family as part of a blood feud whose origins involve a suspicious house fire, some pawned antimacassars, an illegitimate trug and an antique pitchfork.CSI: Crime Scene Investigation Over the course of 8,364 series, CSI has impressed upon potential felons the incredible revelatory powers of the slightest piece of trace evidence. A micron of bullet casing is the equivalent of a hand-delivered letter to the FBI saying: "I did it." If you wear shoes that leave an atom of carpet pile from the basement in which you held your 10th birthday party, you might as well administer the lethal injection yourself. In fact, CSI may escape Finnigan's criticisms. With its ceaseless glorification of an endless array of apparently infallible investigative techniques, it's less of a how-to manual for those intent on committing the perfect crime than a why-bother. It's actually an oblique form of public service broadcasting.