Although some of Louise Casey's leaked recommendations on crime and punishment are sensible – such as taking ministers as far as possible out of the business of compiling and publishing crime statistics – the obvious question to ask on reading the headlines about high-visibility bibs for those doing unpaid work (or "community payback" as she, along with the House of Commons home affairs committee, wants to rename it) and putting up posters of offenders' mugshots is: "how about bringing back the stocks?" For the main theme of the report, as far as we can tell in advance of its official publication, is that confidence in sentencing can only be restored by including a generous dose of public humiliation.The trouble with this, apart from the obvious dangers, is there is no objective, scientific evidence that it will do anything to prevent crime. The history of criminal justice policy is littered with ideas that appeal to popular sentiment on punishment but make no difference to crime. Boot camps and "short, sharp shocks", for example, sound tough but simply do not work. The bright idea of sending potential young offenders into prisons to be confronted by prisoners who would tell them to keep out of jail was shown by careful research not only to make no difference to offending, but actually to increase it. ASBOs – once New Labour's flagship policy – have proved to be far less effective than hoped and suffer from the problem, which Louise Casey's public humiliation proposals might also suffer from, that they have become a badge of honour for louts. Advertising the identities of gang members who pride themselves on their ability to intimidate might be just what they want.What we need is a permanent, independent commission not just for criminal statistics but to assess the evidence about proposals for criminal justice reform. In fact, we need to go further than that and let such a commission evaluate not only new ideas but also what we do now – much of which, such as short prison sentences, is largely ineffective.The government might say, of course, that the whole point of Louise Casey's report is to look for ways of increasing public confidence in sentencing, not to put effective sentences into place. The government, ministers might say, is already convinced of the value of community sentences. Recently, for example, David Hanson, minister of state at the Justice Ministry, in a little noticed speech, called for the far more extensive use of community penalties instead of imprisonment. But all along ministers have said (and we in opposition have been occasionally guilty of this as well) that community sentences need to be "tough". Louise Casey's report is part of an attempt to convert public opinion to community sentences by persuading them that they are "tough".But there is a contradiction at the heart of this strategy, a contradiction that comes out with the government's simultaneous devotion to building "titan" prisons. What if "toughness" doesn't prevent crime? What if it makes crime worse? Surely what we should be doing is being effective in targetting crime, whether or not we are being "tough". The obsession with "toughness" has generated, and continues to generate, a stream of proposals the effect of which on crime is either zero, and which are thus a vast waste of public money, or that make matters worse.Effectiveness should be the key. One example is restorative justice – confronting offenders with their victims and the effects of their crime on the victim. We know from properly controlled trials that restorative justice works. That should be enough to implement it. It may or may not be tough (in fact it probably is "tough" in the sense that it causes severe psychological pain to some offenders), but toughness should have no part of the decision-making process. But what about the problem, as many New Labour politicians see it, of public opinion? Isn't the real problem, they say, to sell the right policies to the public, and if that means appeasing the public's appetite for punishment, that is what we have to do? But that misunderstands what has been going on. British public opinion and British policy are far more punitive than in very similar countries where the crime rate is also similar – such as Denmark and the Netherlands. The only plausible reason for that difference is political leadership. New Labour, because of its obsession with the media and with appearance rather than substance, made it a basic political principle always to outbid the Conservatives on toughness on crime. That tactic has itself affected public opinion, and it has created the trap in which Labour now finds itself, that it always has to place toughness above effectiveness. It's a political tactic that has to go.