The cabinet was not consulted about any of the major constitutional changes announced last week, despite meeting only a few hours before the decisions were made public.Michael Meacher, the former Environment Minister, who resigned on Friday, told The Observer he believed the announcements had been 'rushed' and that the Government was becoming 'increasingly presidential'. But Downing Street yesterday sought to draw a line under a week of controversy, saying that the Government had revealed its 'modernising agenda'. Whitehall sources have revealed that none of the normal processes of government was adhered to over the announcement that the Lord Chancellorship was to be abolished after 1,400 years. The issue of the departure of Derry Irvine, one of Tony Blair's oldest friends and mentor, was so sensitive that the Prime Minister would allow it to be discussed only by a small circle of his closest advisers. He never even set up a Cabinet sub-committeeto scrutinise and improve policies before they were made public,as is customary. 'This is a very delicate area,' said one key official closely involved in the process. 'How could you discuss it around the Cabinet table when the person whose job you were discussing was sitting right there?' The full Cabinet met on Thursday morning, but was not told of the changes, which were announced at 5.45pm. Some Whitehall sources say that, even on Thursday morning, the final details had not been settled. Civil servants say that the lack of consultation meant that the move was bound to be mired in confusion. Labour MPs accused the Government of 'botching' the reshuffle.'They are basically the right decisions, but they have been rushed,' Meacher said. 'There does need to be more consultation and discussion about these issues.' The former Minister said he feared that the Government was becoming more presidential and argued that it was time to rediscover Parliament's right to hold the executive to account. 'I am concerned - as many people are - about the increasingly presidential nature of British politics and the influence of big business, which I would say is undue; some would even say corrupt in some cases,' he said. 'Of course the other side of presidential politics means that we have the current subordinated role of an elected Parliament holding the executive to account, which I think is a very, very important issue. Prime ministerial power is still growing and does need to made more accountable.' Meacher said that he fully supported the Government, but that it was time for a real debate on the issues. Yesterday, the Bar Council, which represents barristers, added its voice to the growing controversy about the changes to the constitution. Matthias Kelly, the council's chairman, said the axe ing of the post of Lord Chancellor and the creation of a Supreme Court and Judicial Appointments Commission were welcome in principle, but the sweeping manner of the changes had been 'difficult to digest'. Barristers were concerned, he said, that the commission would be overrun by Labour 'placemen' and that judges would be questioned about their political allegiances, as happens in America, he said. Since the changes were announced as part of the reshuffle last Thursday, the Government has not yet given full details of who would sit on the commisson and how they would be selected. Kelly told the annual meeting of the Bar Council: 'The recently announced changes are a bold and imaginative step. 'But what must come with it is a commitment to getting politics out of our judicial and legal system for good.' kamal.ahmed@observer.co.uk