When barrister Kate Vaughan-Neil walks into court the wig she sports marks nearly 50 years of legal history. It was handed down from her grandfather, Edward Vaughan-Neil, who came to the bar in the early 1960s.The pedigree of her horsehair peruke stretches back much further, to the 18th century, when it was standard headgear for gentlemen. When wigs fell out of favour toward the end of the century only barristers, judges, and bishops retained them. Bishops, perhaps somewhat less conservative than lawyers and judges, gave them up in 1832.Nearly two centuries later the survival of the horsehair wig is under threat. Wigs could disappear from the civil courts or even be consigned to the dressing-up box altogether as the lord chancellor hands over his role as head of the judiciary to a modernising lord chief justice, under far-reaching constitutional reforms which come into force in a fortnight.Lord Phillips, who took over as the top judge in England and Wales last year, wants to do away with wigs for judges and barristers in civil cases.Senior judges believe the headgear contributes to an image of them as out of touch. As long as 14 years ago judges of the commercial court voted to scrap wigs, arguing that they made them appear fusty and outdated.Public opinion is moving their way. In the early 1990s, when the lord chancellor's department first canvassed the public on the issue, a majority favoured the status quo.When the department consulted again in 2002 just 31% favoured wigs for civil judges, although 68% wanted judges in criminal cases to keep their horsehair. Only 34% thought that barristers should continue to wear wigs.Reforms allowing solicitors to appear wigless as advocates in the higher courts have brought the issue to a head. In a letter to Lord Phillips, solicitor advocates claim that the absence of the horsehair sported by their barrister rivals marks them out as second-class mouthpieces in clients' eyes.Either wigs should go or all should wear them, they maintain, particularly since the handful of solicitor QCs are allowed to wear QCs' wigs, which differ slightly from those worn by junior barristers.Does the prospect of extinction threaten craftsmen's livelihood? Will sellers of wigs mourn the passing of the barrister's trademark barnet, with its "frizzed crown, below which are four rows of seven curls, then one row of four curls with one curl vertically between them, and two tails, looped and tied"?Not really, said Nicholas Fuller of Stanley Ley, the legal outfitters in Holborn, central London, which has a "wig studio" making them in Bradford. "Nobody wants to make them. We make a massive loss. They take three and a half weeks to make and cost £459 if you're only buying a wig. The firm does a package of full court gear for new barristers with a cut-price wig."When the lord chancellor's department came to us in 91-92, we said 'get rid of them'. They're very expensive for the pupil or student because it's the wrong end of their career to be charging a lot of money for what they have to have."But they're nowhere near the price they should be. A normal retail price would make them just under £1,000, so you can see how much we're losing."Wig sellers report a thriving export market, with sales to Hong Kong, the Caribbean, Africa and other outposts of the English common law system. Even US lawyers, who don't wear wigs, buy them to display for that touch of old world tradition in their offices and waiting rooms.Wigs are often handed down from generation to generation, creating a demand for cleaning and renovation. "The oldest one I've cleaned was 104 years old and had been through four generations," recalled Mr Fuller.Many judges who preside over criminal trials want to keep wigs, arguing they stop criminals recognising them at supermarket checkouts. A likely move would be to retain them in the criminal courts, for judges if not for barristers, while scrapping them for civil cases.Will Ms Vaughan-Neil, who works in the civil courts, mind if she has to hang up her wig? "I'd have mixed feelings. In a strange way when you're wearing the whole garb, the wig and gown, you very much feel the part and it certainly doesn't detract from your performance. On the other hand I do find my wig slightly uncomfortable, which might have to do with the fact that it wasn't made for me. It gets a bit hot after a day's wear."