As murder mysteries go, the death of Lieutenant Colonel Robert "Riley" Workman could be straight out of an Agatha Christie novel.It is almost a year since a 999 call from a phonebox brought police to the colonel's country cottage to find him dead on the doorstep, killed by a single shotgun blast. Yet neither the caller, who left a curious clue in his message, nor the killer - supposing the two are not identical - has been traced, despite an effort by detectives that has taken them as far afield as the US and Australia. The latest twist in the plot came yesterday when they revealed that the 83-year-old colonel had a secret gay past. During the 1950s and 60s he visited London clubs that were patronised by gay men in the military; now the detectives are appealing for other club regulars to come forward. To the outside world, the second world war veteran had in retirement led an unremarkable married life in the sleepy Hertfordshire village of Furneux Pelham. But for some time detectives have worked on the assumption he was the victim of someone who knew him well and bore him a grudge. Last week a breakthrough came when a prisoner at the high-security Parkhurst jail on the Isle of Wight told detectives of a series of the colonel's clandestine affairs. "We have spent many hours researching Riley's life and have come to get a better understanding of an incredibly private man," said Detective Inspector Colin Sparrow of Hertfordshire police. "We have established that there is every likelihood that Riley was gay. "We look upon this information in the eyes of a time where homosexuality is an acceptable part of our society. However, it was a very different story when Riley was a young man. Not only was homosexuality outlawed, Riley would have certainly had to sacrifice his military career had the army found out." DI Sparrow said the consequent secretive life must have been lonely and difficult. "There would have been colleagues in a similar position. We hope they have the strength and ability to come forward. We are very interested in speaking to anyone who may have known Riley in his secret life." Gay police officers were on standby to field the calls, he said - not ruling out theories that he was murdered by a previous lover or by someone who held a grudge about his sexuality. The murder of Col Workman, whose wife Joanna died in April last year after a long illness, shocked and frightened the villagers of Furneux Pelham. On the evening of January 7 he answered a knock on the door of his cottage, known as Cock House, and was blasted point-blank with a 12-bore loaded with buckshot for killing deer. Just before 5am the next morning a 999 call was made from a telephone box in the nearby village of Braughing. The caller is thought to be a man in his 50s or 60s; significantly, he referred to the colonel's home as Holhock Cottage - a name that had not been used for 24 years. Col Workman's family was stunned by the news of his private life. "I think it's something that has come as a shock," said DI Sparrow, "but we have been very open about it with them. All of this is very sensitive. It was unpleasant this information had to be imparted." The colonel was stationed in Canada, Nigeria, Germany, and Cyprus; he also travelled widely in the US in his 25-year army career, and later as an antique dealer. DI Sparrow added: "Because of this, our inquiries have taken officers to many places, starting in Hertfordshire and Gloucestershire, moving to Guernsey and Malta and further afield to America and Australia, in an attempt to establish a motive."