A teenage burglar will be sentenced today after being found guilty of battering a mother of two to death in her home. Lloyd Edwards, 19, repeatedly punched Laila Rezk in the face and left her blood-soaked body in the living room of her home in Kingston Vale, south-west London, where she was discovered by her daughter and son.Edwards, who had been drinking all day before the attack, admitted manslaughter but denied murdering the 51-year-old during a week-long trial at Kingston crown court. The jury took less than an hour and a half to convict him of murder.The court heard that Rezk was preparing a family dinner on the evening of November 29 last year when Edwards, who was 18 at the time, entered the house. He launched a violent attack which left her with severe brain damage, deep cuts, bruising and fractures. Her injuries suggested she had been punched a number of times and her head smashed against a wall, the jury was told. She was still breathing when her daughter, Dina, then 22, and her son, Tamer, then 20, arrived.Her skirt had been pushed up and she was not wearing any underwear and her top had been moved to expose her breasts. She was taken to hospital, but fell into a coma from which she never recovered.Her husband, Maurice, who was visiting relatives in Egypt at the time of the attack, spent a few hours with his wife before she died, the day after the attack. Richard Whittam, prosecuting, described how the daughter and son arrived at the house, in a suburban street, at around 8.45pm.They noticed that the door was ajar and, as they went into the house, they found blood smeared around the hallway and called out for their mother, he said."Dina saw blood in the downstairs toilet. It was smeared on the walls and floor and her mother's three-band ring lay on the tiled floor. She then saw her mother lying on the floor in the living room. She started screaming hysterically."He said the young woman "could not recognise her mother's face" because of the injuries, which were so severe that paramedics thought a weapon must have been used. The court heard that the injury that killed Rezk was likely to be the "hyper-extension" of the neck as her head was forced back by a blow, causing catastrophic damage to her brain stem.Edwards, of Roehampton, south-west London, told police after his arrest that he had been drinking all day and had decided to commit a burglary to get some money. He told officers he trained as a boxer, but had not thought he had seriously hurt Rezk.He said she saw him as he walked into the house and started screaming, so he hit her. She continued screaming and stumbled towards the downstairs toilet. He hit her again and she fell over just outside the toilet, but she was still trying to get up and still screaming, so he hit her again.Detective chief inspector Phil Adams, who led the investigation, said after the verdict that a thumbprint on a front door key led them to Edwards.A bunch of keys was recovered from the inside lock of Rezk's front door. The key had been bent and a print was recovered from it. It matched that of Edwards, a known burglar.