A former QE2 steward accused of murdering five sex workers said CCTV footage showing a woman approaching a dark car in the red light district was "quite possibly" one of the victims approaching his car.The jury at the trial of Steve Wright heard how 19-year-old Tania Nicol vanished less than a month after he started living at a flat in Ipswich's red light district in October 2006. Giving evidence, Wright said CCTV footage showing a woman approaching a dark car in the red light district late on October 30 was "quite possibly" Nicol approaching his Ford Mondeo. Wright, 49, told jurors at Ipswich crown court that he began to pick up sex workers walking the streets near his home two-and-a-half weeks after he moved to the area.Wright said he would drive them to "secluded areas" on the edge of Ipswich. The women would suggest "a place to go". He said it would be "any secluded spot or on an industrial estate - anywhere that's out of eyesight, I suppose." Wright said his partner, Pam Wright, did not know that he used prostitutes and he did not "feel good" about deceiving her. "If she found out she would probably have left me," he said. "I didn't feel good about myself obviously. It is a situation I got myself in." He said he would pick up prostitutes after dropping off his partner at the call centre where she worked. "Sometimes I would go home first. Sometimes I would just drive around the red light area to see who was about," he told the court after taking to the witness box for the first time in his trial. He said he would normally be wearing tracksuit bottoms, a T-shirt, a fleece and trainers when he picked up the women. Wright, 49, of Ipswich, Suffolk, denies murdering Gemma Adams, 25, Tania Nicol, 19, Anneli Alderton, 24, Paula Clennell, 24, and Annette Nicholls, 29. The naked bodies of the five women, all sex workers in Ipswich, were found at remote locations near the town during a 10-day period in December 2006. The jury was told Wright had been with his partner, whose maiden name is also Wright, since 2000 and had lived in Felixstowe, Suffolk, and Ipswich. He said before they moved to the flat in Ipswich he used the services of prostitutes in massage parlours but not women walking the streets. Wright said his relationship with Pam had been "pretty good" at first. But they became "like two ships passing in the night" after she began working nights at the start of 2006. He said their sex life became "pretty much non-existent". "After about a couple of weeks maybe, I saw a couple of girls on the street," said Wright. He began to "pick up street prostitutes after another two or three days". Earlier, he said he began paying for sex in his mid-20s when he was in the merchant navy. He used prostitutes again when he worked in the pub trade in London and visited massage parlours. The court heard that Wright's DNA was on the police national database following his conviction five years ago of stealing £80 from his employer. The jury had already heard Wright's DNA was linked to all five of his alleged victims. Wright was also asked about his Ford Mondeo car. The jury has already heard that DNA evidence linked it to some of his alleged victims and that he cleaned it regularly. He told the court he was "proud" of his car, which he bought secondhand and he washed it weekly. "I used to look after the outside and inside of it quite vigorously, I suppose." Wright said he would often clean the vehicle early on Saturday mornings before leaving to play golf. He would clean "seats, carpets, doors, any crevices really where dust collects". The court heard Wright was a keen golfer and tried to play every Saturday and Sunday. He said golf was his only hobby and he first picked up a club about 25 years ago. He played regularly for the past four years and had a handicap of 16. The trial continues.