Cold case detectives investigating the murder of a woman 20 years ago are to look at whether the suspected serial killer Christopher Halliwell could be responsible, the Guardian has learned. The partially clothed body of Vera Holland, 47, was found on a tip in Berkshire in November 1996. She had been strangled, dumped among rubbish and her body set on fire. Thames Valley police and Holland’s children made an appeal on Friday for more information about the murder. Officers said they had no prime suspect but confirmed they would speak to colleagues in neighbouring Wiltshire, where Halliwell struck at least twice.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christopher Halliwell. Photograph: Wiltshire police/PAThe taxi driver is serving a full life term for the sexually motivated murders of Sian O’Callaghan and Becky Godden. Wiltshire police have made it clear they believe there are other victims. Holland disappeared after leaving home in Reading on Thursday 14 November 1996 to buy a takeaway from a nearby KFC. The mother of three failed to return home and was reported missing by her husband, Brian.At 5.30am on 16 November the fire service received a call from a member of the public who reported a fire at an illegal fly-tip known as Two Bridges, south of Reading. A pile of rubbish was on fire and after extinguishing it, firefighters discovered the partially clothed body of a woman lying face down. She was identified as Holland and a postmortem examination found she had been strangled. Speaking at a press conference, Holland’s son, Andrew Bennett, read out a statement on behalf of the family. “Twenty years ago someone murdered our mum,” he said. “In doing so they robbed us of the love and care she brought to our family. Our children, her grandchildren, never got to know her properly and Mum never had the opportunity to see her grandchildren grow.“Having your mum murdered is a really awful thing to happen to anyone. What made Mum’s death even more difficult for us was the callous way her body was dumped among rubbish and then set on fire. It robbed her of any dignity. “What adds to our anguish is not knowing who was responsible for this horrific crime and that they have been able to carry on with their life for the last 20 years. We have 20 years of not knowing who did this. There must be some people that have information that could help the police. “We appeal to you to think of how you would feel if it was your mum that had been killed in such a way and ask that you contact the police with any information, no matter how small, as it may help.” The head of Thames Valley police’s major crime review team, Peter Beirne, said he believed Holland may have been abducted before she reached KFC. She is thought to have been wearing a pink coat, green tartan skirt, black jumper and black shoes, none of which have been found. Beirne said: “The public did assist and come forward with information in 1996. However I do feel there are people who have some information who, for whatever reason, have not spoken to police. It might be that allegiances have changed in 20 years or you know something now that you didn’t at the time.” The officer said there was no confirmed motive. Asked about Halliwell, he said he would be talking to Wiltshire police. “I will keep Halliwell in mind,” he said. Halliwell murdered O’Callaghan, 22, in 2012 and Godden, 20, in 2003. He left O’Callaghan’s body at the side of a road in Oxfordshire and buried Godden’s remains in a field in Gloucestershire. Officers do not believe Godden was his first victim or that he did not kill between 2003 and 2012. As well as working as a taxi driver, Halliwell travelled widely as a chauffeur and a groundworker. He was also a keen fisherman who knew the rivers and lakes of Thames Valley well – the site of the tip where Holland’s body was found was close to a popular fishing spot on the river Loddon. Former Det Supt Steve Fulcher, who caught Halliwell, has suggested that he may have killed a Swindon woman called Sallyann John in September 1995. Another notorious murder that Halliwell’s name has been linked to is that of Melanie Hall, who vanished from a nightclub in Bath in 1996. • Anyone with information about Vera Holland’s murder is asked to contact the police on 101 and quote reference 497 (9/11/16) or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.