We already know the world is upside down. The latest dismal evidence is that Labour plans to open its winter assault on David Cameron's Conservatives for being soft on crime; the friends of yobs; hoodie-hugging, wet, limp-wristed, liberal, namby-pamby, bleeding-heart do-gooders. Yes, we are invited to concur in the notion that the real thing that's wrong with, say, David Davis, is that this broken-nosed rightwinger is, er, too much of a softie.Ever since Tony Blair took, with thanks, that Gordon Brown-coined catchphrase, "tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime", attacking yobs and thugs has been right at the top of New Labour's list of priorities. We thought Jack Straw was a bit illiberal as home secretary; indeed he boasted about it. Then came David Blunkett, determined to be really rough. Charles Clarke tried to moderate the language a bit, and came unstuck for that. Now we have John Reid who, despite telling the Labour conference his middle name was "serenity", gives a good impression of personally wanting to headbutt every young offender in the country.The Queen's speech, says Blair, will be dominated by the Home Office - new laws on terrorism, crime, yobbery, immigration, you name it. Brown has decided that extra funds must be spent. Everybody in the cabinet seems to believe that by asking us to understand disaffected youths a little more and condemn them a little less, Cameron has left himself open to a serious kicking.Since 1997 there have been more than 50 major Home Office bills, which is more than all the criminal-justice bills in the whole of the previous century. There have been 1,300 new regulations, hundreds of initiatives and a doubling of the Home Office's central staff. There are more police. Since 2001, when the spending tap was turned back on, the numbers have been rising steadily: England and Wales have a record 143,000 police officers, and the first 6,300 community support officers too. There are more people in prison. Britain has added roughly 20,000 more people to overcrowded jails since New Labour's arrival in power, taking the country's jails to the brimming edge of absolute capacity.You cannot fault the political initiative-itis or, for the past few years, the money either. Yet public hysteria about crime is worse than ever. According to police, reported crime figures, violent crimes and crimes of "violence against the person" (they are recorded separately) are rising remorselessly. The last figures show the use of handguns in crime up 7% on the previous year, to 4,652 offences, and injuries from guns up 16%. What about knife crime? There is a row about the evidence, but reports suggest it's a rising problem again.It sounds terrifying. And the daily fusillade of newspaper stories, and gossip among friends, fills in the gaps that mere numbers leave out - the teenagers stabbed and left bleeding on the way home from a party, the innocent bystanders caught in crossfire, the burglars entering with handguns. But the most important word in the previous paragraph is "hysteria". For I could have talked about overall crime (down), the number of murders (down) including those using guns (down), house burglaries (down), serious wounding (down). I could have homed in on the successes of particularly focused policing in cutting gun crime among young black men, or on the many examples of where the use of Asbos has helped remove a problem rather than the occasions when they fail.Nothing is more damaging in the crime debate than a sense of fatalism or hopelessness. Because bad news sells, papers flam it up and ram it home. I do think we've seen far too much legislation and grand announcements from Labour ministers and too little concentration on the spadework of policing. But the overall story is that more rules and more policing have brought crime down. It isn't hopeless.In fact you could go further. You could say that at a time when around 1,500 people are migrating to Britain every day (some of whom, inevitably, are villains), and when our streets are full of kids carrying valuable MP3 players, mobile phones and other tempting, easy-to-steal loot, and when open borders have made guns far easier to smuggle, and when we have refugees who have grown up in some of the most violent places on the planet, the government has a lot to be proud about in its record on crime.John Reid could tell us more about that in the coming weeks. He could say, well, we are a crowded and diverse and fast-changing place, but nobody should panic about crime. Fear fear itself, he could say. Calm down. These would be good messages, because we could then move on to the next stage of what needs to be done, below the lurid headlines.That would revive the second half of the slogan: "tough on the causes of crime". It would ask whether we are doing enough for the huge number of young people, not university material, who are badly skilled compared with Polish and Czech workers who have come here since 2004. Alan Johnson reportedly wants to introduce 14 specialist diplomas in areas such as engineering, health and social care, hair and beauty, and information. Excellent: that would be as much an anti-crime measure as most of what comes through the Home Office.It would also look at what is really happening in our prisons, the woeful lack of education and retraining, and revive the notion that rehabilitation is central to the fight against crime. All that matters more than talk of new databases, ships being used as prison hulks and the rest of the macho stuff.But we don't hear the good news and we hear worryingly little about rehabilitation, or the importance of education, or new programmes to help young people off drugs. Too much is bleak, harsh and scaring. And what should really worry us is that it's being said mostly because it gives Labour a weapon with which to beat Cameron's resurgent Tories, the "security state" agenda - in short, that it's playing politics. Maybe it's even good, successful politics. I don't care. It is damaging, not to votes or reputations but to real lives everywhere.Plenty of people know what's going on. Graham Allen, the Labour backbencher who has been such an irritant to ministers, was bang on when he said recently that "attacks on Cameron for 'hugging a hoodie' or 'loving a lout' are ... destructive to a sensible debate". Good for him. And shame on Labour if it goes with a tabloid crime agenda for mere party advantage. That would be low and dishonest - and it wouldn't even work.jackie.ashley@theguardian.com