Feuding gangs on Liverpool estates have sparked a “chaotic” eruption of violence, with police warning “feral urchins” are launching indiscriminate attacks, injuring children and the elderly.A spate of shootings across Merseyside this year that have injured members of the public are thought to have been inspired by an argument in prison involving one of the UK’s most wanted criminals.Police bosses said gang members on each side of the dispute have thrown out the rule book, firing indiscriminately in their effort to settle the score and earn back community respect.This week a 73-year-old great-grandmother in Netherley was shot in the leg in an attack believed to be linked to the control of Liverpool’s drug trade. Valerie Bradley, grandmother of Kirk Bradley, is related to one of Liverpool’s most notorious crime families. Kirk, a Liverpool gangster, is serving life in prison for crimes including leaving a hand grenade outside the home of Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish. Bradley, 31, from Huyton, Merseyside, was sentenced to a minimum of 22 years in 2012 for orchestrating a wave of shooting and grenade attacks.Valerie’s son, Trevor Bradley, was also imprisoned in 2011 for his attempt to bring £330,000 of cannabis to the north west of England. Her other grandson, Karl Bradley, was found dead after being shot in the back garden of a house in West Derby, Merseyside, in March 2013.Although the attack on Valerie’s house was targeted, there have been others that have led to innocent victims being caught in the crossfire in the spiralling dispute.Two weeks ago a 70-year-old woman was treated for shock after being forced to dive behind the couch of her Netherton house as a gunman unloaded shotgun pellets from the street outside.On Bonfire night a baby – just 12-months-old – was hurt by damage caused when shots were fired at the back of another home in the city.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kirk Bradley’s dispute with a former partner in crime may be one of the causes of the recent attacks. Photograph: Serious Organised Crime Agency/PAIn September, a four-year-old child was hit by shotgun pellets in a shooting in Millwood Road, in Speke.DCS Paul Richardson, said the incidents showcased the ruthlessness and recklessness with which gang members across Merseyside are now willing to operate.Richardson said he had witnessed the birth of a new breed of unpredictable gangsters who present a greater threat because they do not follow the unwritten codes that sought to spare innocent bystanders from violence. “They do not have the ability to appreciate the consequences of their behaviour and that is frightening,” said Richardson. “They have become so feral that they think the only means of resolving even a petty dispute is to use a firearm.”Richardson said he believed that Kirk was continuing to control the “drugs turf” in Liverpool from his prison cell and this latest spate of violence may have been a result of a dispute with another prisoner. Richardson went on to say that he had noticed a distinct deterioration in the behaviour of the gangsters, who “can’t even behave themselves in court”.“We are now having to try and learn about their mentality. They have no rules.”Kirk Bradley was arrested in Bijlmer, Amsterdam in April 2012 after nine months on the run. Officers from the Serious Organised Crime Agency and police in Merseyside and the Netherlands had tracked the fugitive’s movements which led to his arrest.Bradley and his partner in crime Anthony Downes, 30, had previously been arrested in the UK but were able to escape from a prison van after it was attacked by an armed gang in July 2011 on their way to Liverpool crown court.The pair were on trial with four others accused of running a campaign of armed attacks across Merseyside against underworld rivals. Police caught up with Downes a month prior to Bradley at a holiday park close to the Holland and Belgium border and he is also now serving a minimum of 22 years. Captured fugitive jailed over Merseyside shootings The men presided over a guns-for-hire gang, contracted to execute violent acts for cash. Rivals were kneecapped, kidnapped and family homes blown up with hand grenades. Since being jailed in a high security unit at London’s Belmarsh prison, the relationship between Bradley and Downes has deteriorated. Downes stabbed Bradley with a shank in November 2012, but guards were able to intervene before any serious injury.Meanwhile, Kirk’s grandmother remains in hospital with a broken leg. Police say they are no closer to discovering the identity of her attacker. “They all protect each other and they keep people silent by threatening them,” said Richardson. “We know that they have now started storing their firearms in the homes of vulnerable people. But someone, someday will eventually talk and we will be waiting.”