Two women's jails are to be converted into prisons for men in a last-ditch attempt to counter the overcrowding which threatens to plunge Britain's penal system into its greatest crisis in a decade.As the prison population rose above 75,000 for the first time ever this weekend, the Home Office prepared to ship hundreds of women from Winchester in Hampshire and Edmunds Hill in Suffolk to packed jails in the rest of the country. Reformers accused prison bosses of buying time by decanting women from the two prisons. There are now fewer than 200 spare places in the system and the prison population has risen by more 2,200 in the past year. Home Office officials are desperate to avoid the use of police and court cells, which would prove deeply unpopular with chief constables. Fears are growing that overcrowding could lead to serious unrest from prisoners confined two, and sometimes three, to a cell in some of the older Victorian institutions. According to Home Office figures, there were nearly 1,000 fires in prisons last year, with the possible cause of 674 recorded as 'malicious ignition'. Concerns have also been raised that staff will no longer be able to carry out risk-assessments to ensure that new prisoners are not forced to share cells with violent inmates. The Prison Service has been told to make 800 extra places available and officials are resorting to increasingly desperate measures, including 'fast-track' refurbishment of wings deemed unfit for habitation. Officials believe several hundred places for male prisoners can be made available by moving women to prisons in surrounding counties. But reformers accused the Government of hypocrisy in a week when Prisons Minister Paul Goggins launched a strategy for women prisoners, which recognises that they should be kept as near to their families as possible. The Prison Service has come under fire for shutting down a flagship therapeutic unit at Winchester for women with serious mental health problems, which was opened last year. The women at Winchester will be sent to prisons in Surrey, Gloucestershire and the Midlands, while those at Edmunds Hill will be transferred to Essex and Kent. A Home Office spokeswoman said the move was possible because the female prison population was 'levelling off' compared to the male population. There are now 4,569 female prisoner in England, more than double to number a decade ago, though the figure has been over 4,000 for the past two years. Britain's prison population is predicted to rise to over 90,000 by the end of the decade, but the Government aims to cap it at 80,000 by discouraging short sentences for minor crimes. Ministers know that there will be no more capacity in the system after the present building progamme is complete, with new jails at Ashford in and Peterborough.