In 1956 Sir Patrick, later to be Lord, Devlin declared that the first act of a tyrant in Whitehall would be to make parliament subservient to their will and the second would be to overthrow trial by jury. The jury was, he said, "the lamp that shows that freedom lives".However Magna Carta, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Criminal Court do not include the right to trial by jury because it is not a right. It is a means, an instrument, a mode of securing a right – the right to a fair trial.So why have it at all? In a sense, the system in England and Wales presumes the existence of a jury. For example a judge rules on the admissibility of evidence while the jury is not present. The jury does not hear the inadmissible evidence so it cannot be unduly influenced by it. In Northern Ireland's Diplock courts there is no jury. The judge hears all the evidence and should disregard anything that is inadmissible. A truly remarkable feat of judicial amnesia.It is possible, however, to unpick the jury from our criminal justice system. A non-jury court could be redesigned so that one judge would determine the admissibility of the evidence and another judge would then hear only that evidence.There are other reasons for retaining the jury. The 19th century political commentator Alexis de Tocqueville noted that the jury was the most republican of institutions because it involved the governed in the process of governing. No tyranny could allow the public such a role and this involvement is worthy of respect. Although historically our respect seems misplaced. In 17th century England a jury was threatened with imprisonment if they refused to return a verdict the judge agreed with. Political violence in Ireland, north and south, resulted in jury intimidation by paramilitaries and as Lord Diplock stated, "a frightened juror is a bad juror".So trial by jury has benefits and where possible should be retained; but when it poses a risk to the right to a fair trial it should be set aside.Imagine a jury hearing the case of an individual from an ethnic minority: if members of that jury openly made racist jokes and derogatory comments about the accused during their deliberations then we would correctly rule that the jury should be dismissed because of the risk of a miscarriage of justice.However, a miscarriage of justice also occurs when the guilty go free. This is an abuse of the rights of victims and society and, for Kant at least, it is also an abuse of the guilty party's right to be punished.Terrorist organisations in Ireland threatened the integrity of the jury system: it could no longer be relied upon to deliver a fair trial. Similarly, last Thursday the Court of Appeal decided that after three failed trials there was sufficient evidence of possible jury intimidation to justify trial without a jury.Rather than bemoan the removal of the jury we should focus on the rules of evidence and ensure that the new mode of trial is fair. If the jury cannot provide a fair trial then its replacement must. It would be an abuse of civil liberties – an abuse of freedom – to persist with the jury solely because of a romantic attachment.Sometimes a real civil libertarian must abandon the jury.