Road safety campaigners today condemned proposals to overhaul the sentencing of motorists who kill as insultingly lenient.The charities Brake, Campaign against Drink Driving (CADD) and Support and Care After Road Death and Injury (SCARD) said the sentences proposed did not give justice to bereaved families.Proposed sentencing guidelines published today by the Sentencing Advisory Panel (SAP) suggest a maximum sentence of five years imprisonment for causing death by careless or inconsiderate driving.The guidelines suggest a two-year term for drivers who kill while unlicensed, disqualified or uninsured.Panel members proposed that both offences - introduced in the Road Safety Act 2006 and expected to come into force in the autumn - should carry a minimum sentence of 12 months disqualification.Carole Whittingham, the national secretary of CADD and the founder of SCARD, said the sentences were "disgusting and insulting"."I think it's absolutely appalling to have a maximum sentence of five years for careless driving," she said. "I would have expected 10 years. [The panel] ought to be ashamed of themselves. This is no consolation to any bereaved parent."Ms Whittingham, whose son was killed by a motorist 15 years ago, said the two-year maximum sentenced proposed for ineligible drivers was "an absolute disgrace". "Why have they bothered?" she asked.The two new offences were introduced to close the gap between the existing offences of causing death by dangerous driving and causing death by careless driving while intoxicated. Road safety campaigners said many killer motorists received unduly lenient sentences because their offences fell between the two crimes.Jools Townsend, the Brake head of education, said the charity had welcomed the two new offences because "all too often drivers who have killed have got away with a slap on the wrist". However, she said introducing the offences was only worthwhile if they carried a suitable punishment."We welcome the charge of causing death by careless or inconsiderate driving but the sentences proposed will not change people's behaviour," she said. "The current situation will continue and killer drivers will walk free."We would have liked drivers who kill while unlicensed to be treated in a similar way to those convicted of dangerous driving. They know they have no right to be on the road in the first place. The maximum penalty should be far higher."The SAP report, which is out for public consultation until April, also provides more detailed guidance on sentencing for the two existing offences of dangerous and careless driving while drunk or on drugs. However, it does not propose changes to the maximum or minimum sentences for either offence, which are 14 years imprisonment and two years disqualification, with a compulsory extended retest for those convicted of dangerous driving.The guidelines come in response to public concern over the sentencing of motorists who have killed in several high profile cases.In August 2004, lorry-driver William Ishani was fined £1,000 and banned for a year for causing the death of a family of four, including a nine-month-old baby. Mr Ishani, a 48-year-old father of three from Kingswood Avenue, Swindon, was cleared of four counts of causing death by dangerous driving, but was convicted of careless driving. At Luton crown court, Judge Geoffrey Breen said a fine and ban was the maximum punishment he was allowed to impose. A teenage driver who had never passed his test walked free from court despite having killed 15-year-old cyclist Anthony Wakelin in October 2002. James Boffey, 18, was fined £200 and banned for two years after Wareham magistrates heard he had overtaken a line of cars at speeds of up to 60mph on a 30mph road. He collided with Anthony as he crossed the road on his bike outside his home in Wool, Dorset. Because the 15-year-old had been wearing dark clothing and had no lights on his bike, Mr Boffey could not be charged with causing death by dangerous driving.Instead, he pleaded guilty to careless driving and driving with no licence or insurance.