The head of the Crown Prosecution Service has called for British murder laws to be replaced with an American-style system grading the seriousness of the killing.Ken Macdonald, the director of public prosecutions, believes the change would help prevent killers being acquitted due to the current legislation's inflexibility. "I am strongly in favour of a system that recognises degrees of homicide," he tells the Times today. "There should be degrees of homicide, not just murder or manslaughter, but three or four degrees." Mr Macdonald added, though: "If we are talking about a serious homicide, killing with an intention to kill, that should attract a mandatory life sentence." He told the paper he could remember cases from his time as a defence barrister when defendants were acquitted because of the inflexible nature of the law. Judges have complained that rules force them to treat all murder convictions in the same way, disregarding, for example, the difference between a serial killer and someone helping a terminally-ill loved one to die. At present, a charge can be either murder, a mandatory life sentence, or manslaughter, for which offenders can be jailed for only a few years. Under the US system, prosecutors decide whether those accused of homicide should be charged with first-degree or second-degree murder. Most states push for first-degree murder if the homicide is premeditated and if accompanied by rape, robbery, or torture, or involved the killing of a police officer. Plans to review murder laws in England and Wales were announced last October by the then home secretary, but have yet to be developed further. A report by the independent Law Commission said last August that the law was "a mess",and a serious revamp was required. A Home Office spokeswoman said last night: "We are still committed to the murder review ... Whatever happens there will be no compromise on a mandatory life sentence for murder, and the murder principle as set out in the Criminal Justice Act 2003 will continue to stand."