Damilola Taylor collapsed on the concrete stairs in between the first and second floors of the bleak council block, less than five minutes walk from home. Lying in the cold and dark, the 10-year-old had no energy to go on.He may not have understood why he was being bullied at school, or why some other children taunted him about being "gay" - the word meant nothing to him. Living on one of the toughest council estates in south London, he may not have appreciated why his family had moved from Nigeria to give him "a better life". But Damilola probably knew his life was slipping away. He knew the sight of blood. And blood was pouring from a wound to his left leg, drenching his school trousers, maroon pullover and trainers. It was trickling down the stairwell to the groundfloor. He was alone in the urine-stained stairwell when he died. Six passersby tried to stem the blood with their fingers and thumbs. Minutes later, a team of paramedics began a futile effort to revive him. Detectives piecing together what happened to Damilola as he walked home from Oliver Goldsmith primary school in Southwark on Monday at 4.45pm had one clue. A trail of blood which led them from the stairwell to a spot 100 yards away in Blakes Road. This is where they assume Damilola was attacked, possibly by three youths, aged between 11 and 17, who were seen running away from scene. Damilola was within sight of home when he was stabbed but the loss of blood was so severe he stumbled before he reached the first-floor shops in the North Hordle Promenade where he probably hoped to find help. "His femoral artery was slashed," said one officer who is part of the murder inquiry. "It's like the jugular vein. "Blood would have come out like a fountain. He didn't really stand a chance." Damilola came to London four months ago with his mother Gloria - who had lived in the UK once before - his brother Tunde, 21, and sister Beme, 23. His father is still in Nigeria. Southwark council placed them in a flat in St Braivel's Court, part of the North Peckham estate which was built in the late 60s and is now being bulldozed. Only half of the homes on the estate are now occupied. Damilola seemed to settle well, but had recently confided to his mother that he was being bullied at school. "He was being threatened by other students," said Mrs Taylor, 49. "Last Friday he said some boys had beaten him, boys from the school. "I asked 'did you fight with them?'. And he said 'No mummy I did not fight with them'. He said he was in pain." On one occasion, Damilola, who was normal, playful and boisterous, had asked his mother to explain the meaning of the the word "gay". "Boys were swearing at him, saying lots of horrible words. They were calling him names." Mrs Taylor told teachers about the taunts and abuse, but felt they did not take her seriously. On Monday, she walked her son to school in Southampton Way to make sure he was all right, and expected him home at 5pm - Damilola wanted to stay behind for an extra computer class. By the time he left, it was already dark. As far as police know, he walked 100 yards into Diamond Street, then turned first left into Blakes Road, a corridor overlooked by an industrial park on the left, and the back of the North Peckham estate on the right. With poor street lighting and few homes, it would have been an ideal place for a group of youths to attack someone. When Damilola failed to come home, his mother went looking for him. First she went to the school, where she bumped into the headmaster Mark Parsons. He told her Damilola was not there. "I told her to stop worrying," he said. So Mrs Taylor headed home. The police, however, had cordoned off the road. "I met the police and they told me a child was stabbed. I did not realise it was my child. Then I went to the hospital. It was Damilola." The boy's cousin, Jordan Fayemi, 29, admitted the family could not be sure whether Damilola was stabbed by a pupil or not, but thought the school should have taken their worries more seriously. Mr Parsons said he was "deeply shocked" by Damilola's death and said he would do everything possible to help the police inquiry. "I would have been proud if he was my child. I feel dreadful for his mother and for him, and I feel dreadful that I was standing here a few hundred yards from where it was happening." However, Mr Parsons was sure the killers were not pupils at Oliver Goldsmith. "I don't believe this has anything to do with the children. We are immensely proud of the fact that we have virtually no violent bullying at all." Others on the estate said the death, though tragic, was not a surprise. "I have been stabbed twice, dragged by my hair and given a black eye," said Mohammed El-Nagdy, who runs a shop on the North Hordle Promenade. "The youths come here to steal from the till and they'll stab you for peanuts." Maynard Cox-George, who runs the Peckham Positive Project, a community action group, said crime on the estate had actually fallen in recent years, but admitted the stairwells and walkways were ideal territory for criminals. "That's one of the reasons they are pulling the place down. I went outside when we heard what had happened. I saw the body. Poor boy. The ambulancemen were working on him, but I'm sure he was already dead. There was blood everywhere." Teams of officers were sifting through the estate's rubbish chutes yesterday looking for a murder weapon. The police also want to find three boys wearing dark hooded tops who were seen close to where Damilola collapsed. Detective Superintendent David Dillnutt, who is leading the investigation, said: "We believe he was trying to get away from his attackers. We are urgently appealing for more witnesses to come forward." Superintendent Rob Jarman, the commander of south London police, added: "I immediately thought of my own children when I heard about this. We will do everything we can to find out what happened." Related special report Policing crime Related stories 30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan policeThe home officeOfsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary schoolLocal media: South London onlineLondon borough of SouthwarkPhotographs of the North Peckham estate