The daughter of a teacher at one of Britain's most exclusive public schools has been stabbed to death close to the grounds of the college, apparently by the son of another member of staff.The body of Lucy Braham, 25, was discovered by police on Thursday night in the house she shared with her parents in Harrow-on-the-Hill, north-west London.The dead woman's father, Jason Braham, is head of the art department at nearby Harrow school, which is one of the most expensive private schools in the country. Police officers arriving at the scene also found a man in his 20s suffering from stab wounds.He was identified informally yesterday afternoon as the son of another member of staff at the school. He has been arrested, but is now in a "very critical condition" in a west London hospital and is too ill to speak to detectives.A police source yesterday described arriving at the scene to be met by a "horrific" sight. "We walked into the kitchen of the house and saw a man in his 20s stabbing himself in the heart. He was saying something incomprehensible. Then we saw a girl in her 20s covered in blood. She was dead."It is understood that the man and Ms Braham knew each other but were not in a relationship.The large Victorian mansion in which Ms Braham lived with her parents and sister is owned by Harrow school, just 200 metres away, as are many of the other houses in the tree-lined avenue.A spokeswoman for the school said: "There was a serious incident in a property owned by the school last night. No pupils from the school were involved."She added: "Residents of the Harrow community are deeply shocked by this tragedy and the school wishes to extend its greatest sympathy to the families involved."Officers were called to the four-storey house at 10.25pm on Thursday evening, after receiving 999 reports of an injured man, according to a spokesman. When they arrived, they discovered Ms Braham's body. She was pronounced dead at the scene and a postmortem was being carried out yesterday at Northwick Park hospital.Police are believed to have recovered a knife from the house, which remained cordoned off yesterday.Ray Pan, manager of a French restaurant opposite the school, said the area was so quiet he normally closed his kitchen around 10pm."I'm absolutely shocked," he said. "I know most of the teachers. I'm just stunned that something like this could happen here."He said that a number of teachers and some students ate in his restaurant on Thursday night, but left shortly after 9pm. When he closed up at 11pm he was told by police that the street was closed after an incident further down the road.Harrow was founded in 1572 and currently has 800 pupils, all boys, who pay fees of £24,825. It boasts seven former prime ministers, including Winston Churchill, among its old boys. Other alumni include Anthony Trollope, Jawaharlal Nehru, Mark Thatcher and the singer James Blunt.A member of the school's maintenance department told the London Evening Standard: "Most of the staff don't know what has happened yet. It is all being kept very quiet - certainly the boys have no idea what went on."He added: "This is normally a very quiet, out of the way suburb. The family involved are extremely popular. People will be extremely sad."Ms Braham was educated at Millfield school in Somerset.Her sister Alice, who also lives at the family home, is a successful runner who has represented Britain in a number of marathons.