Criminologists said last night that a mixture of better security, better policing and a more robust economy lies behind Home Office figures published yesterday showing a 12% fall in police recorded crime.The recorded crime rate in England and Wales has now fallen or remained flat for 17 successive quarters, since March 2004. This sustained reduction now appears to be accelerating, with the 12% fall for the final quarter of 2007 compared with 12 months previously following cuts of 3%, 7% and 9% in previous quarters.The figures show the police recorded 5.054m offences in 2007 - 684,000 fewer than in 2006. The largest falls are: robbery, down 21%; car crime, down 19%; criminal damage, down 17%; and a 15% fall in serious violence against the person.The police recorded crime figures also show a 20% rise in drug offences, although chief constables last night stressed that the rise - 100,000 to 120,000 - reflected the greater use of police powers to issue cannabis warnings following reclassification of the drug. The figures also record a 4% rise in gun crime, with incidents involving firearms rising by 373 to 9,967 last year. The police, however, said they had had significant successes in tackling gun crime, with the number of people shot dead down from 56 in 2006 to 49 in 2007. The number of gun crime victims who were seriously injured also fell, from 424 to 355. The downward trend is reflected in the latest British Crime Survey, which measures the experience of crime of 40,000 people each year. BCS figures show a fall of 6% in overall crime and substantial falls in car crime and vandalism. Violent crime was said to be stable.The survey shows the risk of becoming a victim of crime has fallen to 23%, its lowest level since the BCS began in 1981. It shows that fear of crime among the public, which has remained stubbornly high despite falling crime figures, also fell, with those "very worried" about violent crime down from 17% to 15%, and those anxious about burglary and car crime down from 13% to 12%.Professor Mike Hough, the director of the King's College London institute for criminal policy research, said the sustained fall in property crime was due to a mixture of better security, better policing and a more robust economy, which may now be slipping away. Hough said it was possible that the shift in policing over the past 15 years from focusing on the crime to focusing on the offender may now be paying off. This reflects the move by the police away from simply "solving the crime" to targeting prolific and repeat offenders and tackling the root causes of their offending, such as drug addiction.The Association of Chief Police Officers said the growth of neighbourhood policing had led to increased intelligence from communities and, ultimately, convictions for offences involving drugs, burglary, criminal damage and vandalism.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, was buoyed by such an "excellent" set of crime figures before next week's local elections: "I am particularly pleased to see sizeable reductions in recorded violent crime and robbery." She said the risk of being a victim of crime was at its lowest level since records began. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, insisted that violent crime had doubled since Labour had come to power and that the figures proved drug and gun crime was continuing to rise unabated.Calling for tougher action on gun crime, Chris Huhne, for the Liberal Democrats, noted that there were nine times as many customs officers looking for smuggled cigarettes as contraband guns.