Campaigners with widely diverging beliefs last night called on the government to re-examine the law on prostitution following the murder convictions of Steve Wright.Both those calling for the liberalisation of prostitution laws and those advocating increased sanctions argued that the laws as they stand are inadequate, but they suggested very different solutions. The present position in British law is complicated: though strictly speaking it is not illegal to buy or sell sex, soliciting and kerb-crawling are both against the law. Niki Adams, a spokeswoman for the English Collective of Prostitutes, said the Ipswich verdicts emphasised the need for the government to follow the example of New Zealand, where the laws against prostitution were repealed in 2003. "The impact that people have found there ... is that it's improved the health and safety of women in the industry, which we consider the absolute priority in policy-making in this area," she said. Mark Wakeling, director of the National Christian Alliance on Prostitution, said that there was no "human right" for men to buy sex, and advocated instead the adoption of a model derived from Sweden, where buying sex became a criminal offence in 1999. "Prostitution brings out the worst in men," he said. "The sad thing is that there are attacks and violence, even murders, against these women ... regularly. It's only when five are murdered in one place that all of a sudden it starts to provoke debate."The government has been conducting a review into the laws for the past four years. In January 2006, it published a consultation document that advocated steering a middle ground between the two opposing camps, arguing for a more liberal view of small brothels combined with increased restraints on kerb-crawling. Last month the Home Office minister Vernon Coaker announced a fresh six-month review, visiting Sweden to examine its policy. The position of the government, which at one point appeared to favour a more liberal regime, is thought to be hardening in favour of the Swedish approach. "We are clear that street-based prostitution and all forms of commercial sexual exploitation must be challenged," a Home Office spokesman said yesterday. "They are not inevitable; they are not here to stay."He said that since the launch of the strategy the government had delivered a number of measures including a fresh definition of soliciting, a renewed focus on tackling demand, and increased investment in personal safety training for sex workers.