David Cameron is likely to come under renewed pressure to reverse the government's planned police cuts, despite a return of relative calm to the country's streets after five nights of rioting.Reinforcements were deployed in potential hotspots on Wednesday night and magistrates courts stayed open into the early hours of Thursday morning in response to the scale of the disorder.In the event, the violence of previous nights was not repeated but the prime minister still faces tough questions about how the police – on the back foot for the first few days of disorder – would cope if similar riots erupted after the cuts were introduced, with the Police Federation warning of a potential "catastrophe".A senior government source said the Home Office would be advised to take a fresh look at its plans to cut £2bn from police funding over the next few years. "The optics have changed," the source told the Guardian.The home secretary, Theresa May, ordered chief constables to cancel "all police leave" to deal with the rioting crisis, saying "maximising the police presence on the street must be a priority" in affected areas. The increased number of officers on the street, coupled with bad weather in some places, seemed to have the intended effect of restoring calm.Fears of a backlash in Birmingham after the death of three young men hit by a car during violent disturbances on Tuesday night did not materialise. West Midlands police had more than double the number of officers on duty than on the previous two nights. The situation was described as calm although 48 people were detained.West Midlands ambulance service said it had not received any calls to attend incidents of disorder. Solihull magistrates court sat all night to help fast-track those charged in connection with disorder in the region.Community leaders and police had appealed for calm following the death of Haroon Jahan, 21, and brothers Shazad Ali, 30 and Abdul Musavir, 31. The men were part of a group of around 80 guarding a petrol station and shops from looters in Winson Green when they were victims of a hit-and-run in the early hours of Wednesday. A murder inquiry has been launched and a 32-year-old man is being questioned.The capital was also relatively calm although there were clashes between supporters of the English Defence League and police in Eltham, south-east London. Scotland Yard said 888 people have been arrested in connection with the disorder in the capital, with 371 charged.A large police presence and heavy downpours helped deter looters and vandals from returning to the streets of Manchester city centre to cause more havoc after Tuesday night's violence. Police said there were no reports of major incidents of disorder last night in Greater Manchester as the number of arrests rose to 145 – including an 18-year-old man being questioned on suspicion of arson after a Miss Selfridge outlet was torched.As in the West Midlands, reinforcements from other forces were drafted in to avoid a repeat of Tuesday night's disorder in both Manchester and Salford and Manchester magistrates court sat into the early hours of the morning.There were no reported incidents of public disorder in Liverpool, where around 200 youths rampaged though the streets on Tuesday night, but there were a small number of arrests following stop and searches of youths. Other English cities also reported quiet nights in response to increased officers on the streets.Cameron has said the police cuts will not lead to a "reduction in visible policing". He is expected to announce some emergency funding when he addresses the Commons, to cover the extra costs of policing this week's riots, as well as the possibility of insurance claims against police on the grounds they provided no protection to businesses in a riot.But there are fears in Whitehall that the Home Office plan to make savings in the police service could leave an "exposed flank" in any future riots. London's mayor Boris Johnson warned the government against cutting numbers. "The case was always pretty frail and it's been substantially weakened. This is not the time to think about making substantial cuts in police numbers," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.