A jealous boyfriend murdered three generations of the same family including his six-month-old daughter by torching their home on the day the child returned home from hospital for the first time, a court heard on Wednesday.Carl Mills, 29, is accused of killing his daughter, Kimberley, her mother, Kayleigh Buckley, 17, and the child's grandmother, Kim Buckley, 46, who were all trapped in the blazing house.Mills started the fire, it was claimed, after becoming convinced that Kayleigh had another man in her bedroom and he was also upset that she was spending time with the child, who was born deaf and blind, rather than him.  Kim Buckley, with granddaughter Kimberley. Photograph: Gwent police/PAThe family were celebrating Kimberley's homecoming after spending her first six months in hospital and had put up balloons and banners around the house. When the fire took hold, neighbours desperately tried to help but Kayleigh refused to leave her baby to escape.Newport crown court in south Wales heard that Mills "groomed" Kayleigh when she was 15 after they met via the internet. At the time of the blaze he had been banned from the family house and was living in a tent nearby.Greg Bull, prosecuting, said of the fire at the house in Cwmbran, south Wales: "The three victims didn't have a chance. They couldn't get down the stairs."Within minutes it became impossible to save the people inside. Kayleigh was in the window of a smoke-filled room crying her help for her and her baby. People were calling out, 'Jump', but she wouldn't leave her baby."Neighbours could hear her saying she was on fire. Then within a few minutes there was silence."Relatives of the family left court in tears as the prosecution opened its case. The jury heard that Mills was living in Manchester but moved to south Wales after meeting Kayleigh via the internet.Bull said: "He deliberately set out to groom her sexually. Their relationship developed into a sexual one. He seemed to exercise a magnetic control over Kayleigh. Mills became obsessively jealous of Kayleigh. He became obsessed she was involved with other boys."The court heard that the teenager became pregnant with twins born in March of last year. One twin, Angel, died at just two days old but doctors were able to save Kimberley.But Bull said Mills thought Kayleigh was spending too much time with her daughter. The prosecutor said: "He wanted Kayleigh to be with him and him alone. He become convinced she was having an affair with another man."  Court sketch of Carl Mills, left. The court heard that he 'groomed' Kayleigh Buckley when she was 15 after they met via the internet. Photograph: Elizabeth Cook/PAOn the day before the alleged attack, Mills sent threatening texts to Kayleigh, Bull said. One read: "I'll burn your house down", while another said: "I hope you fucking get burnt".Mills was not invited to the homecoming in September last year but his fingerprints were later found by the police on a welcome home banner that had been torn down.As the house burned Mills turned up but did not try to save the family, it was claimed. "Neighbours were shocked by how calm he appeared to be," said Bull. "He showed no emotion and did not attempt to rescue his daughter or the woman he claimed to love. It was the actions of a cold-hearted killer who knew exactly what he was doing. He had carried out the threat he had made hours earlier."Mills, of no fixed abode, denies three charges of murder. The trial continues.