A woman police officer turned a blind eye while her colleague kicked a young black man as he lay helpless in the back of a van, hands cuffed behind his back.WPC Gillian Pattinson did nothing to stop the attack on Delroy Hylton or help him as he screamed in pain. She also failed to report the assault. Pattinson was found guilty at a disciplinary hearing this month of being an accessory to the assault. If the offence had been tried in a criminal court, she could have been sent to jail, but she only lost five days' pay.  Hylton's 'crime' had been to protest at the brutal arrest of his neighbours. But then he, too, was assaulted, arrested, detained, fingerprinted, then charged with affray and obstruction – charges thrown out when the case against his neighbour, David Charles, collapsed. This is the police complaints system when it is working. Most cases, including serious allegations of fabricating evidence, perjury and assault, never come before a disciplinary hearing at all – let alone a criminal trial. Pattinson was dealt with harshly compared to her colleague, PC Mark Astley, who was accused of the actual assault. He was allowed to resign on a full pension before any disciplinary action was taken. The ease with which officers avoid disciplinary action by slipping into early retirement – keeping full pension rights – made headline news when it emerged last month that only one officer is likely to face the consequences of the botched investigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence.But early retirement is just one flaw in a system which – as even Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon admits – lets some dishonest, violent or corrupt officers act with impunity. Condon told a committee of MPs examining police discipline: 'It is now harder to deal with bad officers through discipline than through criminal law.' Civil rights lawyers, black rights groups and academics go further, saying some officers have become a law unto themselves. Jane Deighton, who represented Duwayne Brooks – the surviving victim of the race hate attack on Lawrence – said: 'If you or I were to badly beat up someone at work and then tried to implicate someone else, we would be likely to be arrested, tried and sent to jail. We would face a separate disciplinary hearing at work and would be sacked. Police officers escape that sanction. They have become arrogant and have seen themselves as above the law.' Raju Bhatt, who has represented many victims of police malpractice including Delroy Hilton, agrees, and cites the case of Shiji Lapite. In 1995, an inquest jury decided he had been 'unlawfully killed' by London police arresting him for suspected drug offences. The jury heard he had 45 injuries – the fatal one consistent with the use of a neck-hold that crushed his voice box. But the officers involved in Lapite's arrest remain at work – despite the High Court order that the Crown Prosecution Service and the Police Complaints Authority should reconsider their decisions not to charge the officers with criminal or disciplinary offences. The CPS has reconsidered and decided not to do so; the PCA is still considering. Lawyers for Lapite's family are to take their fight for justice to the European courts. The police benefit from an extensive range of employment protections denied to most others. They enjoy the right to silence against allegations, and a disciplinary 'conviction' has to be based on the criminal standard of 'beyond reasonable doubt', where any other worker's fate is decided upon the lesser civil standard of the balance of probabilities. Officers have the right to immediate legal representation, and are protected from having to face both a criminal case and a disciplinary case: an officer acquitted at trial cannot be separately disciplined. Further, police have the distinct advantage that any complaint against them is investigated by their colleagues. Fewer than a third of complaints are supervised or monitored by the PCA which, though independent, relies on police officers to carry out investigations.  Figures collected by Graham Smith, of University College London's law faculty, show that of 35,820 complaints against the police last year, only 847 were substantiated. And of those, only 113 resulted in disciplinary action. 'The vast bulk – for the past 12 years an average of 80 per cent – are dealt with by "admonishment",' said Smith. As the complaints procedure is seen to fail victims of police malpractice, more and more have turned to the civil courts for redress. Last year Scotland Yard paid out more than £3 million to settle or compensate nearly 400 claims against them. Greater Manchester police paid over £2m.  Bhatt says powers to stamp on police misconduct do exist. 'The problem is that the PCA and chief constables are not willing to use those powers. The powers were there six years ago when Stephen Lawrence was murdered.' The PCA denied it lacked the will to combat misconduct. A spokesman said: 'Whenever the evidence is sufficient, the authority will always bring charges.' But of the 11 officers originally facing charges in Hylton's case, Astley resigned and the charges against two others, PC John Boden and PC Paul Evans, were aborted because the officers were dismissed for unrelated malpractice. Another, PC David Hay, was acquitted. All the others were acquitted of charges of using unnecessary violence – except Pattinson, who was found guilty of being an accessory. But Inspector David Owen was demoted to sergeant after being found guilty of neglect of duty and making a false statement. Five others – PCs Martin Giddings, Mark Broad, Simon Hobson, Colin MacLennan and Jeremy Godden – were required to resign, with pension rights intact, for making false statements. Last year only 37 officers were dismissed, while more than 140 resigned before or after proceedings. Home Secretary Jack Straw is preparing changes to the police disciplinary system, and there is great expectation that the public inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence will restore public confidence in the police.