England's most senior judge has launched an unprecedented attack on the country's creaking prison system, which he says is now so overcrowded that it is 'difficult or impossible' to rehabilitate prisoners.In an exclusive interview in today's Observer, Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers, the Lord Chief Justice, who is responsible for giving the views of the judiciary in England and Wales to the government, acknowledges jails are often used as little more than 'social dustbins' to house people with problems.Phillips argues it is 'madness to spend £37,000 jailing someone when, by spending much less on services in the community, you can do as good a job'. He is highly critical of what he sees as the underfunding of community-based punishments and calls for better resources. 'It's no answer just to put more and more people in prison,' he said.The Lord Chief Justice describes how, in an unprecedented move, he passed himself off as a convicted drink-driver and secretly served part of a community order, doing manual labour with convicted criminals to prove that tough non-custodial sentences should be imposed on many offenders now sent to prison.His actions have been thrown into sharp relief by the population crisis now gripping Britain's prisons. The Observer understands that the Home Secretary, John Reid, will tell Parliament possibly as early as tomorrow that he is activating Operation Safeguard, an emergency plan to place prisoners in police cells.Phillips said: 'Emergency measures of keeping prisoners in police cells are highly undesirable.'Safeguard was last activated between July and December 2002, when some 28,650 prisoners were housed in police stations at an average cost of £360 per place per night. The total cost of the operation came to more than £10m and met with opposition from chief constables who privately expressed dismay that their officers were being used as jailers.However, the move will buy the Prison Service only a few months' breathing space, The Observer understands. Privately senior officials in the Home Office have told Reid that the use of the cells will handle the overspill only until Christmas, after which the system will be plunged into further crisis.This weekend the Prison Officers' Association said Britain's jails were now full. The official population stood at 79,843 on Friday evening - just 210 below what the government believes is the maximum capacity. But the association said the government's assessment of available cells included 114 places in HMP Pentonville in north London, 56 in HMP Liverpool, and a number elsewhere that were no longer usable.'We are already full,' said Steve Gough, the association's vice-chairman. 'The government has known this was coming for two years, but they've done absolutely nothing. It's disgraceful.Gough suggested that, based on current trends, the prison population could rise to as much as 90,000 by the end of next year.The government is looking to convert an army barracks and possibly a mental hospital into new open prisons to increase the size of the prison estate. However, experts believe that this would not be nearly enough if the current sentencing trends continue.Instead, they suggest the Home Office will have to look at alternatives to prison such as the sort of community sentence performed by Phillips, an idea the Home Secretary has so far resisted.'Reid is presiding over a prison system in meltdown,' said Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform. 'This waste management approach of recycling offenders through overcrowded jails will ultimately prove to be counterproductive,' said Enver Solomon, deputy director of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies at King's College, London.The debate on sentencing is likely to be given dramatic impetus by Phillips's decision to experience a community punishment at first hand. In his interview today the Lord Chief Justice describes how he posed as a shipping solicitor sentenced to 150 hours of unpaid work.He was told to dress in jeans, trainers and a fluorescent safety jacket for a day's work in a 'Community Payback' scheme. His tasks included weeding, clearing moss, painting and cleaning off graffiti in one of Britain's grimmest council estates.His experiment was welcomed by penal campaigners. 'If only sentencers would go out and see for themselves that community penalties work far better for petty offences than wasted time in overcrowded jails,' said Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust.In the interview Phillips also expresses alarm about the possibility of prison riots and about reports that young Muslims are being radicalised in prison by al-Qaeda operatives.Phillips has other warnings for the government. He is concerned about the use of antisocial behaviour orders, and about judges being compelled to pass five-year minimum jail sentences for people possessing guns.Referring to Reid's intervention in the case of the sentence passed on the paedophile Craig Sweeney, he says he does not 'approve of Home Secretaries weighing off about sentences'.In an uncompromising defence of the Human Rights Act, he reserves his sternest remarks to warn against any move - and one is said to be under consideration by Reid - to dilute the legal protection against torture. Judges, he says, will not tolerate any 'rebalancing' to allow for overriding national security issues.'So far as torture is concerned, there is no scope for balancing,' he says. 'There is an absolute prohibition. There is no scope for bending the facts to give effect to policy. It is critically important that judges apply the law as it is.'