The mother of four siblings killed in a house fire fought back tears on Thursday as she made a desperate appeal for help to catch the killer.Reece Smith, 19, four-year-old twin girls Holly and Ella, and Jordan, aged two, all died from smoke inhalation after the blaze at their family home in Freckleton, Lancashire last month when a party was being held to celebrate their mother's 36th birthday.Their mother, Michelle Smith, and Reece's father, Martin Goulding, sat beneath a large montage picture of the four children as a statement was read out on their behalf.Smith fought back tears as Detective Constable Ian McVittie told a press conference in Blackpool the family "can't understand why anyone would do such a thing and how they can sleep at night with the guilt".The statement said: "Our whole family has been devastated by the fire that took away four of our treasured children. Reece was our 19-year-old son, who wanted to be an engineer working on airplanes and was a huge Blackpool fan but overall was a loving son and brother."The twins, Holly and Ella, were only four years old and were like chalk and cheese and had their own little characters and personalities. They had just started enjoying school life making new friends in a big, new world and were due to celebrate their fifth birthday later this month."Jordan was the baby of the family. He was only two years old. He made us laugh so much and was always bumping into things so we nicknamed him 'Banger'. All four of them had so much more life to live."Detectives say the fire was started by a naked flame inside a wardrobe in one of the upstairs attic bedrooms in the converted bungalow at about 11.30pm on 7 January, following a family party to celebrate Smith's birthday. She managed to escape the house uninjured along with her other five children.Goulding held Smith's hand throughout the appeal as McVittie told the media the couple were "lost without them" and had to continue their lives "knowing that they and we have missed out on so much"."We can't understand why anyone would do such a thing and how they can sleep at night with the guilt. So this is a plea to the person responsible or to anyone who knows who is responsible for the deaths of these four beautiful children."Please come forward and explain to the police what you did or what you know. Please think of our loss and try to imagine the pain we are going through. The police need your help but, more importantly, we as a family need your help."An 18-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murdering the three young children and their older brother. He has been released on bail until 6 March.