There are a lot of chief constables who would happily strangle George Dixon. It's not so much that the old BBC copper with his folksy winking ways makes any real officer look inadequate, nor even that he had the infuriating advantage of scriptwriters to deliver his perfect results. The real problem is that Dixon is cemented into the public imagination - and he's not very good at his job.Consider the case of the car park in the country. Ramblers used to turn up there, park their cars, head off on a hike and then return to find their car windows smashed and their belongings stolen. Dixon's answer would have been to get out his handcuffs, hide behind a bush until the thieves turned up, nick them and wobble off home on his bicycle. In the real world, another thief would have been breaking into the cars before he reached Dock Green and the offenders he arrested would have been bailed to join in again the next day. For decades, British police would have been happy enough with that failure: they had no option. But in the past 20 years researchers in the United States and Britain have been urging them to think in a radically different way - to stop relying on the conventional tools of arrest and conviction and to start looking beneath the surface to manipulate the causes of crime, to stop being dragged around by events in favour of stepping back and trying to change them. They call it problem-oriented policing. More and more chief constables can see that when it works, it is a great deal more effective than the esteemed Dixon. In the case of the car park, instead of reaching for their handcuffs, the local police stopped and analysed the crime. They realised that the real problem was simply that once the ramblers hit the hills there was nothing and nobody to stop the thieves doing exactly as they pleased. So, instead of making pointless arrests, they decided to solve the problem at its root - by building picnic tables at the side of the car park. To make sure that picnickers turned up, they arranged for a licensed vendor to sell drink and food up there. Natural surveillance. They cut the thieving by 48% in a year. In the same way, there was a city force which had a problem with a takeaway pizza parlour. Every Friday and Saturday night groups of drunken people would gather outside, obstructing the pavement, disturbing the locals, occasionally fighting. The old-fashioned answer would have been to send a uniformed officer to stand there and arrest anybody who broke the law - inefficient and ultimately ineffective, because after a week or two, the officer would have had to be deployed elsewhere. Instead, they analysed the problem and discovered that the crowd was building up because the pizza parlour could not cope with the sudden rush of customers after the pubs closed. So they installed hotlines from all the local pubs to the pizza maker, who took their orders in advance and had their pizzas ready when they turned up: no more crowd on the pavement, no more trouble. This problem-oriented approach is the heart of a far wider effort to bury George Dixon: to say that arrests and convictions have their uses but they also have their limits; to break out of the boundaries of the criminal justice system by pushing resources and energy into working with other agencies and delivering something other than punishment; to attack the infinitely complex roots of crime with infinitely flexible tactics. It's not so much criminal justice as crime reduction. It is the simple equivalent of doctors admitting that they can't cure cholera with medicine alone: somebody has to find the source of the diseased water and clean it. It means reversing John Major's edict on crime that "society should understand a little less and condemn a little more", and working at three levels: to look at the deep reasons why some adolescents devote their lives to crime while a sibling in the same family will not, to deal with family, schooling, housing, health; to see the opportunities for crime as problems which can be solved; to make maximum use of the "target hardening" techniques of traditional crime prevention. It means giving George Dixon a brain as well as truncheon. This is the story of the boldest departure in British criminal justice strategy in the past 100 years, the opening of a second front in the war against crime, drawing on the thinking of radical criminologists and pressure groups who were previously locked out of power. It has unfolded almost invisibly, largely unreported and sometimes misunderstood by news media, effectively camouflaged (by accident or design) by the government's relentless release of hardline criminal policy statements. Most important, at this particular moment, this is a story which looks like it may have a miserable ending. Behind the scenes this ground-breaking campaign has turned into the policing equivalent of the Flanders fields - misguided generals, destructive commands, confusion in communication, disorder in the ranks, brave young ideas broken and bruised on the ground. But the fight is not over. The great danger is that the ministers who launched the campaign may desert it in its hour of need. Policy wastelandIt all started in the spring of 1997. Labour had won the election, and Jack Straw moved into a Home Office which was unlike any other government department in two key respects. First, it had not been starved of resources and so, even though Gordon Brown imposed existing Tory spending plans across Whitehall, the Home Office still had money to spend. Second, other departments were trapped by Tory policies which were destructive but deemed politically untouchable (the sale of council houses, the privatisation of railways, Kenneth Baker's education reforms), but the Home Office had nothing. It was a policy wasteland. For nearly 30 years the masters of the criminal justice system had resorted to a belief which they summarised in two simple words: "Nothing works." The last Tory home secretary, Michael Howard, had exploited the vacuum to embark on a cynical exercise in political populism, with two other simple words: "Prison works." It didn't. Jack Straw inherited a police service which was detecting fewer crimes, courts which were clogged with delays, fines which were not being collected, community sentences which were not being served and overcrowded prisons which were failing to change the behaviour of prisoners. But he had money to spend and the political opening to do so. Better still, he had the prime minister on side. Under the influence of "radical realist" criminologists, Tony Blair and the Labour electoral machine had finally seen through the left's blind spot on law and order, understanding that crime was not some kind of romantic rebellion by an alienated working class attacking their middle-class tormentors: it was a plague which was overwhelmingly likely to be inflicted on the working class for whom they claimed to speak. For nearly 20 years under the Tories an epidemic of poverty had swept through the old public housing estates, infecting them with burglary and mugging and harassment, and it was no longer good enough to have a criminal justice policy which consisted of leaning back over the After Eights and sneering at the cops. Five years earlier, as shadow home secretary, Mr Blair had come across the germ of a strategy. He fastened on to a report by a management consultant, James Morgan, who had been hired by the then minister John Patten to look for a solution to rising crime. Mr Morgan had come back with a radical plan to make it a legal requirement for all local authorities to form partnerships with their police to attack the causes of crime. Mr Patten took one look at it, took fright at the idea that a Tory government would pass any power at all to local authorities, and shelved it. In opposition, Tony Blair met informally with chief constables and local government leaders who encouraged him to adopt the Morgan report as Labour policy; he goaded the Tories over their failure to act on it. Now, Jack Straw took the Morgan report down from the shelf. At the same time Mr Straw told the Home Office's research department to trawl the archives for evidence of effective tactics. This exercise finally swept away the defeatism of Nothing Works and produced a report, Reducing Offending, which drew heavily on American experiments to pour a stream of fresh thinking into the Home Office. "Nothing works" gave way to "What works". In effect, the researchers took the rule book of law enforcement and tore it up. With tightly argued evidence, they exposed the weakness of traditional policing techniques (police patrols "do not have a marked effect on crime levels"; laying more charges against offenders "does not have any noticeable effect"; reducing crime by attacking drugs "does not happen") and of traditional punishment (prison was no more effective than fines or community sentences, and was so expensive that it would cost £380m to cut total crime by only 0.6%.) Then they showed the alternatives: deep social programmes like the American pre-school scheme which worked with problem children so that only 7% of them went on to be arrested by the age of 27, compared with 35% of their unaided neighbours; using design to cut the opportunities for offenders, like the Dutch programme which cut burglary by 70% by insisting that all houses be secured against crime, the banks who had redesigned their credit cards and cut fraud in half, and the local authorities who had redesigned their wheelie bins to stop burglars using them as climbing aids. They recorded how the British car industry had finally started building security into their cars after the Home Office in 1992 published a car theft index which diverted buyers from the riskiest vehicles. One of these researchers, Professor Ken Pease of Huddersfield University, later captured the theory of crime reduction in a sentence: "It is probably not going too far to say that the best strategy for crime control is now clearly a combination of proven techniques for the reduction of individuals' tendency to commit crime through intervention in childhood, and the manipulation of environments to make that more difficult." By the autumn of 1998 both these initiatives had taken off. The thrust of the Morgan report had been converted into a legal requirement to set up 376 crime and disorder reduction partnerships (CDRPs), spread across England and Wales, in which police were compelled to meet with their local social workers, teachers, housing officials and health workers to deliver crime reduction. They were to ascertain the wishes of local communities to set their priorities, using their local knowledge and contacts to come up with the infinitely complex tactics to fit each area's particular needs. And the researchers' radical findings had been developed into the outline of a crime reduction programme. ExcitementUniversity specialists were hired to direct it and to check its progress. It was backed by the home secretary, by Downing Street and by the Treasury. For its first three years, from April 1999, the programme was given £250m, which soon rose to £400m with a huge investment in CCTV. Those who were involved speak of a buzz of excitement inside the Home Office - like a birth. The baby was no sooner born than it crawled into trouble. Ministers took a decision which, at the time, was controversial and which, in retrospect, was startlingly destructive. They ruled that the CDRPs should have none of the money from the new crime reduction programme. James Morgan had wanted each of them to be given a small budget, enough to hire one or two staff, an office and a phone, to keep the wheel turning. But ministers insisted that police and local authorities must fund the partnerships from their mainstream budgets. The practical result was that, without staff or cash, the CDRPs had no fuel. That immediately exposed them to a second weakness, which was to cause even more problems: most of the partners were not interested in partnership. The whole initiative was being launched on to a public sector which was exhausted by years of Tory spending cuts, none of which had been reversed. Demoralised and distracted by their efforts to survive, numerous local authorities could not see what crime had to do with them. In some cases, too, the police were suspicious that this was all about invading their patch. In other cases the police tried to kickstart the scheme, only to find that this alienated some of their partners, who saw their own patch being invaded. If the CDRPs themselves had no fuel to run on, and if many local agencies were not willing to invest any effort or funds of their own, and the crucial task of analysing local crime simply did not happen. In the autumn of 1998 they were told to provide local crime audits by April 1999, but the deadline arrived with the alarming news that 117 of the 376 CDRPs had failed to deliver any audit at all. Among those who did, according to a Home Office review, many simply supplied an executive summary without any real data, and even those who tried to collect data found that their partners were not willing or able to provide it: only 38% of the audits had data on school truancy, only 27% had health data on drug treatment, only 27% had social services data on offenders. This was a serious failure, right at the root of the evidence-based, problem-solving philosophy of the programme. Having snapped off the root of the new plant, ministers now dumped manure on it. From April 1999 they started to release the £400m from the crime reduction programme: the intention was apparently benign, but the result was destructive. They broke the money down into a series of priorities - burglary, CCTV, prostitution, drug workers, school management, etc - but these did not necessarily overlap with local plans, so, for example, a rural CDRP which was most concerned with traffic speeding through its villages would get nothing unless it could find some sex workers to help. Second, they did not offer the money specifically to the CDRPs, with the result that individual local agencies reached out for the cash, bypassing the new partnerships. Finally, they handed out cash only in response to bids, and the most fragile CDRPs lacked the time and energy to submit them effectively. Many CDRPs continued without any funds. Others eventually received cash through the police to tackle problems which had never been their priority. Less than a year had passed and the whole structure of the CDRPs had already been weakened at the base by three problems which were to continue to haunt it: the clumsy decisions of ministers; the lethargy and weakness of local partners; the heavy hand of Whitehall control. Now, the top of the pyramid also became weakened as, behind the scenes in Whitehall, a kind of craziness took over the other flank of the new strategy, the £400m crime reduction programme. FeudingThe engine house for the programme was the Home Office's police research group which had been given £25m to feed research to the police and to evaluate their work. Since 1983 the group had been part of the Home Office's police directorate, where it could work directly with forces around the country. Just as the new programme was launched it was moved, against the wishes of many of its staff, and became part of the Home Office research and statistics unit. It lost its link to the real world. Worse, the group then became caught up in feuding between civil servants in different departments of the Home Office, who variously ignored it or attempted to control it. Some junior civil servants were reduced to drifting into other departments to complain about the antics of their bosses. One official simply shut himself in his room to escape the tension. Disunited and dysfunctional, the Home Office then became vulnerable to the demands of the Treasury. Some of the researchers wanted to go out on to the ground with the police, to help them run their projects; but the Treasury said they had to stand back and make objective evaluations without interfering. The researchers wanted to spend the money slowly, partly because they had so much of it that they were running out of academics to spend it on, but, more importantly, because it was the core of the new approach to work slowly, gathering data, analysing it, searching for the precise strategy that would work. At one point the Treasury agreed to drop its demand for "annuality" - that each tranche of cash must be spent before the end of the financial year - but rapidly it reneged on the agreement.One source who was closely involved describes the administrative equivalent of a three-way bar-room brawl: "There were the ministers who had basically said 'get on with it', which was fine. There were senior Home Office civil servants who were just desperate to spend the money before the Treasury started clawing it back. And there were the researchers saying, 'Hold on a minute, this is wrong.' The civil servants were saying, 'Spend it. Just get the money out of here.'" Arguably the most important single initiative was a £30m programme to run problem-oriented projects with the police. Like the rural car park and the pizza parlour, this can be simple: Oakham Castle in Leicestershire, for example, suffered a long spate of broken windows caused by vandals chucking rubble at the building. For several years the police tried and failed to control the vandals by occasionally hiding in the building and running out to arrest them - "both expensive and ineffective" as a Home Office report later concluded. Then they adopted the problem-oriented approach. Instead of going after the vandals, they went after the rubble. It was swept away and the windows were safe again. In other cases, this lateral approach can be hugely complex. The American criminologist George Kelling was recruited to advise on the epidemic of crime in the New York subway in the late 1980s. The police had tried to deal with the problem by harassing homeless people who slept in the subway; crime kept rising. Mr Kelling spent a year analysing the problem, asking who was in the subway, why, where did they live, what did they do? Armed with this data, he discovered that all the police officers and pundits who blamed the robbery on homeless people were wrong. The crime was being committed by a relatively small number of people who had homes and who treated the subway as a private playground. Once he had that under his belt, he could devise a strategy which targeted law enforcement on the core of robbers, helped the homeless people through social services, alerted the whole community through a publicity campaign, and finally cut subway crime by 80%. Mr Kelling now reports that there are days when the whole subway system is entirely free of crime. In Britain Lord Justice Taylor's 1989 report into the Hillsborough disaster is another striking example of wiping away crime with a prolonged and detailed analysis of its roots: his advice that all football spectators should be given seats, instead of wandering loose on terraces, bypassed conventional law enforcement and transformed crime and disorder in stadiums. But the very complexity of the approach was a danger. HM inspector of constabulary had just echoed the warnings of a sequence of earlier research that the police generally had not mastered the problem-oriented approach. He found (Beating Crime, 1998) that in 32% of the problem-oriented projects he examined, there was no evidence that the supposed problem even existed; that only 27% of the projects showed evidence of proper analysis; and that only 7% claimed to have succeeded. The researchers warned their civil servants that the initiatives would succeed only if the police were given two vital supports: time and training. But the civil servants said that was impossible: they had to spend the £30m before the Treasury's deadline. The result was that police were invited to bid for the money and given one month to come up with projects. To get rapid results, they were given no time or funds for training. The researchers watched in dismay as their most important project was launched into dangerously choppy water.At the same time they launched another key part of the programme - the reducing burglary initiative, funded by £24m. The plan was to use the problem-oriented approach to develop a package of measures tailored to local needs in a strategy that had been startlingly successful in pilots: in Kirkholt they cut burglary by 75% over three years; and later in Huddersfield they cut it by 30%. The police bid for the money in two rounds: 60 special projects which were to develop innovative tactics; a further 186 which would use a more traditional approach. The researchers wanted to divide all the money between the 60 ground-breaking schemes, but senior civil servants overruled them and divided the cash equally between all 246. Less than £100,000 each: it was not enough, the researchers warned, to guarantee success from any of them. And why were they all being given the same money regardless of their scope? By early 2000 some researchers were so despondent that they considered bypassing the civil servants and going direct to ministers to warn them of what was happening. But they shrunk back from mutiny. In the meantime the CDRPs had hit a new wave of troubles. Ministers who had already damaged them by denying them fuel now grabbed for the steering wheel and deliberately pushed them off course. Under pressure from Downing Street and the Treasury, who wanted quick, measurable and electorally attractive results, they used the 1999 Local Government Act to require all CDRPs from April 2000 to set new five-year targets for vehicle crime, domestic burglary and robberies. There was no longer any pretence of being guided by the voice of local communities. In the original CDRP audits, 87% had put domestic violence at the top of their list, but this was nowhere in the new key targets; only 8% of the partnerships wanted to focus on robbery, yet now it was one of the three main national objectives. Those CDRPs who had come up with the same priorities as the government had offered very different aims. The Home Office recorded that CDRPs chose targets for reducing vehicle crime by anything between 2% and 25%; Whitehall now ordered all of them to make a 30% cut. In the same way, the local schemes had set targets to cut burglary by between 1% and 16%; Whitehall ordered a cut of 25% from all of them. Beyond that, local needs changed, but Whitehall's new targets were set in stone for five years. And this whole move was produced, in the case of vehicle crime, by an unscripted public remark by the prime minister; and, with burglary and robbery, by internal negotiations between the Home Office and the Treasury. There was no attempt at consulting the CDRPs or even the police, many of whom to this day remain privately indignant at the distortion of their work.Using new tools to attack the roots of crime (continued)