Police have put 11 elite Armed Response Vehicles on alert across London in an attempt to combat the rising tide of violent carjacking.The units are manned by marksmen wearing body armour and armed with Heckler & Koch MP5 rifles and Glock handguns. They have been briefed by officers investigating a spate of recent attacks. Senior officers at Scotland Yard are determined to use a 'proportionate level' of force against the threat of carjackers. 'The public have to know we will do what we can to keep them safe,' said a senior source. MPs have welcomed the move. Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat spokesman for home affairs, said: 'Carjacking has to be nipped in the bud. Preventative and deterent measures seem the right response. Drivers should know they must take precautions but also that the police will turn up in force if they are needed.' There were 1,200 carjackings in the capital last year, including the violent theft of high-value cars and cases where teenagers were dragged off their mopeds. Although only 40 of these attacks were considered 'violent', the scale of the threat and high levels of public concern have prompted the latest move by Scotland Yard. Recent attacks have included estate agent Tim Robinson, 25, who was stabbed to death last month as he was parking his £20,000 Audi in Battersea, south London. In another case, company director Gloria Hamilton, 41, was on her way to collect her three children when she was stopped and assaulted by two men who then stole her £50,000 Mercedes. Experts say the crime has become attractive to opportunist thieves who previously concentrated on mugging and mobile-phone theft. As security systems improve, cars can only be stolen by inexperienced thieves if the keys can be taken from the driver. Firearms are more cheaply available than ever, with handguns costing just £50 on some black markets. But organised gangs have also taken advantage of the crime wave. Metropolitan police officers estimate that up to 20 gangs run much of the capital's carjacking. Up to 80 per cent of stolen cars are now recovered each year. The AA recommends that drivers fit tracking devices to their vehicles. 'The tactic has been very successful in the United States' said a spokesman. 'They cost about £400.' Carjackers tend to repeat the same crime and if the car is traced and they are caught, they get taken out of circulation, experts argue. Scotland Yard yesterday confirmed the deployment of ARV units. 'We currently have a team of investigators tasked with targeting these crimes,' a spokesman said. 'We have already experienced success by arresting one of the teams of perpetrators and have gathered good intelligence that we are disseminating to officers involved in 'Safer Streets' [a Met initiative against violent crime]. 'We would appreciate any information from the public on this matter.' nick.walsh@observer.co.uk