A millionaire businesswoman was jailed for eight years yesterday for trying to hire a hitman to murder her former partner and maim his new wife.Carol Ann Hunter had been described as a role model for women because of her success in making millions from a baby products company, but was told by the judge she was "capable of manipulation of the highest order".She had used the fact her lover, Anton Lee, was besotted with her to incite him to hire a hitman to kill Colin Love, the father of her two children, who had left her for another woman, Judith Love.Hunter later decided to have Mrs Love maimed or severely injured in a staged burglary.The plot was stopped when police learned of the conspiracy and used an undercover officer to trap Hunter and Lee. After meeting the officer, known as Darren, the businesswoman gave him £5,000, which was to be half his fee, but afterwards decided she only needed Mrs Love maimed - for her to be blinded or put in a wheelchairIn December Hunter, 50, of Chiswick, west London, was found guilty at the Old Bailey of inciting Lee, a financial adviser, to hire a hitman to kill the couple. Hunter had denied the charge, but pleaded guilty to soliciting grievous bodily harm with intent against Mrs Love. Lee, 54, of Stanmore, north-west London, had pleaded guilty to soliciting murder and was jailed for four years. The Old Bailey was told Hunter was incensed when Mr Love, 59, her partner of 22 years, had fallen in love with his old girlfriend after contacting her on Friends Reunited.Mr and Mrs Love moved into a country house he had bought and lived in with Hunter, leaving the businesswoman fearing she would lose it, and her children would be deprived of part of their inheritance.Judge Brian Barker, the common serjeant of London, told Hunter and Lee as he sentenced them: "It is a tragedy to see two people of ability, achievement and admiration in this court. You brought disgrace upon yourselves and pain and anguish to those who love you."He told Hunter: "You did not accept the obvious. You used your besotted lover to achieve your aims. You have the ability to control and get everything you want. You are a woman who can present two entirely different faces. You are capable of manipulation and callousness of the highest order."Sentencing Lee, who pleaded guilty at the earliest opportunity and gave evidence for the prosecution, the judge said his sentence could see him released this year, as: "I am satisfied you had a very early change of heart."After being sentenced Hunter looked up at the public gallery where Mr Love and their children were and shook her head.Outside court Detective Sergeant Nick Bush said Hunter had talked to the supposed hitman about killing her love rival as if she was talking about a business deal.Mr Love, who lectures at universities, said: "I still find it almost impossible to believe that an intelligent and gifted woman would contemplate such a plan without fully realising the downside of exposure and failure. In my opinion she has wrecked her life as a caring mother, career icon and female role model."