The government's current response to knife crime overlooks the full effect of life-threatening violence on victims and their families (Knife teenagers may be forced to visit victims in hospital, July 14). It is absurd of the home secretary to suggest that taking perpetrators to A&E departments or hospital wards will provide them with an insight into the harm that they have done. Survivors of violence may recover from physical wounds, but can also develop years of anxiety, adjustment disorders, depression, traumatic grief and, in one in four cases, post-traumatic stress disorder. These psychological wounds can blight the lives of victims and their families long after an attack, and cannot be understood by an assailant.A&E staff have enough to cope with, trying to preserve life and maintain a place of safety and calm for the victims. Do clinicians need the added (and totally untested) responsibility of dealing with escorted miscreants? Moreover, should the victim be subject to the possible risk of double traumatisation?Dr Patricia d'ArdenneClinical director, Institute of Psychotrauma, East London NHS trust If I have the misfortune to become a stabbing victim, I understand the government will arrange for me to be visited in hospital by a series of young criminals. Will this be in addition to, or in place of, visits from relatives and friends? I would urge the government to introduce a topic guide to avoid the embarrassing silences that might otherwise occur.Ian Nixey Marlow, BuckinghamshireThe proposals to awaken those guilty of knife crimes to the horror of their actions may help, but do not address the core problem. We must break the pattern of the habitual carrying of knives. One answer would be to widely publicise a four-week period of amnesty when knives, guns and other weapons should be handed in, and permits should be issued to those who can prove that they must carry knives or sharp instruments in the course of their work. It should also be announced that from the end of the amnesty period, for 12 months only, there will be automatic custodial sentences for anybody carrying weapons without a permit. If there are not enough prison spaces to house them, the government should rent some of the blocks of inner-city apartments that developers cannot sell at the moment.Andrew PapworthBillericay, EssexSince 1997 the number of offenders jailed for possessing a knife or bladed instrument has risen from just 300 a year to over a thousand, yet each year sets a new record for the number of victims of stabbings. Jail is evidently having no deterrent effect.Now that research has revealed that many of the young people involved are themselves repeat victims of serious crime and that violence is far more likely to be triggered by disputes over relationships than by control of territory or drug markets (Tactics against gangs fatally flawed - report, July 14), perhaps it is time for us to ask how we can help offenders, rather than always being swift to demonise and criminalise them.Instead of a presumption of jail for knife carriers, surely providing opportunities for relationships education would be a far better use of the £32,888 of tax-payers' money that it would otherwise cost to accommodate each new offender per year in our overcrowded prisons.Dr John HaywardExecutive director, Jubilee CentreI found Erwin James's piece ('I was drunk. The blade went straight into his eyeball', July 12) interesting, particularly the comments, supported by others, that these young men should be made to go into the army - bring back national service - in order that, if they want to fight so badly, they should be trained to fight for their country. While I am totally against the idea of these street fighters being taught to "fight", I would support bringing back a form of national service for all young people from the age of 16 to 18.This would have two effects. Being residential and accommodating the young people in barracks, it would split these youngsters from their friends and put them in units which were mixed in terms of ethnicity, education and background. Education, whether A-levels, vocational qualifications or basic literacy, would be compulsory, as would uniform, ranks and army-style drills. But rather than enhancing their fighting skills, each unit would undertake community national service, such as working on allotments, painting and decorating, and clerical work. The aim would be to turn out useful citizens at the age of 18 who would have the skills and knowledge to live life to the full.Carole UnderwoodKendal, CumbriaYour headline reads: "Greedy, rude adults 'fuelling teen violence'" (July 11). Yes, probably; but whence this culture? Look no further than the widescreen in the lounge. Far from reflecting society, soap writers, in their quest for ratings, push the boundary of storylines ever further. The results are served up as normal behaviour. And in between times, the most boorish and grasping aspirants are presented as role models on reality TV. It's becoming all too real!Barry HotsonSoutham, WarwickshireSo, according to our government's analysis, the greed and rudeness of parents is contributing to the culture of violence among our youth? Presumably it has nothing to do with the culture of greed, violence and disregard for human rights that characterise those who govern us. Next thing you know the government will be blaming us for the culture of junk-food consumption that has arisen through decades of government subsidies which encourage the production of cheap, low-grade meat, fats and starches. Oops, they already have, haven't they?Gregory SamsLondon