It was advertised to prospective tenants as 'totally private and hidden away, with an unmatched seclusion and charm'.And that appears to have made the Georgian mansion of Flass House in Cumbria ideal for its illicit use, as the largest secret cannabis farm ever discovered in the county.Police raided the country house this month but just missed the gang who had sealed off its 31 rooms, installed a generator and created a vast hidden greenhouse. Where once the affluent Dent family, tea traders who somewhat fittingly later moved into the Chinese opium trade, held soirees, lines of the illegal plant were installed with 24-hour lighting, watering and heat.The operation was traced thanks to local people who became suspicious about occasional activity at the mansion and the hum of the generator. Cumbria police were tipped off and installed surveillance, moving in shortly afterwards to search the house which stands in woods and water meadows on the edge of the sought-after village of Maulds Meaburn by the river Lyvennet.  Inside a secret cannabis farm. Photograph: Glenn Copus/The Evening Standard/PAInside they found an astonishing network of metal ducts, providing ventilation for the damp rooms, and a cannabis 'mother plant' the size of a Christmas tree which would have provided seeds for the crop. Detectives say that they intervened between crops, with scattered leaves the only trace of the recent harvest, and stacks of new compost ready for its successor.Insp Dave Willetts said that ducting was industrial scale, a foot wide, and there would clearly have been a number of people tending the harvest, living in blackout conditions to avoid suspicion. Rooms had been lined with insulation without the owners' knowledge and heavy industrial cabling installed to run the lighting and heating system.Detectivs are now on the trail of what they call a 'major criminal gang' who hoodwinked the mansion's owner into believing that they were renovating it. Willetts said:There is an ongoing inquiry to find out about the people in this particular case. We believe they have taken a crop from here already, as you can see from the evidence of a few leaves on the floor. They were in a period of transition, so they are not going to be able to come back.He appealed to other villagers in remote areas of the county to keep an eye out for similar goings on:If they notice blacked out windows, strange comings and goings, people who they haven't seen around before, generators going at empty buildings, give us a call and we'll investigate it.No value has yet been put on the crop harvested before the raid at the mansion, which has two four poster beds and a plasterwork frieze in its ballroom which was originally decorated by the Dents with real pearls.