A son tried to kill his 71-year-old widowed mother by pushing her off a packhorse bridge on Dartmoor into a rocky stream below, a jury was told yesterday. Christopher Farren-Hill had laid the groundwork for the murder plot by telling his mother's doctor that she was suffering from blackouts, Exeter crown court heard.While returning home in the dusk after a six-mile hike, Mr Farren-Hill asked his mother, Sylvia Coates, to go the edge of narrow stone bridge to have a look at glow worms he claimed to have seen in the river. When she peered over he shoved her, the court heard. She fell 5 metres (18ft) into the shallow River Tavy and suffered a double fracture of her pelvis but survived the fall.The court was told that Mr Farren-Hill and his mother had had a tempestuous relationship after he moved back in with her. A few days before the incident she served him with a legal order giving him notice to leave her cottage in Chagford, Dartmoor. She was also concerned about his temper.On the day of the alleged attack, in September last year, Mr Farren-Hill is accused of timing the walk so they would cross Mill Bridge in Chagford as night fell. Giving evidence, Mrs Coates, a retired naturalist and poultry farmer, said her son had told her he had seen a glow worm. "But I told him: 'You don't get them at this time of year'. He called me back and said: 'What's that in the river?' He sounded quite excited."I looked straight down and to my amazement I felt his hand on the back of my head. He pushed me downwards and I lost my balance and went head first."I felt a terrible shocking crump. Everything seemed to go in slow motion and I thought: 'He is killing me'. I gave an involuntary gasp and drew in water into my mouth. I tried to breath and found I was full of water."I did not see my son. I managed to look up and there was an eerie silence. It was very frightening. I was surprised I was still alive. I was very frightened because it would have been easy for him to find me and finish me off. If I had been knocked out at that time I definitely would have drowned."Mrs Coates said she shouted for help and persuaded her son to call an ambulance. She waited until he had gone before asking the rescuers to call the police and telling them she had been attacked.Martin Edmunds, prosecuting, said Mr Farren-Hill, 44, moved back in with his mother to look after her when she had two hip replacement operations but stayed on after she recovered. They had had a series of arguments, which led her to issue the eviction notice and suggest he seek help for his temper.Mr Edmunds said Mr Farren-Hill had prepared for the attack by telling her doctor his mother was suffering from blackouts. He said: "There is the clearest evidence this was a story he had to invent because he was going to stage a fall and he needed some explanation of how it came about. He needed to explain how his remarkably fit and agile mother, who was able to go on long and vigorous walks across the moors, should have tumbled from a bridge.Mr Edmunds said it was a "time of powerful emotions and great tension within the family". He added: "Something in this household was terribly wrong."Boatbuilder Mr Farren-Hill denies attempting to murder his mother.The trial continues.