Dear Chief ConstableAs you know, the Police Federation announced today that the overwhelming majority of officers in England and Wales who voted in the recent ballot rejected the package of reforms agreed in principle on 27 December.Under the PNB Constitution, the package now has to be referred to conciliation and, if that fails, to arbitration. There are parts of the package that are not arbitrable - for example, the changes to ill-health retirement, retention beyond 30 years, the ability to dismiss officers on grounds of poor attendance. They will have to be taken out of the package if it goes to arbitration, and we will pursue them separately. I am disappointed that the leaders of the Federation, both nationally and locally, failed to do what they said they would do - that is, recommend the package to the members. The time has come for the Official Side - ACPO, the Police Authorities and the Government - to ensure that rank and file officers understand what a very good deal this is for all concerned.The package would give all chief officers many of the reforms and management gains that you have told us you want. For example: · the move from statutory regulations to simpler determinations for many conditions of service will cut down on the bureaucracy and management time involved in trying to make sense of complicated legal instruments; · the changes to duty rostering and shift arrangements will produce much greater management flexibility in drawing up duty rosters and deploying officers. The changes to premium rates of pay will cut down on the penalties incurred when duty rosters are changed; ·the reductions in premium rates of pay, although not to plain rate, mark an important cultural change towards a more professional service; · the changes to ill-health retirement will mean that staff can be retained where they can do sufficient duties of the rank-boosting numbers at the same time; ·the proposals to retain staff beyond 30 years will also boost police numbers; · the new special priority payment will help to drive up performance by ensuring that those doing the most difficult tasks should get more than those, say, working 9 to 5 on a desk job at a police station; ·the competence-related payment for the most experienced officers is also a major change, introducing the concept of competence-related pay into the police service; · the changes to the rules for part-time working will bring greater flexibility to managers in deploying officers. A modernised pay and conditions system is an integral part of the overall police reform programme. Indeed, the other reforms will not be so effective in tackling crime if we do not get the reforms to pay and conditions as well. I am firmly on the side of rank and file officers, the vast majority of whom do an outstandingly professional job, day in and day out. We must make sure that they understand that this really is a good deal for them - not least, since it is worth around 4-5% of the pay bill with their annual pay award still to come. I accept that we can do better collectively to get the details over to frontline colleagues, and that we must be seen to be listening. You have a vital role to play in getting that message across and I also believe local BCU Commanders can contribute effectively to that process, which is why I would be very grateful if you could forward the enclosed message from me to each commander in your force. I look forward to working closely with you on this over the coming weeks. Yours Sincerely David Blunkett