Jeffrey Archer's first taste of freedom came at 8.17am yesterday, a little after his last taste of prison-issue Rice Krispies. His son, William, drove the family's dark green BMW along the leafy driveway of HMP Hollesley Bay, in Suffolk, and then, minutes later, there he was - unceremoniously deposited back into the real world, just like any other prisoner at the end of his sentence. Well, except for the BMW. And the Cambridgeshire mansion, and the London penthouse, and the art collection, and the extensive portfolio of investments.As triumphant releases from prison go, this wasn't exactly Nelson Mandela. The only waiting crowds were journal ists, and there were no impassioned speeches: indeed, bizarrely for Lord Archer, free after serving half of a four-year sentence for perjury and perverting the course of justice, there were no speeches at all. Instead, the unusually reticent peer let a new instalment of his prison diaries do the talking, revealing how he had paid prison "fixers" to provide him with luxuries in jail, and how he had continued to deal in art and jewels from his cell. From Hollesley Bay he sped through East Anglia to the Old Vicarage at Grantchester, a village of thin pavements and fat wallets, where, at around 10am, his wife Mary came out into the driveway of the £1.5m house to meet the car. Jeffrey grinned - that old, forgive-me grin, almost as if none of it had ever happened. Mary's face lifted. They kissed. Sporadically, well-heeled locals drove past in their Audis to shout "Bastards!" at the press. But the Archers themselves said nothing, a policy that they would stick to throughout a day that took the peer and novelist to his parole office in Stockwell, south London, and to the flat where he has elected to live. It seemed Lord Archer might be following the advice of political friends who expressed the hope that - unlike his past bouncebacks from disaster, notably his near-bankruptcy - he would relaunch himself more quietly this time. "If only he would draw a line under it," said one, who speculated that tabloid talk of a courtroom revenge on his enemies had been inspired by Lady Archer. "She has the longer memory for that sort of thing." Next came Stockwell, where Lord Archer, having decided to make his riverside flat his primary residence, was obliged to report to his probation officer. The slightest violation of his parole terms, he had been warned, could land him back in prison. In this context, William's decision to park the BMW on a single red line didn't count, but it didn't exactly look good. Of more genuine concern to the authorities will be Archer's prison diaries. In the latest extract, published in the Daily Mail yesterday, he describes paying another inmate at HMP Wayland in Norfolk to arrange a supply of Gillette Mach 3 razors, Cussons soap, soft pillows, a weekly laundry service, and the "least offensive" meal selections. "It's not Le Caprice - but it's not Belmarsh either," he writes. A Home Office spokeswoman said that such petty rule breaking might be examined as part of Archer's probation. "Previous wrongdoing that comes to light might be discussed," between the supervising officer and sentencing authorities, she said. After Stockwell, Lord Archer returned to his London flat. The earlier prospect that he would round off the evening with an appearance at Buckingham Palace, where his wife had been invited to a champagne reception for a Cambridge University foundation, seemed ever more distant. But later, Lord Archer did make an impromptu visit to the gallery of art dealer and friend Chris Beetles. "It was great to see him again. I thought he looked remarkably well as for two years I have only seen him in prison garb," Mr Beetles said. "It felt like old times. He was very cheerful and relaxed."Even by late afternoon, Lord Archer's unshakeable press following had begun to lose hope. At 4.45pm, Lady Archer had appeared at the flat to visit her husband. How had her day been, the reporters clamoured to know. Finally, breaking with the day's policy, she decided to say something. Hours of silence were about to be broken."Fine," she said. Criminal career Name: Lord Archer of Weston-super-Mare Age: 63  Place of birth: Weston-super-Mare  School: Wellington school, Somerset; Oxford department of education or Brasenose college (depending who you believe)  Qualifications: Three O-levels. According to biographer Michael Crick gave false qualifications to get on teacher training course  Worldly wealth: About £70m  Offence: Perjury, perverting the course of justice  Sentence: Four years (served two years and two days).  Lows: Being locked up 22 hours a day for three weeks in high-security Lincoln prison  Highs: Securing £500,000 for diaries Ambitions Getting revenge on home secretary, David Blunkett, and prison service director general, Martin Narey, for "unfair" treatment