The rose-shaped diamond ring which was among Sharon Osbourne's stolen jewels was, as she put it, "rather large". In fact, she estimated its size at "four inches by four inches across". No wonder she was upset: by anyone's standards, four inches squared is a lot of diamonds.Clearly, no one told the Osbournes that bling bling is over, and that the love token du jour is a rough, uncut diamond from west London jewellers Wint & Kidd. Sharon's taste in jewellery is more hip-hop than haute couture. With the exception of a traditional diamond "daisy chain" necklace from Asprey, a 20th-wedding anniversary present from her husband, her stolen pieces are noticeable for their tough, mannish look. Take, for example, the jaw-dropping 24-carat sapphire "swimming pool" ring, which was Sharon's present to herself for surviving a bout of cancer three years ago. As a symbol of her fighting spirit it is apt: a blunt, square-jawed, Arnold Schwarzenegger of a rock, a prizefighter's ring which makes up in punch what it lacks in poetry. As "probably the only 24-carat sapphire that is absolutely pure", it was, as its owner put it yesterday, a smart investment for her daughters. Her two jewelled watches are by Franck Muller, the brand also chosen by a certain Coleen McLoughlin as the perfect timepiece to grace the fair wrist of her fiance, Wayne Rooney. It is, of course, horrendously shallow to judge personal jewellery of great sentimental value on grounds of fashion. If a piece has sentimental value, it should not matter a jot whether it is chic, just as it should not matter whether it has great monetary value. As Ozzy Osbourne himself put it, it's not the money that matters, it's the memories. Interestingly, though, the wedding and engagement rings for which Sharon wept yesterday were not the ones worn at the couple's wedding more than 20 years ago. The two gold and diamond wedding bands and the diamond engagement ring were two-year-old replacements given at a renewal of vows, Sharon said yesterday, "because the first wedding band Ozzy bought me was from H Samuel". The engagement ring, from Tiffany, features an impressive 10-carat round diamond, significant because, as she put it, Ozzy "always said I was the perfect 10 and that when he had the money he would buy me a 10-carat diamond ring". Although, of course, it's not the money that matters.