The senior judiciary of England and Wales is as white and public school-educated today as it was 10 years ago, despite Labour's five years in power, a survey by the magazine Labour Research reveals today.The proportion of public-school educated judges appointed or promoted since Labour came to power is exactly the same as in the judiciary as a whole - 67%. And despite the lord chancellor's repeated commitment to a more diverse judiciary, fewer than 1% of judges comes from an ethnic minority. The few ethnic minority judges are all on the lowest tier, the circuit bench. There has never been a black or Asian judge in the high court, court of appeal, or House of Lords. Women have done slightly better, rising from 6% to 8.9% of the judiciary under Labour. The number of women in the court of appeal has risen from one to three. Unlike the supreme courts of the US and the Commonwealth countries, the UK's highest court, the House of Lords, has never had a woman judge. Canada, by contrast, has had women supreme court judges for 20 years and has a woman as chief justice, the top judicial job. The findings will add to growing pressure for an independent appointments commission to replace the current system, under which the lord chancellor makes appointments after consulting judges and senior legal figures. Critics say this "old boy" system produces clones of those already in place. The independent commission set up by the lord chancellor to monitor the appointments system - headed by Sir Colin Campbell, vice-chancellor of Nottingham University - described the judiciary in its first report in October as "overwhelmingly white, male, and from a narrow social and educational background". The survey was done by the Labour Research Department, an independent trade union oriented organisation. It shows that among the judges promoted under Labour to the court of appeal and House of Lords, the proportion who attended public school and Oxbridge was even higher than for those benches as a whole. While 78% of appeal court judges are products of public schools, the figure for those promoted under Labour was 86%. On appointments to the bench, rather than promotions, Labour did better. While 87% of high court family division judges went to public school and 57% went to Oxbridge, of Labour's appointments 83% went to public school and 20% to Oxbridge.