Soaring fear of crime has no relationship with actual crime, which is going down, and is one of the most intractable problems the government faces. This was reflected by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation's recent consultation into Social Evils, which highlighted fear and distrust as disturbing contemporary trends.Crime overall has been declining steadily since 1995, but given the reams of articles and authoritative statements about rising violent crime it is surprising to find that murder, attempted murder and serious wounding have all declined steadily every year since 2002 and that the figures for 2007/8 show that violence against the person is down again by 8% and most serious violence is down 12%, according to the Home Office. Although there is some recognition of this paradox, which the police call the "success gap", most people simply don't believe the figures, making it clear that it is the fear of crime, rather than crime itself, which is the problem. The media is partly responsible, focusing on horrific tales of tragic individuals without the necessary context and analysis, but the growing culture of fear is down to far more than the journalistic adage, "if it bleeds it leads".As fear has increased over the last decade the government's response has been the creation of an entire domestic policy agenda which aims to address fear of crime, with the enormous roll-out of CCTV and the antisocial behaviour agenda underpinned by the need to provide reassurance and help people feel safer. But the evidence points to the fact that it this approach of relying on more security and punitive zero-tolerance solutions which is part of the problem rather than the solution. With 4.2m CCTV cameras – more than in the whole of Europe put together – Britain is the most watched society in the world, and new technologies – such as drones or the unmanned spyplanes used in Iraq – are set to come on stream. This is the architecture of fear and, unsurprisingly, it doesn't make people feel safer. It may actually increase crime as well. Research published by the Scottish Office found that although the public had welcomed the introduction of CCTV, believing it would make them feel safer, there was no improvement in feelings of safety after it was installed and crime actually went up in the area studied. The report concluded that "the electronic eye on the street" undermines the "natural surveillance" of individuals by each other and represents a retreat from "collective and individual responsibility to self interest and a culture of fear".Alongside CCTV, concerns about security determine the look and feel of nearly all new development, based on a design strategy called Secured by Design. In town and city centres all around the country, new, privately owned and privately controlled shopping, office and leisure complexes – in the style of London's finance district Canary Wharf or the Broadgate Centre – are policed by private security. Nearly all new housing is also built according to this model, with high-security enclaves replacing traditional streets.Fear of crime does not correlate with actual crime but research shows that it is directly linked to levels of trust. Paradoxically, although these security-based policies, from CCTV to Secured by Design, are there to make us feel safer, because they are reducing trust between people they are doing exactly the opposite.