The jury that convicted Graham Coutts accepted that he acted out on the helpless Jane Longhurst a life-long fantasy of strangling, raping and killing a woman.What they were never told was that Coutts made a grim and terrifying prediction that he would, one day, actually carry out such an appalling crime. The warning was given to a former lover, Sandra Gates, in the 1980s, but was ruled inadmissible during lengthy legal argument before the trial began. Judge Richard Brown decided the remarks were too old to be properly relied upon, and that other disturbing evidence was out of date. But it is clear that Coutts, an arrogant drifter and dangerous sexual deviant who failed to make it as a professional musician, had in his mind horrific desires that would one day be played out on Ms Longhurst, 31. It can also now be revealed that the talented viola player once described Coutts as "unstable", although many who met him on the pub gig scene in Brighton described him as quiet and inoffensive. Sandra Gates, one of Coutts's sexual partners who consented to asphyxial sex, told police, in what might have been a piece of damning evidence, that he said to her during their relationship: "I get the most awful feelings that I am going to strangle, kill and rape a woman." Ms Gates also told police that during the same period she discovered pornographic photos of naked women in Coutts's home with hand-drawings of a hangman's noose around the neck of each girl. Coutts was born in 1968 in Leven, in the Fife area of Scotland, and attended Glenrothes school before his family moved south to Cheltenham. There he went to Westwoods grammar school before studying at the South Cheshire college of further education in Crewe. He never excelled academically and went on to have a string of dead-end jobs in the north-west, and later Brighton, including work with double-glazing and cleaning firms. Throughout his early adult life, Coutts had a string of lovers and one-night stands as he tried to cultivate his dream career as a professional guitarist. During the trial he said he began playing guitar at the age of 14, and in 1998 he was forced to take up work as a door-to-door salesman for Kleeneze to make ends meet. He became well known in pubs and clubs in Brighton and elsewhere in Sussex for playing in a Who cover band called Substitute, and in other groups called 17 Black and Big Bang. He confessed that he developed an unnatural fetish for women's necks at the age of 15, and by the age of 21 he was practising asphyxial sex, or as he called it "breath control sex". Two of his former lovers, Ms Gates and Nicola Stainthorpe, told how sex with Coutts was normal at first but quickly became "adventurous". Ms Stainthorpe said: "He would tie me up with a stocking, or the cord of a dressing gown. He would like to stroke my neck. He wanted me to put my hands around his neck and press harder and harder so when it got near the end it would make him pass out. "He put his hands around my neck, and he wanted to make me black out but I never let him. He would put pressure on my windpipe. He would use a stocking. He would tie it around my neck and pull at either end." Both Ms Stainthorpe and Ms Gates insisted Coutts would always break off his demands when asked. When asked why she let him practise his desires on her, Ms Stainthorpe said: "I was in love with him. I wanted to make him happy." But there were signs of his taste for violence. Ms Gates said that her being upset or distressed would sexually excite him. Coutts met Ms Longhurst through his then-girlfriend, Lisa Stephens. Ms Longhurst and her partner, Malcolm Sentance, 34, apparently felt comfortable around him. Mr Sentance, an education welfare officer with West Sussex county council, played tennis with Coutts two summers ago and Ms Longhurst went swimming with him on at least half a dozen occasions.Ms Longhurst and Mr Sentance often went to Coutts and Ms Stephens's flat in Hove, where Coutts would later strangle his victim to death. Mr Sentance displayed in court his conviction that his partner had no sexual interest in Coutts, something his defence team claimed when arguing that Ms Longhurst had "fallen into the arms" of the defendant because she was unhappy with Mr Sentance. He stormed out of Court 1 at Lewes crown court in a defiant display of disgust at the suggestion that, in a moment of despair, his loving partner may have consented to asphyxial sex with Coutts. The court heard that Ms Longhurst and Mr Sentance were planning to move to Bath together, and had plans to start a family. One friend of Ms Longhurst revealed that she had doubts about Coutts's mental state and feared for Ms Stephens's safety.The trial heard much about Coutts's self-confessed seven-year addiction to internet pornography, and how he had surfed for images of dead and strangled women on the day before he murdered Ms Longhurst. There was a grim question mark over exactly what he did with Ms Longhurst's naked body, which he stored for 35 days before setting it alight on Wiggonholt Common, near Pulborough, West Sussex. But records taken from his computer showed his use of the net to visit sites dealing with necrophilia, rape and asphyxia came to a halt during the time he was visiting Ms Longhurst's naked body at the Big Yellow Storage Company in Brighton. The implication clearly made to the jury was that Coutts was taking some form of sexual pleasure from his "trophy", only resuming his use of the internet once he had been forced to dispose of the corpse.