We know that, already this year, 31 young people have been killed in knife attacks this year. That's a shocking enough statistic, but as Cherie Booth suggests, it doesn't begin the describe the scale of the problem. As hundreds marched this week to mourn the death of Ben Kinsella, the capital's 17th teenage murder victim this year, I was forced to recall my own juvenile acquaintance with knives.Growing up in a generation fed on a staple diet of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles cartoons and Terminator films, I was naturally awestruck by the arsenal of shiny blades and air guns that surrounded me in the dingy camping store where I stood in my school uniform. "Such power in such inanimate objects," I thought to myself. Before I could reach the handle of the largest and most menacing serrated blade, my mother apprehended my arm and impatiently asked the shopkeeper which knife would best suit my purpose. I was going on my first camping trip as part of the Duke of Edinburgh Award and needed a knife to complete some of the tasks. Despite my protests, the two agreed on the smallest and most innocuous foldable knife in the cabinet and I was quickly dragged out of the shop. Nevertheless, I was thrilled by my new "toy" and soon began religiously sneaking it out of the house on every outing. The thought of slicing the organs of somebody's son and spending the rest of my youth in a cell never crossed my mind. I was only 15. I didn't want to kill anyone. I didn't even want to hurt them. But, like all human beings, I did want to be respected. As I practised opening and folding the blade with the same pride a company executive takes in clicking a new Mont Blanc pen, the only emotions I felt were fear and power. I had been humiliated in public for too long by racists who randomly chased me home from school and armed muggers who casually demanded my possessions on an almost monthly basis. The police did nothing, even once accusing me of attempting mobile phone insurance fraud after I reported being mugged at knifepoint. The teachers were too scared to intervene. I had had enough. Growing up felt like a constant struggle for survival akin to life depicted in tough American prison soaps. I was constantly looking over my shoulder. Yet, I didn't come from a broken home or live in urban squalor. My parents worked hard to ensure their modest incomes stretched to meet my every need and they instilled in me a traditional Asian ethos for respecting authority. My GCSE results were in the top 5% of the academic year; I was a member of the borough youth council and even served as a school prefect. In truth, I had everything going for me – yet my life felt worthless. All that mattered – in the playground and on the street – was the status achieved through one's capacity to inflict violence on anyone who uttered any perceived slur. So-called gangsters easily attracted the most friends and prettiest girls in the same way that millionaires tend to do in adulthood. The media exacerbated the problem by romanticising boorish behaviour on almost every film and TV show we watched. We were bombarded by the message that masculinity is achieved through cavalier behaviour, brute strength and an accumulation of expensive possessions. With no legal means by which to achieve this "universal goal", many of the young men in my generation turned to violence, robbery and narcotics. It gave them a sense of power and negated the control exerted upon them by bossy teachers, parents and police officers. Determined to end my own ignominy, I too bought into the misguided ideals of the gangsters. In my short-sightedness, I took up boxing and many of the other vices of my new associates at the expense of my education and health. Gang mentality was defined by pride and loyalty. We believed that attackers would only ever do what they thought they could get away with. It was, therefore, imperative to respond with rapid and disproportionate violence to any outsider that uttered the slightest slur to a fellow member. Fights were common. On one occasion, I was stabbed in the leg and stomach with a piece of glass after a nightclub brawl. A close friend nearly lost his eyesight when the point of an umbrella was driven into his face on his way home from college. Another was lucky to survive after a broken bottle was rammed into his neck. Thankfully, none of our injuries were lasting, despite several such encounters. As we grew older and our reputations were established, confrontations became rare and most gang time was spent hanging around in streets and car parks late at night smoking cigarettes, playing football and dreaming about women and wealth. We never dabbled in hard drugs, stole or deliberately intimidated innocent passers-by. We were just kids trying to be respected as men. Thankfully, I never needed to use a knife; eventually, I threw it away in my late teens. After constant pressure from my family I scraped into university, where I slowly distanced myself from gang life. As adulthood dawned upon us my former friends also realised that heroism did not come from imitating Rambo on the streets of London. For some, the epiphany came too late. As Britain grieves for a new stabbing or shooting victim almost every week, we must recognise that legal measures are not enough to curb this ominous trend. Yes, there should be tighter controls on the sale and possession of deadly weapons. Yes, there should be measures in place to tackle youth crime and violence before they turn into more sinister statistics. But such measures will be futile unless we change the mindset of young people. The media has a major role to play. It is hypocritical to shower young boys with adverts for Action Man toys, "shoot 'em up" computer games and violent action films and then turn around in sanctimonious condemnation when some of those same boys start imitating what they have grown accustomed to. Children must be made to feel valued for all their achievements, even if they don't come first on the sports field or in the classroom. Positive reinforcement and a stake in the future are the only bulwarks against the rise in gang culture.• This article was amended on 15 July 2013 to change the byline. Cyrus Singh is a pseudonym.