At a pub near Gary Dobson's home in Eltham, it was silence as usual yesterday. 'We just don't talk about Gary or the other boys,' said the publican. 'It's a South London thing.'A few miles away at the mock-Tudor mansion in Chislehurst, Kent, David Norris, son of the gangster Clifford, lives with his mother, Teresa. Norris's blue Ford Fiesta was in the drive, but repeated buzzing of the intercom drew no response. Since the Lawrence inquiry ended last summer, the five white youths accused of his murder have lain low. Apart from Dobson, who still lives 200 yards from the spot where Lawrence was killed six years ago, all have moved from the immediate area while they wait for publicity to die down. Last week their families sent off two letters of complaint: to the Press Complaints Commission about a black newspaper seeking their new addresses; and to the producers of Friday night's London Weekend Television programme that revealed the five's involvement in 12 previous racial attacks in Eltham. Their new addresses are already well known to police and private detectives hired by the Lawrence family. Neil and Jamie Acourt live with their mother, Pat, in Greenwich, while Luke Knight lives just a few miles to the south-east. Ironically, laws against 'racial incitement' forbid their addresses to be published. The only way they can find work is through family connections. Having been forced to abandon college and his bricklayers' apprenticeship, Dobson does occasional work for his father's construction firm, while the Acourts work part-time in their uncle's Woolwich bottling business. Jamie Acourt still plays football for a local team in Blackheath. Neil indulges his passion for fishing. Only Norris lives in any kind of style, but that may not last. Customs are seeking possession of his mother's five-bedroom Chislehurst home, claiming Clifford Norris, serving six years for drugs and firearms offences, bought it with cash from drug deals. 'They have made life very difficult for themselves,' says author Brian Cathcart, who is writing a book on the case. 'Their friends by and large have drifted away, forcing them to band more tightly together. Even if they wanted to move on, they can't.' If their parents' letter to LWT last week is any guide, the five are feeling the pressure. They said their sons were 'being victimised for a political cause and crucified and tried by the media. Most people have prejudged this case because of the adverse publicity, we would ask that they look at this case with an open mind.' Unless and until the five are willing to give a full public account of their actions, however, that would seem to be a forlorn hope.