Human remains found in a forest are almost certainly those of Milly Dowler, the Surrey schoolgirl who disappeared six months ago, police said last night.The remains, understood to include a skull and ribs, were discovered by mushroom hunters in woodland in Hampshire, 25 miles from the girl's home. DNA tests will be needed to confirm that the remains are those of the 13-year-old. However, a check with Milly's dental records leaves little doubt. Detective Chief Superintendent Craig Denholm, of Surrey police, said: "Our worst fears have been confirmed and I have to tell you that the search for Milly Dowler has changed from a missing persons inquiry into a murder investigation."My team and I remain committed, as we always have been, to finding out exactly what happened to Milly. We are now much closer to discovering that and bringing the person or persons responsible to justice." Milly's parents, Sally, a teacher, and Robert, an IT consultant, and her elder sister, Gemma, 16, were being comforted by family liaison officers and friends. Milly vanished on the afternoon of March 21. After leaving a cafe where she had been with friends, she began walking to her home a mile away in Walton, Surrey. When she failed to return, a huge hunt was launched and police concluded that she was taken by an opportunist abductor. The remains were found by a man and woman who were hunting for mushrooms on Wednesday afternoon in Yateley Heath forest, near Fleet. Possibly because they were not supposed to be there - public access is not allowed - the pair did not report what they saw until 24 hours later. When they contacted the police in Surrey, officers from the force unusually crossed the border into Hampshire and examined what the couple had found. They then informed their Hampshire colleagues. Police at first played down the find, though Milly's parents were told. It became clear that police suspected the remains were of Milly when Det Ch Supt Denholm arrived at the scene early yesterday. The forest was sealed off and a white shelter erected over the remains, which were inspected in situ by the home office pathologist, Hugh White. Later a forensic orthodontologist concluded that the remains were "almost certainly" Milly's after studying the remains at the North Hampshire hospital in Basingstoke. Detective Superintendent Alan Betts, of Hampshire police, refused to say if there was evidence that the body had suffered injuries. It is understood there was little damage to the skull. Mr Betts said he could not say how long the remains had been there. Between 30 and 40 officers spent yesterday combing the woods. The area is lonely and the forest floor dark even during the day. But it is only a few minutes off the M3. An abductor could have entered the woods 20 minutes after picking Milly up.