A failed businessman who shot dead his mother as bailiffs moved in to repossess their home was jailed for life today.Kevin Burbidge, 50, shot Marion Merritt, 71, four times in the head with a handgun as officials arrived with an eviction notice.Gun fanatic Burbidge then shot dead their four pet dogs and set fire to the £250,000 bungalow where he and his mother had lived for most of their lives.He phoned a friend afterwards and said: "Mum's gone, the dogs are gone and in 15 minutes I'll be gone – I'm going to blow my brains out," Bournemouth crown court heard.His attempt at killing himself failed, however, and he gave himself up to armed police who had been called by the bailiff.The court was told Burbidge had £109,000 of debt against his mother's home on a pub he and a friend had bought. The business failed and he quickly fell into arrears with Northern Rock.On the morning of March 3 last year a bailiff and locksmith went to the Burbidges' home in Poole, Dorset, to evict the couple.When Burbridge became aggressive, the bailiff went outside to call for help when he heard the gunshots.Nick Haggan QC, prosecuting, said: "He heard a couple of bangs coming from the rear of the property. He thought the defendant was securing packing cases and the noise was made by a nailgun."But he has army experience and when he heard further similar noises he was able to identify those as shots fired by a handgun. He thought he heard about 10 shots."Shortly afterwards, smoke was seen coming out from the eaves, chimney and skylight. It was plain that the property was on fire."The court heard that Burbidge shot his mother twice in the side of the head. When he heard her murmur he shot her twice more in the back of the head.A family friend who was outside the house telephoned Burbidge and asked what was going on.Haggan said: "The defendant said that it was all too late, the house was on fire and he was going to let it burn so they couldn't have it and then he was going to do himself."About 11.09am the defendant telephoned his close friend, Andrew White, and told him: "Mum's gone, the dogs are gone and in 15 minutes I'll be gone – I'm going to blow my brains out."When police arrived they found Burbidge in the side passage holding a shotgun. He told them: "Don't come any closer, I don't wish you any harm. They are all dead." He gave himself up moments later.Haggan said: "Firemen entered the property and found the defendant's mother kneeling by the bed. She had been shot four times in the side and back of the head by a handgun at fairly close range."Burbidge told police that he and his mother regularly argued but said: "At the end of the day I still love the silly cow and she loves me."Haggan said Burbidge claimed his mother had asked him to shoot her as she lay face down on her bed. "The defendant claims she said, 'Do it'. He said, 'No. Go' and she said, 'No, do it.'"He said he shot her and then intended to shoot himself. He returned to his mother's bedroom [and] told police he could hear her making a noise so he shot her again twice."The court heard that in 2000 Burbidge and a friend decided to raise money to take over an ailing pub in Poole. He remortgaged his mother's home with Northern Rock for £109,250 secured against the bungalow.But the venture floundered and Burbidge fell into arrears with the repayments. In 2005 he avoided eviction by raising £9,000 but soon fell behind again and an eviction order was due to be put in force on the day of the shootings.Jailing Burbidge for life, Justice John Royce said "This is a highly unusual and tragic case. You are now aged 50 and 13 Lulworth Crescent had been your home for many, many years. Your mother had lived there for almost the whole of her life."It is clear you reached the stage of real desperation that you realised you and your mother were going to lose your home."Burbidge, who refused to offer mitigation, pleaded guilty to murder. He admitted two counts of possessing illegal firearms – two handguns – and one of the illegal possession of ammunition.Family and friends described Merritt as a doting mother.