It is a question reasonably asked by every householder: is my area safe? Police forces have various strategies to reassure them; visibility, connectivity. Most of all there are statistics. The trouble is, the figures we cite most often may be totally unreliable and leave us with a false sense of security.The latest report from Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) addresses crime-reporting practices. It says that police compliance with Home Office counting rules is improving but varies from force to force, and overall is still not good enough. This might invite people to conclude that your average local police officer is, for some peculiar reason, determined to dishonestly suppress official crime figures. HMIC could not possibly say this – and I wouldn’t have when I worked there – but there is, and long has been, an underlying and unhealthy political game that creates and drives performance fraud.Home Office counting rules are arcane and full of irrationalities. This never used to matter before our political parties started to use reported-crime figures as a weapon in a battle over who could be toughest on crime. Back then crime figures were not treated as incontrovertible laser-sharp measures of police effectiveness and integrity.What crimes get recorded and how they are counted are political choices. Recorded crime never has been, and certainly isn’t now, a reflection of the actual incidence of crime in society. The Crime Survey of England and Wales is accepted as a more accurate reflection, but even that is far from infallible. Reducing the number of reported burglaries and robberies is hailed as a political triumph, but many criminologists take the different view that today’s young offenders are, for a variety of reasons, less inclined to burglary and robbery than those of 10 and 20 years ago – and more inclined to cyberfraud and phone scams, both still widely under-reported.Crime in prisons is almost entirely unreported to police. When – as the police adviser to the prison service – I set up an experiment in which all crimes in one Lancashire prison were reported to police for three months, the prison emerged as the local force crime hotspot.It is well established that rape is under-reported, some surveys suggesting that as few as one in 10 are officially logged. And we are only just beginning to see how much child abuse has gone unrecorded over the years. So let’s not pretend that reported crime figures are hugely meaningful. While variations in performance can be interesting, it is as foolish to blame police for the incidence of crime as to blame doctors for the incidence of disease.Alongside that political failing is a lamentable failure of the police command culture. For years now, when politicians have instructed police chiefs to dance to this tune, they have danced. Promotions, knighthoods and peerages can turn on that dance. Occasionally some brave soul of a serving chief officer has stood up and denounced this circus, but it never ends happily for them, even when they have only done it behind closed doors.In the past 25 years there has been a great enlightenment in operational police culture, with “noble cause corruption” – the end justifying the means – all but eliminated, and racism and sexism largely rejected. But there has not been equivalent progress in command culture. There remains a powerful imperative to bear down on junior ranks to deliver “better” outcomes. The modern term is “intrusive management”. I have always preferred to call it bullying.An article in the Observer last April headlined “Police officers despise fiddling crime statistics, says expert” had the subhead: “Criminologist says many officers in England and Wales scandalised by widespread manipulation of figures”. The criminologist, Marian FitzGerald, was right.The “fiddling” takes place below the gaze of those who require it. The pressures are unofficial but, in a regimented, hierarchical organisation, often so intense as to be hard to resist. I am sure HMIC must know that, and would have reported it had it found evidence amounting to a smoking gun. But of course it won’t find that evidence: who would be so careless as to leave that lying around for HMIC to discover; and who would be so foolish as to blow the whistle?The big challenges facing police – especially in these times of severe budget cuts in the name of austerity – are around intelligent deployment of resources and issues of productivity. Those of us engaged in trying to articulate these challenges in the 2008-09 independent Review of Policing hoped that crude performance measures might become no more than a basis for sophisticated discussion. Some chance of that happening, it turns out: even now.