Footage of the final one of the July 7 bombers to detonate his device was shown today to the inquest into the 52 victims of the terrorist attacks in 2005.It showed Hasib Hussain, at age 18 the youngest of the four, having first to buy a replacement battery to be able to set off his bomb, and thereby missing the prearranged moment to detonate allegedly agreed with the others.After trying to contact them by phone (when they were already dead), he is seen on CCTV getting off one bus and on to another outside King's Cross station, before finally setting off his device.In one clip, he is seen to set down the "highly unstable" rucksack outside WH Smiths at King's Cross and rummage around in it for a considerable time before removing what police say is a battery.The next video played to the court shows him buying a 9 volt Duracell Plus at £4.49, paying with a five pound note. CCTV footage outside a nearby McDonald's records he spent eight minutes inside the restaurant; police believe he was replacing the bomb's battery.On the inquest's fourth day, families of the victims watched Hussain's onward journey to board a No 30 bus. He then exploded his bomb at Tavistock Square, killing 13 people and injuring 110.A number of CCTV cameras around King's Cross filmed Hussain emerging from the concourse on to a pavement packed with commuters holding umbrellas; many had been evacuated from the underground following the explosions, when Mohammed Sidique Khan, Shehzad Tanweer and Jermaine Lindsay had blown themselves up to devastating effect.He is seen to weave through the crowds, as if unsure of where he is going. At 9.17am, he is seen at Gray's Inn Road, with a mobile phone to his ear. The court was told by Hugo Keith QC, counsel for the inquests, the call was to try to contact Lindsay, "who is of course, dead by then".Earlier, the inquest heard how Hussain made calls to each bomber in turn. Police believe he intended to detonate his device with the others at a pre-arranged time, 8.50am, but his battery failed. By the time he had replaced it, the underground had been evacuated.Detective Inspector Ewan Kindness, told the inquest that the final sighting was on Euston Road opposite King's Cross station, where Hussain changed direction before boarding a No 91 bus, according to witnesses. When the bus terminated just a few blocks away, he boarded the No 30.No footage from the destroyed bus remains. However, the inquest was shown CCTV from the Ambassador Hotel, and the British Medical Association, where the bus can be seen passing, and then, moments later, people are seen ducking for cover as the bomb explodes out of sight.Earlier, the court was shown CCTV from the platform at Liverpool Street of the Circle Line train, which would, seconds later, explode at Aldgate. The platform is seen to fill with smoke and people run for cover.Earlier, the inquest heard that documents at the "bomb factory" in Alexandra Grove, Leeds, suggested the four may have planned to strike the BBC Television Centre in west London. Tickets found at the property indicate Lindsay did reconnaissance surveys in the capital between January and April 2005. Three of the four are known to have done a final preparation trip on 28 June which mirrored 7 July.Records from phones suggest that Khan postponed planned attacks early in the morning of 6 July, when he sent a text message to Linsday. It read: "Havin major prob. Cant make time will ring ya when i got it sorted wait at home." At 4.41, Lindsay replied: "No Bullshit doctor! Fix it!"Earlier, the court heard of confusion, delays and lack of communication at King's Cross as injured commuters evacuated the smoke-filled tunnels after Lindsay set off his bomb, killing 26 people.Faiz Patel, one of the first to descend to the Piccadilly line platform, told the inquest of his frustration at the delays in summoning help for injured passengers.Patel, a London Underground customer services assistant, said that as shocked passengers emerged from the tunnel, one of them "quite angrily" said that there were dead people on the train."That was the first that anyone had heard of it," he told the court.He said that a station supervisor, who was new to the job, seemed flustered and reluctant to act, so Patel radioed the control room himself. Shortly afterward, he walked down the tunnel towards the wrecked train, where he noticed a body on the tracks. The man was plainly dead.For the next three hours he stayed at the scene, acting as a runner between the train, where London Underground radios did not work, and the platform from where messages could be relayed. Each round trip took around 10 minutes.Patel said: "What you have got to bear in mind is people, members of staff and two BTP officers that were inside the tunnel, near the incident train, who could actually witness what was going on - their radios were not working.The only way the message could be relayed to the control room was in person, he said.Patel said that, while working in the station concourse, he had heard reports of smoke coming from the Piccadilly Line tunnel, radioed from a colleague at the platform. But while he stayed at the scene until midday, it was not until he watched the television news that he realised the incident had been caused by an explosion.Asked whether he had been told, for instance, that British Transport Police, had declared a major incident, he said: "Up until I actually left the site, I had not received any information about any type of bombing or any type of major incident."The inquest continues.