A nurse was today convicted of murdering four elderly patients with lethal doses of the diabetes drug insulin.Colin Norris, 32, who worked at two hospitals in Leeds, was also found guilty of the attempted murder of another elderly woman.The trial at Newcastle crown court heard that suspicions were raised when Norris, of Elgin Terrace, Glasgow, predicted the death of a patient. The patient, Ethel Hall, slipped into a fatal coma later on his shift. Hall, 86, from Calverley, Leeds, was recovering after hip surgery at Leeds General Infirmary at the time of her death. Tests found around 12 times the normal level of insulin in her blood. West Yorkshire police looked into earlier deaths while Hall was working at the infirmary and the city's St James's hospital. They found three other women, none of whom were diabetics, had died from insulin overdoses. The staff nurse was found guilty of the murders of Doris Ludlum, 80, of Pudsey, Bridget Bourke, 88, of Holbeck, at the infirmary between June and December 2002, and the murder of Irene Crooks, 79, of Leeds, at St James's in October 2002. The jury also found him guilty of the attempted murder of Vera Wilby, 90, of Rawdon, at the infirmary. She recovered from an unexpected hypoglycaemic attack in 2002 but died a year later.Norris was arrested on December 11 2002, but released on bail pending further inquiries. His employers, the Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, suspended him the next day.He was eventually charged with the four murders and one attempted murder on October 12 2005. Norris will be sentenced tomorrow morning.Speaking outside the court after the verdict, detective chief superintendent Chris Gregg said the nurse faced a lengthy prison sentence.He described Norris as an "extremely arrogant individual" who was "looking for opportunities to kill"."While others around him were duly caring for patients, he was looking for opportunities to kill by poisoning them with insulin," said Gregg. "Within a six month period Norris murdered four women and attempted to murder another. His confidence was growing to such an extent he clearly felt he could kill with impunity." The families, in a statement issued through West Yorkshire police, welcomed the guilty verdict. They said: "We are pleased with today's verdict, which brings to an end a lengthy investigation which has been like a black cloud hanging over us for five long years. "Our relatives, Ethel Hall, Vera Wilby, Doris Ludlam, Bridget Bourke and Irene Crookes, went into hospital to receive treatment and recover."However due to the actions of this man, a person from whom they should have received care and been able to trust, they passed away. He cut short their lives and their precious time with their children, grandchildren and in some cases great-grandchildren."Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust apologised to the victims' families for their relatives' premature deaths. Its medical director, Dr Hugo Mascie-Taylor, said the trust had since increased the use of CCTV and had a permanent police presence on site.David Scutt, the Crown Prosecution Service reviewing lawyer, said: "Colin Norris preyed on his patients at a time when they were at their most trusting and most vulnerable. Each was elderly and had undergone major surgery for hip fracture repair; each also had other serious underlying medical problems. "His choice of insulin or anti-diabetic agents to poison them showed a degree of careful planning. "Our thoughts and sincere condolences go out to the victims and their families at this time."