Legislation introduced five years ago to stop defence lawyers asking rape complainants about their previous sexual experience is too restrictive and risks denying defendants a fair trial, according to a study published today which interviewed more than 70 judges.Judges are at pains to "interpret" the law so as to allow questions to be asked where they believe it relevant and necessary for a fair trial, but in some cases they feel constrained to deny the request even where they feel this is unfair to the defendant. The research, funded by the Criminal Bar Association and the University of Wales, Aberystwyth, was carried out by Neil Kibble of the university's law department. He interviewed 70 circuit judges, four high court judges, three appeal court judges - Lords Justices Judge, Rose and Thomas - and Lord Steyn, a law lord. The judges described the legislation, section 41 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999, as "an impenetrable maze", "a dog's breakfast", and a "nightmare". One said: "To have something as monstrously badly drafted as section 41 on the statute book is a disgrace." Before 1999, it was left to the trial judge's discretion whether to allow complainants to be cross-examined on their sexual history. Critics complained that the discretion was too widely exercised, allowing defence lawyers to put prejudicial and irrelevant information before the jury. The government legis lated to remove judges' discretion and allow such questioning only in very narrowly constrained circumstances. As soon as the new law was introduced, a man accused of rape challenged it, arguing that he would be denied a fair trial if he could not tell the jury that he and the woman he was accused of raping were not strangers but knew each other and had had sex in the week before the alleged rape. The case went all the way to the House of Lords. There, it was ruled that the law would have to be inter preted less strictly to allow evidence of recent sex with the defendant. Had it not been for that ruling, the law would have been unworkable, said the judges interviewed for the study. But it had had a salutary effect in focusing lawyers' and judges' attention on what questions were relevant and could be properly asked. The report says: "Judges were highly sceptical of the argument that sexual history evidence was overwhelmingly prejudicial and should therefore generally be excluded. Their responses suggested that the question of the prejudicial effect of sexual history evidence was not as clear-cut as some critics would suggest." The judges speculated on the reason for the low conviction rate in rape cases. One said: "Juries always want a victim who is as pure as driven snow. Particularly women on juries are very particular about young girls who go out and have nine vodka ices and then march off to some flat with a bloke. "I don't think there are many women on a jury who are particularly sympathetic in that situation. "I think they like their victims to be victims who have on the whole behaved in a pretty reasonable way and have not brought this on themselves in any respect." Another commented: "Juries here are usually pretty happy to convict in most cases, but they will not convict in date-rape cases and especially if there has been a history of the two of them out drinking together. "I've had maybe four or five of those cases and in not one has there been a conviction, even though when I see the witness in the witness box I believe her. "I think parliament is totally out of touch with the way the public view this sort of thing. "It's not politically correct to say there are different kinds of rape, but for the people in the street there is a difference, and unless they begin to grapple with that the statistics on rape convictions will remain as dire as ever."