A 14-year-old boy who killed his promising footballer friend has been detained for six years under tougher guidelines for knife crime.Michael Ematuwo was 13 when a flick knife he was waving around to ward off another youth accidentally struck his friend Jahmal Mason-Blair, 17, who was trying to stop the fight.  Jahmal Mason-Blair, 17, had trials at Tottenham, Reading and Watford football clubsJahmal, who had trials with Tottenham, Watford and Reading football clubs, bled to death from a severed artery in his neck. Ematuwo, of Hackney, east London, pleaded guilty to manslaughter last month.Sentencing, Judge Paul Worsley told the Old Bailey that new guidelines from the lord chief justice came into force today meant jail terms had to be a deterrent."It was the carrying of a knife which led to the death of Jahmal," he told the defendant. "You have destroyed the life of his family. Jahmal was the bright star in the lives of his family. He was a decent, popular boy and a talented footballer. He was a boy who met his death trying to stop violence, not causing it."The judge said he accepted that Ematuwo had not intended to harm anyone with the knife.The court was told the defendant was born in Nigeria and had been sent to live with an aunt by his father. He had been befriended by Jahmal, who played for Borehamwood football club in Hertfordshire.Richard Whittam QC, prosecuting, said an older boy had taken Ematuwo's bicycle. He had gone with Jahmal to collect it but was attacked with a plank. He took out the flick knife and was waving it around to frighten the other youth.Whittam said: "Tragically, Jahmal Mason-Blair, the young man who had been trying to stop the fight, was struck with the knife. It appears he had his back to the boy when he swung with his arm and the knife struck."Jahmal died "almost instantly" after the stabbing in Hackney on 23 May.Lady Mallalieu QC, defending, said the offence had been motivated by fear. "This is a young man who has lost a friend," she said.Jahmal's father, Wesley Blair, said his son had gone out that night because he had been late coming home from his job as a bus driver. He added: "I think about him playing football and never being able to see him playing again."Jahmal's mother, Tetela Raphael, who has remarried and lives in America, said Jahmal had been due to fly to the US for trials with teams there.