The family of a young boy who was killed by a speeding car condemned the two-year jail sentence imposed on the driver as "no justice".Callum Oakford, known as CJ, was crossing a road with his brother and a friend in Ferring, West Sussex, on New Year's Day when he was hit by 38-year-old Kamel Kadri's Renault 5. Kadri failed to stop and the nine-year-old died later of his injuries. Kadri, an illegal immigrant from Algeria, was jailed after pleading guilty to leaving the scene of the accident, failing to report it, having no insurance or tax, and using a false passport. He received eight months for the motoring offences, and 16 months for the passport offence, to run consecutively. He was also disqualified from driving for two years. Outside Chichester crown court, Callum's sister Kathryn Proudfoot said the sentence amounted to only four months for each of the serious motoring offences. "I am furious. There is no justice. He gets four months and I lose my brother. He didn't even have a licence to lose." Ms Proudfoot said the family thought Kadri should have been charged with manslaughter. Callum's mother Lynn Oakford added: "No sentence will ever satisfy our feeling about CJ not being here anymore." Sentencing Kadri, Judge Anthony Thorpe said it was clear he had been breaking the 50 mph speed limit. He told the defendant, who was initially arrested for causing death by dangerous driving, there would undoubtedly be questions as to why he was not facing more serious charges. "I would merely say that if you had been convicted by a jury of that very serious offence, the sentence would inevitably have been much longer than the one I now pass, which is directed only at the offences for which you are before this court." Kadri pleaded guilty to the charges at Worthing magistrates Court on January 5 after appeals through the media led to his capture. He had initially denied being the owner of the car, but later confessed to his role in the accident, and admitted in police interviews that he had been speeding. Paul Hayward, of the Crown Prosecution Service, said: "Although the road accident involving Mr Kadri resulted in the tragic death of Callum, the evidence shows that his death was not caused by either dangerous or careless driving." Inspector Natalie Carron, of Sussex Police, called for new legislation to tighten up rules on illegal driving. Even though Kadri had admitted speeding, she said there was no way to bring more serious charges.