The harassment and intimidation of witnesses and jurors in the Tony Martin trial was part of an orchestrated campaign which began just days after teenage burglar Fred Barras was shot dead at Martin's farm last August, The Observer can reveal.Sources within the gypsy community say that friends and supporters of Barras used contacts to find out information on the whereabouts of potential witnesses as well as of Martin himself. Following his arrest, the 55-year-old farmer was granted bail on condition that he resided at a police 'safe house'. The travellers were so successful in their attempts to track him down that Martin's bail was revoked after just a week and he was returned to prison 'for his own protection' until a new safe house outside Norfolk could be arranged. It was the activities of this same group of supporters that led to Martin's first court appearance being transferred at the eleventh hour from King's Lynn to Norwich magistrates court. Police had been tipped off that large numbers of travellers would be attending the hearing. Threats to burn down Martin's home, Bleak House, have resurfaced since the end of the trial. However, these threats were first made in the days after Martin's arrest. They were taken so seriously that police established a 24-hour guard on the property and installed CCTV cameras and security lighting at a cost of £20,000 per month. Under gypsy custom, all attacks must be avenged. Although gypsy society has its own system for settling disputes, with punishments ranging from fines to banishment, little is known about the kind of judgments made where the perpetrators of the crimes are non-gypsies. According to one source, a gypsy court, known as a kris, is believed to have already passed a death sentence on Martin. 'The case was never expected to come to court,' said one source. 'There were those who believed it would have been sorted out long before.' Once it was clear that the trial would go ahead, the supporters of Barras are alleged to have set about intimidating potential defence witnesses. Last week, a statement by a former neighbour of Martin told how he was threatened. 'A car drew up and its occupants shouted: "We'll deal with Tony Martin first and we are coming for you next". 'Living in this area you are at the mercy of the travellers and local villains. I saw three strangers coming across my field late at night. I fired a number of warning shots over their heads and they ran away.' Another man who shot at burglars caught stealing a safe from his property just three miles from Martin's house said he would appear only if his evidence was heard in camera after he too received threats. Martin, currently being held in the hospital wing of Bullingdon Prison in Oxfordshire, has been subjected to death threats from a group of travellers within the prison. tony.thompson@observer.co.uk 