The most sweeping extension of police powers since Michael Howard's infamous 1994 Criminal Justice and Public Order Act was yesterday unveiled by the home secretary, Jack Straw, under the banner of tackling "drunken yobs" and "modernising law enforcement".More than 20 new powers for the police are contained in the legislation, including: taking and storing DNA samples and fingerprints from people who have never been found guilty of a crime; issuing fixed penalty fines to those who make hoax 999 calls and those who throw fireworks in public places; and measures to revive Labour's failed child curfew and anti-social behaviour initiatives. The bill also pledges that the same levels of witness protection given to those in criminal cases will be granted to people who come forward to give evidence in civil cases. The measure is designed to reduce witness intimidation in cases such as anti-social behaviour orders which, the Home Office said in today's documents, has been far less successful than hoped with applications running at 100 a year rather than the expected 5,000. Mr Straw's criminal justice and police bill will be introduced into the Commons in about a fortnight and the political battle to get it on to the statute book is expected to form a centrepiece of the run-up to a general election. Mr Straw last night dismissed any civil liberties objections to his new package, insisting the public would welcome the extra police powers because they were "more interested in the arrest, prosecution and conviction of persistent offenders such as burglars through the use of the new powers". But the home secretary has already been forced into retreat over the crackdown on teenage yob culture promised by Tony Blair at last year's Labour party conference. Home Office civil servants confirmed last night that the much-trumpeted fixed penalty fines for louts would only apply to adults over 18, with plans for them to include 16- and 17-year-olds dropped. The shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, raised concerns about the human rights implications of some of the proposed new measures. She predicted that the bill would not reach the statute book before the election. "There is little chance of this bill becoming law. It is little more than an attempt to grab headlines with spot-fine and curfew powers that will overburden police forces even more when they are already at breaking point," she said. "Some parts of the bill also have serious civil liberties implications which will require detailed scrutiny - such as new powers to disclose inland revenue records and the retention of DNA samples by the police even after a person has been found not guilty." The DNA proposal goes against a recent House of Lords ruling banning the retention of samples of people who are acquitted by the courts. Mary Cunneen, associate director of Liberty, the civil rights organisation, said the powers in the bill amounted to "the most serious erosion of rights in the criminal justice system that we have seen for years. It is a series of apparently small and mainly technical changes that show a lack of respect of the criminal justice system and the rights of people within it." The Liberal Democrats' Simon Hughes predicted that the new system of fixed penalty notices would turn into a bureaucratic mess with many fines being challenged in court. "Labour is still placing too much emphasis on short-term solutions to crime, rather than dealing with the root causes of the problems," he said. The scale of the 132-clause bill reawakened memories of Michael Howard's shorter 1994 Criminal Justice and Public Order Act, which restricted the right to silence and gave police the power to take DNA samples and act against trespassers, squatters and rave parties which featured music "characterised by the emission of a succession of repetitive beats".  •On the spot penalties for disorderly behaviour •Instant closure of violent clubs and pubs •Bans on drinking in public places •Crackdown on protests by animal rights activists •Sweeping powers to take and keep DNA samples •New police powers of seizure •New police power of arrest, including for kerb crawlers and hit and run drivers •Extension of child curfew schemes to 15-year-olds •Extension of police powers under 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act without parliamentary approval •Disclosure of confidential tax records to police