It would be two years after the decriminalisation of "homosexuality" in Northern Ireland that I, now at the ripe old age of 25, would be born. Twenty-seven years later, it is interesting to take a look back and see how far lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGB) people have come. In Northern Ireland, the legislative war for LGB people is all but won. We now have civil partnerships; protection in our jobs, our homes and in access to goods, facilities and services; and hate crime legislation.However, the majority of legislation in place to protect LGB people was brought in by Westminster, and with opposition from some Northern Ireland MPs – an indication that perhaps Northern Ireland was forced to accept these changes. The focus of LGB rights in Northern Ireland has now moved on to tackling the hearts and minds of our society. Through Our Eyes (pdf), research carried out by the Rainbow Project into the perceptions and experiences of LGB people towards homophobic hate crime and policing in Northern Ireland, provides for interesting reading:• 39% of LGB people are worried about being a victim of crime• 39% of LGB people alter their behaviour to avoid others knowing that they are not heterosexual• 39% of LGB people have been the victim of some sort of crime in the last three years• 21% of LGB people have been the victim of a homophobic hate crime in the last three years• 64% of homophobic incidents in the last three years were never reported to the police.Recently, following serious attacks on members of the Roma community living in Northern Ireland, we have heard comments from people like Esther Rantzen that people here are addicted to hatred. Although I don't agree completely with Rantzen's assessment of Northern Ireland, I think she did get one thing right – and that is Northern Ireland people are tribal. Not tribal in the traditional sectarian way we all assume, more that we like what we know and are used to.We see from the Equality Awareness Survey 2008 published by the Northern Ireland Equality Commission that people's negative opinions towards those of a different religion has decreased substantially, which would appear to mean that sectarianism is fast becoming a thing of the past. New and innovative initiatives and programmes have been established to combat this issue and to help people to understand that those of a different religion are not really that different at all. The humanisation of the "other side" is what has made the difference. Sadly, we are seeing an increase in the negative perceptions of LGB people and travellers.The problem we face now, I believe, is post-conflict neutrality. There is a concern here that we can't talk about certain things or promote certain organisations or ideas for fear we cause offence. The only way we can move forward as a society is to begin to celebrate the diversity that exists and promote a truly shared future in which everyone is valued as equal.