For years after his daughter was murdered, Morain Scott would find himself studying strangers in the streets of Edinburgh, wondering if he was looking at her killer."I knew it was wrong, but I couldn't help it," said Mr Scott, 74. "I would think, that bloke looks a wee bit like the Photofit; could it have been him?" His late wife, Margaret, carried the picture in her handbag until she died in 1989. It was on the night of October 15 1977 that Helen Scott and her schoolfriend Christine Eadie, both 17, walked out of the World's End pub in Edinburgh's Royal Mile at closing time and disappeared. The next day, a couple walking in the dunes of Gosford bay in East Lothian found Christine's bound body. Helen was found a few miles away in a corn-stubble field. Both had been raped, beaten and strangled. The murders became one of Scotland's biggest unsolved criminal cases. More than 500 suspects were identified, more than 13,000 statements taken, but the killer was never caught. But this week about 100 detectives are methodically picking their way through the evidence from the World's End case and five other unsolved killings of young women in the 1970s and 1980s, after DNA evidence revealed "strong links" between the murders. The three forces involved, Lothian and Borders, Strathclyde and Tayside, say they have been inundated with calls about the killings since revealing the link this month. New information has come in, witnesses are being reinterviewed, and some have changed their statements. "We have had scores of calls, which, for something more than 25 years old, really impressed the detectives," said a spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland (Acpos), which is coordinating the investigation. "Each of these individual cases is still something that is very much in the hearts and minds of the communities." Anna Kenny, 20, was killed the same year as Helen Scott and Christine Eadie. She vanished after leaving a Glasgow pub in August 1977. Her skeleton was found two years later in Argyll. Hilda McAuley, 36, a mother of two, was raped and strangled after leaving Glasgow's Plaza ballroom in October 1977. Agnes Cooney, 23, was murdered in December 1977 after a night out at a Glasgow social club. Carol Lannen, 18, was discovered dead in Templeton woods near Dundee in March 1979. The following year Elizabeth McCabe, 20, was found murdered in the same woods. Possible links between the cases had been examined before. All the victims disappeared on their way home from pubs or clubs and in each case an item of clothing or accessory was missing when the bodies were discovered. All but one had been bound and all but one had been sexually assaulted. Police will say nothing more than that they are following a positive line of inquiry for all the cases, but the prime suspect is believed to be a convicted killer, Angus Sinclair, 59, who is serving life in Peterhead prison for the 1978 rape and murder of a 17-year-old Glasgow girl. He was first convicted of killing a seven-year-old girl when he was 16. He served six years in prison. In 1982 he was jailed for life for a series of sex attacks and rapes of young girls during the late 1970s. He was being prepared for parole in 2001 when DNA evidence linked him to the murder and rape of 17-year-old Mary Gallacher. He was given a second life sentence. Officers have said the new investigation will be lengthy. Scots law requires corroboration of any forensic evidence. But morale is said to be high. "It is always a thorn in the side when something goes unsolved," said the Acpos spokesman. "While the box may be put in the cupboard, it is never actually closed." Mr Scott has not allowed himself to become too hopeful over the latest developments. "If there was a conclusion I think it would be a relief for me, but I won't know until the time," he said. "The way it is at the moment, every now and again you know something is going to come up that raises it." He has nothing but praise for officers who have refused to admit defeat in the hunt for his daughter's killer. "For nearly 27 years they have kept at it, they have never let go," he said. "I just feel for all the other people as well; the families of these girls. There's not a day when something doesn't come into your mind about it. It never leaves you." 