I do not think it is possible to predict how people will respond to events; the same set of circumstances affect different people in very different ways. A sudden and unexpected tragedy can bring some people close to God - even those with no prior connection to him; the same misfortune can drive regular churchgoers away, sometimes for a while, sometimes permanently.From time to time, those of us engaged in ministry - whether as paid professionals or as volunteers - can find ourselves thrown in "at the sharp end" of things; we are no strangers to sudden death, and the unforeseen heartbreak and emotional turmoil that often accompany it.At such times, our ministry can - through God's grace - be comforting and helpful to those in need, though it is perhaps only after the immediate crisis has passed that we step back and reflect on from where we received our strength. As a Christian, I am acutely aware that anything I can achieve through my own efforts will be of little consequence. It is only through the grace of God that we can hope to accomplish anything of lasting value or true worth. This would certainly be my experience during the difficult times in Soham, in 2002 and after, when Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were abducted and murdered by Ian Huntley. It was, ultimately, through God's grace alone that I was able to do anything useful or helpful. I am also conscious of the fact that my efforts were supported by many other people, in both practical and spiritual ways. The numerous letters we received were (mostly!) very moving and usually very encouraging. To realise that so many were thinking and praying about our town and the events unfolding here, was comforting and supportive. I have heard others talk about feeling upheld by prayer when facing difficulties, and that was certainly my experience here. On a practical level, there was a strong team of people involved in providing help and care in the church. Working together with other churches and agencies was heartening. If it is true that we can only achieve things through God's power, then his power is all the stronger when we cooperate with each other. The church of St Andrew, in the heart of the community, provided a physical and spiritual focus for the townspeople and visitors. Churches are an appropriate space at a time of crisis. The buildings belong to the communities they serve and, at times of tragedy, it is fitting that they are opened for prayer and reflection.   In the case of St Andrew's, I am aware that its stones have stood for centuries as mute witnesses to countless lesser and greater tragedies that this community has known. The historical presence of bricks and mortar helped to provide a suitable atmosphere of calm and quiet. But it is not the age of the buildings that makes them so apt, it is the fact that they are places of worship; places set aside to encounter God. At times of acute crisis, it is not unusual for people to have deep and searching questions about the nature of God, sometimes thinking along the lines of "how can a loving God let this happen?" Christian theology is full of attempts to answer this, ultimately unanswerable, question. Being a Christian does not mean that you have all the answers to the difficult questions that we encounter, especially when tragedy strikes, but it does help us as we seek to walk alongside other people in their pain. In responding to the pastoral needs of people, I feel that what is most important is simply being with them, rather than being able to say the "right" thing. We are trying to minister and help because of our beliefs; our faith informs our actions. But I do not think that we need to be too explicit about our motives. There can be a confusion between ministry and mission and, to my mind at least, they should not be muddled up. My ministry, and that of the church family in Soham, was that of "being there" or "being available". The fact that Christian women and men are prepared to travel with the broken and bereaved can be a source of comfort to them; and it can help direct them beyond us to God, the ultimate source of comfort, help and hope. · The Rev Tim Alban Jones is vicar of Soham, Cambridgeshire