In a world with cameras on every corner, who would think that a man could disappear by growing a beard? Pictures of the rudimentary disguises of John Darwin (whose whiskers turned him into John Jones) and Radovan Karadzic (who became Dragan Dabic by not shaving) appeared in the same bulletins, but they belong to very different corners of reporting. Karadzic/Dabic is properly treated as a big serious story, a war criminal. Darwin/Jones feels like comedy: a real-life episode of Reginald Perrin, in which two chancers get one over on the financial institutions and are exposed by a weakness for saucy emails and cheesy photos."Mr and Mrs Canoe", as newspapers called them to avoid confusion with science headlines, is a very rare example of a major news story that does not involve a fatality. But the hefty sentences imposed on the Darwins were clearly intended as a plea to take their actions seriously. The judge's toughness is a declaration that human cruelty takes many forms. The couple, though far from being Fred and Rose West, behaved with bewildering indifference to the feelings of their sons. As the trial was coming to a close, I was at the Harrogate Crime-Writing Festival, and newspapers were reporting the latest developments in the Madeleine McCann case. One of the reasons for the huge popularity of crime fiction is that the genre explores, in a sanitised environment, the fear and prurient fascination we feel when faced with murders and abductions. Real-life criminality and fiction have become a loop, communicating with each other: several of the books discussed at Harrogate featured missing children; in two years, expect a slew of novels about husbands and wives who mysteriously disappear. But our consumption of literary puzzles also encourages us to become an amateur Rebus or Dalgliesh, attempting to solve the actual cases in the papers.The conclusion of the canoe case confirms that the crucial difference between crime on the page and on the street is resolution. Mystery novels almost always end before the trial, and the reason is that an adversarial legal system requires most defendants to lie in court or remain silent. The final-chapter confessions that criminals give in fiction would in reality not happen because of legal advice.So the parents of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman will never know why, within minutes of entering Ian Huntley's home, two 10-year-olds were dead. Similarly, Harold Shipman went to his grave without any last-page speech of explanation for the benefit of hundreds of bereaved relatives. The denouement of the Darwin case is also unsatisfying. Why did John Darwin return from Panama in a way that he must have known would expose him? What was it about their marriage that made his wife practise such deceit and risk such ruin?Such infuriating loose ends are the crucial difference between legal fact and legal fiction, although the two do sometimes elucidate each other. One of the sessions at Harrogate considered if CCTV cameras, mobiles and electronic surveillance have made it harder to construct a crime plot. And certainly the Darwins were thwarted by the fact that emails, unlike letters, can't be burned, and the world has become a global village: their fraud was first exposed by that photo on a Panamanian estate agent's website.But though the clues are clear, motivation remains opaque. Because the Darwins are not murderers, they will be offered book deals - but unless they want a further jail term for perjury, they will have to stick to the courtroom story that it was all the other's fault. The judge cautioned us not to see their story as funny; the messiness of its ending reminds us that we should also be wary of treating such cases as crime fiction.comment@theguardian.com