The momentum behind Jack Straw's pledge to combat institutional racism in Britain has faltered in the past 12 months but the home secretary says he is still confident that the Lawrence inquiry report will yet prove a watershed in attitudes to racism in Britain.He is coming under increasing pressure to step up the pace of change not only within the police but across the whole of the public sector After riding out a barely concealed anti-Macpherson backlash from some police officers, the accusation that the home secretary now most commonly faces on race is that things are not changing fast enough. As Hugh Harris, acting chairman of the commission for racial equality, put it: "Some impressive steps have been taken, but only by a limited number of organisations. The message of the Lawrence report was that everyone needs to accept the urgency of change and take responsibility for seeing that it happens." Mr Straw acknowledged this yesterday: "We have a long way to go. Changing policies can be done on paper but changing attitudes is much more difficult," he said. He said he was very conscious that the Scarman inquiry report into the inner city riots in the early 1980s had also been published "on a fair wind" but then progress fell away. "I am very anxious the Lawrence inquiry report is followed through by action." But in the background there are complaints that other government policies such as on asylum are unleashing a new wave of racist rhetoric in parts of the media which may be indirectly fanning an increase in racist attacks. Mr Straw admitted yesterday that only the "easy side" of the 70 recommendations in the Macpherson report into the black teenager's murder had so far been implemented. About half the "action plan" has been put into effect, including race awareness training, new disciplinary powers to weed out racist officers and a clearer definition of what constitutes a racist incident. But other recommendations such as a new ministerial priority to improve the confi dence of ethnic communities in the police and more frequent official inspections of the Metropolitan police are more vague in their outcome. Other key areas are proving a lot more difficult to act on. Increasing the total number of black and Asian police officers at a time when overall police numbers are falling has not been achieved by a significant number of forces. The Telford case also raises the question whether the police outside London in mostly white areas have also learned the lessons of the Lawrence inquiry report in their approach to crime which victims or their families believe to be racist. It has not been a year of steady progress. When the new race relations bill was published race equality campaigners were stunned to find it only dealt with direct acts of discrimination and did not extend to outlawing indirect or institutional racism. The struggle to persuade Mr Straw to extend the bill to cover institutional racism threatened at one point to halt progress on the rest of the programme. The battle over the use of "stop and search" powers in London, which was indicative of a backlash among police officers, also undermined the pace of change. Claims by some officers of a link between a rise in muggings in the capital and the fall in routine searching of black youth left a nasty taste. But there have been more optimistic moments. The disappointment many race equality campaigners felt at Mr Straw's initial reluctance to legislate against institutional racism turned to delight when he announced that the race relations (amendment) bill would cover indirect discrimination and would introduce a positive duty for public bodies to promote race relations. This week's Guardian/ICM opinion poll also suggested there has been a fundamental change in social attitudes towards racism in the family and at work in the last five years. Across Whitehall there has been a visible change in culture. In the home office itself an 800-strong network of black and Asian staff working in the immigration system, the prison service, and every other section has been set up. It is being copied in other departments. Recruitment, retention and promotion targets are being set in every department in Whitehall for the employment of minority ethnic staff. Police forces are setting targets that mirror the size of their black and Asian populations while ensuring an significant ethnic presence in forces in mainly white parts of the country. But even if this is significant progress, it only underlines how much more needs to be done. For example, an unpublished survey of minority ethnic staff in the home office showed that one in three of them said they had faced incidents of racism, bullying or harassment at work in the past 12 months. While Whitehall is setting equality targets few other organisations have yet moved in the same direction. So far only about 10% of local authorities have a workforce representative of their minority ethnic communities. Of the outstanding issues from the Macpherson report, it appears unlikely that using racist language in a private place will become a criminal offence. Nor does there appear any rush to scrap the "double jeopardy" rule so that uncon victed defendants can be tried again when new evidence comes to light. Despite the fact that Mr Straw said yesterday he still wanted to see a police complaints system in which the police did not investigate themselves, this still seems a long way off. The home secretary is waiting to see how the new police disciplinary code, which comes into effect in April, works out before making any decisions. The police response to the Macpherson report - expressed in terms of low morale, lack of confidence and unwillingness to engage - could be seen most strikingly in the extraordinary drop in the number of stop and searches. The then Met commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, warned that the "grieving" for the loss of the force's reputation would result in crime rates soaring. They did. For the Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers, here was an opportunity to seize the initiative and condemn Macpherson - vilified as a "late flowering liberal" - for going too far. The bar-room analysis was simple and crude. Stop and searches go down. Street crime, particularly muggings, rise. The answer from the high command at Scotland Yard was to press ahead with refining stop and search techniques at seven pilot sites, and to wait for a piece of research into the subject by Marian FitzGerald, a former home officer adviser. But when Stephen Lawrence's father, Neville, and John Sentamu, the bishop of Stepney and the only black adviser on the Macpherson inquiry team, were both stopped by police, it seemed little had changed. Ms FitzGerald's study also appeared to offer the Met further support. She said there was a link between the fall in searches and the rise in crime. But her conclusions were discredited by Jeremy Penzer, a London School of Economics statistician, who had analysed the figures for her. "It is a complete misrepresentation of my findings," he said. In his first interview as the new Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens said all officers would be given training to ensure stop and searches are conducted politely. New evidence shows the drop in stop and searches in London seems to be levelling off. The pilot sites are returning healthier figures: arrest rates, it seems, from searches are up from 10% to 18%, and the ratio of black people searched to white is falling from 4.4 to 3.3 to one.