The first appeals against sentences by some convicted of being involved in the August riots will be heard next week. Defence lawyers and civil rights groups have criticised the "disproportionate" sentences given to those linked with the riots. Jordan Blackshaw, 20, and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, were both given four-year jail terms last month for inciting a riot to which no one turned up.Ten cases are expected to be listed in the court of appeal on Tuesday. The announcement came as more accused of taking part in the disturbances made court appearances on Wednesday.Laura Johnson, 19, whose parents are reportedly millionaires, appeared at Camberwell Green magistrates' court , south London, to face five charges of burglary involving stealing more than £5,000-worth of electronic goods during the disturbances. The University of Exeter undergraduate was arrested after the goods were found in a car she was allegedly driving away from a branch of a Comet store in Charlton, south-east London. She has previously indicated a not guilty plea to the charges. It is alleged she looted £5,000 worth of electrical items from Currys, £500 worth of electrical goods from Comet, and £500 worth of cigarettes from a BP petrol station all in Charlton. She is also charged with two counts of burglary with intend to steal from Halfords and PC World at the Stonelake retail Park in Charlton.She was released on conditional bail to appear at Inner London crown court on 5 October, and must observe a curfew monitored by an electronic tag and stay at the home of her parents, preventing her from immediately returning to university.Oxford university law graduate Fahim Alam, 25, from Woodford, east London, accused of throwing bricks at police during rioting in Hackney, was granted bail until 16 November after appearing at Wood Green crown court where his lawyer indicated he was likely to plead not guilty to the charges.Alam, who has a masters degree from the London School of Economics, is said to have joined the rioting while on his way home from a job interview with the London Civic Forum. Prosecutors say he threw bricks at officers, hitting a police constable in the leg during a stand-off outside Hackney Town Hall. He is accused of violent disorder, and was granted bail with a tagged curfew, until 16 November.In separate proceedings, unemployed Julian Revere Warner, 25, of Leytonstone, east London, also appeared at the court to admit handling stolen goods. He will be sentenced on 12 October. He is charged with handling electrical goods including large screen 3D televisions and Apple Mac computers and laptops belonging to Dixons.More than 1,700 people have appeared before the courts since the riots, with more than 300 having been sentenced so far.The riots, which spread from London to several other English cities including Birmingham, Manchester and Nottingham, erupted after a protest over the fatal police shooting in Tottenham, north London, of local man Mark Duggan. Buildings were burned, shops were looted, and five people died during the disturbances.