A flamboyant financier who helped to bankroll the Liberal Democrats' general election campaign was jailed for two years today after he admitted committing perjury and obtaining a passport by deception.The court heard that Scottish tycoon Michael Brown, 40, whose £2.4m donation was the biggest in Liberal Democrat history, gave false information in an affidavit and then tricked the authorities into giving him a new passport so he could flee the UK.The Liberal Democrats tried to distance themselves from Brown, saying there was no connection between the party and the crimes for which he was sentenced. A spokesman said their investigations had revealed a "small number of bounced cheques" which they had decided should not prevent him from becoming a donor."[We] acted in good faith at all times in relation to the receipt and expenditure of donations from his company, Fifth Avenue Partners. We conducted appropriate checks on the source of these donations within the statutory timescale."Brown was arrested earlier this year at the villa he shared with his wife, Sharon, at Esporlas, on Majorca's west coast.His second home in Santa Ponsa and his offices in the capital, Palma, were also searched during the raid by Spanish and British detectives. His £400,000 yacht was impounded in a cove in the west of the island, and his new Porsche Cayenne, a Bentley, paintings, computers and documents were seized.Hours after he was led away, guests had been due to arrive for a party he was throwing to celebrate his birthday.The whisky executive's son - who once admitted he had "lived a colourful life" - subsequently pleaded guilty to one count of perjury and another of passport deception.Today, Southwark crown court in London heard that one offence was committed when Brown told the Passport Office last November that he had lost his previous passport in a washing machine. It had in fact been surrendered during an ongoing civil action brought against him by his former bank, HSBC.He used the new passport to skip the country and fly to his villa in Spain. He then flew to the Bahamas in a private jet before returning to Spain. The second was committed when he made a false statement in the high court during the civil proceedings.Brown, whose early career included running a rock promotion business in Glasgow and a model recruiting agency in London, had also faced 53 counts of forgery, but these were allowed to lie on file.Defending, Nicholas Purnell QC said Brown's whole world had been turned upside down. He added: "His life has been utterly transformed from the successful bonds trader he was in October 2005."Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC said: "These are two very serious offences. With regards to the charge of obtaining a false passport, this was a very direct and pointed flouting of a direct court order."With regard to the second count, of perjury, this was very deliberate and well thought through."Brown was jailed for 18 months for perjury and six months for obtaining the false passport, the sentences to run consecutively. The 159 days he has spent in custody will be deducted from his sentence. He was also ordered to pay costs to HSBC of up to £80,000.Brown, whose assets have been frozen, faces confiscation proceedings against his properties in Mayfair and Majorca.The court heard HSBC had expressed concern at the way a number of Brown's bank accounts had been used. The financier swore an affidavit claiming money from them had been used for profitable trading with Refco brokerage company. But the bank accused him of lying.