Failure to pay a TV licence, obstruction and low-level vandalism should cease to be criminal offences, argues a report due later this month from the Institute for Public Policy Research, the centre-left think tank.Removing these and other minor offences from the scope of the criminal law would help thousands of people who find it impossible to get a job because they have a criminal record, say the senior police officers, academics, lawyers and government officials behind the final report of the IPPR's Crime Forum. It would also ease the pressure on the criminal justice system, currently 'creaking at the seams'.The reclassified offences should be dealt with by local authorities or other civil agencies in the same way as fixed penalty parking tickets. There are precedents, the report points out: until 1991, parking illegally was classed as a crime. The IPPR report, to be published on 29 July, is certain to be studied carefully by Home Secretary David Blunkett, who will launch the most radical proposals for reforming criminal justice for many decades in a White Paper on Thursday. Last week, the Government disclosed that the downward trend in recorded crime seen since the mid-1990s has gone into reverse, with further increases expected. At the same time, at almost 72,000, the prison population has outstripped capacity, forcing the Prison Service to house inmates in police station cells. Among those contributing to the IPPR report are Peter Neyroud, Thames Valley Chief Constable, Lorna White, of the Youth Justice Board, and Andrew Rutherford, professor of criminology at Southampton University. 'The criminal law is a blunt weapon to address offending behaviour,' they say. 'There are now more than 8,000 separate criminal offences, 139 of which were created in the 1999-2000 parliamentary session alone ... Our instinctive response to those who break society's rules is still to impose the full sanction of the criminal law, not to consider whether there might be more appropriate alternatives.' The report reveals that each year about 2000 people are dealt with in court for begging; 1,226 for playing in the street [sic]; 3,500 for being drunk; 105,700 for TV licence evasion; 500,000 for vehicle insurance irregularities, and 400,000 for vehicle licence offences. In almost all these cases the offenders pleaded guilty. Police and the courts also had to find the time to deal with 1.6 million vehicle obstruction and waiting offences - where there were just two contested trials. On top of that were 50,000 lighting offences (again, just two trials), and 6,000 noisy vehicle offences. 'It seems hard to justify police and court time spent on these offences, or the criminal conviction that is the regular outcome, when the individual is almost never committed for trial.' The report goes on, 'there are in practice vast discrepancies in the state's response to those who do offend: between the tax evader relieved to find his failure to pay £40,000 in tax is dealt with administratively, and the £109 TV licence evader who receives a criminal conviction'. The system has developed piecemeal, it says, without regard to wider social consequences. Minor as such crimes may be, the consequences for an individual can be serious. The report cites a National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders study that found 42 per cent of ex-offenders had been refused a job only because of their criminal record. Disclosure of a record is now compulsory in many types of employment. Every year, more than 100 people will go to prison for not paying a TV licence fee. The report says there might be more effective ways of dealing with such crime - for example, in the case of TV licence evasion, confiscation of the television set, or measures to make it impossible to buy a TV without buying a licence at the same time. 'If we use the criminal law for every minor misdemeanour we devalue and weaken its impact against more serious crimes,' said Sara Spencer, the IPPR Crime Forum chair. 'We're not saying that these offences should all be made legal, but that they don't merit the full weight of criminalisation.'The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, July 21 2002The article above may have given the impression that being prosecuted for TV licence evasion results in a criminal record. It does not.Prison sentences are not imposed for licence evasion, only for non-payment of fines. We also said that more than 100 people will go to prison for TV licence evasion every year. In fact, latest annual Home Office figures show the number imprisoned for not paying a TV Licensing fine was 22.