To the outside world Brian Blackwell appeared to be a model son. A straight 'A' student who had secured a place at university to study medicine, he was regarded by his teachers at a public school in Liverpool as exemplary. His proud parents called him "Brains" and told friends he was going to be a surgeon.But unknown to them, he was also suffering from narcissistic personality disorder, which gave him a grandiose self-belief and an obsession with power, success and money And on July 25 last year he killed the two people who stood in the way of him achieving those goals: his parents. Yesterday, at Liverpool crown court, the 19-year-old admitted the manslaughter of his parents Sydney, 71, and his mother Jacqueline, 60, at their home in Melling, Merseyside, on the grounds of diminished responsibility. He was jailed for life with a minimum tariff of 12 years, and he may never be released because of the condition from which he suffers, which is currently untreatable. Sentencing him, Mr Justice Royce said: "This is an extraordinary case - it is also one of terrible family tragedy. The circumstances in which you bludgeoned and stabbed to death first your father and then your mother are chilling. "You then, with breathtaking callousness, left their bodies to rot while you enjoyed a luxurious holiday in America with your girlfriend." The judge said for a son to do this was almost beyond belief, describing him as "an arch deceiver, an accomplished and resourceful liar and a highly manipulative young man". Blackwell's illness meant he became obsessed with fantasies of his own unlimited success, power and brilliance. The lies began fairly harmlessly when he started at the £7,000-a-year Liverpool College and exaggerated his achievements in Sats tests at a former school. However, in the lead-up to his parents' deaths in July 2004, the lies became more outlandish. He visited a car showroom and was taken for a test drive in a £59,000 Mercedes sports car, telling the salesman money was no object. He said he would return with his parents, but never did. He told his girlfriend, Amal Saba, that he was a professional tennis player who was being sponsored by Nike in a £70,000 deal, and by the sports company Fischer. In truth, he did have a junior contract with Fischer, but it only meant he could get 50% off the company's products. The contract with Nike was a total fabrication: he was actually ranked by the Lawn Tennis Association as a "top club team player", a long way short of being able to earn a living from the sport. He offered his girlfriend a contract for £82,500 a year as his personal secretary, plus 10% of his earnings, a bonus of £20,000 and a generous expense account - an offer she could not resist. He wrote her a £39,000 cheque for three months wages which inevitably bounced. He lavished her with designer clothes and "expensive" jewellery which later turned out to be cheap constume jewellery. He bought Miss Saba a Ford Ka after he withdrew £9,000 from a trust fund set up by his parents to help him through university. The court heard that his mother was furious when she discovered he had withdrawn the money. David Steer, for the prosecution, said: "His parents were getting in the way of his grandiose vision for himself and his girlfriend. His confidence was growing, however, and he now practised his deceptions not just on sixthformers at school and his own girlfriend, but at a branch of Barclays Bank." In May last year, he attempted to upgrade his young person's bank account, claiming to be a professional tennis player earning £45,000 a year. He told the personal banker he needed funds as he was playing in the French Open tournament that summer. Mrs Blackwell found out and contacted the branch manager about her son's lies on the application form. Then he told his girlfriend he had bought a £60,000 Mercedes SL which was parked in the garage of a flat in Southport which he claimed to have purchased for £450,000. He said Steven Gerrard, the Liverpool and England footballer, lived in the same complex. On the morning of the killings, he booked two business class single tickets from Manchester to New York, using his father's credit card to pay for the £4,885 flights the following morning. He later went to the David Lloyd Tennis Club in Kirkby with his father, who spoke of his pleasure at the hard work his son had done for his A levels. That was the last time Mr Blackwell was seen alive. Brian and his girlfriend stayed in the presidential suite of the Plaza hotel in New York for three nights at a cost of £2,200. They then travelled to Florida, Barbados, San Franciso and back to New York before returning home after two weeks. The whole trip had cost some £30,000. When he returned to his old school in mid-August to collect his A level results - top grades in maths, chemistry, biology and Spanish - he expressed surprise and upset that his parents hadn't contacted him. But they had by this time been lying dead for weeks in a pool of blood at their home. Mr Blackwell had been stabbed 30 times in his chest and abdomen and was hit in the head with a claw hammer. His wife had been stabbed 20 times and hit with a hammer. Their badly decomposed bodies were discovered on September 5 when a neighbour complained of an overpowering smell and flies. Police broke down the door and found Mr Blackwell's body in an armchair and his wife in the bathroom. The couple had held high expectations for their son, telling people he was destined to become "not just a doctor - a surgeon". The court heard that they took a notebook to their son's parents evening, so they could keep a written record of how well he was doing. When Brian was arrested, he was living with his girlfriend and her mother in Childwall, Liverpool. He told officers: "It's not physically possible - I was on holiday. I telephoned easyJet and they're back on the 7th of September. I even spoke to one of the neighbours who told me they were on holiday." After a silence, he asked: "Is prison cold?" He maintained his innocence through seven interviews, then admitted he had killed both his parents. He wrote a letter saying how sorry he was, which was read out in court, as he broke down in tears. It said: "Every moment of every day, I wish I could turn back the hands of time. I eternally long to be a little boy again at a time when everyone really loved each other, when we could have a happy time and be a family once more." He said he missed his family "more than anything in the world", adding: "The guilt will punish and haunt me for 24 hours a day for the rest of my life."Why narcissists might killIn Greek mythology, Narcissus was doomed because of his self-absorption. People like Brian Blackwell who suffer from narcissistic personality disorder have an inflated sense of self-importance and share many behavioural traits with psychopaths. Symptoms of NPD listed by the American Psychiatric Association include grandiosity and a need for admiration, a lack of empathy, preoccupation with fantasies of unlimited success, power, brilliance, ideal love and beauty, a tendency to respond with rage to criticism, and a sense that their problems are unique. Kerry Daynes, a consultant forensic psychologist in Manchester and an expert in personality disorders, said: "Many psychopaths have narcissistic traits and you often see NPD when treating psychopaths. They do go together in a lot of cases." It is not clear what triggers the condition and there is no treatment for it. Barry George, the killer of Jill Dando, and John Hinckley, who attempted to assassinate Ronald Reagan, were also NPD sufferers. Ms Daynes said that in extreme cases, sufferers can become delusional and violent. "You get people who pretend to be things they are not - successful bankers or famous sportsmen," she said. "They are very manipulative and make good conmen." In rare cases, sufferers are willing to take extreme actions because they do not have the same degree of empathy with victims as other people have. They know what they are doing - but they lack remorse.Helen Carter and Tom Edwards