The name is loosely based on a hundred-year-old juvenile sci-fi novel – standing for Thomas A Swift's Electric Rifle – and there is something disturbingly Boy's Own in the way Tasers get discussed. On the website of the American firm that makes these stun guns, you can watch executives in fancy dress skip around as if playing Laser Quest, as they show off the new Taser X3, which can apply tens of thousands of volts to three separate people without any need to reload. Yesterday, the Home Office seemed to been infected with the excitement, cheerily releasing new figures recording increasing use of Tasers by British police.The weapons work by shooting two tiny electrodes into a suspect, through which 50,000-volts are briefly applied, triggering uncontrollable muscle spasm and causing them to fall to the floor. There are times when lives depend on stopping dangerous criminals in their tracks, and Tasers achieve this without – in most circumstances – anyone dying. However sinister the marketing, then, it has to make sense to give them to firearms officers, for whom they can sometimes provide a licence not to kill. They have had them since 2004, but what the Home Office was stressing yesterday was increasing deployment by non-firearms officers, for whom shocks are not an alternative to shots.The official guidelines for dispatching a Taser are very different than for unleashing a firearm – the risks of a situation must simply be sufficient for the officer to judge they would have to use some form of force. With the Home Office cheerleading their use, there is an obvious danger of Tasers being reached for too casually, as has already happened in some American cities. In Houston, for instance, it has been reported that they have been dispatched in hundreds of cases where no crime has been committed. This matters, first, because there is some small risk of death, even if there is dispute about how significant this is: Amnesty International recorded more than 150 deaths among people who had been Tasered. It matters too because being shocked is excruciatingly painful, as Manchester's late police chief, Michael Todd, was forced to concede after demonstrating the device on himself. The UN committee against torture has registered concerns, and protestation from the manufacturers that the UN are "out of touch" hardly reassures.The Home Office says Tasers are only used to prevent "violent crime", although it does not collect statistics on the exact circumstances in which they are used. That has to change. As more police are to be handed this vicious if "less-lethal" weapon, it will be more important than ever to hold them to account.