Police have come face to face with the man suspected of shooting Yvonne Fletcher after the Libyan authorities allowed officers to interview suspects for the first time since her murder more than 20 years ago.Scotland Yard detectives in Tripoli have taken a series of statements as part of the investigation into the killing of the 25-year-old policewoman outside the Libyan embassy in London in 1984. Her mother, Queenie, described the latest developments as 'promising'.During previous visits to Tripoli by Met officers investigating Fletcher's death, detectives were prevented from talking to the chief suspects by President Muammar Gadaffi's regime. However, the present Met inquiry has the personal support of the Libyan leader. Scotland Yard has refused to comment on whether it has identified the killer.The co-operation confirms a warming of relations between Britain and Libya, a trend likely to be strengthened this week with the expected announcement that the conviction of the Lockerbie bomber is to be referred back to the High Court as an alleged miscarriage of justice. The dramatic decision could see Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi - who was sentenced to life imprisonment after his conviction for the murder of 270 people when Pan Am Flight 103 exploded in 1988 - free to return to Libya in weeks.Five detectives from the Yard's Counter Terrorism Command have returned to London after seven weeks spent gathering evidence in Tripoli. As well as interview testimonies, they are also believed to have taken fingerprints and possible DNA traces as part of a fresh concerted attempt to bring Fletcher's killer to justice.A Scotland Yard source said that 'dialogue with the Libyan authorities' over the case would be continuing. He added that officers would be returning to Libya in the near future to continue with the inquiry.Queenie Fletcher, 74, of Semley, Wiltshire, who visited Libya 12 years ago in search of answers about her daughter's killing, said: 'The interviews of a suspect are very promising. I just hope that we are not going to be disappointed and that they don't build it all up then for some reason it all drops down again.'Her daughter was policing a demonstration against Gadaffi's regime outside the embassy in London's St James's Square when she was hit by a volley of shots believed to have been fired from a first-floor window. The bullet was fired by a sniper and was intended for the protesting Libyan dissidents. The shooting resulted in an 11-day siege of the embassy which only ended when the killer and 21 embassy staff were allowed to leave the building and Britain. The gunman was smuggled out of the building with embassy staff under diplomatic immunity laws and flown back to Libya.The death of WPC Fletcher triggered a lengthy breakdown of diplomatic relations between the two countries. Now news that Gadaffi's regime has helped Scotland Yard to identify the suspect is seen by diplomats as evidence of a blossoming relationship between the two countries. The breakthrough comes after Tony Blair met the Libyan leader for talks in his tent near Tripoli last month.Among evidence submitted to the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission, the body that examined the safety of Megrahi's conviction, are claims that a Palestinian group funded by Iran was responsible for the attack.Libya returned to the international fold after it abandoned efforts to acquire nuclear weapons in late 2003 and agreed to pay compensation to families affected by the Lockerbie bombing.The Libyan embassy would not comment on the Fletcher case.