Is it significant that a disproportionate number of board members of those banks that have run into difficulties in the global financial crisis are white, middle-class males? To be more precise, does their whiteness have any bearing on the likelihood of their banks failing?The ethnicity of bankers has not been conspicuous in explanations for the financial meltdown, and for good reason. It is irrelevant. Anyone who seriously argued that it is an important variable would quickly be dismissed as a crackpot. So why does race and ethnicity continue to be explored as a possible explanation for crime?Last year the journalist Rod Liddle wrote a short blog in which he claimed that the "overwhelming majority of street crime, knife crime, gun crime, robbery and crimes of sexual violence in London is carried out by young men from the African-Caribbean community". All a bit "nudge nudge wink wink" you may say, though Liddle at no point claimed that black men were inherently more criminal than white men.The Press Complaints Commission later upheld a complaint about Liddle's blog on the grounds that it was not true that the "overwhelming majority" of crimes he referred to were committed by young black men.Over the weekend the Sunday Telegraph returned to the theme. Following a freedom of information request to the Metropolitan police the paper was able inform its readers that in London "the majority of men held responsible by the police for gun crime, robberies and street crime are black". In 2009-10, the paper reported, of those men proceeded against for street crime, 54% were black. For robbery it was 59% and for gun crimes 67%. The newspaper did not, at any point, claim that black males were inherently more likely to be criminal than white males. But it was an inference there to be drawn.So what do the Sunday Telegraph figures tell us? First of all, they tell us that the police in London were more likely to treat men as suspects compared with women. On robbery, for instance, 6,340 men faced criminal proceedings compared with 562 women. For street crime it was 5,742 men compared with 576 women. Those keen to highlight the apparent ethnicity of suspects far less regularly refer to their gender, but it is a far more striking fact.Second, the figures tell us that the police in London are more likely to treat black and other minority ethnic men as suspects compared with white men. This is entirely unsurprising. The police have a long tradition of targeting black men for special attention. Some will have committed crimes. Many others will be entirely innocent, their only crime being that they are male and black in the wrong place at the wrong time. Unsurprisingly black men figure strongly in police data as suspects.Just because the police treat black men as more criminal than white men, it does not mean that they are. Indeed, the most recent Home Office study of self-reported offending found no correlation with ethnicity. It also pointed out that previous studies had found that "levels of offending and drug use were lower for young people of non-white ethnic identities".Crime is one of those areas of public policy where it is still respectable to seek explanations for behaviour in the colour of a person's skin. It is about time that such reasoning was accepted for the racist claptrap that it is.