Police forces are expected to spend millions of extra pounds on Halloween this year following a sharp increase in antisocial behaviour by "trick or treat" gangs.Thousands of extra officers will be on duty on Tuesday, with some forces warning that officers in unmarked spotter cars will be on hand to arrest or hand out £80 penalty notices to rowdy teenagers.Problems associated with Halloween rarely existed until a few years ago. However, with the arrival of American "trick or treating", trouble appears to have increased in line with the growth of the event itself. Five years ago, Britons spent £12m on Halloween; the figure is now £120m.Problems arise when children knock on doors asking for a treat. If they don't get one, the resulting trick can sometimes escalate out of control. Last year, many forces received hundreds more calls than usual from people whose homes had been vandalised or who had been abused and pelted with eggs and flour by youths.This year, millions of posters have been distributed to homeowners saying "no trick or treating", police units have been set up to arrest offenders, and beat officers have asked shops not to sell eggs and flour to children and youths."We don't want to be killjoys but where we receive intelligence that there could be problems, then we have to respond accordingly," said Donna Bell, spokeswoman for Cheshire police."Last year, we received 1,519 calls on Halloween, when the normal level would have been about 1,000. The year before it was 1,317 and in 2003 it was 1,119." In response, Cheshire is putting extra officers on duty. Its website says they will be supported by special constables, area support group officers, community support officers, targeted patrol teams, neighbourhood policing units, community action teams, "officers specially trained in public order", and unmarked spotter cars."Last year, the majority of calls complained of damage to property, rowdy behaviour and intimidation. This year, for the first time, we have issued 24,000 yes/no posters and a further 24,000 leaflets advising parents and children on what they can do to enjoy themselves peacefully," said Ms Bell.Cheshire is not alone in its efforts. Most forces now produce posters asking to be left alone by "trick or treaters", among them North Wales, Lincolnshire, Norfolk, Kent and West Mercia. Kent has issued 100,000 safety advice cards and 80,000 leaflets.Antisocial incidents are not restricted to doorsteps on Halloween. In Northern Ireland, police have expressed concern that the evening serves as an excuse for under-age children to get drunk.In Wales, forces last year received reports of cars being pelted with eggs and stones. However, in Scotland, Strathclyde police said it had encountered no particular problems with Halloween.In Merseyside, a mother of two who asked not to be named described what happened when she ran out of treats for trickers. "I'm not against trick or treat - my kids do it, but they're aged eight and 10," she said. "As kids knocked on my door I gave them bite-sized chocolate bars and chatted with them."But later on, when all the bars had gone, some older kids came along and asked for a treat. When I explained there were none left, they pelted me with flour and eggs."Not only was I frightened, but the eggs really hurt. My husband chased them away but the next morning I had to scrub the eggs off the front of my house and I found that they had come back later and put superglue in the lock of our garage door. It ruined what had otherwise been a very happy night."As part of its Operation Halloween, Sussex police is suggesting that parents with young children might like to have a family celebration instead.Inspector Richard Newman said they had enjoyed some success after becoming one of the first forces to produce the "no trick or treating" posters several years ago. "The Halloween thing appears to have raised its head in recent years," he said. "We seem to have stabilised it with the posters and with advice and talks we give in schools, but we can't say we've nipped it in the bud. It's a bit like bonfire night; it seems to be an event that's here to stay."The force hopes youngsters will take the advice it posts on its website, simply urging: Don't be a Phantom Menace.