 Milan Mandaric last night described HM Revenue & Customs' decision to charge him with tax evasion as "totally ridiculous" and vowed to clear his name. The former Portsmouth chairman mounted a vigorous defence in the face of allegations that he has cheated the public revenue in relation to an offshore payment made to Harry Redknapp, who remains on bail and is expected to be formally charged with a tax offence over the coming days.Mandaric, now chairman of Leicester City, who was arrested in November 2007 along with Redknapp and Peter Storrie, the Fratton Park chief executive, as part of the long-running investigation into alleged corruption in football, maintained that the transaction in question was a "private matter". He claimed that he was helping Redknapp, Portsmouth's manager at the time, with an investment that had nothing to do with football and disputed the figures the Crown Prosecution Service released in their statement yesterday.That statement said: "Following a thorough investigation by HM Revenue and Customs and the City of London police, the CPS decided there was sufficient evidence and it was in the public interest to charge Mr Mandaric with two counts of cheating the public revenue. The charges are in relation to the payment of $295,000 [£182,000] from Mr Mandaric to another via a bank account in Monaco, evading the tax and national insurance contributions due between 1 April 2002 and 28 November 2007.""I must say that I am very disappointed with this totally ridiculous thing," said the 71-year-old Mandaric. "The statement is wrong, like everything else has been wrong. I have been transparent in everything I have done. Nothing was done wrong on Harry's or my side. It was a private matter where I invested money up front, all outside of this country, outside of football." He added: "The numbers are wrong."Mandaric said the figure was closer to "$50,000 which is taxable, which is around £25,000, and 40% of that is £10,000. That is what we're talking about. The cost and expense [of the investigation, which started in April 2007] and all this aggravation and unfairness is far more than £10,000 that someone will have to pay. There is no correlation between the two. I just hope that one of these days someone will wake up and say 'What the hell is going in here?' And I know that will happen because there is no wrongdoing here."Mandaric will appear at City of Westminster magistrates court on 11 February, following in the footsteps of Storrie, who has also been charged with cheating the public revenue and is due to appear at Southwark crown court a week today for a plea and case management hearing. Redknapp learned last month that he would face charges, which are expected before the end of the week.There had been suggestions that the payment Redknapp received through the account in Monaco was in relation to an outstanding bonus due to him when he was Portsmouth manager but Mandaric strongly denied that was the case. "We paid him over a million pounds in bonuses [at Portsmouth], everything according to contract," he said. "What is the benefit to anyone for me to pay him [via an offshore account]?"Mandaric added that he has paid millions of pounds to the Inland Revenue during his time as chairman at Portsmouth and now Leicester and remains deeply upset that he has been charged. "It is unfortunate that I have to go through this but I have no other choice now other than to vigorously defend and clear my name," he said. "This is a case of misinformation to the public and it's a mistake whoever has come up with this decision."