People accused of sexual offences, including rape and child abuse, should be granted anonymity until they are convicted, according to a powerful House of Commons committee.The Home Affairs Select Committee, chaired by the veteran Labour back bencher Chris Mullin, will say in a report to be released later this year that the anonymity of victims of sexual offences should be extended to the accused. It will argue that the reputations of people are so damaged by allegations that are later not proved in court that special dispensation should be made for those involved. The recommendation is contained in an early draft of the committee's report. The move is so sensitive that it is likely to be hotly contested by members of the committee, which includes MPs from the main parties. The committee came to its conclusions after investigating child abuse in children's homes and the police method of 'trawling' for information among former residents even if they have not approached the police with specific allegations. It will argue that although trawling should not be banned there should be new guidelines from both the Government and the Association of Chief Police Officers to ensure that the police act within the bounds of 'natural justice' when looking at cases. The report will also say that it is concerned that there have been a number of miscarriages of justice in cases based on evidence obtained by trawling, also known as 'dip sampling'. It hit the headlines when it was revealed that a number of investigations into abuse at children's homes had relied on the method. Former residents were sent letters about cases asking if they wanted to make similar allegations. Critics said the process led to false allegations as people, many decades after the alleged offences took place, saw a chance to get thousands of pounds in compensation. The recommendation on anonymity will again open the delicate debate on the rights of the accused in cases involving serious sexual allegations. Earlier this year the snooker player Quinten Hann was acquitted of charges of rape after a six-day hearing at the Old Bailey. His barrister, Rachel Lawrence, argued that he should never have been named so that his reputation was protected. In August a rugby player, Hywel Jenkins, was cleared in five minutes on similar charges after the Crown Prosecution Service said that there was not enough evidence to bring him to trial. 'I was thrust into the spotlight and made to feel guilty,' Jenkins said after the case. 'I feel the victim of the criminal justice system - my name should never have been made public.'