Kacey Jai Smith, 38, is resilient. Three years ago, on police advice, she cut herself off from friends and family, moved counties, lost her home, changed her name and abandoned, in her third year, a degree in psychology. She now works part-time in a shop."I gave up everything but the degree is what really gets to me," she says robustly. "It was my childhood dream and I was so close to achieving it. "At 30, divorced and with three children, she had met "Tom". "He was utterly charming – and all about control. Everyone else could see what he was doing but I couldn't."He isolated her from her family, constantly criticised her and undermined her decision to study. "He didn't like the idea that I was determined to better myself."Intimidation eventually led to violence. He beat her so badly, before her second-year exams, that she suffered a broken nose, fractured ribs and ruptured blood vessels in the brain that placed her in intensive care."He threatened that he would do the same to my brother if I didn't come back to him. I believed him." Smith says. "I was with him for five years. He stripped me of all my confidence but I eventually realised that I would be buried before my mother if I didn't do something. So I took the decision to leave everything behind, take the children, and just go.""Tom" was convicted of grievous bodily harm and actual bodily harm, both with intent. He received a six-month community sentence. The pattern of coercive control – now a part of the Home Office's definition of domestic violence – was not taken into account. Coercive control is described by the charity Against Violence and Abuse as "any action or attitude by a man that literally or metaphorically using fear, dependence and deprivation shrinks a woman's world and deprives her of basic rights and liberties"."His life hasn't changed one bit, "says Smith. "It's me and my family who have been punished."Smith and her children, with new identities, arrived at Rise, in Brighton. It provides a range of services, including refuges, accommodation in independent flats, help with resettlement, therapeutic services for women and children, prevention work in school, as well as guidance for women about benefits, housing and the judicial system. Gail Gray, chief executive of Rise, estimates it takes months and longer, if a woman has multiple needs such as mental health issues, to build up her confidence and put her back in control of her life.Women-only services offer safety plus sustained support; early intervention and crucial back-up from health, police, the courts and social services. It's an agenda that has been endorsed and supported by all political parties for several decades. Until recently."We are at a crossroads," says Polly Neate, chief executive of Women's Aid, an umbrella organisation that represents over 350 UK domestic and sexual assault services. "We may be about to witness the destruction of so much that has been achieved and at a huge cost when there is so much more that still needs to be done.""A Growing Crisis in Unmet Need", a report published by Women's Aid ahead of International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, on 25 November, echoes the concerns of Yvette Cooper, shadow home secretary about the accelerating pace at which domestic violence services for women are being destroyed.First, local authority commissioners who decide how money should be spent, and use competitive tendering to drive down costs, are drastically reshaping domestic violence services, even as the cuts – over 30% since 2010 and more to come – bite deeper."The focus is increasingly on limited crisis support only for high-risk women instead of also investing in sustained specialised services to get more women experiencing abuse back on their feet," says Davina James-Hanman, director of Against Violence and Abuse. "The result will be many women going back to perpetrators only to repeatedly use the two most expensive services of all, namely, police and accident & emergency. Cost-wise, that makes no sense, but since it doesn't come out of the commissioners' pocket but the budget of other organisations and ultimately the taxpayer pays, there is little incentive to change."Norman Baker, crime prevention minister, says: "I would hope that local councils do not make cuts which affect the most vulnerable."But according to Women's Aid, Rise is becoming an exception. Elsewhere, specialised services such as support for children are being culled because generic housing associations have won the local tender. Some have done so by offering a stripped down service and poorly-trained non-specialist staff that may give even potentially dangerous advice."Women who phone the helpline and are not offered accommodation in the refuge have been directed to mixed hostels," says the Women's Aid report about one housing association – advice that could put a woman at risk.Services for black and ethnic minority women are especially hard hit, cut by up to 47% even as referrals have risen sharply. Last year, 180 women a day were turned away from refuges, while prosecutions have fallen by 13%. "Tackling the causes and consequences of domestic violence has been replaced by fire-fighting," Women's Aid says. Women-only services are also stretched because they are under pressure from commissioners to provide services for men for which they have no expertise. Commissioners have increased male provision in many areas, influenced by a study published in 2004 by Professor Sylvia Walby that said one in four women and one in six men will experience one incident of domestic violence in their lifetime.Walby points out her data does not prove parity of need. Almost half of male victims experience a single incident, while looking only at those who experience four or more incidents, 89% are female. Men need support too – the issue is one of meeting real demand effectively and not at the expense of women.In September last year, the Home Office definition of domestic violence was altered to include young people from 16 upward – and to cover the use of coercive control: "any incident or pattern of incidents of controlling, coercive or threatening behaviour". Nina, 57, had her own home and business and was with her former partner, "Jack", for three years. "He was very charming, at times, but I was in perpetual denial. I never applied the word "abuse" to my situation – until the police suggested it."Jack sent her dozens of texts daily, stalked her, sent "vile" emails, accused her of "whoring", and restricted whom she saw. "I blamed myself. I was very, very nervous around him. He didn't have to hit me. It was the unpredictability and the fear of what might happen."After she finally threw him out, he returned with an electric power tool and sliced her vintage bike in half and tried to gain access to her home while she was inside. Passers-by called the police. In January, he will be sentenced in the last sitting of Brighton's special domestic violence court, due to be axed. He has been convicted of criminal damage."The defence will say, it's just a bike. He will probably get a £50 fine. The law isn't fit for purpose," Nina says. "I had a nervous breakdown, he was so constantly threatening. I lost my friends, my business, my home and I am penniless. Coercive control turns independent, intelligent women into ghosts of themselves and, like me, they don't even recognise the behaviour as abuse."Nina received support from Rise, including specialised counselling. "I am so grateful. He would have killed me or I would have killed myself," she says.Professor Evan Stark has researched coercive control for 30 years, and is part of a growing campaign to see it better reflected in law. "What is significant is not the severity of the attack but the frequency of micromanaging a woman's life. We need legislation that recognises this broader pattern of abuse. Women are no less violent or coercive than men but men have the resources, men do it because they can. Coercive control is almost entirely a male pattern of behaviour because it is based on gender inequality. It is often only when women try to escape from coercive control that the physical violence occurs that can end in death."Coercive control is an epidemic that's invisible yet it's in plain sight," he adds. "The better women do, the more some men will try to diminish them. That has an astounding price tag for the nation."Following the day of action on 25 November, Vera Baird QC, police and crime commissioner for Northumbria, will launch a domestic violence strategy that could make a template for other commissioners. The strategy proposes trained domestic violence champions, including men, in as many areas as possible, such as working men's clubs and factory floors.In addition, in a pilot, police will wear body cameras to record evidence; there will be intensive monitoring of known serial perpetrators; programmes to help abusers and more work in schools. "We need to challenge the culture that still fails to make abusers properly accountable," Baird says.For Smith, social media, smartphones and Facebook make it easier for her abuser to track her down. Recently, on the anniversary of her father's death, she looked out of her kitchen window. A doll's head studded with screws and pins and dripping red paint was stuck on a post. "Nobody else knows where I am."She is, she says, undaunted. "My aim now is to find some way of finishing my degree. I could have been killed but today I am very much alive and I am thankful to Rise for that."yvonne.roberts@theguardian.comThis article was amended on 17 November, correcting the number of women and men who experience domestic violence.