Very little is known about the Wycherleys.Few pictures have been traced of William Wycherley while none have been found of his wife, Patricia, according to police.Nottinghamshire police said: "We have garnered very little information about the couple from records and relatives."William Wycherley, born in Shirebrook, Derbyshire, worked at the local coal mine before he moved to Canada to work on a farm at the age of 17. He returned to the UK after three months, and later spent time with the Royal Army Medical Corps before joining various merchant ships, sailing around the world to Australia and other countries. In 1954, he returned and lived in London.While in London, he met Patricia Moore – a solicitor's secretary who was born in Paignton, Devon, but grew up in Fulham, west London.The pair married in 1958 at Fulham register office in Hammersmith, and their only child, Susan, was born months later.The Wycherleys moved to 2 Blenheim Close, Mansfield, in 1987, but neighbours said the family had little contact with those living nearby and described the couple as "reserved and reclusive".It is little wonder then, that in 1998, when the Wycherleys disappeared, people believed they had moved away.Their killers, their daughter and her husband Christopher, shot them dead on a bank holiday in May of that year before burying them in the back garden of the Blenheim Close property.The Edwards, who have been convicted of murdering the pair, told people the couple had moved, or were travelling.Speaking at the scene last September, after police unearthed the bodies, a neighbour said she had never seen Patricia Wycherley in the time that she had lived on the close.The 51-year-old, who did not want to be named, said: "I only saw the man a few times. I never saw the lady or any family."I've lived here for 18 years. They were living at the house when I moved in, but they never had any visitors. I never saw anyone coming or going."My friend and I always used to say: 'I wonder what happened to that couple'. They just disappeared. We thought they had emigrated."Former neighbour Brett Wilson said: "They didn't mix. They didn't talk or communicate with anyone. They didn't even have a car. You just used to see them moving around behind the net curtains like shadows."Chillingly, the jury heard during the trial from one former neighbour who, on seeing Christopher Edwards digging a "large hole" beside the fence in the back garden of the Wycherleys' home at 7am, had joked to his wife.James Hobson, whose police statement was read out in court, said: "He appeared to be either digging a hole or filling a hole with earth using a spade. I recall saying to Karina, in a joking way, 'He's burying them in the garden', and we both laughed at that."He said Christopher Edwards told them the Wycherleys had gone travelling.Their fate remained a secret until Christopher Edwards's stepmother contacted the police, saying her son had told her he had helped bury the couple in 1998.Officers found them buried on top of each other in the back garden of their former home. The house is now inhabited by a tenant after the Edwards' sold the house in August 2005.