Police forces across England and Wales today reported the second straight increase in the numbers of people caught driving drunk over the Christmas period, a change that safety groups blamed on a new breed of young motorists with no comprehension of the dangers of alcohol.According to figures released by the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), 8.16% of breathalysed motorists tested positive compared with 7.18% last year and 6.5% the year before. A total of 15,279 motorists were tested between December 18 2001 and January 2 2002, of which 1,247 were positive. The total number of crashes in which people were injured over Christmas and New Year also rose to 6,512, up from 6,173 the previous year, an increase of 5.5%. The forces with the highest proportion of positive breath tests - South Yorkshire and Hertfordsire - each reported that one in four drivers tested were over the limit. The number of drink drivers caught in London over the Christmas period nearly doubled compared to last year. In the Metropolitan police area, 1,761 breath tests were carried out, of which 15.7% were positive, compared with 8% last year. The Met area also recorded three times more crashes in which people were injured (1,247) than any other force.The lowest result was in the City of London where no drink drivers were caught. Other areas with low rates of positive tests included 2% in Staffordshire, 2.3% in Lancashire and 3.2% in Lincolnshire. The chief constable of North Yorkshire, David Kenworthy, said: "It is clear that despite considerable effort by government, police and other partners in road safety, there remains a substantial core of persistent drink drive offenders willing to put their own and others' lives at risk." He said the reasons for the increase in the number of crashes causing injury were not known but "poor weather" could have been a factor. The RAC said the increase in positive breath tests may be due to "a substantial increase in the number of young people who are unaware of the dangers of alcohol and motoring".A spokesman said: "Recent research has shown that an alarming number of young people have little comprehension of the dangers of drink driving." In a recent survey, 25% of motorists said they thought they could drink three to five pints of beer and still be below the drink-drive limit, the organisation said. And just over half thought that they could drink between three and five pints before it would have any effect on their driving ability. Edmund King, executive director of the RAC, said: "Judging by the number of positive breath tests, the assumption that drinking and driving has been made socially unacceptable seems to no longer hold water, particularly among the very group who were thought to be most convinced of the evils of drink driving - young motorists." The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (Rospa) called on the government to introduce a new package of measures, including cutting the drink drive limit from 80mg to 50mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood. It also wants increased police powers to stop and test drivers, more use of rehabilitation courses for offenders and more high-profile publicity and education campaigns.