A teenager accused of plotting a Columbine-style massacre in Manchester denied that it was a real plan, claiming it was a fantasy developed after he watched the Michael Moore documentary about the US shootings.Matthew Swift, 18, told Manchester crown court today he became obsessed with the massacre after watching Bowling for Columbine and admitted imitating gunman Eric Harris's character. He said his mother, an alcoholic who was prone to violence, had died when he was 10 and he had been brought up by his grandparents in Denton, north Manchester.The prosecution claim Swift and his co-defendant Ross McKnight, 16, whom he had known since the age of five, planned to blow up a busy shopping centre and then attack Audenshaw high school, shooting students and staff before killing themselves.They were arrested by police in March this year, a month before the alleged attack, which they codenamed Project Rainbow, was due to take place. The court has been told that the on the 10th anniversary of the Columbine school killings of 1999, when Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed 12 students and a teacher and wounded 21 others before shooting themselves, the pair planned to copy the act. The proposed attack had been outlined in Swift's diary.Swift, who had left the school and worked full-time at Ikea, told the jury that his interest in Columbine began "in the lower sixth after we were shown the film Bowling for Columbine". He said: "At the time I felt the lads might be misunderstood or there might be some other reason why they did it." Afterwards he said he began reading documents on the internet and became interested in Harris's character.He said he hadn't meant what he had written. "I was just sat there wound up trying to act like menacing," he said. "I was just portraying my dislike for school and my feelings at the time but in an extreme way." At the time he said he was quite depressed and angry "because I was failing and wasn't doing too well at college" . He said he was irritated by the strict school environment in sixth form.Asked by his barrister Stephen Riordan QC if he was sympathetic to Harris, he replied: "In a way." He said his friend Ross McKnight "felt the same as well". He said Project Rainbow was a "fantasy plan that developed from my interest in Eric Harris and Columbine". He later said that he was confused about how he felt and he was "basically mimicking Eric Harris' character". He said he had been prescribed anti-depressants in January this year, but only took three of the tablets.He denied ever buying chemicals from shops or online that could be used to make explosives although he admitted to being curious about explosives and owning the Anarchist Cookbook.Asked by Riordan if he or McKnight intended to kill, he replied: "No." Had they intended to plant explosives to endanger life he said: "No."Beneath a CCTV shot of Harris and Klebold taken from Columbine, Swift had written that it was beautiful and that it was his favourite picture in the world. Riordan asked if he thought it was beautiful. "Not in my heart did I believe that," he replied. He said some of the things he had written were not his beliefs but were those of Eric Harris. When he wrote that he felt superior and supreme he said it was Harris, not him, who believed that. Other thoughts were a mixture of his views and of Harris's.He admitted stealing three or four fireworks from his grandparents and taking one of the rockets to a field and launching them towards a group of people whom he intended to scare. But he said the group of people were not in any danger as they were "two football fields away".In a police interview Swift told officers: "It was just a kind of fiction to me – a way of channelling my rage. I can't remember what was going through my head. I describe a lot about killing people but it was never full reality to me."It lasted a couple of months and then it was all over. It was just a way of escaping the rage I felt inside. I know it was wrong all the stuff I wrote but it was never going to go ahead. It was fantasy – it was never really solid." Swift and McKnight deny conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause explosions. The trial continues.