There has been 'a dreadful tragedy' were the first words spoken to me on the phone by Ros Howells OBE, in the early morning, hours after the murder of Stephen. I had been in the job as chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality for only two days and Ros, who has since been a rock of support to Doreen and Neville Lawrence, was keen to alert people to this dreadful racial attack. No one then could have predicted that six years later the family would still be seeking justice and that their struggle would be our struggle to change the consciousness of the nation and make Britain a better place to live, learn and work free from racism.  Kenneth Clarke was the Home Secretary then. The media gave Stephen's murder a fair amount of coverage, unlike other similar tragedies. The police said they were doing all that they could and they were confident of making an early arrest. The subsequent exposure of the police is due entirely to the Lawrences' tenacity and that of their family, their friends and supporters. That determination is also reflected in the qualities of campaigners such as the irrepressible Suresh Grover and uncompromising lawyer Imran Khan.  It is hypocrisy for some sections of the media now to claim credit for a public inquiry. They have consistently demonised some black people - Muslims, asylum seekers, refugees and immigrants. Jack Straw set up the Macpherson inquiry. Macpherson can succeed where Scarman failed. The inquiry has been searching and thorough and it has had a barium-meal effect on the Metropolitan Police. It has revealed its racism, complacency, incompetence and callousness. But it is only the very beginning. There can be little doubt that a similar barium meal for all our institutions would reveal some identical deficiencies. Jack Straw himself is known to be deeply ashamed of the Home Office that he has inherited, which has a lamentable record in racial equality performance. It is a depressing pattern across all government departments, their agencies, regulatory bodies, social care, health and local government. New legislation still fails. For instance, how much of its business with contractors does the government do with genuine equal-opportunity operators? They have not got a clue. Much discrimination in the private sector is in the employment arena. The limited scope of the Race Relations Act of 1976 enables the CRE to help individual complainants and carry out limited formal investigations. But there are lengthy processes to comply with. It took nearly six years to get the Ministry of Defence and the armed services to agree an action plan after the CRE started an investigation into discriminatory practices. We need to be able to move faster.  Enforcement deficiencies necessitate that we rely on the goodwill of some enlightened employers and leaders to deliver equality programmes. No bad thing to do and more could be done with more leadership commitment. The CRE spends much time working to encourage, convince and persuade decision-makers to do the right thing because it is good for business. It is also in their self-interest because they want to contribute to a fairer society for everyone. Simply bringing the police service into line with the requirements of existing race relations legislation will be little more than cosmetic unless the law is changed along the lines recommended by the CRE to make enforcement more efficient and effective. It is not someone else's responsibility to end discriminatory treatment. Each and every one of us has a part to play. The strategy for racial equality and a fair society must be all-embracing so that no one can interpret it as conferring any special advantages or benefits or imposing special burdens or penalties on particular groups of people in the country. Undoubtedly, the biggest challenge ahead will be to change attitudes in our society. Explicit programmes to counter racial prejudice have to be introduced and implemented on two fronts. The first will be formal programmes available in all schools, as part of the national curriculum to educate children and young people about racial, cultural and religious similarities and differences. The recently announced 'early-learning goals' for children aged three to five accepts, in part, the need for such social skills. The commitment to racial equality, through education has to be strengthened and extended across all school-age groups. We must promote better awareness and understanding about the ethnic minorities' positive contributions to Britain. The second part of challenging prejudice has to be in the form of national public education awareness programmes on similar lines to programmes dealing with drink-driving, HIV-Aids awareness, smoking and drug abuse. Unless we challenge racial prejudice and negative stereotypes of particular racial groups within the population as a whole, any positive education of our children and young people will be overpowered by the entrenched negative attitudes of adults. This is delivery time for the Home Secretary. He has to set out a race-relations vision for Britain and get the whole nation supporting him in a crusade. To extend existing race relations laws may be little more than cosmetic