The fastest-selling T-shirt at Manchester's Dickinson Road fleamarket sums up life in a side of the city that organisers of the Commonwealth Games are desperate to hide. Underneath a picture of a chalk outline drawn around a dead body are the words: 'Welcome To Longsight'.Just three miles south of the city centre, Longsight, along with Moss Side and Hulme, forms a 'gang triangle' where violent death has become an all too familiar occurrence. In the past three years 14 young men have been shot as rival gangs fight to control lucrative drug dealing territory. Last week, in the culmination of a series of trials, the last of a dozen members of one of the most notorious gangs - the Pitt Bull crew - was jailed at Preston Crown Court for his part in the violence. Only now with the lifting of the press ban can the story of the gang be told. Already new gangs have moved in to replace them - there have been 20 shootings in Longsight and Moss Side since the beginning of the year - but the activities of the Pitt Bull gang provide an insight into the problems faced by Manchester's police in attempting to tackle a ruthless group of criminals. The Pitt Bull Crew was founded by Thomas Pitt soon after he was released from a young offenders' institution after a drugs conviction. He dedicated the enterprise to the memory of his brother, Ray, who had been shot dead outside a nightclub on New Year's Eve in 1995. Ray Pitt had been the leader of the Doddington gang, which had made millions by selling drugs in the city, and Thomas and another Pitt brother, Ken, had been members. The scale of their operation became clear when police filmed a dealer making 219 sales in a few days. Thomas decided to pick up where his brother had left off. He recruited boys as young as 14 to sell drugs on his behalf. Using mountain bikes, they could cruise around the city in pairs with at least one carrying a gun for protection. Those who impressed Pitt were rewarded with gems, gold chains and bulletproof jackets. The gang used police scanners to evade capture and members always wore gloves so police would not be able to get fingerprints. The gang had access to an array of guns, but Pitt was the only one allowed to use the deadliest weapon in the arsenal, a MAC10 sub-machinegun fitted with a silencer and capable of firing up to 300 rounds per minute. Although they regularly sold more than £3,000 worth of drugs each day, the dealers would be paid just £250 a day. The money being made soon attracted interest from all quarters. Members of the rival Longsight crew tried to install their own dealers in the same patches, so Pitt declared war on his rivals. On his first outing he was involved in the murder of Longsight crewman Devon Bell, 22. A week later members of both gangs were involved in a shootout, though no one was injured. 'Pitt would from time to time lead sorties into rival territory to shoot at Longsight crew members,' says Detective Chief Inspector Mark Webster, who led the operation against the gang. 'On other occasions he would instruct gang members to take firearms and carry out similar sorties themselves,' says Webster. The two gangs fought at least 17 gun battles, including drive-by shootings, which left four people injured and two dead. In September 2000, Pitt tried to shoot two rival dealers with his MAC10 but it jammed. By the time he cleared the blockage the two men had gone, so he searched for another victim. Within minutes he had found Marcus Greenidge, 21, a drugs courier with the Longsight crew. Greenidge had a loaded automatic pistol in his pocket but never had time to reach it. Pitt later boasted: 'I've just whacked one of the Longsight crew boys. I struck with five bullets out of seven.' Pitt was equally ruthless with members of his own gang. On the night Greenidge was shot, Pitt asked his friend and fellow crew member, Thomas Ramsay, 16, to move a gun which was hidden in a flat in Longsight. Ramsay forgot and a few days later the police obtained a search warrant to the flat and found the gun. Forensic tests linked it to Pitt, who was furious. A few days later Ramsay was dead. Pitt was charged with the killing but acquitted. Less than a week later Pitt himself was shot at by a hooded man on a mountain bike. He survived, but was arrested soon afterwards when one of his fellow gang members, alarmed by Pitt's behaviour, agreed to give evidence against him. While Pitt was awaiting trial the violence being carried out by his gang continued. Taxi driver Mohammed Ahmed, who had been working as a courier for the Longsight crew, was ambushed while taking Lee Fielding, another Longsight crew member, to a meeting. Two Pitt Bull crew members appeared on the scene and shot Ahmed four times in the head as he sat in his cab. The killers then bundled Fielding into a stolen car and took him to a disused railway line in Longsight. Once there he was shot with a sawn-off shotgun, doused with petrol and set alight. Amazingly, he survived, although he suffered horrific burns. Earlier this year, Thomas Pitt was given a life sentence for murder and 20 years for three attempted assassinations, racketeering and drug charges. In total, 13 members of the Pitt Bull crew have been sentenced to more than 170 years' imprisonment, plus three life sentences.