I fear those Puritans of the Long Parliament who railed against the 'carnal and sensual delights' of Christmas pudding would have struggled to enter into the seasonal spirit at the Manchester United Christmas party. We are told six members of the squad withdrew to a private room.The gentlemen later emerged, only to be followed after a polite interval by a young lady guest 'staggering out boasting she had sex with all the men. She was clearly very drunk and very pretty'. And perhaps just a little weary.Anyway, at least Cromwell would have entered into the spirit of the denunciations about all this. We are gripped by a new puritanism, as finger-wagging in its way as Cromwell's. If the allegation of rape in a separate incident is proved, then the condemnation will be justified.But the frothing seems less about a horrible alleged crime than about a group of rich, working-class young men and another group of attractive, working-class young women doing what they enjoy.There was a pact: we are loaded; you are hot. It might be Faustian, but the skimpily dressed Posh wannabes queuing for admittance in the freezing Manchester night were making an informed choice.Yes, I, too, wish the flower of English maidenhood would set its sights a little higher than an evening with Wayne Rooney. And higher still than a day spent sending photos to the gentlemen's journal Assess My Breasts. But when did it become our right to tell other people how to live?Because the elite has lost its self-confidence, it glorifies popular culture, even at its coarsest. Stupidity is taken as a virtue and the worst blunder a politician can make - apparently - is not knowing a pop song, as Nick Clegg is learning after admitting he'd never heard of 'Fairytale of New York' by the Pogues.But having unleashed a society which reveres sex and denigrates thought, the government seems to think it can undo all the carnage by passing a law: as if by divine miracle, we can become born-again Puritans.Cromwell's apparent heir is Harriet Harman. Her latest campaign is to outlaw prostitution. Has she not learnt that any attempt to use parliamentary instruments to stop people having sex has mildly less chance of success than a law against rain? And even if she could stop men paying for sex, I wish the other New Puritans luck stopping young women providing it for free.Let me concede that often one feels like siding with the New Puritans. Looking at a provincial high street on Saturday night, I imagine my own daughter in a few years' time and want to weep. The horror is multiplied by a million when I think of sex-trafficked women being brutalised in towns across Britain.But surely government has tested to destruction the fantasy that you can change society by banning stuff. Isn't the real problem with trafficked prostitutes that, first, we have virtually no border police so smugglers can operate with impunity, and, second, because prostitution is already underground, it can't be regulated? If the ban is simply about 'sending a message', then Harman should realise it is a message that will be ignored, as with hunting.And, for all the hideous vulgarity of modern life, would we really rather return to an England where young women committed suicide out of shame or visited back-street abortionists? Between Cromwell and Assess My Breasts, is there not a third way?Education changes people; censoriousness just irritates them. Try to take away their figgy pudding and people rebel, eventually. The Lord Protector learnt that the hard way; so, it seems, will Gordon Brown at the end of this long parliamentWhile it's Noel for us, it's still hell in Helmand'Don't mention the war.' This has nothing to do with German sensibilities and all to do with our squeamishness.In Helmand, British troops are engaging Taliban forces that are battalion-strong in the largest ground war we have faced since the Second World War. As Afghanistan braces itself for the probable arrival of a new UN special envoy in the shape of Paddy Ashdown, a man who collects countries to run the way others collect stamps, there are hard questions.If Afghanistan is salvageable, won't we need more troops from more countries? How will we keep territory we win and make allies of the people we have just been blowing to the dark ages they never quite left? And are we prepared to stay, possibly for decades? Big questions, which, thankfully, Paddy Ashdown has been contemplating. But have we?War permeated everything at Christmas during the last two world wars, but this scarcely intrudes on us as we enjoy the mistletoe, the mince pies and the mulled wine.Yep, Christmas is hell, but compared to Helmand ...?I say, that's really rather richSusan Crossley is accused of being a 'career divorcee'. And as careers go, it sure beats telesales: she is working hard in pursuit of her next pay cheque, courtesy of plutocratic husband number four, who is variously reported to be worth £45m and £105m (it must be so tiresome to count). Perhaps she keeps a divorce lawyer on 24-hour standby next to the private jet, much as we might keep a taxi meter running outside a shop. Labour used to want to nationalise the commanding heights of the economy: in these deteriorating economic times, Gordon Brown should consider taking Crossley into public ownership; she is surely more solvent than Northern Rock.In short, she opens herself up to the Mrs Merton charge: 'So, what was it you found so attractive about the multi-millionaire Paul Daniels?' But is she a gold-digger? As F Scott Fitzgerald understood: 'The rich are different from you and me.' Once they've earned their first hundred mill or so, the only poor folk they meet are their staff. Wealth is a club; rich women don't marry the guy next door, because there isn't a next door.This was confirmed to me with hilarious honesty by the delightful Lady de Rothschild. She, unlike Crossley, made her first few hundred mill herself. She told me that while dating between husbands, she 'bought these big sapphire earrings to be clear I didn't need their money'.Were all her dates rich? She looked incredulously, so dumb was my question; of course. Later, she made a throwaway remark about the days before 'everyone' was worth a hundred million. And she is both intelligent and liberal.Crossley probably lacks de Rothschild's hinterland, but she would share the view: she wouldn't marry a pauper. He may turn out to be a gold-digger.Celebrity life - it does my head inIn the hyper-laboratory inhabited by celebrities, entire lives are played out in the time I'm still pondering whether to get out of bed to make a cup of tea or to go back to sleep. I feel exhausted just looking at the life of, say, Lily Allen, who is pregnant by a new boyfriend in the time most of us are still mumbling questions along the lines of: 'Do you come here often?'Kate Moss was a beautiful young woman; now she still looks fantastic, but in that rather heroic Marianne Faithfull kind of way. And then there is the sister of Britney Spears, Jamie Lynn.It is now reported that despite being pregnant, Jamie Lynn's relationship with a Casey Aldridge is over. He is described as her 'long-term' partner; she is 16. Hmm, I think I'll just go back to bed ...It came upon the midnight clear, that glorious sound of online shoppingThe Archbishop of Canterbury declares the Christmas story a 'legend'. Well, it's taken time for him to see the light, but we should always welcome a convert. So as Tony Blair goes the other way in accepting a lot of Catholic mumbo-jumbo, at least the archbishop has had an epiphany. But the danger with realist religion is it leaves nothing to believe in, just some vacuous 'sea of faith'. If you treat Christianity as just a rattling good yarn, then it has to compete in the marketplace with the EastEnders Christmas special.Even The Sound of Music was dropped from the Christmas schedule eventually, and so, alas, was Baby Jesus. After all, no story has become as humdrum - or as plagiarised - as the Bible. Eventually, you are left with the highly sophisticated - but ultimately empty - view that faith is just about ritual, that there is nothing really spiritual 'out there'.It's Hobson's choice for the archbish: if he insists that the story, which very few people believe in, is literally true, everyone pats him on the head as a rather sweet and dribbly national treasure to be wheeled out for the odd chat show and then ignored, like Billy Connolly minus the expletives; but if Rowan Williams admits the disciples had an imagination more vivid than JK Rowling, then we demand: 'So how long before you tell us Christianity itself was just a colourful metaphor, too?'Either way, 3.5 people are predicted to spend Christmas Day buying stuff they don't need online, more than the 2.8 million who check out God by going to church. They are believers of sorts, but in the Father, the Son and the Holy Argos.· Perhaps David Starkey is right and the Queen is a philistine. But as he churns out shows about monarchy, why trash the brand? He accuses the Queen of agreeing with Goebbels that 'every time I hear the word "culture", I reach for my revolver'. So he will forgive me if I point out that the quotation wasn't Goebbels's. It originated with Nazi playwright Hanns Johst.