A children's charity has said the murder of Shafilea Ahmed has brought forced marriage and "honour" crimes into the public domain and more needs to be done to protect girls at risk.The chief executive of Plan UK, Marie Staunton, said: "Sadly, there are millions of Shafileas in the UK and around the world – with one girl being forced or coerced into marriage every three seconds globally and 8,000 cases in the UK each year."She said: "We must do more to protect girls at risk and work with young people and their teachers so they can spot the signs and know who to contact for help."Plan UK has launched the nation's first specialist film and lesson plan for use across UK schools. Schools have long shied away from discussing the issue, despite hundreds of girls going missing from classrooms every year to be married off. The summer holidays are the most dangerous time of the year for girls at risk of forced marriage – as they can be more easily taken abroad and wed against their will."Forced marriage is a violation of human rights and puts girls at greater risk of being pulled out of school, domestic violence, early pregnancy and serious health conditions like HIV," said Staunton. "A friend, or a teacher, might be the first port of call for a girl at risk of being married against her will. Girls and boys, their teachers and schools, need to know what they can do to help."Plan UK is calling for the government to take action in the UK and overseas to keep girls in school and end forced marriages.Dr Aisha Gill, a criminologist at the University of Roehampton, who is an expert in "honour" killing said Shafilea Ahmed's murder highlights the lack of consistent liaison between the relevant education services, social services, housing and police during the period she was a victim of domestic violence at the hands of her parents.She believes Shafilea may still have been alive if it had not been for the failure of the agencies to communicate effectively. "A catalogue of errors potentially led to her death," Dr Gill said. She questions why when she was treated in hospital for 10 weeks after swallowing bleach, it was not flagged up by the hospital. There was ample opportunity to pick up the danger signs, she added."At the least, it is important that her case is carefully considered so that the mistakes that contributed to her death may be avoided in the future and other lives, may, perhaps be saved." She believes more should have been done to save her. "Although Shafilea was a teenager living in constant fear of her parents, no thought was given to finding a way to arrest and prosecuted her parents without relying upon Shafilea as a witness, despite there being a number of independent people who could give evidence about the abuse she was suffering."