A law intended to protect women accusers in rape trials from questioning about their sex lives is to be challenged in the House of Lords next month, as being a breach of a defendant's right to a fair trial.Section 41 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act, which came into force last December, faces a challenge under the Human Rights Act before it has been applied in a trial. Three appeal court judges concluded provisionally last month that the provision would "unfairly distort the trial process" if a jury could not be told that the accuser, whom the defendant alleges consented to sex, had willingly had sex with him not long before. Last week they gave leave to take the case to the Lords, which will hold an expedited hearing on March 26. Other pending cases are awaiting the law lords' ruling, which could alter the provision or even hold it incompatible with the European convention on human rights, putting pressure on the government to amend it. Lawyers for the accused, who was due to stand trial the day after the act came into effect, argued that it prevented him having a fair trial. The ban was introduced after lobbying by women's groups, who said that past occasions were not relevant in deciding whether a woman consented on the occasion in question. Previous attempts to restrict questioning about sexual history were frustrated because judges were left a discretion, which they freely exercised. Section 41 removed the discretion, and laid down that, where the issue was consent, questioning would be permitted only in extremely limited circumstances. Evidence of previous sexual encounters with the accused could be given only if they happened "at or about the same time" as the alleged rape. The judge due to preside last December ruled that the law barred him from allowing evidence, but he gave permission "with enthusiasm" to take the case to the court of appeal, adding: "The sooner this is looked at, the better. This problem is likely to arise in many, many cases before crown courts." No details about the case can be reported because the man is due to stand trial after the judgment. The court of appeal provisionally concluded that "the trial process would be unfairly distorted if a jury were precluded from knowing that the complainant and the defendant had recently engaged in consensual sexual activity". The judges confirmed that section 41 barred evidence of previous sexual encounters between the woman and the man where the issue was whether she consented or not, but was admissible where the man's defence was not that the woman consented, but that he believed she was consenting. It is a defence under English law if the man can convince the jury that he honestly believed the woman was consenting, however unreasonable the belief might seem. If he raises the defence of "mistaken belief", the onus is on the prosecution to disprove it. This "Morgan defence", named after a case in which a husband invited three men to have sex with his wife, telling them she was "kinky" and was likely to struggle to get "turned on", has been much criticised but mistaken belief in consent remains a defence. The appeal court judges said the result of the legislation was that the trial judge would have to direct the jury to take account of the evidence that the couple had a previous sexual relationship in assessing the defendant's state of mind, but to disregard it in assessing the woman's. "It might be thought that a summing up in such terms would owe more to Lewis Carroll than to sensible jurisprudence," said Lord Justice Rose, who headed the panel. Martin Bowley QC, an experienced criminal barrister, described the law as a shambles. He said: "I think Alice in Wonderland is putting it mildly."