Hundreds of parents whose children have been killed in gun and knife violence on Britain's streets are coming together in an attempt to reclaim their communities.The families, led by the parents of 16-year-old Robert Levy, who was stabbed to death in Hackney, east London, in 2004, are to launch the Through Unity charity next month, which they say will give grieving families a chance to take a stand against gang violence in their neighbourhoods.The organisation, which has the support of the Home Office and several private companies, will act as a national campaign group, a source of community funding and a support network for those who have lost children to gun or knife crime.Robert's father, Ian Levy, said radical coordinated action was needed in cities around the country to offer youngsters an alternative to crime and violence and give local communities the confidence to reclaim their neighbourhoods."This is everybody's responsibility and it will take a community effort. We are trying to support communities to allow them to rebuild themselves ... Everybody is asking what has gone wrong and my question to them is, what are you doing about it?"Last year 27 teenagers were killed in shootings and stabbings in London and there are similar problems in other cities.Levy, who has already set up the Robert Levy Trust offering training and support to hundreds of youngsters in east London, is launching the charity with his wife Patricia and the parents of Damilola Taylor, the 10-year-old stabbed to death in Peckham, south London, in 2000. "This does not just happen to people in London, it happens around the country and it seems to be happening more and more," he said."[This organisation] will empower people to take responsibility in their community, to do the work that they need to do to prevent this from happening."The group's chief executive, Rani King, has written to parents of murdered teenagers telling them about Through Unity. The charity is planning its official launch at the beginning of April with a newspaper advertising campaign and website.King said the organisation already had the backing of some of the most successful fundraisers in the UK. "We have not got years to wait to make the changes that are needed in our society."Home Office statistics on murder and manslaughter show that while there were 35 victims aged 13 to 19 in 1997-98, that figure had almost doubled to 69 in 2005-06.Levy said it was time everyone took responsibility for what was happening. "What are the alternatives?" he asked. "If we don't do something to effect changes within our communities, what is going to happen? We cannot sit back and allow our young people to kill each other."