An alcoholic caretaker was today convicted of the manslaughter of two promising young jockeys by killing them in a fire attack fuelled by envy and drugs.Peter Brown lit a heap of rubbish at the flats in the Yorkshire horse-racing town of Norton, where he worked, as revenge against the young tenants, who considered him "a creep".The verdict came after more than two days' deliberation by the jury, which decided that the 47-year-old did not intend the terrible consequences of his actions.The fire engulfed a converted block of flats in a former tannery, killing Jamie Kyne, an 18-year-old Irish jockey earning a national name, and talented fellow rider Jan Wilson, who was 19.Brown was cleared of two parallel charges of murder and of arson with the deliberate intention of endangering life. A three-week trial at Leeds crown court heard harrowing accounts of the tragedy in September, in the early hours when a score of people in the building were asleep.Brown, a father of one whose marriage collapsed because of his drinking, was an inept hanger-on at social events organised at the flats. On the night of the fire, he was turned away from a party and spent the evening brooding in local pubs, taking a line of cocaine and drinking an estimated six double whiskies, two singles and three beers.He was described by witnesses on the night as being "angry" rather than simply frustrated by the rebuff, which was one of a series of rejections at the hands of successful young people having a good time.Lizzie Murphy, 18, a stablehand who was rescued from the smoke-choked building, told the jury of six women and six men how she had closed the door on him, while another friend of the jockeys complained of Brown sending her "creepy texts" calling her a "whore with a queer boyfriend".The trial heard fire service tapes of Murphy screaming for help alongside Jan Wilson, who was seen shouting out of the window of the flat before it was engulfed in flames. She described how she managed to shin down a drainpipe with another friend while two other trainee jockeys jumped from the fifth floor window.One of them, Dean Pratt, told the court that everyone was asleep in the flat when he was woken by Wilson's boyfriend, Ian Brennan, tugging at him and saying: "There's a fire. We need to get out." He told the court: "The place was filled with thick, black smoke. I was finding breathing difficult."He was knocked unconscious in the fall and broke his hand, landing at the feet of another tenant in the block, 45-year-old Martin Brown (no relation), who described running from the blazing building as people jumped for their lives. The court heard that white spirit had probably been used to encourage the fire, while the flats' stairwell acted like a chimney.Police were immediately concerned about Peter Brown, who was at the scene as emergency services arrived, and according to witnesses began "acting like a madman". He shoved a police officer, made futile attempts to get into the blazing building and talked about the fire possibly being a "hit".Asked about this comment during police interviews, he told detectives: "It's a bit of a dodgy world, isn't it – horse racing?". He added – with what the prosecution took as a further sign of his envy – that Kyne had made a lot of money at an early age.Brown, originally from Aberdeen, exercised his right not to give evidence, but his counsel, Paul Watson QC, told the jury that they had heard plenty of supposition about motive, but "little or nothing in the way of good old-fashioned evidence".Brown looked intently at the jury foreman as the verdicts were given, but showed no obvious emotion. Friends and relatives of the victims said "yes!" at the manslaughter convictions and comforted one another in the public gallery.Mrs Justice Nicola Davies adjourned sentence for the completion of reports, telling Brown: "This is so I can have full information about the danger you pose." Turning to the families and friends of Kyne and Wilson, she said: "You have attended court every day. My thanks to you for the dignity you have shown."The court heard that Brown had previously been convicted of criminal damage and sending obscene or menacing texts to his wife just before their marriage collapsed four years ago.Jan Hills, North Yorkshire's district crown prosecutor, said after the verdicts: "This utterly senseless act led to the tragic death of two young people, both of whom had their whole lives and promising sporting careers ahead of them. In setting fire to the block of flats, Brown cruelly snuffed out that youthful potential, all for the sake of a perceived slight after being refused access to a party."Tributes to Kyne, from Kiltrogue, County Galway, Ireland, and Wilson, from Forfar in Scotland, were paid after the tragedy by all racing's leading jockeys and trainers. Both were well known in the neighbouring horseracing towns of Norton and Malton, where an annual Bright Young Star award has been set up in their memory.At the time of his death, Kyne was third in the apprentice jockey championship, riding for John Quinn's yard at Malton. A fellow trainer, Adrian McGuinness, said: "He had the makings to go the whole way as a jockey. They called him the jewel of the north."Wilson was described as "very good, very capable and with tremendous potential" by trainer David Barron, who employed her as a rider at his yard in Thirsk.In a joint statement, their families said: "Peter Brown has robbed us of two wonderful young people who had so much to live for. When Jan and Jamie died, a part of each one of us died with them."They have both been denied a great future and lifestyle in a sport they loved so much and had triumphed in. We must now try to rebuild lives and ensure that the memories of Jan and Jamie live on."