Sweets. Water. Gin. Cigarettes. Marks and Spencer chocolates. Razor blades. Own brand champagne. "Cosmetic products worth £42." A £7.49 bottle of wine. A baseball cap "worth £25". "Items worth £1."The riots are at their most inexplicable when you see how far from luxurious were the goods for which mobs were prepared to smash through glass and tear down shutters. True, the thieves were probably not anticipating – who would have been, until our new, 19th century-style assizes? – being jailed, like Simple Simon, for stealing pies or, yet more pitifully, "items worth £1", but even if you thought you might get away with it, why take the risk of cutting yourself, let alone arrest and an appearance in court?Adjourning the case of a 17-year-old girl, accused of stealing "bags of food from Greggs", a Manchester magistrate commented: "These children are running wild."It is with the more discerning raids – for Bang & Olufsen stereos, designer bags, overpriced teen junk from Jack Wills – that the recklessness makes more sense. What kind of person will risk prison trying to nick stuff from Swarovksi? Maybe a thief who comprehends that this particular bling – unlike bags of food from Greggs – has a tremendously high-end following, and thus resale value, thanks not least to the luxury correspondents at the FT's always instructive How to Spend It magazine. This publication – aimed, as the title suggests, at people with more money than time or imagination to unload it – guides them towards shiny trinkets such as the ones in Manchester's Swarovski's."A giant neckpiece," offers a How to Spend It expert, "is an effortless and often affordable way of adding 'wow' to your winter wardrobe." In their taste, if nothing else, some of these robbers would appear to be indistinguishable from the FT's bankers and trophy wives, doggedly transforming city bonuses into wow-provoking tokens of success of the sort you can't find in Poundland.If our leaders are correct about the psychology of last week's crowds, the resemblance between the two types – rioting thieves and hard-working bankers – goes much further. If the former are indeed as greedy, irresponsible and amoral as has repeatedly been claimed in editorials and debates, the real pity, aside from estimated £200m cost of their depravity, is that they never found their way to the City, as employees.The crossover was confirmed by David Cameron, when he traced what Nick Clegg called "an outburst of acquisitive crime" to a "complete lack of responsibility in our society. It is as much a moral as a political problem". Following a previous outburst of serious acquisitive crime in 2008, when bankers unleashed the ongoing economic destruction, Cameron diagnosed a similar lack of responsibility, and accused Gordon Brown, presiding over it, of "a failure of moral leadership". Irrespective of their background, he said, the City's wrongdoers should face the consequences of their actions. "Doctors who behave irresponsibly get struck off," he noted. "Bankers who behave irresponsibly should also face professional consequences."Three years later, as rioters are processed by the thousand through overnight courts, the FSA has just announced it will indeed be taking a thorough look at what was going on at HBOS back in the day, before its near-failure then rescue, courtesy of £37bn from taxpayers.Without seeking to condone, or exculpate bankers who behaved with what might look like criminal negligence, others have sought to understand the origins of their recklessness and greed, their arrogance and dishonesty. How did we as a society create a group of people who clearly believed themselves to be beyond conventional morality? Evidently shambolic policing by politicians, and increasingly lax regulatory authorities, played its part, but what explained this willingness to gamble with millions of other people's livelihoods, along with what appeared to be deliberate concealment of their excesses, by a group of people who had all too often emerged from decent, middle-class families?With poverty, academic failure and poor parenting ruled out, along with alcohol, politics, warm weather and the long school holidays, economists have speculated on the destructive behaviour that might perversely be encouraged in bankers working in a competitive, risk-taking environment that offers obscene financial inducements for irresponsibility, and about as much prospect of punishment as was anticipated, a few days ago, by inebriated teens.Like the gangs which lay, according to Mr Cameron, at the heart of the recent troubles, banking elites are male-dominated and thus, if you believe in a connection between gender and attitudes towards risk, more likely to take a swaggering, over-confident approach to dealing/rioting, particularly when acting in excitable groups. The neuroscientists Coates and Herbert, studying a group of male bankers, proposed that high testosterone levels might further contribute to irrational financial decisions.The additional stimulus of vast bonuses as a behaviour-skewing reward for recklessness is not, however, something which finds a ready parallel in the world of civic disobedience. To mirror the effect of a post-bailout bonus of this year's £1bn for bankers at RBS, which is 83% state owned, the treasury would have to reward convicted 17-year-old neets who persist with their careers in theft and criminal damage with flat-screen televisions and their pick of new-season Swarovski.Any shared sense between petty criminals and bankers of being beyond the law in what one Tory MP, Andrew Bridgen, last week called a "no-blame, no-responsibility culture that has undermined our society", must also be diminishing. As the former find themselves punished with severity, threatened with the loss of benefits and new laws on balaclavas, their banking colleagues, refreshed by this year's bonuses, man up to issue unsubtle threats to would-be regulators, as if the financial crisis was something this country had found, quite by accident, lying on the ground outside Tesco.No British banker has done time for a moment of madness lasting almost a decade, and its consequences for tax-payers, home-owners and the innumerable small businesses that the credit crunch reduced, no less than last week's hooligans, to extinction. Minor offenders, informed that "you will pay for what you have done", can only look on with admiration at elite brothers who caused devastation on the scale of Fred the Shred, and survived untouched, with both knighthood and pension.As for signs of repentance, for which the faces of juvenile rioters are carefully scanned, Bob Diamond reminded us back in January that this is a finite commodity, even in a sector whose survival has depended on £1.2tr bung from taxpayers. "The period of remorse and apology for banks needs to be over," he told the Treasury committee. It was left to the now infamous Croydon girl, in a break from looting, to translate her soulmate's message into plainer English: "It's about telling the police that we can do what we want."