 5.37pm GMT Evening summary• Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale have been found guilty of murdering a soldier near a military barracks in London – the first al-Qaida-inspired killing on British soil since the 7/7 attacks in 2005.• Both men were found not guilty of the attempted murder of a police officer.• The sentencing of the men will take place in January.That's all, thanks for reading.Updated at 5.51pm GMT 4.06pm GMT Five prison officers accused of assaulting Michael Adebolajo will not face criminal charges after an incident at the high-security prison Belmarsh, during which Adebolajo had his front teeth knocked out. The Prison Officers' Association said it was "disappointed" that the officers remain suspended from work. 4.05pm GMT As mentioned earlier ITV News's Lucy Manning interviewed Richard Taylor, the father of murdered 10-year-old Damilola Taylor. Richard Taylor was a mentor to Michael Adebowale when he was bullied as a child.Taylor said he was "terribly shocked" by the killing of Rigby. What I saw that day is a very different 'Toby' [nickname] or Michael that I saw that day. That was crazy, that was gruesome. I don't expect that a young person like that would go to that extreme. He must've been on drugs. I think they were under the influence of drugs. The two of them. They smashed the car against the wall, against the soldier. It was really devastating for me to see blood and they were there waiting. Something different … totally wrong somewhere.How would he sum up Adebowale? What happened, it was a shock to me ... He was a very quiet young boy when he was growing up and this really shocked me. I can't overcome the shock of seeing Michael in such a situation because I thought his going to prison would have reformed him, [that he would] come back to the society and community with positive behaviour rather that getting hardened.Something went wrong in prison; they must have indoctrinated him. They must've used him as a mule and frightened him. So I am not happy the way things were left the way they were. For this boy to get into this level of life.  Richard Taylor with his wife Gloria Taylor outside the Old Bailey in August 2006. Photograph: AFP/Getty 3.26pm GMT Here is David Cameron's reaction to the verdict.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  3.00pm GMT Here is the police interview video in which Michael Adebolajo talks about how and why Lee Rigby was targeted.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close   Michael Adebolajo tells how Lee Rigby was targeted – police interview videoUpdated at 3.01pm GMT 2.55pm GMT Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, the woman hailed as the "angel of Woolwich" for calmly talking to one of the killers as he stood holding a knife with bloody hands, has been speaking to the BBC about the attack. She said Rigby's head was covered with a jacket, which she tried to move, but then she heard a voice saying: "Don't touch the body." She lifted her head and saw "two bloodied hands, one carrying the meat cleaver and the butcher's knife, and the other one holding a revolver".Asked what the killer had said to her about the dead Rigby, she said: He told me he was a British soldier, and he killed him. So I said: 'Why?' 'Oh, because they dropped bombs, the British army purposely drops bombs on civilians in Islamic countries - he didn't name one.' And so it was to avenge all these victims, female and children.He told her he was "at war - here on the streets of London".She pointed out that the police would be there soon. He said: "Doesn't matter. I'll fight them. I'll kill them. But I'll have war."She told him: "OK, but you know it's just you versus all of us ... How are you going to win it?"She recalled: "He understood that. He was quite clever. And he said: 'I don't care.'"  Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, who was praised for her bravery in calmly talking to one of the attackers. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA 2.43pm GMT A friend of Adebolajo, Abu Baraa, told ITV News that the alleged approaches of MI5 became too much. He said: I think he felt that MI5 were destroying his life and that his life as he knew it was over and he had no control over his own future and I think he wanted to take that control into his own hands rather than leaving it up to MI5. After he was brought back to Britain [from Kenya], he felt he was driven into a corner. 2.41pm GMT ITV News will also broadcast this interview with eyewitness Vikii Cave: My gut instinct was to stop. I pulled behind and I got out and she [another eyewitness] looked like she’d been crying so I asked if she was OK and asked if she was hurt. She said: ‘I think he [Lee Rigby] has been stabbed.’I asked if anyone called the police or ambulance and I went running up to see if I could help. My first instinct was to see if I could help. There was a lady sitting rubbing his back. I said I had a first aid kit in the car but she said: 'No, it's too late, he's gone.' She said: ‘I'm a mum, I'm a mum and if that was my son, I’d want someone to be there for him.'I looked and saw the two men and I noticed the knives and the machete and they had blood on their hands. I spoke to the man [attacker] and said: 'Are we safe? Are you going to hurt us?’ He said: 'The women and children are safe but when the police and soldiers get here you need to back off. I can’t guarantee anything.' Then he started talking about religion and talking about an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth ... I backed off and called police ... Within 10 seconds the armed police came rushing around the corner.It all happened so quick. It was a natural reaction to go and help and I didn't realise that they were there. And when I did realise I thought ‘oh God, that is scary’ especially when I saw the gun and their hands were covered in blood. So much blood. It didn’t hit home. At the time I just tried to do what anyone would do.That lady was so so brave, absolutely amazing, just rubbing his back and saying: ‘I’m a Mum and if that was my son I’d want someone to be there.' She was incredible. A brave lady.It's a tragedy that shouldn't have happened. There’s always people in this world with point of view and they took it to extremes. It’s wrong. The [Rigby] family, what they must be going through. They are never going to get their son or husband or father back but hopefully they can get comfort from the fact someone was there trying to help, that lady was there with him, people in the community did try and help.How the community came together was amazing. These people haven’t got what they wanted. 2.35pm GMT ITV News is to broadcast an interview with Richard Taylor, the father of murdered 10-year-old Damilola Taylor. Richard Taylor was a mentor to Michael Adebowale when he was bullied as a child. Taylor tells ITV News he believes Adebowale was radicalised in jail, saying: “Something must’ve gone wrong in prison. They must’ve indoctrinated him in the wrong way.” 2.31pm GMT Here is the statement from Lee Rigby's family read out after the verdicts.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  2.19pm GMT Farooq Murad, secretary general of Ismalic umbrella group the Muslim Council of Britain, has called the murder "truly a barbaric act" and said that "Muslim communities then, as now, were united in their condemnation of this crime. This was a dishonourable act and no cause justifies cold-blooded murder."He sent his sympathy and condolences to Rigby's family and added: The attackers of Lee Rigby should reflect on their actions and seek repentance from the almighty. They have made yet another family to mourn for their loved one, they have tried to sow division in our society and they have, once again, besmirched our great religion of Islam.They claimed that their act was done for those suffering in wars in Muslim lands. But it is my contention that the vast majority of our affected brothers and sisters would have nothing to do with this phoney act done in their name.As the murderers now prepare to spend a very long time in prison, we must all work hard to heal the divisions caused by this act. There was an exponential increase in hate crimes against Muslims, with mosques and Islamic centres attacked and vandalised, while Islamophobia and anti-Muslim hatred were readily accepted in sections of our mainstream press.Thankfully for all the hate, and division, there were also large pools of solidarity and support across the country. People of all faiths and none came together not only to condemn the murder, but also speak out against retaliatory attacks against Muslims.Our response to extremism is to build solidarity across faiths. Extremism breeds not within communities, but in their gaps and margins. In places where the webs and safety nets of community that sustain dignity, self-worth, autonomy and solidarities fail.Updated at 2.30pm GMT 2.18pm GMT Nick Raynsford, the Labour MP for Greenwich and Woolwich, has also spoken out. He said his sympathies were with Lee Rigby's family and former colleagues. This was a horrific murder. Justice has been done but I would like to stress the importance of the community locally in Woolwich really holding together at a time when there were real pressures to divide. People didn't get divided by this. They recognised this was the behaviour of extremists whose ideology is not in any way espoused by people across the whole range of the community in Woolwich, many different races, religions, people with faiths of different types and no faith, all came together to say: our society is a society that is a united one, we are not going to allow this hideous event to divide people. That's been the positive message out of this very, very sad event.He said he had been worried about reprisal attacks but "locally there weren't any serious attacks; I'm pleased to say the community did pull together. People of different faiths came to the mosque and showed their solidarity, and Muslims overwhelmingly and without reservation condemned the appalling barbarity which was carried out by these two men, with a thoroughly distorted, warped view of their religion."  2.10pm GMT The leader of Greenwich council, Chris Roberts, has been speaking to the BBC. He said his thoughts and prayers were with Lee Rigby's family, and he wanted to think Rigby for his service to the country. I think there's a sense of relief that justice has been done and given the nature of our legal system it's been done fairly quickly. The military were here before the community. The town was founded in a sense by the military and grew up around the military, so it did very much feel like we'd lost a member of our family, and that's how I still think the majority of people in Woolwich feel.  1.54pm GMT Lieutenant Colonel Jim Taylor of Lee Rigby's Second Fusiliers has issued a statement. He said: The thoughts of every soldier and officer in the Second Fusiliers are very firmly with the family and friends of Fusilier Lee Rigby. We hope that the conclusion of this trial brings even a small amount of closure in the aftermath of this horrific crime. Fusilier Rigby was a highly dedicated and professional soldier. He was one of the true characters within the Second Fusiliers and he is missed greatly.  1.47pm GMT The Rigby family walked out of the Old Bailey rather than being picked up by cars or taxis, writes Vikram Dodd. It is as if they were showing they were not scared to walk the streets of their capital, he writes. 1.46pm GMT Yvette Cooper MP, the shadow home secretary, has said: This was a vile and sickening attack on an unarmed and innocent man on the streets of London and our thoughts remain with the family, friends and colleagues of Lee Rigby on a day when his murderers have been found guilty.The police and security services have worked tirelessly to bring those responsible to justice.The message from this court case, from the community in Woolwich and from us all is that acts of barbaric cruelty will do nothing to diminish our resolve to stand up to extremism in all its forms. The local community, and people across the country, have refused to allow murderers and extremists to divide us. 1.44pm GMT The Metropolitan police have put out this timeline of the events of 21 and 22 May: 14:01hrs on 21 May: Adebolajo visited a store in Lewisham where he purchased a five-piece set of knives in a block and a knife sharpener.On 22 May, from approx from 09:30hrs: Adebolajo and Adebowale are together at Greenwich House.Approximately 13:00hrs on 22 May: Adebolajo and Adebowale leave Greenwich House and head towards Woolwich. They travel along Wellington Street and Artillery Place at about 13:30hrs and park up in Wellington Street facing Artillery Place.13.35hrs: Fusilier Rigby enters Tower Gateway DLR station.14.10hrs: Fusilier Rigby arrives at Woolwich Arsenal DLR station, leaves the station and crosses into Wellington Street. He crosses over John Wilson Street in the direction of the barracks.Moments later he crosses Artillery Place away from the barracks towards a shop on the other side of the road. By this time the Tigra has moved from where it was parked in Wellington Street.Adebolajo drives the Tigra straight at Fusilier Rigby, striking him from behind and carrying him on the bonnet.The car hits a post in the pavement and Fusilier Rigby falls to the ground.Adebolajo and Adebowale attack Fusilier Rigby with a cleaver and knives.Approx 14:20hrs, police receive first 999 call from a member of the public stating a man is being attacked on John Wilson Street, Woolwich. Further 999 calls come in stating attackers were in a possession of a gun.Officers are at the scene within nine minutes of receiving the first 999 call.14:24hrs: Firearms officers are assigned.14:34hrs: Firearms officers attend and shots fired. Seconds later Adebowale and Adebolajo receive first aid from firearms officers and are subsequently taken by ambulance to separate hospitals. 1.41pm GMT Here are David Cameron's comments in full: The whole country was completely shocked by the murder of Lee Rigby, and the whole country united in condemnation of what happened, and I'm sure everyone will welcome these verdicts today.I think it also shows that we have to redouble our efforts to confront the poisonous narrative of extremism and violence that lay behind this and make sure we do everything to beat it in our country.  1.39pm GMT He says we need to redouble our efforts to fight extremism. 1.39pm GMT David Cameron is speaking now. He says the whole country was shocked by the murder and welcomes these verdicts. 1.38pm GMT In this video interview, Lyn and Ian Rigby, the mother and stepfather of Lee Rigby, speak to ITV News in an interview conducted before Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale were convicted of his murder in Woolwich, south-east London. Ian Rigby says his stepson's killers were "using religion as an excuse for whatever they've been brainwashed with".   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  1.37pm GMT Home secretary Theresa May said the murder of soldier Lee Rigby "united the entire nation in condemnation". She said: The sickening and barbaric murder of Drummer Lee Rigby united the entire nation in condemnation and I welcome the jury's decision. But we must not forget that this appalling and public act of violence and terror also robbed his family and loved ones of a brave, young man with his life ahead of him. My thoughts are with them at this difficult time.Violence and extremism of any kind have absolutely no place in our society and cannot be justified. In the wake of Lee Rigby's murder, the prime minister set up the Extremism Task Force, which recently announced new measures to tackle extremism and radicalism across the UK.We have some of the toughest counter-terrorism laws in the democratic world and we are resolute in our determination to counter the threats to our way of life posed by extremist behaviour and ideologies. 1.36pm GMT Counter-terrorism chief Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick of the Metropolitan police has just been speaking to the media outside the Old Bailey.She said: We are pleased that justice has been done. At this very difficult time our thoughts are with Lee's family and all those who knew and loved him.This horrific attack and murder, which took place in broad daylight on the streets of London, shocked the whole country. It was intended to divide our communities. It has had largely the opposite effect and in fact brought people together. The court heard of extraordinary acts of courage and compassion from members of the public at the time of this dreadful incident. The Metropolitan police counter-terrorism command and our UK CT policing network carried out a lengthy and thorough investigation. We were of course supported by our colleagues in the British security service and the intelligence agencies.We have worked closely with the Crown Prosecution Service and counsel ...Of course, we utterly respect the court's decision, finding the two men not guilty of attempted murder of a police officer.Here a voice interrupted to shout: "Hang them!"Dick continued: But I would also like to pay tribute to those firearms officers who were faced with a terrifying situation and displayed extreme courage and professionalism. 1.30pm GMT The brother of one of Lee Rigby's murderers has told reporters the attack on the soldier was "inevitable" and the justification for his death was "obvious".Speaking to Al Jazeera's Investigations Unit, Jeremiah Adebolajo, who like his now-convicted brother Michael is a Muslim convert, predicted another Woolwich-style attack due to foreign policy.Jeremiah Adebolajo, 26, who was banned from attending the Old Bailey for some of his brother's trial for security reasons, said: I suggest that it won't be the last, simply because of the tactics of the British secret service and foreign policy. For every violent action is a violent reaction.Is it justified for a Muslim to attack a member of an army that is occupying Muslim lands? This is something for the scholars and I think it's obvious to most people. The events to me were inevitable. There was eventually going to be another attack which mentioned foreign policy as its justification.He argues that questions should be asked of the conduct of British armed forces: I would say, was Lee Rigby a violent individual? Are other British soldiers who go to Afghanistan and Iraq and kill violent individuals?Jeremiah also claimed his brother's actions were a direct consequence of the west's "war on terror" and likened the killing of Rigby to US drone strikes on Muslim countries. He said: The point he's trying to make is the fact that the geographical location of the battlefield, since this war on terror, has basically disappeared. When we have people driving on roads in Afghanistan and targeted by drones, we have to ask ourselves the question, are these people soldiers? Is this a battlefield?He told Al Jazeera his brother was not radicalised, despite associations with radical preachers and the now disbanded group al Muhajiroun. He said: "It's a very tidy narrative to assume that we have this young Christian boy who was radicalised by these bogeymen-like figures - Anjem Choudary, Omar Bakri Muhammad - and while he went on this conveyor belt, as it were, of radicalisation and then the events of Woolwich happened. It's just not true."  1.27pm GMT Fiyaz Mughal of Faith Matters, another anti-extremist organisation, has responded to Adebolajo's defence that the killing was a response to the deaths of innocent civilians in the Muslim world. He said: Speaking as a Muslim, leading an organisation which has had to fight a backlash against my fellow believers as a result of these men’s murderous deed, I am shocked by their lack of empathy for their victim whilst claiming pain for those they have never met.He pointed out that after Lee Rigby's murder there was a "sharp rise" in anti-Muslim incidents in Britain.  There have been a series of attacks against mosques and Islamic institutions (over 30 incidents ranging from graffiti and petrol bombings), violent assaults on visibly Muslim men and women, plus countless examples of abuse, threats and hatred spewed out on the streets and over social media against Muslims (the English Defence League soared to over 150,000 followers on Facebook following the Woolwich attack). 1.24pm GMT With reporting restrictions now lifted, we can report that the trial was delayed and stalled part-way through due to concerns over Adebowale's mental health. 1.20pm GMT The Crown Prosecution Service has put out a statement on the verdicts.Sue Hemming, head of special crime and counter-terrorism said: The murder of Fusilier Rigby was brutal and its perpetrators carried out one of the most savage offences ever prosecuted by our counter terrorism lawyers.As a soldier, this young father had dedicated his life to keeping people safe, including from the threat of terrorism. That dedication to his country cost him his life and was in stark contrast to the appalling conduct and extremist views of the men who murdered him.The Crown Prosecution Service will be asking the court to find that this murder was motivated by terrorism when the defendants come to be sentenced, so that all options under counter terrorism legislation are available to the judge.The police firearms officers showed tremendous courage and professionalism in putting a stop to further atrocities that day. On the surface, this case was evidentially straightforward. But beyond the footage that was beamed across screens at the time of the murder, the CPS has fought hard to ensure that the defence arguments in respect of the that charge were dismissed. I would like to pay tribute to and thank my team and the police for their dedication and hard work in bringing these men to justice.We recognise that this trial has been exceptionally difficult for Lee Rigby’s family but I hope they can take some limited comfort from the justice achieved today and the fact that both defendants now face a very long stay in prison. 1.18pm GMT Nick Lowles is chief executive of anti-racism organisation HOPE not hate, writes that Adebolajo is the latest in a long list of al-Muhajiroun supporters who have gone on to be involved in terrorism. 1.18pm GMT   Michael Adebolajo (centre) falling to the floor having been shot by armed police, with Michael Adebowale (right). Photograph: Metropolitan police/PA 1.15pm GMT The two men were found not guilty of attempting to murder police, despite video footage showing them rushing towards officers, armed with a gun and meat cleaver. Vikram Dodd explains why the jury might have reached this verdict: Both men had pleaded guilty to possessing a firearm at an earlier hearing.The men's acquittal for attempting to murder police suggests the jury accepted Adebolajo's explanation that they intended for police to shoot them dead.The gun the men had had no bullets in.The men had argued over who should hold it when they charged armed police.Dodd adds that the men will be sentenced in the new year. The judge, Mr Justice Sweeney, indicated he was considering a whole life tariff, which would mean they would die in prison.Updated at 1.19pm GMT 1.13pm GMT Mohammed Shafiq, chief executive of the Ramadhan Foundation – a Muslim organisation working for "peaceful co-existence" – has welcomed today's guilty verdicts, saluted the courage and dignity of Lee Rigby's family, and said: Islam totally forbids terrorism and the killing of innocent people, there can be no justification for such evil crimes. The terrorists did not act in our name or the name of our great faith of Islam. We as British Muslims reject their terrorism, ideology and attempts to divide communities and furthermore we stand with the Lee Rigby family in unity against this barbaric and evil crime.What happened on the streets of Woolwich are a reminder to the ever present threat of terrorism in our country, we need to remain united and determined to defeat this evil menace.  1.08pm GMT The killers will be sentenced in January, Josh Halliday reports.   Court artist drawing from Old Bailey trial showing Michael Adebolajo (l) and Michael Adebowale (r) Photograph: Julia Quenzler/Central News 1.06pm GMT Here is the statement from the Rigby family in full, read out outside the Old Bailey as family members sobbed: We would like to thank everyone who has helped us to finally get justice for Lee, and the overwhelming support we have received.This has been the toughest time of our lives. No one should have to go through what we have gone through as a family.We are satisfied that justice has been done. But unfortunately no amount of justice will bring Lee back.These people have taken him away from us for ever, but his memory lives in on all of us, and we will never forget him.We are very proud of Lee, who served his country, and we will now focus on building a future for his son Jack, making him as proud of Lee as we all are.Lee will be sorely missed by his siblings, nieces, nephew, and all of those who loved him.We now ask that we are left alone to grieve for our loss. Thank you.  The Rigby family's public statement being read after the Lee Rigby murder trail. Photograph: Sky NewsUpdated at 1.49pm GMT 1.01pm GMT The Rigby family have read a statement about Lee Rigby's death.They thanked everyone who helped them to get justice for Lee. This has been the toughest time of our lives, they said. No one should have to go through what we went through.These people have taken him away for ever, but his memory lives on, they said.We will now focus on building a future for his son Jack, they said. Lee will be sorely missed by all those who loved him.  12.59pm GMT Helen Pidd and Josh Halliday  look back at the life of "devoted soldier" Lee Rigby. Lieutenant Colonel Jim Taylor told them: Lee proved himself to be dedicated, professional and incredibly brave. He took part in numerous firefights with the enemy and regularly had to patrol across grounds strewn with improvised explosive devices. His courage was tested every day. 12.58pm GMT Here Vikram Dodd and Daniel Howden  report on the lives of Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale before the killing of Lee Rigby – including Adebolajo's trip to Kenya in 2010 and his contacts with MI5.  12.55pm GMT Adebolajo looked at the press and kissed his Qur'an as he was taken to the court cells, Josh Halliday reports.  12.54pm GMT The sentencing of the two killers will not take place today. 12.54pm GMT The jury went out at 11.11am and delivered their verdicts at 12.48pm, taking over an hour and a half to decide their response to the charges. 12.51pm GMT From the court, Josh Halliday reports sobs from the members of Lee Rigby's family as the verdicts were returned.Rigby's stepfather Ian sat with his arm around the soldier's mother Lyn, who was in tears.Updated at 12.52pm GMT 12.49pm GMT Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale have been found guilty of murdering a soldier near a military barracks in London in the first al-Qaida-inspired killing on British soil since the 7/7 attacks in 2005.But they were found not guilty of attempted murder of a police officer. Private Lee Rigby, 25, was attacked as he returned to the Woolwich barracks in south London in May.His killers drove a car into him, breaking his back, and then stabbed him and almost severed his head.As the details of the brutal attack began to be pieced together through eyewitness accounts and tweeted photographs and video clips, shocking footage was broadcast by ITV News of Adebolajo, holding a knife and a cleaver and with bloody hands, directly addressing the camera and attempting to justify the murder “because Muslims are dying daily”, in language echoing the language of violent jihad. “This British soldier is an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth,” the murderer said.The two killers stayed at the scene for several minutes, waiting for police to arrive. They then rushed at the officers, who shot them.They were the first Islamist terrorists in Britain to plot murder, kill their victim and survive to answer questions.Adebolajo, 28, is from Romford, Essex. Adebowale, 22, is from Greenwich in south London.The murder raises questions for the security services; the killers had been known to MI5 and the police for eight years, but had been assessed as peripheral figures and thus were not subjected to a full-scale investigation. The intelligence and security committee is investigating how much MI5 knew of the men’s activities, and whether the agency failed to recognise the scale of the threat they posed.I’ll have continuing coverage of the reaction to the guilty verdicts throughout the day today.  Private Lee Rigby, who was killed near his military barracks in Woolwich, south-east London, in May. Photograph: MoD/Crown Copy/PA