Their patches back on to each other, divided by a difference in postcode - B6 and B21 - and the A34 Birchfield Road. Catch yourself on one side of the dividing line and you are in Burger Bar Boy turf, step across it and suddenly you are in the Johnston Gang's manor. Transgress into the wrong territory, get spotted and you could be history. This is the reality on the troubled streets of Birmingham's Lozells, Handsworth, Newtown and Aston areas, thickly populated, socially deprived inner city estates that have been peppered by the bullets of gang warfare for more than a decade. The killing of Dimitri Foskin, 24, last month near his home in Newtown brought Birmingham and its gangs attention not seen since two young women, Letisha Shakespeare, 17, and Charlene Ellis, 18, were killed in the crossfire at a party outside an Aston hairdresser's early on New Year's Day 2003. In the year that they had just celebrated passing, the war between the Burgers and the Johnstons claimed 27 young lives. In the last month in Birmingham, there have been two drive-by shootings, a fatal stabbing and the killing of Foskin. Now police and community activists are trying to piece these events together and see if they have a common thread: of revenge and retaliation. Kirk Dawes, a former police officer who now runs the West Midlands Mediation and Transformation Service, said: "We try to conflict-map it, find out what was the catalyst for this behaviour, find out whether it goes back all the way. What happened in the past is the issue and that is what's going to drive it. It's a nonsense that they are killing to move up the ranks or earn stripes within their gang. It's because 'they did it to my friend or my brother or whatever'. Within the black community, issues of respect play a fantastic part in all of this. Something happens and they think 'we have got to back him' and it causes gang warfare."Where the gangs began in Birmingham is open to debate, but in the 1990s the biggest networks were the Burgers (named after the burger joint they hung out in in Soho Road) and the Johnstons, aka Johnnies and JC, (named similarly after a cafe, in Heathfield Road). Aside from bullets, the gangs dealt in crack cocaine and created a kind of carnage the city had never seen. Soon enough, they had smaller crews affiliated to them - the Badder Bar Crew, the Bang Bang Crew, the Cash or Slash Money Crew and the Raiders, to name just four. Dawes said the groups could be based on postcode. "When you have one violent incident after another, people feel the need to take sides. That's what we are seeing now."The New Year's Day killings - which can be traced back to the murder of Yohanne Martin, a key Burger, in December 2002 - led to the conviction of a number of gang "kingpins" and many of the more senior members moved into the shadows. This, say some, has created a vacuum into which younger, more chaotic, less disciplined gang members have moved, though Dawes says there are still 400 proper gang players in Birmingham. Dr Derrick Campbell, chair of the National Independent Advisory Group on Criminal Use of Firearms, which liaises with the Home Office, said: "When the individual leaders were taken out of the system we had a lot of splinters. Now there is a lack structure, people are trying to find their own way forward and they are jockeying for position. "You have people walking around with bulletproof vests and guns wanting to exact revenge. There is no sense of management and control. That's what makes it even more scary." Campbell says this has been made worse by cuts in grants for agencies working to tackle the roots of the problem."Evidence shows that organisations that have been delivering a very good service, engaging the confidence and trust of young people, and black young people in particular, those organisations have lost funding and those young people have gone back into criminal activity." A rapper named Witness, born Adrian Burke, who uses his lyrics to tackle issues such as gun crime and sits on the Birmingham Reducing Gang Violence Group says gangs attract young black men who have mostly grown up in fatherless households and are looking for identity and significance."They seem to have some sort of loving there in the gangs. What is scary now is that children as young as five and six are talking to me and what they have seen in their brother's bedroom is not porn, it's guns. They are telling me about gangs. It's becoming a culture, with young kids at junior school representing their gangs, 10-year-olds pledging allegiance to gangs who can tell you in intimate detail what's going on in the street, talking about Glocks and semi-automatic hand pistols," he said. "These kids suffer from mental health issues, low self-esteem, trauma from seeing people being shot in front of them. And the younger the lieutenants get, the more dangerous it is going to get. It's moved from behaviour to culture. I have been nervous before, but it is starting again. And it's scary."