A mother of four who falsely accused former Tory MP Neil Hamilton and his wife Christine of rape was today jailed for three years. Nadine Milroy-Sloan was described as a cunning fantasist after she spun a web of deceit in her hunt for fame and fortune. Jailing her at London's Middlesex Guildhall crown court, Judge Simon Smith said: "It's becoming too easy for people to sell fake allegations about well-known people to the press and the courts have to deal with it firmly." Looking pale and drawn, Ms Milroy-Sloan, dressed in a grey trouser suit, bowed her head slightly as the judge passed sentence. He told Ms Milroy-Sloan the apology she made to the Hamiltons "came across to me as reluctant". The judge said he had been told of her feelings at the prospect of a jail term but stressed she must have known "innocent people" would have faced lengthy prison sentences if found guilty of her allegations. Judge Smith told Ms Milroy-Sloan that she attempted "to get money and fame by dragging in the Hamiltons, whose names had been very much in the public eye at the time when, as the jury found, you knew perfectly well they weren't there [at the flat where the rape was supposed to have taken place]". The Hamiltons were not in court to hear the judge pass sentence. Ms Milroy-Sloan was convicted last month by an Old Bailey jury after 13 hours of deliberation. Her trial heard the unemployed 29-year-old, of Peterhouse Road, Grimsby, Lincolnshire, told police she had been lured to an east London flat by Barry Lehaney, 62, after he allegedly posed on the internet as the Hamiltons' chauffeur. She claimed her sexual ordeal began once she arrived at the Ilford flat. In August 2001 the 54-year-old ex-Tory minister and his wife, 53, were arrested and held for five hours at Barkingside police station. The false rape allegations were splashed across the newspapers the following day, with one tabloid including particularly lurid details.However, the Hamiltons had never met the woman and neither they nor Mr Lehaney were charged after mobile phone records showed the couple had been in Battersea at the time - 13 miles from the alleged rape scene.