Ian Huntley told a detective: "You think I've done it" and burst into tears three days after the disappearance of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Detective Constable Jonathan Taylor said he told Mr Huntley, who denies murdering the 10-year-old girls, "not to persecute himself". The jury was told that the day after the girls vanished from Soham, Cambridgeshire, Mr Huntley had demanded to know if he was a suspect when Mr Taylor and another officer visited him to take a witness statement. A special constable also claimed in court yesterday that he saw three 3cm scratches on Mr Huntley's face soon after the girls went missing. Mr Huntley said his dog had scratched him. DC Taylor and DC Andrea Warren arrived at Mr Huntley's home at Soham Village College at lunchtime on Monday August 5, less than 24 hours after Holly and Jessica disappeared. The school caretaker had earlier told police he had seen the girls at around the time they went missing. According to DC Warren he seemed at first "very calm, very relaxed". But when she told him she needed to take a statement, his attitude changed. DC Warren told the court that Mr Huntley demanded: "Am I a suspect?" She told him he was not, but that police needed to speak to everybody who had seen the girls. Mr Huntley, 29, then asked: "Will you be taking statements from everybody? Are they all suspects?" DC Warren told the jury the caretaker claimed Holly and Jessica had approached him and asked about his girlfriend, Maxine Carr, who had been their classroom assistant. They then went on their way and he did not see them again. The detective said that when Mr Huntley claimed he had not seen them again he seemed "a little big agitated". His hands were "clammy" and he brushed them on the side of his chair. DC Warren told the court Mr Huntley had "indicated" Ms Carr was at home when the girls passed. The jury has been told she was actually 110 miles away in Grimsby on the Sunday and Monday, and did not return until Tuesday August 6. The officers carried out a search of the house. DC Warren said Mr Huntley appeared "relaxed", apart from when they looked in a bathroom and a cupboard under the stairs. The jury has heard that Mr Huntley allegedly told Ms Carr that one of the girls had been in the bathroom as she had a nose bleed. The prosecution has said the jury might have to consider what happened in the bathroom. DC Taylor said he saw Mr Huntley again two days later, on the Wednesday. The caretaker told him: "You think I've done it. I was the last person to see them or speak to them." DC Taylor said Mr Huntley started to cry. The officer said: "I told him not to persecute himself." He told Mr Huntley that other people had seen the girls. "That seemed to cheer him up a bit," he said. Russell Goldsmith, a special constable helping in the search, described a conversation he had with Mr Huntley on the Monday night. The pair, both dog owners, were discussing their pets. Mr Goldsmith said the caretaker had pointed to three vertical scratches on his left cheek near the jaw and claimed they were made by his dog during a play fight. Stephen Fitchett, who was helping to search for Holly and Jessica, told the jury about an exchange he had with Mr Huntley on the Monday night. Mr Huntley told him that police had searched his house. "It makes you feel guilty," he allegedly told Mr Fitchett. The court also heard how Mr Huntley reacted to the media during the search. Michael Gee, an assistant site manager at Soham Village College, said at first Mr Huntley appeared "quite nervous" of the media. Mr Gee went on: "In the second week it changed. It almost seemed that he was courting the press. He would make himself seen at press conferences." Marion Clift, who lives next door to Ms Carr's mother in Grimsby, described seeing Mr Huntley and Ms Carr, 26, who denies two counts of assisting an offender and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, in the north Lincolnshire town on Tuesday August 6. She said they had been standing near a small red car. "They were looking into the boot. Maxine was crying. Ian looked pale and was shaking." Ms Clift's gate squeaked, and Mr Huntley slammed the boot shut, she said. The prosecution has claimed Mr Huntley tried to "sanitise" his red Ford Fiesta after allegedly driving the girls' bodies to the remote ditch where they were found. The trial continues. 