On February 5, 20 Chinese cockle pickers failed to return from work to celebrate the Yuan Xiao festival - the last day of Chinese new year. They never came back to their families and friends; to their motherland. They lost their life in the cold sea of a strange country.They called their families and told them they were going to die when the freezing waves reached their chests. But they did not call 999 for help. They were paid unbelievably little to do dangerous work for their bosses, who can make up to £20m a year. There are warning signs about "quicksand and dangerous tides" near where they died, but they would not have understood them. They spoke no English. Yes, they may have been illegal, but they had basic human needs and should have had basic human rights to protect them. Why didn't they? They were driven overseas by dreams of gold, and by ignorance. They came from a country that had no independent legal system before 1992, nor a welfare or social system. Their motherland is improving and developing now, but it is too late for them. In 1997, when I came to Britain, I had the two most difficult months of my life. First was the house-hunting. It took me 45 minutes to get by tube from Bayswater to Queensway; in fact, you can walk from one to the other in five minutes. I found a very cheap place in north London. It had three bedrooms and one living room, and was occupied by 15 Chinese men who all worked in restaurants. They shared a tiny kitchen and a bathroom, but kept a storeroom aside to let to a translator who could help them deal with local government. I tried to explain that I was not well enough qualified to take their very cheap room, because my English was poor, I had no knowledge of the law and of how things worked in this country. I could not understand their papers from the Home Office. But I saw how scared, insecure and lost they were, the massive worry in their begging eyes and thirsty words. I felt so sorry I couldn't help them. A few days later, I finally found a place near Queens Park, in north-west London. As I carried my luggage out of the tube station at 9.30 that evening, I was followed by four men and a big dog. After making sure they were indeed following me, I called 999 and asked for the police. "Please help me; I am being followed by some men and a big dog." "Where are you? What do they look like?" "I don't know where I am now, because I tried to get away from them, but I just left Queens Park tube station. On the right. But ... " "Just tell me - what can you see around you?" "Sorry, I can't understand. You speak so quickly. Oh, my God, they are coming. Help!" My body started shaking; I could hear the men approaching me. I stood and tried to be still and thought very quickly how I could face this dangerous situation with my fighting skills, which I had learned at military university 20 years before. I was lucky, the police arrived just as the four men stopped me. Afterwards, I thought about those Chinese men in north London, so I went to tell them about 999 and how useful the police had been. But no one was there. A man in the next door corner shop told me they had disappeared a few days before. In the summer of 2002, I got a call from a stranger, a man from Fujian province in south-east China. He was working in a Chinese restaurant washing dishes. He had fallen over in the street and injured his back; he could not see a doctor without an interpreter. His friend had found out my telephone number from a record of reservations at the restaurant. I went to see the man and sent him to hospital. On the way back he told me that, as a refugee, he had been given accommodation, shared with five other Chinese, and £48 a week to live on for the first few months or so. He was not allowed to leave Britain for 10 years. He was now working to repay his family's debt in China. I asked why he had not called the police when he was stuck, unable to move, on the pavement for three hours, while waiting for his friend to rescue him. He answered me with a very miserable look: "Do you think there is a policeman or woman who can speak Chinese in London?"On the seventh day after the death of the 20 Chinese cockle pickers, according to the custom of south-east China, I poured a glass of wine on to the earth to pray for them to go to heaven.· The Good Women of China by Xinran is published by Vintage, £6.99. To order a copy (UK p&p free), call the Guardian book service on 0870 066 7979.