The government will be under pressure to reform the public interest immunity system, which denies defendants access to prosecution evidence in cases involving police informants, undercover operations and national security, after a judgment by the European court of human rights in Strasbourg yesterday.The court ruled that two men convicted after police stings were denied a fair trial because information vital to their defence was withheld. In separate cases, Martin Edwards and Michael Lewis were found guilty respectively of possessing heroin with intent to supply, and supplying forged banknotes. In both trials, judges at hearings from which the defendants' lawyers were excluded ruled that prosecution information could be withheld in the public interest. The Strasbourg judgment will oblige ministers to introduce safeguards into the system of exparte hearings -those attended by one side only - at which the prosecution tries to persuade the judge that sensitive material should be protected from disclosure to the defence. The general rule is that defence lawyers are entitled to see any prosecution material relevant to the defence. But where public interest immunity applications are made, the judge must weigh up the defendant's interest in seeing the material against the harm caused by disclosing, for example, police methods of operation or informants' identities. Edwards, 57, from Woking, Surrey was arrested in August 1994 following a surveillance and undercover operation. He was in a van with an undercover officer and had a brief case containing 4.83kg (11lb) of heroin. In April 1995 Edwards, who claimed he thought he was taking part in a plan to dispose of stolen jewellery, was convicted at Snaresbrook crown court in London of possessing a class A drug with intent to supply and sentenced to nine years. Lewis, a former accounts director with no previous convictions, claimed he had been entrapped by undercover police and informants into obtaining forged banknotes and would never have become involved but for the agents provocateurs. The trial judge ruled that evidence of the undercover operation was covered by public interest immunity, and that the inducements had not amounted to entrapment. Lewis pleaded guilty in November 1996 and was sentenced to 4 years. The seven Strasbourg judges said it had been impossible for both men to argue that they had been entrapped without access to the evidence. In Edwards' case, it emerged that police had told the judge he had a history of heroin dealing. But Edwards, who had no convictions for drug dealing, could not contradict the prosecution's statement because he was unaware of it. The Strasbourg judges said in Lewis's case, the nature of the undisclosed material had not been revealed, but it may have been damaging to his submissions on entrapment. The judges said the procedures did not incorporate "adequate safeguards to protect the interests of the accused", and the right to a fair trial had been violated. The men were awarded €22,000 (£15,600) each in legal costs, but no damages. The Home Office said it would "carefully consider the finding of the court".