An Old Bailey jury heard yesterday how unemployed decorator Michael Fagan broke into Buckingham Palace, frightened a Royal chambermaid, and then spent an hour "looking at the art" before leaving undetected.It was only when he was arrested in the Queen's private suite four weeks later that he was brought to book for that first visit. He denied burgling Buckingham Palace and stealing a quantity of wine.When yesterday's trial opened, Mr Fagan sat in the dock smiling at his weeping mother and sisters. He removed his false teeth, winked at two teenage girls in the gallery and at one point broke into a long groan before bursting into tears. The Recorder, Mr James Miskin QC, told him to be quiet.The Crown presented a detailed picture of the events of the night of June 7, which began at about 11.30, when Mr Fagan climbed over the palace fence and shinned up a drain-pipe to a flat roof. He was bare-footed, unshaven, wearing jeans and a sweatshirt."I wanted to see the Queen," he is said to have told police later. "I want to know who I am, but only she knows and can tell me. I have told my sister I am in love with Elizabeth Regina."He made his way via another drain-pipe to the third-floor window of room 151, where one of the royal housemaids, Sarah Carter, was sitting reading. She ran from the room and found two other maids. Fagan walked through Miss Carter's room and into the corridor.He told the court: "I walked straight in. I was surprised I wasn't captured straight away. I could have been a rapist or something. I knew I could break the security system because it was so weak."Mr Fagan said he followed the pictures down the corridor and passed a room with Mark Phillips's name on the door. "I gathered it was probably their bedroom, so I decided not to disturb them and carried on."He found his way to room 108, where the public's gifts for the baby expected by the Princess of Wales were being stored, shuffled through some papers, found a bottle of wine in the cabinet and sat down to have a drink.On the other side of the palace the three chambermaids raised the alarm. Sergeant Jeffrey Braithwaite walked back to Miss Carter's room with them. He decided to organise a search.By now Mr Fagan had drunk half the bottle of wine. "I was waiting to be captured," he told the court. "I drank it because I was waiting for someone to come."He decided to leave. "I couldn't find anyone," he told police later, "so I thought, 'Sod it' and I went out and went home."Four weeks later Mr Fagan returned to the palace, using the same drain-pipe to reach the roof and then getting in to the building through a different window. It was seven o'clock on the morning of July 9. He had drunk about 10 glasses of whisky.In a statement the Queen's footman, Mr Paul Wybrew, said that at about 7.15 he had walked past the pantry and seen the Queen's personal chambermaid standing by the sink with a man he did not recognise.The man kept saying he wanted to talk to the Queen. The footman told him, "All right, but let her get dressed first." When the man insisted that it was urgent the footman had stood in his way to stop him leaving.Mr Wybrew said: "The man seemed very tense and I said: 'Would you like a drink?' Immediately he became more affable and replied: 'Yes please, I'll have a scotch.'"A few minutes later, PC Robert Roberts arrived to find Mr Fagan sitting on the sideboard, swinging his feet and drinking a whisky.Summing up, the Recorder told the jury: "You must be sure that he entered Buckingham Palace as a trespasser. You need not waste more than three seconds on that."He did take the wine away," said the judge. "He took it out of the cupboard where its owner had left it and then poured it down his throat so it could not be used again. So you won't have any difficulty about appropriation."The final point was to decide whether the defendant had acted dishonestly. Sending the jury out, Judge Miskin said it would probably take them only 10 minutes to reach a decision. Fourteen minutes later they returned to announce that they had unanimously acquitted Mr Fagan of burglary.