The government suffered a defeat in the House of Lords last night as peers voted to outlaw "cottaging" - sex in public toilets.Peers voted by 133 to 95 to back a Conservative amendment that would ensure that people who have sex in public lavatories can be prosecuted and face a two-year jail term. The defeat could be overturned when the sexual offences bill returns to the Commons. But the government would face the embarrassing task of explaining why an activity described as "frankly disgusting" by peers should not be outlawed. Introducing the amendment in the detailed report stage in the Lords, the Tory spokesman, Lady Noakes, said the need for a specific law to ban sex in public lavatories had arisen after the government withdrew a previous proposed offence of "sexual activity in a public place". That offence had been criticised by the Police Federation, and had led to concerns that it could be applied to couples having sex in private gardens, if their activity could be seen by neighbours, or in the countryside.Instead, the government said it would rely on the exist ing common law offence of "outraging public decency" - which the Home Office minister Lord Falconer yesterday insisted was "adequate". But Lady Noakes argued: "The offence of public decency is not sufficiently clear and robust to be relied on." For a successful prosecution, it would have to be proved that public decency had been offended, that more than one person had been offended, and that the offence had not been merely experienced or heard, but seen. "Sexual offences in a public lavatory can never ever be permitted," she added. "I believe the vast majority of the public agree with that. Public lavatories have become no-go areas. Parents are afraid to send their children in alone, many public lavatories have had to be closed, and the time has come that the public get the protection it deserves and which the government promised." Supporting the amendment, fellow Tory Lady Blatch said there was a desire to end such "seedy and frankly disgusting practices". She warned that children had stumbled into toilets and been "unwitting witnesses" to sexual activity, and that outreach workers for homosexual charities now handed out condoms outside public toilets. But the Labour peer Lord Alli said changes in public attitudes were needed to ensure that the need to seek sex in such areas was redundant. "[Outlawing] consensual sex sends out the wrong signal," he said. Before the vote Lord Falconer insisted: "I fully understand the motives behind the amendment but I can assure you it is not going to have the effect hoped because of the specific problems of bringing it. We don't want to put CCTV in every cubicle, but that is what the effect would be." The independent socialist Lord Fitt spoke of an "avalanche of anger" in Ulster over the government's attempt to change the law in the province on this issue while the assembly was suspended. A Home Office spokeswoman indicated that the government would seek to overturn the amendment: "We believe this amendment makes the law more unworkable and we will look to remedy this in the Commons. "We all agree that people should be protected from being unwilling witnesses to overtly sexual behaviour that most people consider should take place in private."