Gordon Brown's latest plan for tackling knife crime was today dismissed as a political gimmick that reflected his own weaknesses.The prime minister held a summit in Downing Street this morning to promote a new policy whereby prosecutors will be urged to take more 16 and 17-year-olds to court if they are caught carrying knives.At present, police in England and Wales tend only to prosecute over-18s caught carrying knives, except in London and other knife-crime hotspots, where 16- and 17-year-olds are prosecuted, too.Today's summit, attended by the home secretary, the attorney general, the justice secretary, crown prosecutors and chief constables, follows a recent spate of fatal stabbings.After the 40-minute meeting concluded, the prime minister said: "Carrying a knife is completely unacceptable. When any young person or teenager who is encouraged to carry a knife is not making themselves safer, they are all making it more likely crimes are committed. "We have got to make sure if a young person is carrying a knife, there is a message they will end up in court. They are putting other children and young people at risk." But even as the meeting was taking place, Professor Rod Morgan, the former chairman of the youth justice board, dismissed the change in policy. "I am afraid this is an example of gesture politics reflecting the weakness rather than the strength of both the prime minister and the government," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. He added: "There is no real good sense in suggesting that the guideline be changed … The police have all the powers that they need to deal with what is a problem in some areas, but they need to be given discretion to respond to events as they find them." And David Chaytor, of the youth charity Rainer, was also critical of the move away from cautioning younger teenagers."If the answer was to lock up more young people, then we would have solved the problem years ago; we have already tripled the number of young people prosecuted for carrying a knife," he told the BBC.At today's meeting, the director of public prosecutions, Sir Ken Macdonald QC, told Brown: "When people come to us their expectation is a prosecution will follow. What we are proposing is that if people are carrying a knife and are prosecuted for other offences, they will be prosecuted for the knife too. "We have set out some further guidance that the public interest is in favour of prosecution."He added : "It has become fashionable [to carry a knife]. What we want people to understand is they put themselves at risk carrying these sorts of weapons." Ken Jones, the Sussex police chief constable who is president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, was also at the meeting. He conceded that, although the measure would deter some offenders, "being realistic it won't solve the problem overnight".He said the root causes of knife crime needed to be addressed through work with parents, teachers and neighbourhood support groups.However, he said that the immediate message to teenagers was that if they were caught carrying a knife, even a penknife, they would go to court.Later Brown asked a group of young people aged 17 to 21 who visited him at Downing Street what they believed the government could do to help.The group were representing the children's charity NCH. Monique Morrisson, 21, from Coventry, told him she was on an apprenticeship and believed similar opportunities could help other young people stay away from crime.Brown asked her what young people in Coventry would say about knives. She replied: "It's increasing. It's stupid things like: 'You have spoken to my girlfriend; I'll slash you up,' or: 'If I see him out he's having it.'"The group told Brown that teenagers would benefit from hearing from those directly affected by knife crime who should visit schools and tell their stories. The effective end of cautions for over-16s found carrying knives is part of a package of measures announced by the Home Office.Other measures include an additional £5m for seven police forces including the Metropolitan and West Midlands police to pay for increased use of searches, more courses for young people caught with knives, and home visits and letters to their parents.Young offenders convicted of knife crime may also be forced to undergo day-long courses led by health professionals and aimed at educating them about the injuries caused by knife crime. They may also face prison visits to bring home the consequences of being prosecuted for knife crime. A new scheme in which hospital A&E units in so-called "hotspot areas" would pass information about injuries caused by weapons to the police is also being discussed. And the parents of under-16s could be liable for a parenting order if their child is accused of more than one knife crime, while schools will be encouraged to get advice on knife crime from their local police force. Today MPs were using one of the slots allocated for topical debates in the House of Commons to debate knife crime.