Woodwork is a tricky thing to teach if your students are not allowed tools. It is, none the less, a necessary precaution when you are teaching men with severe personality disorders. (The more familiar label is psychopath.)The men in question are all patients in a new unit in Rampton hospital in rural Nottinghamshire, one of the country's three high-security psychiatric hospitals. It is one of seven high- and medium-security institutions that have been trying out a controversial new approach to treat people - the vast majority of them men - with dangerous and severe personality disorders (DSPD). Education is a vital component."If you've come to the Peaks unit, you have a severe personality disorder and very often have caused severe or irreversible harm to your victims," says Ian Tennant, executive director of forensic services at Rampton.The tools restriction partly explains the model houses on the shelves of the pleasant, airy woodwork room. Closer inspection shows they are constructed from small wooden blocks: no need to use hammers or chisels.Damage limitation"Before they come into this room, we've known them for six months on an assessment ward," says Timothy Gleadin, the woodwork instructor. If they plump for woodwork, they are assessed for a further 12 weeks before being entrusted with one tool. "We would start them off with a coping saw. Although it is a saw, there's a limit to the amount of damage they could do with it," says Gleadin. "We would then move on to a hammer. You could do a lot of damage, but I take the view that it's a blunt rather than a sharp item. We only have one hammer out at a time between four patients."Four is the maximum number in a woodwork class, as it is with horticulture, where a similar approach operates. "Some of the patients have never seen a potato unearthed, or a tomato grown before," says the horticulture instructor, Paul Masson. "They can't believe it when we take up the potatoes."Just beyond the beds brimming with vegetables is the high, black, close-meshed fence that separates the Peaks unit from the rest of the hospital, which is itself enclosed within a double version of the same fence.The Peaks unit, for a maximum of 70 patients in seven 10-room wards, opened three years ago. It is designed to be self-contained - "therapeutically intact, with treatment, diversional and social activity provided on site", according to the blurb. Four of the wards are for assessment, three for treatment.Apart from the security fence and lights mounted on tall posts, there is as little as possible to remind inhabitants or visitors that this is a high-security complex for dangerous men. The building materials are light-coloured; the exterior walls are sandy brick or whitewashed. The curiously jutting roofs are light green. There is as much open space as possible. Each ward has a courtyard that patients can use, and each patient has his own room, with en suite shower and toilet. But the bed and open wardrobe, made out of a seamless moulded plastic that cannot be smashed or used as a weapon, are another reminder of the secure regime.An image, partly fostered by fiction, of the highly intelligent, educated psychopath is hardly borne out. Most of those in the Peaks unit are around entry level 2 or level 3 with their literacy and numeracy - in other words, they have a reading age of an 11-year-old. Many had an inadequate education, with patchy school attendance. Many were in care. Many suffered abuse.Until recently, many of these men would have been considered untreatable. "It was very often a question of long-term detention and the passage of time reducing the risk of re-offending," says Dr Ian Keitch, who established the Peaks unit and advised the Home Office on setting up all seven pilot programmes. "Men with personality disorders become less overtly violent with age. The received wisdom is that the risk tends to diminish in their mid-40s."The programme is for men. There is just one small service for women, at Low Newton prison near Durham. "Men with severe personality disorders tend to act out against others. Women tend to act against themselves," says Keitch.Following a number of high profile cases, most notably that of Michael Stone, who bludgeoned Lin Russell and her six-year-old daughter Megan to death in 1996, the government decided new services should be developed for those with DSPD.Each of the pilot programmes takes a different psychological approach. At the Peaks, it is dialectical behavioural therapy. At Broadmoor, for instance, cognitive behavioural therapy is used. But in all, education is regarded as a sine qua non. "Education is key to providing men with the basic skills which allow the individual to participate in the talking therapies that are the fundamental parts of the programme," says Keitch. "With the improvement of their basic education comes an improvement of their comprehension skills, which enables them to begin to understand quite complex elements of treatment."Many psychiatrists would still consider the DSPD group untreatable, he says. "But there's an evidence base which suggests that, with this intervention, there's a reduction in the risk of reoffending."Classic characteristicsTeaching in the Peaks is rewarding, say those who do it, and tough. Impulsive, aggressive, manipulative, volatile, predatory, vulnerable, needy, self-harming, attention-seeking, emotionally labile, violent ... Keitch lists the classic characteristics of personality disorders."These people present with very challenging behaviour," says Tennant. "In the main, they have a history of not succeeding, of feeling blame for not coming up to the mark. You put them into a situation of having to try that runs the risk of failure. That can be quite a taxing time for them."This is confirmed by Roger, 41, who did not want to get involved in education when he arrived at the Peaks. "For the first months when I was on the induction ward, they came to me with the assessment tests," he says. "I said, yes, leave it with me, I'll do it, but I had no intention of doing it. It was carrying that shame with me of not being able to spell or put sentences together."Roger's history has a familiar ring. "From a young age, I didn't attend school, apart from when I was in institutions. I'd always find ways of getting out of attending classes," he says. "I managed to teach myself to write, but the spelling I hit a brick wall with. It's not something you can do yourself. Even though I'm a perfectly good reader, and people say I'm articulate, when it comes to spelling and sentence structure, there's nothing there, really."For a long time, Roger preferred to duck out of the education on offer rather than be exposed. In prison, he says, if you admit you can't read or write, they stick you in a classroom to learn. "And back on the wing they'll continually call you a dunce." In the past 12 months, however, he has made good progress. His first course was "men talk", devised to show those with DSPD that talking is a preferred option to letting emotions come out as violence.As a rule, says Perdita Jackson, who leads the Peaks education department, literacy and numeracy are not taught unadorned, but embedded in other courses. As far as possible, staff try to engage patients with subjects that interest them. Body and health, nutrition and religious studies are especially popular.Staff are learning as much as the patients. This is new territory. "We had a group of four or five individuals in a class who were narcissistic. They all had to be centres of attention," says Jackson. "It happened by accident, but it was a very interesting research tool."Part of the job for staff is to find out as much as they can about those they are teaching without giving away personal details about themselves. Nurses are always present in the classroom. "We give them positive feedback, but a lot of patients aren't used to that," Jackson says. "They haven't had it before."Roger confirms this. "I feel that sometimes people are being a bit patronising when they give me positive feedback. I'm not used to it."There is no fixed time that patients must stay in the Peaks. "We are not target-driven in here, and it would be very difficult to drive us to targets because learners have good days and bad days," Jackson says. "If that learner is not good on exam day, that's it for another year.""By the end of it," says Tennant, "they should be better able to control their emotions, they can demonstrate problem solving skills and they've got a better understanding of themselves."The intention is that patients will be able to move to medium- or low-security units, where they may be allowed out into the community under supervision. This has already happened to a handful of patients. Some might even be granted their freedom.Is it working? "Difficult to say in terms of long-term reoffending because the services have only been operational for two to three years," says Keitch. "At Rampton, clinical observation would suggest that the treatment has reduced the amount of impulsive behaviour - impulsive self-harm and impulsive anger and aggression against others. There's always a risk, on the basis of past behaviour being the best prediction of future behaviour. What we are doing is to minimise and manage the risk."