Two conflicting stories faced each other across the news pages this week, like rival gangs of children squaring up for a fight. A school in Essex replaced the features of its pupils in website photographs with smiley faces, in case the snaps attracted paedophiles. And the head of the Home Office gun crime task-force warned a Liverpool conference that so many children now carry guns that it is "only a matter of time" before a police officer has to shoot a child.These starkly contrasting social nightmares encapsulate the two main images of the young to be found in modern media: weak and feral, threatened and threatening. And both may seem equally bewildering to people who got through their own childhoods without encountering either pederasts or weapons. The parable of the kids with the cartoon faces is an example of what might be called the presidential candidate technique, an increasingly common tactic in which students are treated like politicians who have received death-threats. This image is encouraged by the fact that the 4x4s on the school run are indistinguishable from secret service chase vehicles, although in this case the threat is perceived to come from kiddie-fiddlers and pupils from rougher schools, not assassins. Yet even by these standards, it seems extreme to hide children behind grinning scribbles curiously reminiscent of acid tablets. It's perfectly true that internet images of children are misused by perverts; but the solution is either not to advertise online, or to turn to a more secure delivery device, such as an envelope.But if the school insists on having a cyber-presence, they could borrow further from the secret service handbook and assess the level of risk. The chance of a child being damaged in a measurable way by low-down downloading is surely minimal. The writer Julian Barnes, in his fascinating semi-memoir Nothing to be Frightened Of, describes brief unwanted advances of a kind which previous generations regularly experienced and survived. Perhaps the weirdo at the keyboard should be considered the modern, and perhaps less directly violating, equivalent of the groper on the train.Imagine the effect on the pupils at the cartoon-face school - who perhaps already fear they will be snatched from their schools or holiday apartments - of this apparent message that the world is so dangerous that they need to be disguised online. Just as heavily protected politicians often prove confused when forced to live without security, we may be raising a generation that reaches adulthood with no understanding of the realities of risk. The answer is to be calmer. Statistically, a small number of children will always be tragically unlucky and it's not clear that their guardians can do much to affect the percentages.And the paradox is that many modern children, though physically protected at special branch level, are at risk of mental damage from those closest to them because of the terrible levels of expectation imposed. Recently, at an under-eights mini-rugby game, I watched a father giving catching practice to a son who, to dad's visible displeasure, had failed to make the starting nine. After several throws high over his head, the child tearfully complained that the passes were too hard for him. "If you can't take the hard catches, Jonty," came the snarling reply, "you'll never play for England." Such parenting is a kind of child-abuse. Though not as dangerous as the parental neglect that results in armed juveniles, nor should it be considered the opposite. But this coincidence of the faceless schoolkids and the tooled-up juves is another example of the biggest cultural challenge facing Britain: the way in which we are becoming a country of gulfs. The landscape is crazy-paved with fault lines: regional divides over house price, social segregations over income and education, local partitions of religion and race.And now, also, two mutually unrecognising groups of children: the most pampered generation in parenting history, and the most neglected. These rival gangs do not connect, but nor can they ignore each other. Until the arrival of convincing ideas to deal with the young guns, it seems unwise to try to protect other children so entirely. These two sets will be expected to live in the same world, and one side cannot hide for ever behind fake smiley faces. In an age of feral children, it is futile to raise fearful ones.