A retired tax inspector is facing life in jail after being convicted of murdering her husband, who disappeared without trace 11 years ago.Shirley Banfield, 64, enlisted the help of the couple's daughter Lynette, 40, to profit from the death of bookmaker Don Banfield, 63. He had recently retired and planned to leave his unhappy marriage for a new life as soon as the family home was sold.But he "signed his own death warrant" after completing the contract for the sale in May 2001, the Old Bailey heard.It was the last time he was seen alive. His body has never been found.A jury found both women guilty of murder by a 10-1 majority on Tuesday. They had kept Mr Banfield's share of the £120,000 profit from the sale of the property in Locket Road, Wealdstone, north-west London.Shirley and Lynette Banfield, of Canterbury, Kent, pleaded guilty to charges involving plundering £64,000 from Don Banfield's pension funds by pretending he was still alive."When he signed the contract for the sale, he was unwittingly signing his own death warrant," said Crispin Aylett QC, prosecuting.Banfield had told police his wife and daughter were trying to kill him after waking to find himself handcuffed. But he returned on the day he signed the sale contract to ask officers not to take any action.The women told police Banfield was a womaniser and gambler and often went off when he had money. Police treated his disappearance as a missing person case until 2009, when his former employers William Hill became suspicious and the case was reopened.The women claimed to have seen Banfield in December 2008, but later admitted lying to cover up the fraud. The house in Locket Road was forensically examined in October 2009. The garden was dug up and the concrete floor in the garage was taken up, but there was no sign of a body.The two women were arrested last year after inquiries in Britain, Trinidad and New York failed to find any proof that he was still alive.Lynette Banfield's creative writing notebook may have held clues to her father's fate. In different extracts she wrote about murdering a man, killing women with a pitchfork, putting a body in a car and burying bodies in woods.She wrote that the body had been in the car for only a matter of minutes but the smell lingered on. "Oh, thank heavens for the scrappage scheme," she wrote.The women's old red Ford Fiesta car was compacted as part of the government's scrappage scheme in 2008.The women denied murder but pleaded guilty to perverting the course of justice by claiming to have seen Mr Banfield in December 2008.They also admitted conspiracy to defraud William Hill of £29,451 in pension payments and forgery of a disability allowance application.Shirley Banfield, who was on long-term sick leave from the Inland Revenue and walks with a stick, pleaded guilty to dishonestly obtaining £34,382 of her husband's state pension.She had claimed he "did a Reggie Perrin" and faked his own death.Aylett told the jury: "At the time Don Banfield was obviously expecting to receive a large amount of money from the sale of the house."He also had his pension from William Hill to live on. He had decided to set up a new life for himself on his own."Shirley, on the other hand, perhaps faced a rather bleaker future. She was 54 and on the verge of being abandoned without money to rehouse both herself and Lynette."The women moved to Yorkshire and then Kent in an attempt to distance themselves from police, said Aylett.Shirley Banfield gave police a false description of her husband, claiming his dark hair had been dyed in a photograph and was now grey.