A leading figure in the criminal justice system has warned Tony Blair and the home secretary, David Blunkett, that the new anti-crime strategy at the heart of today's Queen's Speech is in danger of fuelling the ever more punitive trend in the courts and failing to provide an alternative to the prisons crisis.The chief inspector of probation, Professor Rod Morgan, says in an interview with the Guardian that the government strategy is unsustainable and warns that "something will have to give". He says the probation service is facing the same overloading crisis as the prisons. The introduction of ever tougher-sounding community penalties, which were designed to provide an alternative to custody, has not led to fewer non-violent offenders being sent to prison. Instead it has become an alternative to fines. The sentencing "menu" has been "ratcheted up" and tens of thousands of low-level, low-risk offenders, including motorists - who in the past would have been fined - have been placed under probation supervision. He urges Mr Blunkett to adopt an alternative strategy of dealing with tens of thousands of low-risk offenders by reviving the use of fines by the courts, particularly the income-linked unit fine system, making much greater use of stand-alone electronic orders and contracting out their supervision to private security firms. This would relieve the "overloaded fully qualified correctional services" to deal with those offenders who pose a significant problem. Prof Morgan reveals that the number of criminals coming before the courts has remained stable over the past 10 years. In 1990 218,900 offenders were dealt with by magistrates and judges compared with 217,300 in 2000. The main change has been that the proportion sent to prison has almost doubled from 17% to 30%. At the same time there has been a dramatic collapse in the use of fines by the courts - down from 43% of all male offenders to only 28% of cases - and a moderate increase in use of community penalties. Professor Morgan says the result is that the probation service is "silting up" and is overloaded on a scale that matches the overcrowding in the prison system. He says that probation officers are partly to blame for failing to recommend fines, discharges or electronic tagging for low-level offenders. "What is worrying me is that for the last 10 years we have had successive home secretaries and successive administrations saying 'let us introduce more intensive sentencing options or tougher sentencing options and this will displace custody. My argument is that it hasn't and we have done all those things and it has ratcheted up a punitive trend," said Prof Morgan. He welcomed Mr Blunkett's "custody minus" proposal to take short-sentenced inmates out of prison and into intensive community schemes but with the reservation: "If we are going to do more work with that population, what are we going to stop doing in order to create the space in which to manoeuvre? How are we going to be certain that new intensive provisions actually displace custody as opposed to simply ratcheting up the trend of the last 10 years?" Prof Morgan warned ministers: "The fact is that the system cannot do everything and it should be concentrating on people who are medium to high risk. We have to get away from this interventionist stance which is unsustainable in the long term. It cannot be done. Something has to give." Ministers privately conceded that this autumn's anti-crime package would initially increase the prison population, which stands at a record 72,500, but argue that it will begin to fall in the medium to long term as measures bite. The intervention by Prof Morgan comes as the Howard League for Penal Reform yesterday launched a legal challenge against the imprisonment of children and claimed that the arms and legs of young inmates have been broken through the use of controversial restraint techniques used on adults. At the same time, the Home Office minister John Denham urged the courts to make much greater use of newly revamped antisocial behaviour orders which come into effect next month. So far only about 250 such orders a year have been imposed by courts since their introduction in 1999. 