A "bitter and twisted" civil servant responsible for child protection was jailed for at least 24 years today for murdering his former lover's son after the relationship had "gone sour".Gerard Tony Paul, 46, inflicted 116 injuries on student Michael Jones, 18, at his home and and left him for his mother to find. Paul, of Enfield, north London, struck in March after Kathy Kirby-Jones ended their romance.The judge at the Old Bailey, John Bevan, told Paul the "brutal and remorseless" attack was an act of vengeance on a studious and mild-mannered boy who he saw as an obstacle in his way.Bevan said the irony of Paul being responsible for the child protection database at the Department for Children, Schools and Families would not be lost on all concerned.Paul was found guilty of murder last week. He was jailed for life with a minimum term of 24 years.Michael, of Edmonton, north London, was studying for a degree in geography at Queen Mary College, University of London. Kirby-Jones said in an impact statement that Michael had been a role model for other black youths.She said: "He was a high achiever, winning many accolades. In times where there are so many negative images of black male youths, he was such a positive role model."Bevan told Paul: "You are boastful and a compulsive liar. You were playing with Kathy Kirby-Jones's emotions and lying to her. I think you were after her money and Michael was an obstacle."Kirby-Jones, a hospital personal assistant, returned home to find Michael's bloody body in a room they used as an office.After hearing footsteps at the house in Edmonton, she barricaded herself in the room as Paul tried to force the door open before fleeing.Brian Altman, QC, prosecuting, told the Old Bailey: "Ms Kirby-Jones might have been the next victim, had she not resisted. This was a deliberate, planned and coolly executed murder in cold blood by a bitter, twisted man at the conclusion of a relationship where his ambitions had been thwarted."The defendant was well aware of the close relationship between Ms Kirby-Jones and Michael, and that Michael had become an unwelcome obstacle to the success of the relationship."He added: "Michael Jones was universally liked. He was mild-mannered, quiet and unassuming. He had no enemies."Items of jewellery, including a ring and a crucifix on a gold chain, were taken from his body.Altman said: "This was a shocking murder. Michael had been stabbed in a frenzied and brutal attack which left him with the most appalling mutilating injuries."The student was tied up with brown parcel tape around his wrists, hands, knees and ankles. Altman said Paul and Kirby-Jones had been involved in a year-long relationship that had "gone sour" and ended the month before.Kirby-Jones, 45, told the court: "When I saw my son, I screamed his name. I bent over my son and tried to shake him. I heard footsteps running down the stairs from his bedroom. I put my body against the door and someone tried to push the door open. I grabbed a chair and stuck it under the door handle to help keep it shut."She said of Paul: "He said he loved me and it made me feel uncomfortable. I didn't respond back."It came up constantly. He wanted me to say I loved him. He wanted more than I was prepared to give. "My son felt uncomfortable. He felt Tony Paul made himself too comfortable."She asked him to visit less because her son objected. But Paul "was not happy. He complained frequently", she said.Judge Bevan praised Ms Kirby-Jones's courage in giving evidence, saying: "She at least has the knowledge he was a real credit to her."Detective Chief Inspector John Macdonald said outside the court: "Michael was just 18 years old, a hard-working student, and he had a great future ahead of him. Tony Paul is a coward. Despite working as a middle-ranking civil servant for many years, he had wasted his money away."Why he resorted to killing Michael and inflicting such horrendous injuries can have only been out of pure spite and vindictiveness."