Anne Darwin stared straight at her son Mark as he stepped into the witness box at Teesside crown court yesterday to describe the betrayal he felt after learning his parents had faked his father's death in a canoe accident.But her composure faltered as Mark Darwin, 32, spoke of the devastating effect of the five-and-a-half year £250,000 fraud. She wept and bit her lip as he told the jury he thought his father, John, had died in a tragic accident that "crushed my world".With her head bowed, the 56-year-old former doctor's receptionist dabbed her nose and wiped her eyes with a hanky in the glass fronted dock directly across the court from her son, who didn't look in her direction.Mark described receiving a phone call from his uncle in March 2002 saying his father had disappeared. "He said there had been a tragic accident and my father had gone missing at sea." When he got to his mother's house at Seaton Carew, near Hartlepool, he said: "She flung her arms around me and said, 'He's gone. I think I have lost him'. "She wouldn't stop crying for ages. She just stood there holding on to me. It crushed my world." He rang his brother, who was holidaying in Canada. "But I couldn't speak to him. I had to hand the phone to my auntie. I couldn't summon up the words."During his stay at the house, which he said lasted a week or two, his mother was distraught, he told the jury. She didn't eat, drink or sleep much. "She wandered around the house in a daze like the rest of us." When she announced she was emigrating to Panama, late in 2007, it came as "quite a shock, as I didn't think she would emigrate that far from her parents".Mark had been at a wedding in Balham, south London, on December 1 2007 when Cleveland police phoned to say his father had turned up at a police station in the west end of London. Asked if he had had any idea that his father was still alive, he replied: "No, none whatsoever." He went straight to the police station, saw his father and rang his mother."I rambled for about 10 minutes and explained my dad had turned up and I am sat next to him. She sounded really shocked," he said. Of a photograph taken in Panama in July 2006 showing both his parents with an estate agent, he said: "I couldn't believe the fact that she knew he was alive all this time ... that she had been lying to me for God knows how long."Asked by David Waters, defending, if it was traumatic, he replied: "Yes." "Did you feel considerable anger at having been deceived?" Waters asked. "Yes," he said.Mark said his father was always coming up with money making schemes. "He was always coming up with something; making garden gnomes, computer games, making videos and breeding snails."By the time the Darwins' younger son, Anthony, 29, gave evidence, Anne Darwin was composed again.He did not look at his mother, either. He told the court that when his father vanished he had had to cut short a trip to Canada and Niagara Falls, where he had intended to propose to his girlfriend. He had arrived at his parents' home and his mother told him his father had gone missing after going out in a canoe. "She was crying and shaking. She was upset," he said. "I was in a state of shock and disbelieving that he had been out in the canoe and this had happened. I felt sad and upset at the thought he had died."Afterwards he had scoured internet sites about people missing at sea, and contacted the missing persons' register. He told the jury he was on the phone to his mother "every day or every other day". She was having difficulty, as his father was missing and there was no body.Both brothers attended the inquest in April 2003 that recorded an open verdict.When late last year his mother said she was emigrating to Panama permanently, she told him it was because the country was "fun, Catholic and they speak Spanish. The weather and climate were good and there were a fair number of ex-pats". In December, when he learned his father had turned up in London, his reaction was "disbelief and anger", he said, believing it was somebody masquerading as his father. But when he found out it really was him, he was "still almost disbelieving".Anthony stumbled upon the photograph of his parents in Panama via an internet search at work. "My initial reaction was that somebody had Photoshopped a couple of photographs [of his parents] and put them on the internet."The following day the photograph appeared in the press and he realised it was genuine. "I felt upset and betrayed," he said. Asked if he had had any inkling his father was still alive, he replied firmly: "No." Nor did he have any inkling that his mother knew his father was still alive.Under cross-examination, he said he felt betrayed. He admitted he had a rocky relationship with his father but said he had a good relationship with his mother.Anthony said in a police statement that his father was the driving force behind the relationship, but his mother would put her foot down if she needed to. Anne Darwin denies six charges of deception and nine of money laundering, putting forward an unusual defence of "marital coercion" - claiming her husband forced her to go along with his plan. The court heard that John Darwin disappeared six days after they were refused a £20,000 bank loan and were facing bankruptcy. Andrew Robertson, prosecuting, said she was "no shrinking violet" and that it was "a true equal criminal partnership". He said she was a determined, resolute woman able to lie and "deceive literally at length". The trial continues.