Tory leader David Cameron today defended his "bold" new approach to tackling antisocial behaviour with a call to show Britain's youth more "love".Speaking ahead of a widely trailed speech to the Centre for Social Justice, Mr Cameron told BBC Breakfast that he was not urging people to "hug a hoodie", as the Labour party claimed.But it was time policymakers looked beyond a "sticking plaster" approach to tackling social problems.Mr Cameron, who will use his speech this afternoon to argue that sanctions such as antisocial behaviour orders should be used "less and less", said he was "being bold" in his approach.He will say that young people need a "lot more love" if they are not to be drawn into offending.While some people feel threatened by youngsters wearing hooded tops, those people may often be scared themselves. "Let's try and understand what's gone wrong with these young people, " he saidMr Cameron's latest policy direction aligns with a bid to woo charities, pressure groups and individuals who may now be feeling neglected by Labour.Mr Cameron's speech on social justice today appears to break with John Major's injunction to "condemn a little more and understand a little less".Plunging into uncharted political waters, Mr Cameron denied that he was trying to "wind up" traditional Tory supporters who held hardline views on law and order.He told BBC Breakfast: "I am not trying to wind up anybody... I care, clearly, about how young people get into crime."He added: "Of course people who commit crime should be held responsible. But I think people want their politicians to actually ask the question 'what is it that brought that young person to commit that crime at that time? What's the background to it, what are the long-term causes of crime?'."If you're ill, it's no good putting a sticking plaster on it. You've got to get to the bottom of the illness."Let's try and understand what's gone wrong in these children's lives and we'll find it's about family breakdown, it's about drugs, it's about alcohol abuse, often it's young people who are brought up in care when they should be in loving homes."Let's now deal with those problems. That doesn't mean at the same we can't be tough when a crime is committed."Mr Cameron also called for more power and funding to be devolved to the voluntary sector in tackling social deprivation."Let's hand much more power and responsibility and money to the social enterprises and voluntary bodies who do far better work, often, than the government," he said."Ask yourself the question: who in London really helps the homeless? Is it the government or is it the Big Issue?"Ex-Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith agreed that Mr Cameron's message echoed Tony Blair's "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" slogan.But the prime minister had failed to put his words into action by tackling family breakdown, he said.Mr Duncan Smith set up the Centre for Social Justice, where Mr Cameron will make his speech during a conference today.He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme a bidding war was raging over "who can be tougher with their rhetoric, who can slap them down harder, slap the bigger sentences in. And yet we see levels of violence rising."We have street kids who grow up from the age of nine or 10 on crack, who live with their mothers who are prostitutes in squats, where the rats literally eat the babies."They live watching men beat their mothers up every day. They grow up in a culture of violence; we have to head that off."The route to crime is there for them so we have to look ahead and figure out how we are going to deal with this before they end up in a situation - not always just saying we'll wait until that point and then crack down on it." But police minister Tony McNulty attacked Mr Cameron's for headline-grabbing "wash 'n' go" politics. "He'll have forgotten about this by Wednesday," he said."I don't doubt Iain's sincerity but it's not matched by their actions in the House of Commons. Much of what we are doing with the respect agenda is parenting, parenting orders, telling children and their families how to get through everyday life. That is dismissed as gimmicks by the Tories."Mr Cameron will also outline his vision for a more effective police force in a separate speech this evening to the Police Foundation.He will call on the police to show that they are crime- fighters and not just form-fillers. Chief constables must be given greater freedom to fight crime and address areas where police performance is lacking, he will argue."The public doesn't want the police to give them learned lectures in sociology or criminology aimed at explaining why high levels of crime are inevitable or intractable or otherwise impossible to deal with," he will say.They don't want agonised apologies and promises to get it right next time. They want the police to be crime-fighters, not form-writers. They want the police to be a force as well as a service."