The 7 July bombers joked in the hours before the bombings that they were like the characters from 1980s TV series the A-Team.In a series of text messages between Mohammad Sidique Khan, the mastermind of the attacks, and Germaine Lindsay, who killed 26 people on a Piccadilly Line train, the pair assumed the roles of Face and BA Baracus, two of the main characters from the series.Using the "operational" phones they had bought specifically to plan the bombings, the pair also referred to the character "Howling Mad" Murdock and repeatedly used Baracus's catchphrase, "I ain't getting on no plane".In the series – made into a Hollywood film this year – Baracus had a fear of flying and could only be got on a plane if sedated.At 2.23pm on 4 July 2005, Khan texted Lindsay to say: "Face you mutha fucker il rearange ya face if ya stab me wiv dat needle cos i said i aint getting on no plain [sic] fool."Lindsay appears to have taken offence, insisting the character of Baracus was his. He replied, at 2.32pm: "Fuck u bitch, dats my line, il stab u wid a fucking needle jus 4 da fun of it. And 2hear u scream like a blatch!!! Now lets get dis right. I aint getting on no plain! fool!"Just before 1am on 6 July, the day before the bombings, Khan texted Lindsay: "Yo BA big nackers you on dat plane or wat. fool."Lindsay replied, at 1.55am: "I ain't getting on no plane fool."The messages were retrieved by police from the remains of Lindsay's phone, which was recovered from the scene of the bombing. They were shown to the inquests last week, but the coroner banned their publication until now.The restrictions were lifted following applications from the media.The inquests have already heard that the attacks may have originally been planned for 6 July, but postponed by Khan, even as he was sending his co-conspirator the texts. At 4.35am on 6 July, Khan texted Lindsay, saying: "Havin major problem cant make time will ring ya when i got it sorted wait at home." Lindsay replied, at 4.41am: "No bullshit doctor! fix it!"At 5.15am, he texted Khan again: "I aint getting on no plane! Murdock tel dis fool." Khan replied at 5.33am saying: "Il ring you in afternoon twoish."Fifty-two people died when Khan and Lindsay, along with fellow bombers Shehzad Tanweer and Hasib Hussain, detonated bombs on three London underground trains and a bus.