Four men were today found guilty of murdering 16-year-old Mary-Ann Leneghan after she was subjected to a horrific ordeal of kidnap, rape and torture.Adrian Thomas, 20, Jamaile Morally, 22, his brother Joshua Morally, 23, and Llewellyn Adams, 24, all from south London, were convicted this afternoon by a jury after a two-month trial at Reading Crown Court. They were also found guilty of the attempted murder of Mary-Ann's friend, who has not been named.Michael Johnson, 19, pleaded guilty to murdering Mary-Ann earlier in the trial.Thomas, the Morally brothers and Johnson were found guilty of oral rape of both girls. Jamaile Morally was found guilty of the vaginal rape of Mary-Ann's friend. Johnson was found guilty of assault against the same girl. Adams, the gang's driver, was cleared of rape and assault.The jury have yet to return verdicts for Indrit Krasniqi, 18, in relation to murder, attempted murder and rape, but he was convicted of orally raping both girls and assaulting Mary-Ann's friend.All six men were found guilty of kidnapping.Mary-Ann and her friend were abducted by six men in a central Reading car park last May. They were taken to Room 19 of the Abbey House Hotel where they were sexually assaulted, raped and tortured over three hours. They were repeatedly told they were going to die at the end of the ordeal.The court heard that Mary-Ann was taken into the hotel bathroom by five men where she was raped and sexually humiliated. Her friend was forced to strip and perform sexual acts. The court heard they were forced to smoke crack and heroin.The pair were then taken to Prospect Park where Mary-Ann was stabbed 40 times and bled to death. Her friend was shot in the head at close range, but did not die as the round did not pierce her skull. She fell unconscious and was left for dead. When she came round, Mary-Ann was still alive, but the men had fled and by the time an ambulance arrived she was dead.Earlier in the trial, Richard Thomas QC, prosecuting, said Thomas had been renting a flat in Reading and had become known to Mary-Ann and her friends. Thomas was assaulted and his belongings stolen during a burglary at the flat. Mr Latham said: "Thomas believed Mary-Ann had set him up for that robbery. During their ordeal, the girls were asked by those there if they had stolen their drugs. And they were asked: 'How did you expect us to let you get away with it?'" The six men stood silently in the dock as the jury foreman gave responses to a total of 42 charges. Only Krasniqi showed any emotion - dropping his head into his hands - as he was convicted of charges of kidnap and assault.As the men were led away from the dock, all walked in silence except Jamaile Morally who threw his hands in the air and shouted: "Yo, yeah, yeah," punching the wall of the dock as he was led away.