It was midsummer in London and the students left the window open so that the air would cool their tiny one-bed flat while they slept. When they woke to discover intruders standing above them, the two French residents would have been terrified, but might have imagined the men would grab some possessions and leave quickly.They may have chided themselves for being careless: just a few weeks before, someone had climbed in through the same window in the New Cross flat and grabbed a laptop computer. Perhaps these two crooks, one towering above 6ft, the other less tall but stocky, were the same ones that had been in the flat before and had come back for a second attempt.Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez, both 23, might possibly have believed that the thieves would be appeased by their PlayStations and mobile phones when they broke in during the early hours of 29 June last year. But they weren't.They could not have known that Dano Sonnex, 23, and Nigel Farmer, 34, the two crack-addicted drunks in the middle of the small living room, would bind them by hand and foot and subject them to the most horrific torture, leaving their two bodies with 244 stab injuries, including wounds that left their brains haemorrhaging in what was described in the Old Bailey as "an orgy of blood-letting". These last hours of the biochemistry students were unbearably prolonged. Twice Sonnex left the flat with a pin number extracted from the Frenchmen to obtain money with their ATM cards – trips he could not deny because they had been caught on CCTV. It was after the second cash machine attempt failed, the prosecution said, that Sonnex and Farmer span themselves into a furious frenzy that became "inhuman".The killings of Bonomo and Ferez provoked outrage in Britain and in France. The students were in London for a three-month DNA project at Imperial College. They were described as "bright, talented and engaging young men" who had had "brilliant futures" mapped out.Walking out of prison five months before the killings, in February last year, Sonnex had a bleak future ahead of him. He had just served five years and four months of an eight-year sentence for GBH with intent and robbery – he had stabbed a friend, held up four students with an imitation firearm and robbed them, then tried to raid a Chinese take­away, whose owner wrestled him to the ground, removing a knife as well as the fake gun. Before his release Sonnex had been twice refused parole.Soon he would be back in prison, this time on a charge of handling stolen property. But it was to be only for a week because magistrates and probation staff bungled his case. Out again, he continued to breach his licence; he hid from the police by day and committed burglaries to fuel his drug habit by night. He was careful, he said, because he didn't want to go to prison again.But he was never careful enough to rein in his penchant for violence. Two days after his initial February release, Sonnex and his friend had held a knife to a five-month pregnant woman and a hammer to her boyfriend, tying them up in an attempted robbery that mirrored the horror perpetrated against the French students. He was not prosecuted because the woman – perhaps through fear – would not be a witness against him.Even after his arrest, the violent nature could not be abated. The court heard that while on remand for the French student killings, Sonnex told a female prison warder: "I will kill you stone dead." He then threatened to bite off her nose.For many who sat through the five-week trial, the killing of Bonomo and Ferez seemed like a classic folie a deux – a madness shared by two – where there is a psychotic bond between two people but one is more dominant than the other. Unlike Brady and Hindley, Sonnex and Farmer did not plan their sadistic killings, but one seemed very much to have been swept away by the violent personality of the other in what became a "relentless and merciless onslaught".Violence is part of Sonnex's make-up – he hails from a modern-day crime family in which convictions for violence and witness intimidation seem to run through the blood. The south London Sonnexes are "known" in their manor of Deptford, and their name resonates further afield.Drugs have haunted the family for years, turning some of them into serious addicts and others into dealers. Giving evidence, Dano told the Old Bailey that all of the Sonnexes shared an intense dislike of the police. This harked back to an incident when he was "no older than eight" during a raid at the family's home in Etta Street.Dano said in court: "I think it was for guns and drugs on my father's behalf but they were not found and there was no court case. They nearly beat him [Bernard Sonnex] to death. He was in a wheelchair for several months. There was a court case between him and the police. Numerous amounts of police officers were called off the force, some left, some were sued. I know my dad received compensation for what they had done."Presenting himself to the jury as a ­vegetarian who "drinks only Irish drinks – Magners, Baileys, Guinness", Sonnex admitted to having taken crack, cocaine, ecstasy and MDMA. He dealt in cocaine, which he would cut with an agent called "magic", thus greatly increasing its street value.His brother Bernie, said Dano, was a heroin user who "gets into trouble too much". "Bernie's a violent person. He is always getting into fights, confrontations with people … Among his friends, Bernie is the leader, a ranking officer … It is well known he is not to be messed with. He's loud, aggressive, very upfront." Dano tried to distance himself from his brother's violence, telling the judge that he tried to stay away from him.In the last weeks of the trial, Bernie Sonnex was released from prison, to where he had been recalled on breach of his licence for aggravated burglary after he committed a driving offence. He didn't appear in court but his wraith did, along with evidence that he had threatened to kill witnesses from prison.Farmer's ex-partner and her children have been relocated under the witness protection programme along with a number of others who gave evidence in the case. Farmer said in court this was because of a fear of Bernie Sonnex. Many others have court orders in place that protect their identity.Farmer, who had a previous conviction for robbing a man at knifepoint, no doubt regrets the day he ever met Bernie Sonnex, with whom he was more friendly than his younger brother Dano. It was during a short stay at Etta Street, where Farmer had been taken in by the Sonnex family, that the pair killed Bonomo and Ferez.Throughout the case, Farmer denied the killings but admitted to setting fire to the student flat because, he said, he was "scared" of the Sonnexes.But Farmer himself was in "crisis" in the weeks before the killings. He had been "suicidal" after splitting up with his partner, the mother of his twins. He begged his mother for help and was admitted to a psychiatric unit. He was a crack addict who had been harming himself, punching walls.On the eve of the killings, Farmer and Sonnex had been dealing and taking drugs, in between drinking pints of lager and cider.During the trial, attended by the fathers of both of the dead men, Farmer blamed Sonnex and Sonnex blamed Farmer – each of them admitting to a part of the offences but denying any involvement in the murders. They barely looked at each other and were separated by four security guards when they sat in the dock.After listening to Farmer admit in the court that he had set fire to the flat but had nothing to do with the killings, Sonnex changed his version of events mid-case. He admitted that he had tied up the ­students but claimed that Farmer must have killed them while he was out at the ATM. He claimed Farmer was "out of his nut" in the little flat, smothered in blood and "hissing". Farmer was adamant he had not set foot in the place until later that day when he doused it with petrol, set it alight and became seriously burned in the ensuing explosion.A few days later, as news of the killings came to light, a ­blistered Farmer, aware that the net was closing in, presented himself at New Cross police station where he was heard to say: "I just killed two fucking people in New Cross."Sonnex, who had gone on the run, was arrested at his grandparents' home as a helicopter hovered overhead. The family, their anti-police hackles raised, denied he was there but soon his feet could be seen lowering through the hatch of the attic as the fugitive was forced to give himself up.The man who had hidden by daylight because he was scared of going back to prison had carved himself a quick path back there, taking a mentally damaged but willing partner with him and leaving the lives of two French families irrevocably shattered.