A 14-year-old girl is in a critical condition after being stabbed in a "frenzied" attack in a park, police said today.Jessica Knight was found with multiple stab wounds by a passer-by in Astley Park in Chorley, Lancashire yesterday afternoon.Knight was given first aid at the scene and taken to Chorley hospital, where she has undergone surgery and is now fighting for her life. Detective Superintendent Steve Brunskill, who is leading the police investigation, said: "This is a particularly nasty, violent attack on a defenceless 14-year-old girl. "I can't think of any motive. Until we find whoever is responsible, people should be cautious. We think it's a random attack. "It is not a particularly discreet area, it's overlooked by properties on both sides and it's well lit." Police said Knight had visited the shops and then entered the park, which is known as a gathering place for local youngsters. Brunskill appealed for anyone in the Astley Village or Astley Park area between 4.30pm and 5.30pm yesterday to contact the incident room at Chorley or Crimestoppers anonymously.He added: "If you know of anyone who returned home after 5.15pm yesterday in an agitated state, who may also have been blood-stained, then we need to speak to you." Officers are with the Knights at the hospital and are waiting to speak to the teenager to find out what happened. Extra officers, including mounted officers and neighbourhood policing teams, will be on patrol in the area to reassure the public. Officers will be visiting local schools to reassure teachers and pupils and a mobile police station will also be in place in Astley Village. The officer said Knight underwent four to five hours of surgery last night. He said there was nothing in the teenager's background to suggest a motive. "As far as we are aware, this is a perfectly normal, happy child. It's mind-boggling how this can occur in this area." Police revealed the victim had been seen on CCTV cameras at a local shop around 5pm. It was normal for her to visit the shops and go to the park with friends, he said. Minutes later members of the public heard screams and around 5.14pm a cyclist came across the unconscious youngster, "covered in blood", Brunskill said. Two other people joined the cyclist, and the girl was given first aid. An ambulance arrived within minutes to take her to hospital, about a mile away. The teenager was wearing a black hooded jacket with fur lining, blue jeans and white trainers. There was no evidence it was a sex attack, the officer said. The area has council offices on one side and sheltered housing on the other. Astley Village is an affluent, semi-rural area north of Chorley. Police stressed it was a low-crime area.