The West Bromwich Albion footballer Lee Hughes was being questioned by police last night on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving following a fatal hit-and-run accident in Coventry.Police had been searching for the striker after a silver Mercedes CL55 coupe - thought to be owned and driven by 27-year-old Hughes - collided with a Renault Megane near the city centre just after midnight on Saturday. The rear passenger in the Megane, Douglas Graham, 56, from Coventry, was killed in the accident. His wife suffered a broken leg and the male driver broke his pelvis.Death by dangerous driving carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. On Sunday, police searched Hughes's house in Meriden and questioned his family and friends as they tried to trace the player. Yesterday, a spokeswoman for West Midlands police refused to confirm the name of the arrested man, but said a 27-year-old man from Meriden had reported to a police station in the city. "He has been arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving and failing to stop at the scene of an accident," she said. The spokeswoman added that a second man travelling in the silver Mercedes, who was thought to have left the scene, had also been traced and questioned. In a statement, West Bromwich Albion confirmed that Hughes would not be considered for selection for tonight's First Division game against Cardiff at Ninian Park. "The club understands that West Midlands Police wish to speak to Lee Hughes to discover the full facts surrounding an accident that occurred shortly after midnight on November 23 involving two vehicles, one of which belongs to Lee," the statement said. "Until the full facts of the situation are understood, the club will make no further comment, except to say that Lee will not be considered for selection for Tuesday's game against Cardiff City since he missed training on both Sunday and Monday." Mr Graham's family issued a statement saying they were "devastated" by his death. He leaves a wife, four children and four grandchildren.