As a child, James’ life was defined by instability, insecurity and upheaval. He spent his childhood and early adolescence in care, moving from one home to another. By 12 he was known to police and at 16 he was convicted of a serious offence and sentenced to three years in a prison for 15 to 17-year-olds. His behaviour was often disruptive and he used violence as a defence mechanism. By the time James contacted a charity for support towards the end of his first year locked up, he had spent long periods in the segregation block or confined to his cell, sometimes for up to 23 and a half hours a day.To our collective shame James’s story is all too typical of the experiences some of the most vulnerable youngsters in our society endure. Far too often it’s children who have been abused and neglected from infancy – many of whom have mental health problems and learning difficulties, and are in need our protection – who end up incarcerated and written off. Worse still, many will experience violence and mistreatment while in prison, as recent reports of abuse by staff at G4S-run Medway secure training centre in Kent show. And Medway, exposed by Panorama, which led shadow home secretary Andy Burnham to call for G4S to be stripped of its youth prisons contract, is far from an isolated case.G4S staff fired after claims of mistreatment at young offender unit Inspections of the youth justice system regularly reveal areas of ongoing concern. A report on children in custody for 2014/2015 from the prisons inspectorate found that 33% of boys in young offenders institutions reported feeling unsafe at some point – higher than at any time since 2010/11. In secure training centres, 24% of children said they had felt unsafe. Inspections of individual institutions have flagged up several areas requiring attention, from staff shortages to increased use of force.Even with all this, there are hardly hordes of people taking to the streets to protest against the treatment of children in custody – or for that matter against ongoing cuts to rehabilitation provision. These youngsters are frequently painted by the media and others as unworthy; they are very low down on the empathy scale. But this is no reason to look away. The total number of children in custody has been steadily falling in recent years – from 2,400 in England and Wales in 2009/10 to around 1,050 in 2014/15, according to Ministry of Justice figures. This is to be welcomed. Nevertheless, as advocacy organisations, including the Howard League for Penal Reform, have repeatedly pointed out, the circumstances under which young people in the system are held warrants serious scrutiny. No matter what they have done, we are talking about childrenFrances Crook, Howard League for Penal Reform One major aspect highlighted just last month by the Howard League is yet more cuts to secure children’s homes. Run by local authorities, these homes provide small units (usually between six and 40 children) with highly trained professionals, more staff than is usually provided for children in custody, and have a dedicated focus on welfare and rehabilitation. They are not like secure training centres, which are larger and privately run, or youth offenders institutions, which are much bigger and cater to older adolescents. Secure care homes offer more intensive, specialist supervision for extremely vulnerable children, so tend to be more expensive than the other two types of institutions; this is why, as the Howard League argues, they have repeatedly been a victim of the Youth Justice Board scythe.When the board announced in December that there would be fewer places commissioned across the eight remaining secure care homes (down by another 21 places to 117) it said the cuts would “better align supply and demand”. Campaigners were quick to declare this untrue. Frances Crook, chief executive of the Howard League, said that not only would the majority of young people continue to be housed in cheaper young offenders institutions, “where there has been a rapid decline in safety levels”, but that in whole chunks of the country including London there would be no secure care home provision at all.The Guardian view on prisons in England and Wales: dangerous and inefficient | Editorial When asked about the latest cuts, an MOJ spokesman said reductions in the youth custody population had enabled savings but the government continued to invest in the rehabilitation of young people and acknowledged that more could be done to reduce reoffending.There’s a lot of anticipation about the outcome of the Taylor Review of youth justice announced in September last year by then justice secretary Michael Gove. Due to report in the summer, justice reformers are hoping it will deliver solid recommendations for improving the youth justice system as well as the long-term prospects of young people once they leave it. Here’s hoping.Whatever transpires, recognising the needs of one of the most vulnerable groups in society – and putting their welfare and safety before cost – is essential. As Crook wrote last month: “No matter what they have done, we are talking about children. And the latest cuts are in nobody’s interests other than some short-term savings for a government quango.”Talk to us on Twitter via @Guardianpublic and sign up for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.