A man who murdered his neighbour after a dispute about noisy DIY was jailed for life yesterday.Christopher Hoyland, 42, of Middlesbrough, had written in his diary that noise created by George Evans was "pushing me over the edge". Mr Evans, 48, was found dead at his home from a single stab wound to his neck in November last year. Yesterday at Teesside crown court the minimum 15-year term for murder was reduced to 10 years after the judge said the case was "wholly exceptional". The court had heard that Mr Evans's last job had been to drill holes in a wall and fix some timber in an alcove. Before that another friend had knocked down some internal walls and Hoyland had complained twice. On the night of the killing, neighbours heard raised voices and saw Hoyland walking out of Mr Evans's home. The judge passed sentence after Hoyland's defence said that in 2001, on the eve of Hoyland's 40th birthday, he was attacked in a pub and was left brain-damaged. His counsel said this had resulted in violent mood swings, aggressive behaviour and hypersensitivity to noise. But outside the court Mr Evans's daughter, Kay Boyle, said the sentence was "a waste of time". She said: "Ten years is nothing. I'm totally disappointed. I thought he would get longer. "He has shown no remorse for what he has done - he has taken my dad away and you always expect your dad to be there. He had no right. "He's a danger to himself and everyone else and I feel sorry for anyone who ends up living next door to him next time. He just shouldn't be out." Ms Evans added: "He was just doing DIY. You can't go and knock on someone's door and stab them for doing DIY, it doesn't work like that. It shows you what kind of person he is." After the verdict, Detective Superintendent Sue Cross, of Cleveland police, said: "This was a deliberate act by Mr Hoyland. No matter how aggrieved he felt about the noise emanating from the adjoining house as his neighbour George Evans carried out a series of DIY jobs, it does not justify the taking of a life. "Mr Hoyland compounded matters by deliberately trying to cover his tracks and denying responsibility for the murder." She said the jury had seen through Hoyland's lies. "I am satisfied that on this occasion justice has been delivered. No sentence could ever compensate Mr Evans's family for the loss of a much-loved father and friend. I can only hope that this verdict gives them the opportunity to move on with their lives." Passing sentence, the recorder of Middlesbrough, Peter Fox, told Hoyland: "You are a 42-year-old man who was found guilty of murdering your next-door neighbour. You took a kitchen knife and you went to his house and when he answered the door, you struck him a severe blow. "In that, you severed some major blood vessels. He must have died very quickly."