Tiny white spots of Billie-Jo Jenkins' flesh were discovered on her foster father's clothing seven years after her murder, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.The 13-year-old was bludgeoned to death with a metal tent peg on the patio of the family home in Hastings where she had been painting doors in February 1997. The retrial of former deputy headteacher Sîon Jenkins for her murder was told that the presence of three microscopic pieces of flesh on the trousers he was wearing on the day of the attack emerged only when the blood that had surrounded them dried and flaked off. Giving evidence for the prosecution, Adrian Wain, a forensic scientist who specialises in blood spattering patterns, told the court that he found the white spots on Mr Jenkins' trousers, as well as four spots on Billie-Jo's leggings, when he re-examined the clothing last year. He said: "I noticed that some of the spots on both the leggings and trousers had what appeared to be a white material enclosed inside the blood which I hadn't previously seen. We didn't see them in 1997, possibly because the blood when it dries out flakes off, thereby exposing what's inside." Nicholas Hilliard, for the prosecution, told the court: "Just as blood had flown on to the defendant's clothing, so had tiny pieces of Billie-Jo's flesh, suggesting they became detached at the same time as impact." Mr Jenkins was convicted of Billie-Jo's murder in 1998. The appeal court quashed his conviction as "unsafe" last year and he was freed on bail. Mr Wain told the court that more than 150 microscopic spatters of blood were found on Mr Jenkins' clothing. He said: "The overall distribution is consistent with that I would expect to find on the clothing of Billie-Jo's attacker." He said no such spattering was found on the paramedics or a neighbour, who tended to Billie-Jo as she lay in a pool of blood, and dismissed the defence's argument that they could have been breathed out by the girl as she lay dying. Mr Wain said the patterns of blood radiating out from her body showed that the attacker had been standing over Billie-Jo facing the house and had hit her with considerable force as she lay on the ground. He said the notion that somebody who carried out such an attack would be covered in blood was mistaken. Mr Jenkins, of Lymington, Hampshire, denies murder. The trial continues.