The policing watchdog is working with academics to map crime hotspots in England and Wales in an attempt to predict future levels of demand and so prevent incidents from occurring.Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) revealed it has teamed up with London School of Economics (LSE) to build a picture of “predicted demand” on policing in the 181,000 census output areas.Planned cuts to police will endanger the public, says UK’s top police chief The move comes as the inspectorate warns police forces must have a better grasp of what they are likely to face in the years to come as they deal with increasingly limited resources. Predicting where crime could occur, as well as what type of offences may be committed, drew comparisons to Steven Spielberg’s 2002 film Minority Report, based on a story by sci-fi writer Philip K Dick, in which police use psychic technology to arrest and convict murderers before they commit their crime.Asked if there was a danger that officers would rely too heavily on this sort of crime-mapping, the chief inspector of constabulary, Sir Tom Winsor, said it would be a valuable tool.“It’s another very useful tool in the toolbox. But it’s not going to be like the satnav that makes people drive off the end of a pier. They’re not going to slavishly follow it. “It’s just an enormously valuable instrument, which many of them do not have. At a local level, the inspectors themselves know where the troubled families are; they know where habitual criminals live.“But to have that at force level but also to be able to drill down to small units in a particular area; that is an enormously valuable tool. But we’re a long way from Minority Report.”In its annual report on the state of policing, HMIC said police forces are likely to face continued pressure on resources and budgets, despite faring relatively well in the most recent spending review in which George Osborne, the chancellor, protected police spending. The watchdog argues police forces need a more effective approach to prevent crime from happening, although it admits understanding future demand is not easy. “Looking back at what occurred in the past is not necessarily a guide to what will happen in the future,” the report said. “The unexpected can never adequately be catered for; assumptions need regularly and frequently to be reviewed; and problems of the moment can sometimes take priority over taking a measured look at the future.”Working with the LSE, the inspectorate will analyse “thousands of characteristics” relating to the population in the 181,000 census points, which on average cover 125 households. “Predicting levels of demand in these areas, together with an analysis of the types of incidents that constitute that demand, will help the police to establish the capacity and capability necessary to prevent such incidents from happening, or respond effectively to them after they have occurred,” the report said.It added: “Failing adequately to plan for possible future demand hinders the police in preventing and responding to crime. The leaders of the police need to adjust their approach to meeting budgetary demands away from a simple reduction in numbers across all aspects of policing to a more sophisticated analysis of local requirements.”The annual report comes as Labour attacked the government’s record on police funding. In a debate in the House of Commons, the shadow home secretary, Andy Burnham, pointed to figures that show in 2016/17 the overall government grant to the police will not be protected in cash terms. Forces in England and Wales will receive £30m less in cash, a cut worth £160 m in real terms and equivalent to the salaries of 3,200 police officers, Labour estimated.Burnham said: “The public have not been told the truth about police funding and crime figures. “Budgets for next year have not been protected in real terms. They are being cut again – for the sixth year in a row – at a time when the country is facing increasing risks.”