Sion Jenkins, the former deputy headteacher accused of murdering his 13-year-old foster daughter was found to have tiny spots of her flesh on his clothing, his retrial heard yesterday.Mr Jenkins' trial for the murder of Billie-Jo, 13, heard that forensic examination of "spots of white substance" on the defendant's clothing showed they were human flesh surrounded by blood.Nicholas Hilliard, for the prosecution, told the Old Bailey jury that the evidence came to light when Mr Jenkins' clothing was sent for analysis at Cambridge University.Microscopic spatters of Billie-Jo's blood were found on the sleeves and chest area of his fleece top and on his trouser legs. The spots matched those found on the teenager's clothes. Continuing his opening statement on day two of the trial, Mr Hilliard dismissed the theory that Mr Jenkins had such spots on his clothing because they had been breathed on to him by Billie-Jo as he tended to her in her final moments. Her breathing was likely to have been very weak, he said, and incapable of causing such wide-ranging spots. Mr Hilliard said: "Just as the blood had flown on to the defendant's clothing, so had pieces of Billie's flesh." He said a triangular mark consistent with the heel of Mr Jenkins' shoe was found on the girl's cheek. Billie-Jo was bludgeoned to death with an iron tent peg at the house in Hastings where she lived with Mr Jenkins, his then wife Lois and their four daughters Annie, then 12, Lottie, 10, Esther, nine, and Maya, seven. On February 15 1997, she was found on the patio at the back of the house, where she had been painting the doors. She died from severe head injuries, having suffered at least five forceful blows to the head. Mr Hilliard also dismissed the theory that a man with a history of mental illness, referred to as Mr B, who was seen in a nearby park on the day of the killing, had killed the girl. "There is nothing to connect the man to Billie-Jo," he said. He said Mr Jenkins delayed calling an ambulance, did not follow the advice of the operator to put her in the recovery position, and failed to check if she was breathing. He had also behaved strangely, fiddling with a phone nearby to stop it ringing, and did not check whether the attacker had fled. Tape recordings of the two emergency calls Mr Jenkins made after finding Billie-Jo's body were played to the court. In the first, he told the operator in a panicky voice: "It's an emergency. My daughter's fallen. She's got a head injury. There's blood everywhere. She's lying on the floor." Peter Gaimster, a friend of the family, told the court that he had seen Mr Jenkins kick Billie-Jo while the two families were on holiday in Brittany six months before her death. Mr Gaimster said Mr Jenkins was "irritated" when Billie-Jo sprained her ankle, and he later saw him launch an "aggressive kick" at her injured leg. He also said Mr Jenkins made copious notes about the events of that day while staying with the Gaimsters after Billie-Jo's death, claiming he needed to make sense of what happened. Mr Jenkins had said he needed to spend time with Annie and Lottie, who found Billie-Jo's body, because they were "confused" about the events and he wanted to make clear what had happened. Mr Jenkins is alleged to have killed Billie-Jo after losing his temper when he returned home from picking up one of his daughters from a music lesson. His wife and other daughters were on the seafront at Hastings. Mr Jenkins, from Aberystwyth, denies murder. The trial continues.