It's going to smell, but it's time to take the old kaftan out of the closet, douse it in the last of the patchouli and burn it. The 60s - the decade of my adolescence - are so over, and not just according to the prime minister. In a pincer movement on the decade that brought us Ken Dodd and Apollo 13, social neo-conservatives and younger Guardian types are combining to tell veterans of the summer of love what a useless, counterproductive and self-regarding lot they really are.Tony Blair is a year or two older than me and - famously - was in a rock band at college in the early 70s. From this experience he understands our errors. "From John Stuart Mill onwards," he said yesterday, "it has always been recognised that with freedom comes responsibility. But in the 1960s revolution that didn't always happen." Well no, nothing always happens. So what he is really saying is that, in the 60s, lots of people really messed up by forgetting about social responsibility. In fact, they buggered things up so comprehensively that "here and now, people have had enough of this part of the 1960s consensus". People today want rules, order and proper behaviour, he continued, almost as though 60s people had desired no rules, disorder and improper behaviour. Back before the fall, it was different. Sounding more like Thora Hird than a retired Ugly Rumour, Blair told an interviewer, "When I was young, people still left their doors unlocked." We didn't. Leave the back door open for an hour in our part of north London in the mid-60s and you'd be burgled. Not of your electronics, because they were too big to carry, but of your cash and jewellery. But I grant you it was probably different in the provinces, where - at that time - the young David Blunkett was growing up. Yesterday, on the Today programme, he reflected on the "breakdown of families and the distancing of ourselves from each other". "You see less of this on the continent," he told his bemused questioner. I would feel more confident in rebuffing this argument about the 60s if it weren't for the hostility also shown by some younger thinkers and writers. In last week's G2, there was a ferocious attack on the rock generation. It was appalling, said one younger colleague, that the 60s generation, instead of "sucking humbugs and cultivating an intriguing personal scent of stale urine", were buying "CDs, gap-year holidays, Harley-Davidsons and other juvenilia". And this is what we are like. A "famously self-indulgent generation", leading a "hedonistic lifestyle", brought up "cushioned by [the] welfare state" and believing that "greed is good, there's no such thing as society, power without responsibility" (shades of Tone, there) and "rights without obligations", leaving a legacy of "global warming, Aids, a widening gulf between the rich and poor [and] terrorism". Talented as this colleague is, the only proper response is: give over. All kids are irritated by the thought that there was a time before they were born when there was laughter and lots of sex. This lot are infuriated that this was also the time when all those standards whose covers their stars now play were first created. Her generation are the binge drinkers; we didn't have the cash. We would sit around sharing a five-bob joint and invent new flavours for Opal Fruits; her lot go out, get blasted on champagne and spirits and then pummel people's heads to a pulp. When we were asked what we wanted to be, we said firemen and United Nations peacekeepers; her lot say millionaires and celebrities. Hedonistic? They spend more on clothes in an afternoon than we spent in a year. Cushioned? We departed for the communes with the first pubic hair, they stay at home till the first sign of baldness. Actually, of course, we all did nothing. As Jonathon Green says in his book All Dressed Up: "The [60s] counterculture, while noisy, embraced relatively few people; neither dope, sex nor revolution impinged, other than through the tabloid press, on the great majority of lives." That describes Blunkett all right. The great irony, of course, is that it is precisely those who were children or grew up in the 60s (ie those aged between 45 and 65) who are the most vocal supporters of tougher law and order measures. It wasn't any part of our design for life to be beaten up on our way back from yoga by some bingeing lout. Cut their goolies off; it's the only way. There aren't many Hampstead liberals, David. Hampstead is full of American bankers who would like to see car thieves castrated. As would I. So what will we own up to? I'll agree to being a very junior part of a process that followed the almost unprecedented period of social solidarity caused by the experience of war. Yes, there was a deal of nonsense spoken about child-centred education and about letting everything hang out, about letting a thousand flowers bloom, including some pretty noxious ones. But for the rest of it, Tony Blair, just as surely as my colleague, is talking cobblers. There was something to redress in the 60s and afterwards. That period saw a challenge to arbitrary judgments by uninterrogated authority. Before then, magistrates and juries would routinely accept the mendacious word of an arresting copper, rather than the testimony of an innocent defendant. The stress on wrongful arrest didn't arise because of some antiestablishment caprice, but out of the bloody wrongful arrests! There was "dark sarcasm in the classroom". There was caning. There were secret files kept on students. There was capital punishment. There was blackmail of homosexuals. There were botched backstreet abortions. There was no contraception easily available. The people in charge knew best and the infant David Blunkett, in his boarding school for the blind, was separated from his parents with an almost unbelievable cruelty. Above all - and this is the biggest social change of all, the one that underlies the others - women were unequal, were not mistresses of their own destinies. As Peggy Seeger sang it: "Dainty as a Dresden statue, Gentle as a Jersey cow; Smooth as silk, gives creamy milk, Learn to coo, learn to moo, That's what you do to be a lady now." Rather even loutettes (though I loathe them) than that. So no, you want to blame someone for the mess we're in? Those bastards from the 80s, they're the ones. The kaftan stays.