The Stephen Lawrence case marked a turning point in the way police investigate racist crimes. It was also a watershed for Imran Khan, the solicitor who will always be most closely associated with the case of the black teenager who was stabbed to death at a London bus stop.Imran Khan had been a solicitor for just 18 months when the Lawrence case dropped into his lap. At the time, he was working as a criminal defence solicitor at a law firm in the east end of London, JR Jones. In different circumstances, he might have been defending one of the five youths suspected of the murder - if the police had actually succeeded in charging anyone. In the 12 months before the Lawrence inquiry reported in 1998, he had defended in seven murder cases. After the Lawrence case, he started receiving letters, every day, from victims and their families, asking for help. They ranged from people whose relations with the police had just started to sour in the immediate aftermath of a crime, to those who felt completely failed by the state justice system and wanted to bring private prosecutions. Among those who approached the firm were the family of the murdered black doctor, Joan Francisco. They suspected that her killer was a former boyfriend, Anthony Diedrick, and turned to JR Jones when the police failed to find evidence linking him (or anyone else) to the crime. In 1998, they won civil damages from Diedrick for the killing and in 1999 he was convicted of Francisco's murder. Only after the family had forced the police to reopen the investigation was a vital piece of forensic evidence found, previously missed. Inspired by such cases, and with the added impetus of the Human Rights Act, which came into force two months ago, Khan has just left his high-street firm and set up a niche legal practice in central London, Imran Khan & Partners, to handle what he calls "impact" cases. "We are going to be taking on cases that are dead and buried, resurrecting them and trying to make an impact with them," he says. He is already representing the family of the Asian youth Zahid Mubarek, who was beaten to death last March by a fellow prisoner the day before he was due to be released from Feltham young offenders institution. The family want someone to be held accountable for locking their 19-year-old son, a petty thief, in a cell with a known violent racist who revered the killers of Stephen Lawrence.Khan is also acting for a black mother whose five-and-a half-month old baby, Ames Glover, was snatched from the back seat of a car in Southall 11 years ago. He was never found. The case attracted almost no media interest and no outpouring of public sympathy. Just as with the Lawrence case, says Khan, the police initially treated the family with suspicion. "For two days, they were too busy looking at them to go out looking for suspects." He is considering whether the investigation could be resurrected and whether there are grounds for a complaint against the police. More than a decade later, the child's mother, Shanika Edwards, is hoping that someone may finally have to answer for what went wrong with the investigation and that she might even find out what happened to her child. If she does, it will be as a direct result of the Lawrences' doggedness. "She said she was coming forward now because of them," says Khan. He believes that the Lawrence case has inspired many people who had otherwise given up hope of justice. "It is a potentially massive area. In the past, victims of crime would never go to a lawyer. They would go to their MP or to a support agency, but never a lawyer. And even if they did, the lawyers would say, 'There's nothing we can do'." The Lawrence case changed all that. It demonstrated that there may be plenty a lawyer can do. In Khan's office, the words "it can't be done" are banned. Victims' families are no longer prepared to be fobbed off or ignored by the authorities. Two decades ago, most lawyers didn't know how to fight clinical negligence cases. Now, even some doctors acknowledge that such cases play a key role in making the NHS accountable. Khan is hoping for a similar shift in culture among other bodies, including the police and prison service. The knowledge that a victim's family's solicitor is watching what they do will, he hopes, help to ensure that the police conduct all investigations in a methodical and even-handed way, rather than allowing prejudice to colour what they do. There are some inherent difficulties to be overcome, not least the problem of funding. Much work has to be done free of charge because there is no state help available. "That's why I've gone grey," says 36-year-old Khan. "You end up working longer and longer hours." At his new firm, the work will be cross-subsidised by more mainstream civil liberties cases for which there is state funding, such as immigration and actions against the police, and by the criminal defence work he still does. Another difficulty is the lack of any formal rules of engagement. The police may not like solicitors acting in their traditional role of protecting defendants' interests, but defence solicitors are at least grudgingly accepted and everyone knows what the ground rules are supposed to be. Solicitors acting for victims or their families, like Khan intends doing, are on wholly uncharted territory. In the Lawrence case, says Khan, the police didn't trust him or accept that he had any right to ask questions on the family's behalf. On the other hand, if the police try to be too helpful, they might end up revealing information which could compromise the integrity of any subsequent prosecution - the last thing a family would want. Khan admits that if such information were revealed to the victim's family in a case where he was acting for the defendant, he would have to "exploit it to the full". What is needed, he says, is a code of conduct so that all parties know what their roles are supposed to be. But at least one difficulty has been removed. When Khan first took on the Lawrence case in 1993, it was nearly impossible to get a senior barrister, with the exception of Michael Mansfield QC, to act in a case of that kind. Now, he says, he has QCs chasing him, pleading for work. Some may be motivated, he acknowledges, by a desire to be on television. But he doesn't hold that against them if they are right for the job. "This area is fashionable at the moment. We have got to make sure that it is not just a fad but that it continues. The worst thing would be to raise people's expectations which then can't be met. We need to develop a real body of law in this area and to have enough lawyers prepared to do this work."