The publication today of the damning official report into Dartmoor will ensure that its role as the "punishment block" of the prison system in England and Wales will finally come to an end after nearly 200 years. Built in 1809 to hold thousands of French prisoners captured during the Napoleonic wars who were crammed into prison hulks moored at Plymouth, Dartmoor closed in 1815 and was reopened in 1850. Many of the buildings still in use today, including the galleried halls of cells and enclosed exercise yards, date from then. There has always been a backdrop of myth associated with the jail. "The climactic conditions of the moor, which often shrouded this granite fortress in mist or set its stark profile against the winter snows, added to the prison's almost tangible sense of isolation," says the official inspection report. Dartmoor has long been regarded as "the end of the line" for inmates who had created problems in other parts of the prison service. The trial of the Kray brothers in 1966 for organising the escape from Dartmoor of Frank Mitchell, the "mad axeman", and for ordering his murder added to its notoriety. After calls for its closure from senior judges in the 1980s, the prison began to modernise; corridors linked the wings, to protect against the worst of the weather. Some prisoners now have access to television, pool tables, phone cards and even video games. But for those in the induction C wing, cell toilet facilities are a step back in time - a slop bucket. Oddly, some inmates prefer C wing, because it felt like the "old Dartmoor". The jail's former segregation unit, which only went out of use in November, gave a taste of what conditions must once have been like. E wing, with its high ceilings, granite walls and stone floors, could take up to 46 men. Particularly violent inmates were taken to cool off in tiny cells with a black painted stone to sit on, and a concrete block to sleep on with a thin wooden "mattress". There were eight open air exercise pens - enclosed on three sides with granite topped with barbed wire, and fronted by bars - where prisoners exercised one at a time. They are no longer in use, but cannot be demolished because - like the rest of the jail - they are listed. The future of the now empty wing is uncertain. All depends on funding. The new segregation unit is smaller, brighter and more welcoming, but the chief inspector's report will confirm the decision that the prison, which has dominated the remote moorland community of Princetown for so long, should lose its national role.