The five men accused of murdering Stephen Lawrence are to break their silence for the first time about what happened on the night of the crime. In a series of television interviews which could be broadcast on ITV this week, the five answered questions about the night Stephen was murdered, their racism and why they have refused to answer questions in the past.  The five suspects agreed to be filmed after protracted negotiations with Granada Television. Sources said last night that no deal had been done with the men, that there were no controls on which questions could be asked and that no payment had been made.  Representatives of the Lawrence family are also thought to be aware of the programme. Executives hope to run the hour-long special on Thursday as the first of a current affairs series called Tonight. It may, however, be delayed because of legal difficulties and the war in Yugoslavia.  The interviews, said to be 'tough, searching and unremittingly hostile', are by Martin Bashir, the reporter who interviewed Diana, Princess of Wales, and Louise Woodward, for the BBC's Panorama programme. Mr Bashir now works for Granada which is making the programme for ITV.  The five men - Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson, David Norris, Jamie Acourt and Luke Knight - are expected to talk in detail for the first time about the night Stephen was stabbed and killed at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993.  They will also talk about video surveillance tapes that show them engaging in violently racist behaviour and their attitude towards black people in Britain.  They contacted Granada after the Macpherson inquiry described the suspects as 'evil' people who were 'infected and invaded by gross and revolting racism'. They told Bashir that they wanted to 'set the record straight'.  Sources said that television executives were aware of the delicate nature of the programme. When rumours of a BBC interview with the five suspects circulated last autumn members of the Lawrence family condemned the move and said that programme makers should 'think carefully' before transmission.  'They have had ample time to tell their story,' said Cheryl Sloley, Stephen's aunt, at the time. 'How can they suddenly turn around now, when they have been totally unco-operative in the past, and say they are willing to do a no-holds-barred interview?  'The five shouldn't be given a platform.' The five suspects caused a furious reaction when they refused to answer questions either at the inquest into Stephen's death or during the public inquiry. The men defended themselves by saying that they had been advised by their lawyers not to say anything that might incriminate them.  They have now decided to give their first public account because they feel they have nothing to lose. It is thought that Gary Dobson has been the leading force in persuading the others to talk. Their parents agreed to an interview on BBC Radio 4's Today programme last month.  Sources say that Granada wants to ensure that the men are not seen to be given an easy ride. The interviews have been described as forensic and as close to the style of a courtroom hearing as is possible.  Each of the men was interviewed separately and was not allowed to communicate with the others during the interviews. Mr Bashir is thought to have asked them about their movements both before and after the murder, information that has never been revealed. He also questions them about their use of knives and their swaggering demeanour during police and public inquiries.  The Metropolitan police, who are still investigating the murder, are particularly interested in the content of the interviews. The force began a procedure under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act to try and gain access to the tapes but agreed at a hearing at the Old Bailey last week that they would wait until the material has been transmitted.  A spokesman for Granada refused to comment last night, saying that he could not speculate on the content of future programmes. Scotland Yard also refused to comment. 