Journalists, politics and drink have long been suspected of being a volatile mix, but the recipe may have been even more combustible than usual last night when police used CS spray to break up a fight in the House of Commons.An argument that appears to have started at a Conservative party reception spilt over into a neighbouring part of the Palace of Westminster. One man - thought to be a journalist - was arrested in the fracas in which a police officer received minor injuries. Commons authorities said the incident was not terrorist-related, nor connected to the G20 meeting this week, but the exact details of what happened in the corridors of power remained sketchy.A Conservative source suggested that three journalists who had earlier been to the gathering hosted by party chairman Eric Pickles in the shadow cabinet room were at first involved in the trouble, which ended in a corridor behind the Speaker's chair in the Commons, just yards from where MPs were debating Africa. It is thought senior ministers' offices are also nearby.Scotland Yard said guests of an official passholder at the reception had begun scuffling shortly after 9.15pm. They left and continued the argument but were stopped by a police officer. One man became aggressive, resulting in an injury to the officer. CS spray was used. The arrested man was taken to a central London police station.The Press Association news agency said it understood that party officials had been escorting guests without Westminster security passes who are not allowed into restricted areas of parliament to and from exits during the reception. But those involved in the incident are believed to have slipped away where the police became involved. The Commons authorities said there had been an argument between two non-passholder guests who left the party to continue their argument in a private area of the House of Commons where they were stopped.Sittings in the Commons and the House of Lords were not affected. A Conservative source said: "We understand that three journalists who earlier in the evening had been at Eric Pickles' party left and at some point later on created some kind of disturbance. There was nothing in their behaviour earlier that suggested they would act like this."There have been serious concerns about security at Westminster in recent years. Pro-hunting supporters invaded the Commons chamber in 2004 as did fathers' rights protesters who hurled purple powder at the prime minister, while last year protesters against new airport runways scaled the roof at parliament.