Two teenage boys whose bodies were found in a wooded lane in Berkshire on Sunday died after one was stabbed and the other slashed across the throat, it emerged today.The bodies of Steven Bayliss, 16, and 14-year-old Twood Nadauld, both of Finchampstead, Berkshire, were discovered after police received a 999 call from a man reporting that he had "hurt" some people.Post-mortem examinations carried out yesterday revealed Twood had died from "injuries consistent with the use of a knife" while Steven was killed by an "incision wound" to the neck, a police spokeswoman said.Two 18-year-old men were arrested on Sunday night on suspicion of the teenagers' murder. One was released without charge last night, and the second remains in custody. Police secured a warrant of detention at Slough magistrates court this morning to question the man for further 24 hours.Detectives investigating the double murder say a man dialled the emergency services at around 8.15pm on Sunday, saying the teenagers were lying injured near Evendons Lane, Wokingham.Officers arrived in the area by helicopter and discovered the two bodies. Both teenagers were pronounced dead at the scene, and the two 18-year-olds were arrested shortly afterwards.Police said they were keeping an open mind on the possible motive after suggestions that the killings could have been a revenge attack after an argument went wrong. However, other sources said the two men arrested had been close friends of the two dead boys.One 17-year-old friend said the victims had been "brilliant people, bright and fun-loving - they were not violent people".Inside a police cordon near Evendons Lane, groups of teenagers had gathered to leave flowers and messages for their murdered friends. "You two lil' terrors, you always got up to mischief and making people laugh with your stories," one read.One was written in text message language, saying: "I will neva 4get u guys! I love you both so much, you were amazing m8s. I miss you so much 4eva, Rea."Steven was a former pupil at Emmbrook School, in Wokingham, and his younger friend attended the same school, police said."This is tragic news that will affect the whole school community and beyond," Linda Peart, the acting headteacher, said. "Our thoughts are particularly with the boys' families and friends at this time. This is a tight-knit school, and staff and pupils will support each other. Both boys will be greatly missed."Wokingham District council said three counsellors had been sent to the school, offering support to pupils and staff.Chief Inspector Lindsey Finch, who is leading the investigation, said: "Incidents of this nature are extremely rare, even more so in Wokingham ... I cannot stress strongly enough what a shock these incidents have been." The killings were not thought to be linked to another murder in Wokingham on Saturday.