They are successful, stylish women with flourishing careers and more than enough money to buy every creature comfort imaginable. Their regular haunts include Harvey Nichols, Tiffany and Space NK, but while their shopping trips always end with bags stuffed full of designer clothes, they do not always involve a trip to the till.According to a report in the latest issue of Vogue, a significant number of middle-aged, well-to-do women have taken to shop lifting as a way to get their kicks. 'It's the only naughty thing I do in my life,' one woman tells the magazine. 'I don't get drunk, I don't take drugs, I eat healthily, I have a personal trainer, I work hard for a living, I pay my taxes, I don't cheat on my husband. 'Maybe I could have an affair instead of shoplifting, but I don't think so. At least this way I'm not going to wonder if the guilt shows on my face when I come home with a stolen lipstick.' According to Michael Schuck, chief executive of Action Against Business Crime, a joint venture between the Home Office and the British Retail Consortium, shoplifting is one of the few crimes that runs the entire social gamut. They come from all walks of life, from rich women stealing designer frocks they could easily afford to the desperate trying to raise money for drugs.'While the vast majority of cases fall into the lower category - I would estimate that between 60 and 65 per cent of shoplifters are doing so to support drug habits - there is no doubt that there are others stealing purely for thrills.' There is also little doubt that upmarket stores generally attract a better class of shoplifter. 'Very few of the people we catch here appear to be drug addicts,' said Brian Lenehan, head of security at Harvey Nichols. 'A significant proportion are what you would call well-heeled and could easily afford the items we catch them with. In most cases, when they are taken back to the office and told the police are being called, the first thing they say is, "Can I pay for it now?" But by then it's too late. I don't know why they do it; I don't know what's going on inside their heads. It makes no difference who they are; we treat all shoplifters the same.' In its most recent report, the British Retail Consortium revealed that while the total value of goods stolen from shops fell in 2003, the average value of each item taken rose from £88 to £164, which would seem to indicate that thieves are targeting more expensive stores. The report also highlighted a rise in thefts of handbags and accessories. Schuck said: 'There's a range of excuses that people use to justify their actions and I've heard them all. People say it's a victimless crime because they are stealing from a business rather than an individual, that they have been shopping at the store for many years and believe they are entitled to the odd "discount", or simply that the stores are asking for it by leaving all their goods out on display. But these are little more than excuses for what is an amoral activity, a crime.' Arrests of upmarket shoplifters usually only hit the headlines when the person involved is a celebrity. In November, Coronation Street star Jimmi Harkishin was arrested at Brent Cross shopping centre in north London after staff accused him of swapping price tags on clothes. Harkishin accepted a police caution for suspicion of theft by deception. Most famously, Hollywood actress Winona Ryder was fined, put on probation and ordered to do community service after stealing from a Beverly Hills store in December 2001. The actress, who earned up to £4 million per film, cut off anti-theft tags and stole 20 items worth £3,000, including clothes, hair accessories and a handbag. Although all stores insist that they always prosecute shoplifters, Schuck admitted that in the past those from a high social standing stood a better chance of being let off. 'Store security workers know how the police and the Crown Prosecution Service work,' he said. 'They know they are unlikely to charge first- time offenders or those who have stolen low-value goods, so in those cases they have been reluctant to call the police. Instead, people would be warned off and banned from the store. 'That's now changing thanks to the introduction of fixed-penalty notices. People who in the past may have felt immune because they were first-time offenders or of good standing within the community are now going to be in a position where they will have to pay the penalty for their actions. No one should feel immune because of their social stature.'