A scrawl of black graffiti on the side of a yellow council grit bin is such a common sight in the urban landscape it is hardly surprising it took the police a little while to notice it. The words "Burn Lol" - the text message abbreviation for laughing out loud - might not mean much on their own, but place them near to the beaten and charred remains of a young Asian boy and they take on a new significance.Police are not saying exactly when the scrawl first came to their attention, After all, detectives had been concentrating their efforts on the nearby spot in the north west London park where the corpse was found on Tuesday last week. But they hope the scrawl may hold the key to identifying the killer. The body was discovered by a man taking his morning walk through Roe Green Park to Kingsbury Tube station on his way to work. At first he thought the shape under the tree might be a dummy of some sort, and it was only when he took a few steps closer that he realised what it was. When police arrived on the scene it was immediately obvious that this was no accident. The body was naked, there was se vere damage to the face and head, apparently as a result of several blows with a blunt instrument. The boy had been doused in petrol and set on fire. The injuries were, as one senior officer said, horrific. A team of detectives from Scotland Yard's serious crime group were immediately summoned to take charge of the operation. Since then the police have spent thousands of hours on the case. Forensic pathologists, odontologists, radiologists and anthropologists have studied the body, discovering the victim had a rare dental abnormality - he was missing two lower molars and had no wisdom teeth. They believe he could be aged between 14 and 25, although his height - five feet two inches - and weight - barely seven and a half stone - would suggest he is relatively young. Meanwhile, Scotland Yard have circulated a forensic artist's impression of the victim. But 11 days after the gruesome discovery the police do not appear to be any nearer to finding out who the Asian is, let alone who killed him. As a result, fear continues to grip the local community. For the headmaster, staff and pupils at Kingsbury High School, registration last Monday morning was a particularly tense affair. The week before, when the body was found little more than 300 yards from the school gates, it had been half term, and Monday was the first day back. Because of the location of the murder it was logical to think that the victim might well have been a pupil at the school. The reading of the form registers, usually a mundane chore accompanied by giggles, sniggers and messing around at the back of the class, suddenly became a serious business. Was the boy who was supposed to be in classroom 83 simply late? Was he playing truant? Or was he now lying on a slab in a police mortuary?  Community in fear As soon as the registers were in, the school set about the potentially heart rending process of attempting to track down all the boys who were missing from class. By mid-morning the task had been completed and to the relief of Clement Chung, the headmaster, it appeared - barring some oversight that can never be completely ruled out - that the victim was not a pupil at Kingsbury High School. But it was hardly cause for jubilation. Somebody was still dead. Special assemblies were held and there was a one minute silence as a mark of respect. Ominously, police are still trying to check the whereabouts of 60-70 pupils who failed to turn up to schools in Brent this week. Without knowing who the victim is it is almost impossible for police to work out what the motive for the killing might be and therefore draw up a list of suspects. If they could identify the body as that of a known drug dealer or user that might narrow the options. Was he a member of a gang? Or was this a sex crime? The naked corpse might suggest it, but the damage to the body was so great that forensic tests have been determine if the victim was sexually assaulted. But the question most people are asking is: Why has nobody come forward to claim him? Rumour and conjecture are rife, and some in the local community have decided they have the answer. "They'll never find his killers, I can tell you that," an elderly woman walking across the park whispered conspiratorially. "It's a family thing. You know, he did something wrong, offended somebody in the family, and they got rid of him. It's their way, the way they do things ..." She was not the only person to espouse this theory. "Why have his family not come forward unless they were something to do with his death?" said one man, who did not want to be named. He also insisted, wrongly according to the police, that the victim had his hands cut off. "Just shows you see, they were obviously trying to hide his identity." . Inevitably another theory is that the killing was racially motivated. Certainly the only potential suspect so far is white. Police want to interview a nervous looking middle-aged man who was caught on CCTV buying a can of petrol from a service station half a mile from Roe Green Park on the afternoon before the corpse was found. But detectives say lots of people bought cans of petrol in the area that day, and while they are desperate for the man to get in touch, he is by no means the only element of the inquiry. Potential suspect But what is worrying the local Asian community is that last week's murder brings to three the number of Asian males murdered in the same way in and around London in the last three years. The bodies of all the victims were found in locations hidden from public view but close to main roads. All had been set on fire and none of the crimes have been solved. While detectives investigating the Kingsbury murder have not ruled anything out, at the moment they are adamant there is nothing to link the crimes. But possibly the most credible theory, and the one that could perhaps be most closely linked to the scrawled graffiti, is that the boy was the victim of a teenage gang. After all, few people over the age of 20 are likely to understand, let alone use, the "lol" abbreviation. Local people say the park has become increasingly dangerous - not the sort of place you would want to walk alone at night. Even before the murder, shrubs had been removed from flower beds close to where the body was found as muggers were using them for cover. Abz Harris, a 19-year-old student, described earlier this week how a friend had been attacked with a knife by a group of youths in the park, and he himself had been mugged. Meanwhile, local people have reported seeing a small gang acting suspiciously in the vicinity just hours before police believe the murder was committed. But with the victim and his killer - or killers - still unidentified, for the people of Kingsbury the uncertainty and fear of what happened on that night in the park remains. On Wednesday, Mr Chung took a representative of every year group at Kingsbury High School to lay wreaths of flowers where the body was found.