The home secretary, Theresa May, has announced a "radical new deal" to reduce "time-wasting bureaucracy" and "give licence" to the police. While billed as revolutionary bureaucracy-busting, this proposal will actually unravel protections against the unfair and unlawful use of police powers to stop and search, undermining accountability to the law and local communities.In her speech last week to the Police Federation conference, the home secretary announced plans to "scrap the 'stop' form in its entirety and reduce the burden of the 'stop-and-search' procedures". She did not, in fact, promise to do away with all stop-and-search forms (as reported in the Guardian): stops that result in actual searches would still be recorded – although apparently in far less detail. However, stops that do not lead to a search will go under the radar.May appears to be attempting to signal a clear break with the previous government, and seizing stop and search as an incentive for police to accept the unpopular proposal to introduce elected commissioners. In doing so, her proposal ignores a decade of lessons learned and work done to reform the use of police powers.Eliminating data on stops that do not lead to searches, and reducing the data that is captured on stop-and-search practices, will make it impossible to monitor the efficiency and fairness of stops overall. This, in the face of an ongoing reality of unfair and ineffective use of police stop-and-search powers.Instead of ensuring that police practices are improved based on sound evidence, May's proposal will suppress information and ignore bias. Earlier this year, the Equality and Human Rights Commission published a review showing that most police forces in England and Wales still unfairly target black and Asian people. Nationally, black people were six times more likely, and Asian people around twice as likely, to be stopped and searched than white people. Just as important, they found that stop and search is not an effective way of cutting crime.Equalities commissioner Simon Woolley said: "Literally hundreds of thousands of black people are subject to this humiliating experience. Actually, what the evidence does tell us is that when police forces use different tactics, they cut stop and search, crime goes down."For example, recent community engagement by the Cleveland police force led to an 80% reduction in the number of people stopped and searched, falling crime rates, and increased public trust and confidence in the police.Accountability and monitoring are crucial, not just by the police themselves, but by police authorities and local communities. If this proposal goes ahead to scrap the requirement on police to record stops, it will severely limit the ability of police supervisors and external monitoring groups to ensure that stop and search is used fairly, effectively, and lawfully.The Stephen Lawrence inquiry in particular put a spotlight on stop and search and introduced a raft of reforms that – where implemented – improved police use of these powers. Innovations demonstrate how communities can be actively involved in reviewing stop data, with positive results. The Hertfordshire constabulary has introduced questions on satisfaction on stop forms, and improved the quality of the encounter with the police. The Suffolk police force has created a group of black, Asian, and minority ethnic representatives who review stop forms to ensure legality and fairness.Proper monitoring does not entail endless bureaucracy or paperwork. Many police forces have embraced simple technologies to cut the paperwork associated with stop forms without undermining accountability. The West Yorkshire police force has rolled out a system of recording stop and search on hand-held computers or PDAs, which cuts the time to record a stop-and-search encounter to two minutes.The data produced from this record actually enhances accountability and effectiveness: it provides a picture of stops by individual officers and across units and forces. It makes it possible to compare where stops are taking place with maps of local crime patterns, supporting more effective targeting of stops and searches.May's proposals are couched in the language of effectiveness and local accountability. Yet closer scrutiny reveals that if taken forward, these changes are more likely to politicise the police and give licence to discrimination.Effective policing is based on real accountability, legitimacy and consent. Data and research clearly show that police stop-and-search practices are still not as fair or effective as they should be, and must be improved to rebuild trust and confidence in all communities. Rather than learning from the innovative work already underway, the home secretary is proposing to turn back the clock to an age of denial and resentment.