There is a place in Britain where Jack Straw's beacon on racial equality does not shine. It is a place where the appalling mistakes, insensitivity and institutional racism of the Stephen Lawrence police investigation have been repeated for the last eight years. It is a place where the violent racist attacks on a mixed race couple are repeated with chilling regularity by a group of council tenants and their racist friends. The couple have been the victims of more than 2,000 racist attacks, many orchestrated by five core criminal families well known to the police and Labour-run local council. These attacks include two shooting incidents by an unknown gunman, stonings and death threats. But the most deplorable assaults have been the six firebombings of their property while the couple were inside. The place is Ryelands Estate in the historic city of Lancaster. Here all the recommendations in the damning Macpherson report are relevant and many of the mistakes in the bungled Lawrence murder inquiry apparent. Mal Hussein and Linda Livingstone invested their joint savings in 1991 into a small grocery store with an upstairs flat located in the heart of the estate. Since then the dehumanisation of daily racist abuse have turned them into psychologically scarred prisoners of an intolerable situation and broken relationship. What has been allowed to happen to them in Ryelands shames the Lancaster police, the Labour-run local council and the nation, their supporters say. The chief constable of Lancashire police, Pauline Clare, yesterday ordered an internal inquiry into allegations that officers have failed to properly investigate the eight-year race hate campaign. 'This was a new beginning for me and Linda. We had both left Northampton to begin work and live at the minimarket,' Mal said. 'Unfortunately the hopes we held for our new venture faded and turned into a nightmare which will stay with us for the rest of our lives.' During the past eight years he has received trauma counselling and medication. His doctor tells him his depression and insomnia will not improve until he leaves Ryelands. There are 450 two-storey houses on Ryelands. The council describes it as the 'worst estate in Lancaster', given the high rate of male unemployment. But it is the stranglehold of fear and intimidation by five extended criminal families that is the cause of the problem. There is a 'no grassing' rule on Ryelands and police efforts to establish a neighbourhood watch scheme have resulted in families being driven away.  Trouble began for Mal and Linda within a week of arrival. Two residents, one of whom identified himself as the King of Ryelands while the other played with a knife, demanded extortion money. Mal refused and reported the incident to the police who, he says, took no action because there were no witnesses. Their property was vandalised day and night for the next two weeks. 'We would wake up to see the whole place daubed with racist graffiti,' said Mal. `Things like 'Burn the Paki!' 'Black grass!' 'Burn Saddam Hussein!' 'Mal is a black bastard!' The police were called on each occasion but they took no statement from us, they left without taking any further action. We were also subject to a torrent of racist abuse on a daily basis.' This was nothing compared with a yearly event celebrated on Ryelands on November 4 called Mischief Night. Traditionally it was an excuse for tenants to riot and crowds of drunken youths and their parents to burn settees and mattresses in the street. Their target in 1991, however, and for the next five years, was Mal and Linda's home. Fireworks were thrown into the shop and a petrol-soaked mattress blocked the shop door. The couple called the police in panic. They were later warned by one customer that they would also be petrol bombed. The police came and went but that did not stop the attack. `We were very scared and locked ourselves in the shop. The crowds continued shouting abuse and making threats late into the night. Despite this the police took no further actions,' said Mal. The next day the two men who had earlier tried to extort money returned with stolen goods they wanted Mal and Linda to buy. They threatened Linda, says Mal, so he snapped. 'The last four and a half months of hell just overwhelmed me. I was beyond reprieve the fear, the taunting, the humiliation was blocking my mind.' Even though one of the attackers threatened to kill Mal in front of an attending police officer, the shopkeeper was charged with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Part of his bail conditions were that he was banned from his home and Lancaster until his trial a year later. During his exile Linda ran the shop with her elderly parents. The attacks did not let up. In fact the same assailant was arrested inside their flat. A panic button installed by police did not work. No statement was taken from Linda, she says, when the assailant tried to intimidate her. In 1992 Mal was acquitted of all charges. He believes he should not have been prosecuted because he was only standing up for his rights and demanding police protection. These appalling incidents and the sparsity of prosecutions shaped the couple's view of the police more as 'spectators.' Carol Broad, then a Labour councillor for Ryelands, says 'the police saw Mal Hussein as the problem' - not the community. In 1995 he made a successful complaint against one officer for failing to take action over nuisance and damage to his shop and for a dismissive attitude.  There have been hundreds of incidents every year which Mal and Linda report to the police and log in diaries made available to the council. The couple have played a key role in more than 40 successful prosecutions of racist residents and tenants. The firebombings of their property in 1995 and 1996 were filmed by two television crews and in the latter case resulted in the jailing of three adults and five children for a total of 24 years. Inspector Philip Barnes, the officer in charge of Ryelands since April 1997, said of this attack: 'There has not been an occasion before that or since when the gentleman or Mrs Livingstone has been subject to anything like that degree of assault.'  But the couple are staggered by his 'selective amnesia'. Mal said: 'For 24 hours a day, seven days a week we have lived under siege. The police have failed us. If they are now saying this there is even more reason for an independent public inquiry.' Mrs Clare announced the inquiry after demands from the chairwoman of the local police authority, Ruth Henig, who said: 'I was promised a full report which will look at the police response to Mal Hussein's calls and response to those incidents. If there is any evidence of racism, either at officer level or operational level, I want to know about it and stamp it out.' Her decision coincides with the release yesterday of a report by Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary which praised the Lancashire force for being at the `cutting edge of progress' on community and race relations in the region.  Black civil rights groups involved in the Lawrence case have decided to make the Hussein case their next national campaign and are calling for an independent public inquiry. Lee Jasper of the 1990 Trust, the National Assembly against Racism, and National Black Alliance, said: 'One of the things about Mal Hussein's case is that there was massive police failure and failure of the multi-agency approach which is currently pointed as the way forward. This happened pre-Lawrence and post-Lawrence. The case is worthy of rigorous inspection because Mal is still alive.' It has also emerged that the assistant chief constable in charge of division operations in Lancashire, Tarique Ghaffur, has begun an operational review of the case, including a risk assessment to the couple's lives. He concluded the risk was now 'fairly moderate'. Mr Ghaffur would not comment on why it had taken so long to initiate the review or whether he was satisfied with the police response. He agreed to look into any alleged failures of the police which Mr Hussein reports to the review. Mal said that when he was shot at in 1993 the police failed to carry out a forensic investigation, take a statement or search for the bullet in his shop. He also produced evidence which disputed a council and police survey of crime and disorder in the region. The section concerning Ryelands reported zero racial incidents. Yet Mr Hussein had recorded details of five serious racist attacks with police log numbers during the six-month survey period. Mr Ghaffur said he would also investigate this failure in his review. The operational review will be separate from Mrs Clare's report to the Lancashire police authority and has no disciplinary agenda. The Hussein case threatens to embarrass the Government and the Home Secretary, Mr Straw, coming so soon after the Macpherson report. Mr Straw, who last week encouraged MPs to make Britain a 'beacon in the world on racial equality', was made aware of the case in 1996 while in opposition.  The future is uncertain for the couple. After Mischief Night in 1996 they vowed to get off Ryelands and now a novel scheme has been launched to help them. Kushminder Chahal, who has conducted an 18-month study on how victims of race crime in Britain internalise routine abuse, has formed a charitable company called Share In Anti Racism to receive donations to buy the couple's business. The shop will employ white staff and the profits ploughed into supporting other isolated victims of race hate campaigns.