Detectives are investigating the deaths of two boys who were found in a flat in Tidworth, Wiltshire, with the body of their father, who was named as Graham Gordon Anderson, 36.Officers say they are treating the deaths of the children, aged three and 11, as suspicious but are not looking for anyone else. It is understood they are working on the theory that the father killed the children then took his own life. The bodies were a found when the landlady let herself into the flat to show it to a prospective tenant.Neighbours said the boys' mother lived in Andover, Hampshire, about 14 miles away and the children stayed with their father at weekends and during the summer holidays. Detective Chief Inspector Ian Saunders, who is leading the investigation, said: "We believe we know the identities of the people who have died but formal identification has not yet taken place."At this early stage we cannot be sure what has led up to this terrible incident but I can say that we are treating the tragic deaths of the two children as suspicious. I am not looking for anyone else at this time in connection with this incident."The mother of the children has been informed and we are seeking to contact other family members. Our thoughts are with the family and friends of those who have died."Saunders said the bodies were discovered by the landlord who was showing somebody around the flat as the lease was about to expire. The bodies of the children were in one room, the man's in another.It is unclear how long the bodies had lain in the flat but neighbours have told police they were aware of people being inside and moving around it on Thursday.Detectives were alerted after paramedics were called to the flat in Auchinleck House, Sidbury Heights, at lunchtime on Saturday. Police are refusing to confirm reports that the man was found hanged.Tidworth lies on the edge of Salisbury Plain and his home to many members of the armed services but the 36-year-old man is believed to be a civilian.A post-mortem on the children is due to take place in Southampton on Monday. The man's body was moved to a mortuary at Flax Bourton, near Bristol.Superintendent Matt Pullen, of Wiltshire police, said the community had been understandably shocked by the deaths.Neighbours began to arrive on Sunday morning to place flowers and toys outside the police cordon.Karen Ruse, the chairperson of the management company that helps run some of the flats, said: "What went on inside that flat has shaken us all. We did not know the man, but he moved in about six months ago. We would hear about any disturbances and stuff like that, and there was never any complaints about the man who lived in that flat."Tidworth town councillor Fred Galvin said the man lived alone, having separated from his partner, and his two children came to visit him from time to time.He said: "I feel sorry for the mum who is left behind. I can't imagine what devastation she is going through. The children go to school in Andover."Galvin said the children had been seen playing last weekend but over the past couple of days the blinds had been closed.