The United States is not the only country in the world to have been brought to a juddering, weeping standstill by a mass shooting, as happened this weekend. In Britain we have had Dunblane, where 16 children were gunned down in 1996. Three years ago, a lone gunman killed 12 people in the Cumbria shooting spree. Continental Europe has seen appalling scenes, too, few of which are worse than the murder of 69 victims by Anders Breivik in Norway last year. Just weeks after Dunblane, a massacre in Tasmania claimed 35 lives. In that sense, horror and madness know no boundaries.Where America really is different, however, is in three things. The first is the increasing commonness of shooting sprees. Friday's mass shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, caused the deaths of 27 people, of whom 20 were young children. It comes shortly after a mass shooting in a Colorado cinema, which took 12 lives. But this year has been full of such incidents in many parts of the US: there have been mass killings in 2012 in Georgia, Ohio, Pittsburgh, Oakland, Oklahoma, Seattle, Wisconsin, Minneapolis and Texas. Just three days before Newtown, a young man began firing randomly in a shopping mall in Oregon, killing two before killing himself. Of the 12 deadliest shootings in US history, six have occurred within the last five years. Meanwhile overall violent crime in the US has been falling.The second difference is the exceptionally dangerous weaponry to which Americans have easy access. The killer in Newtown used a semi-automatic, military-style assault rifle for his slaughter. This allowed Adam Lanza to fire repeatedly and indiscriminately. Most of the children killed at Sandy Hook school were shot up to 11 times in Lanza's fusillade. A federal ban on the possession of semi-automatic assault weapons, signed by Bill Clinton in 1994, was allowed to lapse under George Bush 10 years later. Such weapons cannot be legally held by individuals in this country.The final difference is in many ways the most destructive of all. This is America's sheer difficulty in conducting any kind of rational collective conversation about gun control. In any other country, a shooting spree of the sort that took place in Newtown would set off a serious public debate. That's what happened after Dunblane in the UK, after Port Arthur in Australia and after Breivik's killings in Norway. Nothing like this is now possible in the polarised gun culture of America, where law and politics have been unable to respond to such events for at least 20 years. That is why President Obama's very mild call this weekend for "meaningful action to prevent more tragedies like this", was regarded as so unusual.The fault for this lies overwhelmingly with the US gun lobby. Vested interests have managed to dilute relatively sensible gun control laws dating from the middle of the 20th century and to put in their place a deeply dubious claim that the US constitution confers a right of individual gun ownership. This claim has now been upheld twice by the conservative majority in the US supreme court. The net effect has been to create a generation of legislative pessimists. Today's US politicians see no prospect of getting even quite moderate and sensible laws like a new assault weapon ban through Congress. They fear the money and campaign power of a gun lobby which said at the weekend that the Newtown massacre could have been avoided if teachers had been armed and able to shoot back in the classroom.America's tragedy is that this lockdown on serious debate actually coincides with a decline in the proportion of Americans with guns. Only one in five Americans has a gun, yet on guns the minority overrules the majority. If Mr Obama can change the culture after Newtown he will have done something very important. But don't hold your breath. Mad men with guns will always be a danger, whatever the gun laws. But modern America still seems to lack the will to make even modest regulatory changes, let alone to confront a real and growing danger to the health and survival of significant numbers of its young people.