In the aftermath of Harold Shipman's conviction, the terse bulletin from Leeds health authority could hardly have sounded more chilling. A doctor in Pudsey, home of the bandaged teddy bear symbol of Children in Need, had been arrested over "very serious" claims of misusing lethal drugs on elderly patients.Five months later, everyone in West Leeds healthcare acknowledges that Dr Peter Lindsay is a man wronged, harshly treated and without doubt a very good GP. But, as he leafs through 10 box files of patients' supporting letters and consoles himself by writing poetry, he raises the uncomfortable fear that Shipman may not only have killed patients. Has he also destroyed presumptions of innocence and fair-dealing when doctors face legal allegations about their work? Dr Lindsay is a big man with a big reputation in Pudsey, an independent-minded town squashed between expanding Leeds and Bradford, where he has practised for 20 years. At 47, he also has that touch of eccentricity that many patients appreciate. Three years ago, he unveiled a plaque at his surgery listing every GP in the town since 1850, declaiming at the same time one of his poems about compassion, justice and hope "beaming from the furnace of general practice". None of those qualities beamed very brightly on the doctor himself when, at 6.30am last January 24, West Yorkshire detectives came to his house, arrested him and confined him in a police station cell, where he was kept overnight. As well as being questioned about the deaths of seven patients, he was put on "suicide watch". He still recalls how, amid a wider cold-shouldering by his own colleagues, an officer was always close by him. At the same time, his name was released by the health authority and appeared in the media locally and nationally, always with the tag "very serious", which, post-Shipman, meant what it said. Unbeknown to Dr Lindsay, the authority had been looking for three weeks at allegations made in a phone call by another member of his practice. They involved "missing" diamorphine, the medical term for heroin used as a pain-reliever and the drug used by Shipman to dispatch his victims. But the drugs were not missing, as the police very soon discovered and as both a General Medical Council fast-track hearing (a post-Shipman reform) and a National Health Service tribunal subsequently confirmed. The patients treated with diamorphine were in hospices, nursing homes or under the home-care of district nurses, all of whom had records down to the last milligram of the doses given - never by Dr Lindsay personally, although he prescribed them. The police pulled out and both the medical bodies recorded their regret - at hearings in February and March - at the distress caused to the doctor. The NHS tribunal also reprimanded the health authority for acting unreasonably by jumping to conclusions before hearing the GP's side. If it had talked to him, they said, it would surely have reached the same conclusion as the police.But the authority was not found guilty of behaving improperly. And several months later, Dr Lindsay is still routinely referred to in the media as the "GP quizzed over seven deaths" and is still waiting to return to practise in Pudsey. Patients such as Mary Mitchell, who has seen Dr Lindsay for 15 years, have collected names for a petition to get him back into action. Out of 300 calls to the original inquiry's helpline, 288 were from supporters, one was a drunk and another asked for a repeat prescription. But the taint of the seven-death inquiry has compounded earlier problems which formed the background to his colleague's phone complaint. It was these, the Leeds health authority chief executive Mike Ramsden readily says, that rang extra alarm bells when the diamorphine allegations were raised. Since Shipman, the Medical Protection Society has logged a "dramatic" rise in complaints by younger GPs about older colleagues, from two or three a year to two or three a month. Many in medicine and law welcome this, preferring it to the semi-masonic world where professionals instinctively backed one another. Dr Lindsay was old in career terms and his four colleagues, who have now dissolved the partnership, were relatively young. They had raised concerns with him, suggesting that he was over-working and - the day after the phone call to the health authority - that he was "poorly". He duly went to his own GP, who pronounced him fit. But the professional relationship between him and his colleagues had broken down. He had to leave the Robin Lane surgery - home of his plaque and poem - and hand over his list of patients to a locum while the police and the medical tribunals did their work. And so things still stand, with Dr Lindsay and the health authority now working together to find either a new partnership or a single-handed practice, but progress is clearly bedevilled by the unhappy course of the inquiry. The GP has been cleared but the authority is still worried about the record-keeping system that emerged. (Records were central to the unmasking of Shipman.) Ramsden says "issues of concern" were discovered by the investigation into the diamorphine - issues perhaps typical of a GP dug into a long-standing practice but working alongside newer colleagues. Prime among them was anxiety about the adequacy of records of treatment and drug doses. "Full, comprehensive records," says Ramsden, "must be kept properly and in the right place - in the surgery as well as at the hospices or nursing homes." To Dr Lindsay, this translates as "my using folded sheets of A4 paper sometimes, instead of the official cards," which he juxtaposes with only two minor complaints during his GP career, one of them again involving incorrect stationery. He adds that such unorthodoxy didn't stop his appointment to run improvement courses for west Leeds GPs for the health authority, or his election this May as a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians. Ramsden agrees: "He is a very good doctor. There is no question about that at all." But the point of the post-Shipman reforms was to set out neutral ground rules which meant that "good chaps" could not just be taken at face value. And that the tendency of fellow-professionals to believe in and back up one another could be countered by fair complaint and investigation procedures common to all. Which is what Dr Lindsay, after his five terrible months, argues has simply not happened. He says: "Of course I acknowledge public concern after Shipman. Health authorities have a duty to investigate. But my experience has not been one of fairness at all. "I would plead for requirements that all complaints should be made in writing, not accepted on the basis of just a phone call; that a statement should always be obtained from the person complained against; and that every effort should be made to conceal their identity while the matter is in its early stages. "Everyone should also be aware of the consequences of an investigation, not just for me in this case but for elderly people and their families who can be unforgiveably shocked and upset. And if an inquiry finds that the allegations are wrong, that should be made absolutely clear. "I hope in my case, with the health authority's backing, that things can be the same again for me. Because if not, the terrifying thing is that the victims will be the patients who no longer see their familiar GP." Mary Mitchell and her fellow petitioners agree. She says: "There are too few GPs in Pudsey as it is, and we don't want to lose one as dedicated and professional as Dr Lindsay."