The Duchess of York's former dresser, Jane Andrews, who was jailed two years ago for the murder of her lover, yesterday lost an appeal against her conviction.Lawyers for Andrews, 36, were seeking permission from the court of appeal in London to bring new evidence which they claimed showed she was suffering from a borderline personality disorder due to being sexually abused as a child. The defence had urged the panel of three judges to order a new trial so that a different jury could decide whether she was in a state of diminished responsibility at the time of the killing and so was guilty of manslaughter not murder. Andrews, an assistant to Sarah Ferguson for nine years until 1997, was jailed for life after being found guilty at the Old Bailey in May 2001 of murdering Thomas Cressman, 39, at the house they shared in Fulham, west London. The crown's case was that, when she struck him on the head with a cricket bat and stabbed him in the chest with a kitchen knife, she was acting in revenge after he said he would not marry her. But Andrews, who fled and was found by police in her car three days later, claimed it was an accident and that she was acting in self defence when Mr Cressman tried to rape her in the early hours of September 17 2000. Her appeal was based on evidence from psychiatrists who said they "unlocked" her childhood experiences during therapy sessions. She told them she was abused by her brother, Mark, between the ages of eight and 12. He has denied his sister's allegations. But Lord Justice Kennedy, sitting with Mr Justice Forbes and Mr Justice Aikens, declined to receive the fresh evidence. They also rejected the other ground of appeal - that the trial judge had failed adequately to direct the jury on diminished responsibility. Andrews did not react as her appeal was dismissed. She stood up, turned her back on the court and waited to be escorted away from the dock by a prison officer. Harriet Wistrich, her solicitor, later said she intended to submit the case to the criminal cases review commission. "There is a public interest argument here which is that where there is a hint of childhood sex abuse it is fundamental that this be properly explored, particularly where the killing is within a sexual relationship." She added that she considered Andrews' conviction to be "wrong". And there were "important lessons to be learned". Speaking outside the court, alongside Mr Cressman's parents, Harry and Barbara, Detective Chief Inspector Jim Dickie said: "Police have maintained from the beginning that this was murder. The full facts of the case were aired at the central criminal court... now she has had the opportunity to give another version of events. It is clear the judges did not believe this version either." Harry Cressman said: "Once again our faith in British justice has been fulfilled, thank God." He added that nothing would bring their son back but his "true reputation as a fine, upstanding, young man" had been vindicated. Of Andrews he said: "I understand anybody in prison will try anything to get out of that position. But her attempt to ruin the reputation of Tom and her brother was totally despicable."