Hans Kristian Rausing, one of the heirs to the multibillion-pound Tetra Pak packaging dynasty, has appeared before West London magistrates court on a charge of preventing the lawful and decent burial of the body of his wife, Eva. He has not been tried, let alone convicted, and this piece is not concerned with the facts underpinning that charge, many of which are still unknown. Rather, it focuses on the peculiar and macabre offence with which Rausing has been charged.The offence of preventing the lawful and decent burial of a body is a 'common law' offence: it is not a crime created and governed by statute. The offence is indictable only, which means that a person charged cannot be tried in the magistrates court but must appear before a crown court – the latter having broader sentencing powers.Preventing the lawful and decent burial of a body belongs to a category of offences known as offences against public morality and policy and the instances in which it is deployed are very rare indeed. In fact, the last reported instance I have been able to locate dates back to 1986. In R v Parry (1986) 8 Cr App R (S) 470, the appellants pleaded guilty to conspiring to prevent the burial of the deceased, a drug addict who died while spending the evening in a flat belonging to one of the appellants. Both of the appellants were found to have wrapped the body in a roll of carpet and left it at a disused quarry. Mr Justice Tucker described the offence as "serious and sordid". Similar facts arose in the earlier case of R v Hunter [1974] QB 95 in which the defendants concealed the body of the deceased, who had accidentally strangled herself with her own scarf, under a pile of paving slabs.The important point to be made is that unlike offences against the person (such as murder or manslaughter), the offence of preventing the lawful and decent burial of a body is intended to deal with the situation where no foul play on the part of the defendant was involved in the deceased's passing. It is an offence concerned with the aftermath of fatal accidents.In addition to preventing the burial of a body, it is also a separate offence at common law to leave unburied the corpse of a person (such as a spouse or child) for whom the defendant was bound to provide a decent burial where the defendant had to means to provide the burial. This, by the way, does not appear to be the offence Rausing has been charged with committing. So, unlike the offence of preventing a proper burial where some steps to conceal the body are required, merely leaving a body unburied is a crime too.A postmortem conducted last week failed to establish a formal cause of Eva Rausing's death and an inquest into her death has been opened. More facts underlying the Rausing tragedy and the unusual offence with which Rausing has been charged are sure to follow.• This article was amended on 20 July 2012 because the original suggested that the offence of preventing the lawful and decent burial of a body was an indictable offence that could be tried either in the magistrates court or the crown court.