Ronnie Biggs is likely to die in prison after the justice secretary, Jack Straw, blocked his release within hours of an expected decision to free him, saying the great train robber was "wholly unrepentant" and had shown "no regret".In a surprise move, Straw announced last night that he was refusing the Parole Board permission to release Biggs in time for his 80th birthday next month.Frail and in a wheelchair, Biggs's health is failing after a series of strokes. His friends say he is fed through a tube and can only communicate through an alphabet board. He was jailed for 30 years for his part in what remains the most well-known robbery in British history: the £2.5m holdup of the Glasgow to London train in 1963 in which a train driver, Jack Mills, was beaten unconscious.Referring to Biggs's escape from Wandsworth prison a year into his sentence, Straw said: "Mr Biggs took the personal decision to commit another offence and escape from prison, avoiding capture by travelling abroad for 35 years while outrageously courting the media."Biggs chose not to obey the law and respect the punishments given … The legal system in this country deserves more respect. It was Mr Biggs's own choice to offend and he now appears to want to avoid the consequences of his decision. He is wholly unrepentant and the Parole Board found his propensity to break trust a very significant factor. He has not undertaken risk-related work and does not regret his offending."After he absconded, Biggs fled to Brazil where he lived for 35 years and was photographed by newspapers, suntanned and smiling, surrounded by women. He returned to Britain voluntarily in 2001.The Tory MP Ann Widdecombe led criticism of the decision. She said: "The prisons are bursting at the seams. The courts are being urged to let burglars go free, but one doddery and very frail old man is being kept in prison. If you have got a prison place, use it to lock up someone who is genuinely a risk to the public."The Parole Board, which met earlier this month, had recommended his release, saying he posed a "manageable" threat to the public. But it noted that he was unrepentant about fleeing prison and going on the run for 35 years. Despite this, Biggs's son Michael and other friends had hoped he would be released.Michael Biggs said last night: "My father has served his time, he has paid his debt to society. What else could they want, haven't they got their pound of flesh?"Responding to Straw's statement, Biggs's legal adviser, Giovanni Di Stefano, said the only reason that Biggs had not taken part in work to assess his risk and prepare for his release was because he was so ill.Di Stefano said: "All the other great train robbers served a third of their sentences, why should Ronnie Biggs be any different? Ten years is enough. This shows a side of the British government that is perverse – it is cruel and unusual punishment."The Parole Board is unlikely to look again at the decision for many months.Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation officers' union, also criticised the decision. "Staff describe Biggs as a frail, vulnerable, elderly adult, who needs to be fed through a tube," he said. "It's difficult to see how he poses a threat to anyone apart from politicians."Biggs broke his hip three days ago after falling out of his bed in the high-dependency prison wing of Norwich prison, where he is serving his sentence.Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "It is difficult to see what can be gained, other than tough headlines, by overturning a carefully considered Parole Board decision … and [by] condemning a sick, elderly man to spend what seem from reports to be his dying months in prison."