As a man who has been raped by another man, when I was neither inebriated nor "inappropriately" dressed, I am appalled at the results of Amnesty's survey of attitudes towards sexual violence (One in three blames women for being raped, November 21) and what they say about - largely heterosexual - attitudes to non-consensual sex in Britain.Nothing excuses rape, sexual violence or coercion. I went through the same emotions that define classic rape symptoms: shock, confusion, guilt, anger, and fear of infection. I then had to cope with HIV and STD checks in another country and language, and the long wait for two HIV tests to prove that I was negative.Getting drunk or wearing flimsy clothing is not an invitation to others to make you do things you do not want to do. Both may, however, present an attacker with an opportunity or excuse for their actions. The survey results reflect a bizarre British attitude to sexuality that seems to accept that Rohypnol or GHB is an acceptable form of seduction, or that the inappropriate sexualisation of young people, including children, is somehow OK. It isn't.Worst of all is the willingness of the survey respondees to heap blame on rape victims. This is pure Victorian hypocrisy and spite. I'm old enough to have weathered my experience largely unscathed, but as long as there is a blurred line between acceptable and unacceptable social behaviour, then the rape counselling phone lines will continue ringing off the hook.  John Gill Ronda, SpainTwo months ago, this paper reported a survey which found that 34% of women reported having "unplanned" or "unprotected" sex after drinking. It also stated that 36% of women had been sexually assaulted after drinking (Third of young women assaulted while drunk, September 27). Few of the sources that I read distinguished between "unprotected" and "unplanned" sex. To suggest that we should be concerned that women who have had "unplanned" sex after drinking in the same way that we should be concerned about sexual assault is highly insulting, and potentially dangerous. It perpetuates the idea that there is something wrong when a woman has consensual sex after drinking, and also diminishes the gravity of actual sexual assault. It focuses on aspects of behaviour - a woman's drinking, her outfit, her manner, how many partners she has had, whether she knows the man in question - which should be irrelevant.If there is any hope of a reduction in rape, we need to make a firm distinction between sex to which both partners have consented, no matter how ill-advised that consent may seem to us, and sex where one partner has not consented. This distinction is common to all types of rape, and it is imperative that is sharply and clearly maintained. Mary Macfarlane York