Newspapers which publish prejudicial stories that cause a criminal trial to be derailed could be ordered to pay the cost of the aborted trial - possibly millions of pounds.There will also be a crackdown on fine defaulters including increasing penalties by 50% if the offender fails to stump up on time. The proposals come in the courts bill, published yesterday. The crackdown follows a report by the Commons public accounts committee, which said fine enforcement was so haphazard that payment had become "almost voluntary". Last year £148m was written off. An average of around £40 out of every £100 of fines goes unpaid, according to the committee. While some areas, such as Merseyside and Cambridgeshire collect less than 40%, Dorset and West Yorkshire take in more than 80%. Fine officers will have power to deduct payments from offenders' benefits or wages and employ bailiffs to seize defaulters' property or clamp and sell their cars. There will be discounts for speedy payment and for those without the means to pay, officers will have a discretion to allow them to work off their fine through community work. Lord Irvine, the lord chancellor, said fine officers might work to targets like traffic wardens. But he denied this would put them under pressure to abuse their position, saying: "I have confidence that these will be officials who will exercise their powers responsibly." He said there were "no constitutional objections" to allowing officers to increase punishments set by magistrates and crown court judges in open court, and it would not contravene the House of Lords judgment this week in the case of lifer Anthony Anderson, which laid down that sentences must be a matter for judges, not the executive. Lord Irvine said: "The fine is an important means of disposal which keeps the prison population down, but it is absolutely essential, for public confidence to remain in the fine, that it is not seen as a synonym for getting off." Magistrates courts and crown courts will be unified in a single court structure. The changes will see the 42 magistrates court committees and the court service which oversees the crown courts combined into a new single administrative system. Local court administration councils made up of magistrates and representatives of the community, including local councillors, will answer to the lord chancellor. A new independent inspectorate of courts administration will oversee the performance of magistrates and crown courts. An in-house security force with powers to search, detain and remove from court will be created, following several incidents where defendants leapt from the dock and, in at least one case, injured a judge. Courts will be given the power to order anyone whose "serious misconduct" causes cases to collapse or be delayed to pay the costs. This could include lawyers who unreasonably delay hearings, newspapers which publish prejudicial stories, or anyone who interferes with witnesses or jurors.