The Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon today outlined new reform measures to fight racism in the Met. Speaking at Scotland Yard only minutes after Jack Straw told Parliament that he had asked Sir Paul to remain in his post, the Police Commissioner accepted the reports findings and promised new reforms to "make the Met and anti-racist police service." Sir Paul issued three new pledges: Random testing of police officers to counteract racism in the force. The creation of a rapid response force to deal with such future cases.  Proposals for major research programme over the next three years to evaluate public perception of the Met.  In a conciliatory speech, Sir Paul acknowledged his a "sense of shame for the incompetence of that first investigation and how the family was let down. We felt we could and we should have done better in this case." Sir Paul also welcomed the new definition of Racism as set out in the report. However, Sir Paul proceeded to defend the Met's overall performance in dealing with crime. "I deliberately encouraged public debate on this issue. There has now been a public inquiry. It's the duty off the Police service to respond positively. I will continue to take a lead in taking this debate forward." When asked about the likelihood of new police action in the case, Sir Paul replied: ""I have never given up hope of bringing several of the racist thugs who murdered Stephen to justice."  Although the Home Secretary and leading police officers around the country insisted that he should remain in office in order to see through his internal reform programme, many politicians believe Sir Paul should resign."It's difficult to see that Paul Condon's position is sustainable," said Labour MP Diane Abbott. "After all, he was better placed than anyone to find out what really happened about the investigation into Stephen Lawrence, he had seven years to do it. It's hard to see he is the right person now to preside over the Metropolitan Police." The Society of Black Lawyers and the Association of Black Probation Officers said Jack Straw should have asked Metropolitan Police chief Sir Paul Condon to resign. "We regard Sir Paul Condon's position as untenable. This is inevitable given the scale of the criticism of the Metropolitan Police," a spokesman said. "He no longer carries the trust and confidence of the Black community necessary to undertake the task in hand." 