It is 4am in the hushed backstreets of Blandford Forum and everywhere is dark, apart from one pub where the lights glow softly, the jukebox plays Tom Jones's Delilah, and the drinkers are well settled in the sofas. Welcome to the Railway Inn in north Dorset, thought to be the only truly round-the-clock pub in England and Wales.The government's experiment with 24-hour drinking, which has made it possible, is up for review today after Gordon Brown acknowledged the public's "strong feelings" that the new Licensing Act may have increased binge drinking and violence.Local authorities have issued 24-hour licences to one in every 100 pubs, but the government knows of none which actually stay open all the time.Nigel Jones, the Railway's landlord, who keeps the beer flowing as long as there are customers, seems to be the first. His is one of three pubs in the small market town and he hopes the review will push the liberalisation further: "I think every licence should be 24 hours so you can open and close when it's right for your business and your community."The Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers, thinks otherwise and said forces had been stretched by increases in night-time crime caused by late drinking. Home Office research to be used in the review has revealed a 25% increase in serious violent crime between 3am and 6am in the year since the act was introduced.But when researchers looked across the whole night from 6pm to 6am, they found levels of violent crime had barely changed. Night-time crime associated with drinking rose by 1% and there was a 2% rise in criminal damage.Blandford Forum certainly seems to have escaped any surge in crime. At the Railway Inn it is closer to Saturday morning than Friday night and Adam, a Polish nightshift factory worker, has just arrived for his first beer of the night. Across the bar, a group of twentysomethings are playing computer poker. They won't leave until dawn, by which time they will have swapped their schnaps for coffee. Saturday night goes on even later with drinkers staying until past seven on Sunday morning, even eating breakfast in the pub.Far from encouraging scenes of Hogarthian debauchery, 24-hour drinking in Blandford Forum seems safe, sensible and surprisingly civilised. Smokers are only allowed outside two or three at a time so sleeping neighbours aren't disturbed. The local police also believe it has reduced trouble involving young soldiers training at the army camp on the town's outskirts."Our biggest problem used to be all the pubs shutting at the same time," said Inspector Phil Cheverton, the police commander for north Dorset. "Having everyone together at once encouraged local conflict between the army guys and residents. "It's more staggered now and people don't knock back six pints at 10.45 to get them all in by closing time. The number of incidents of drink-related violence has fallen. We are not having to take people away for public order offences every day of the week."'Pre-loading'Jones has a (so far successful) strategy to stop trouble developing. "We turn people down if they are visibly drunk and we have a half-eleven rule. That means we won't serve doubles or shots, we won't serve taurine-based energy drinks, and we won't serve somebody a drink if they've already got one." A notice advises staff how to spot a drunk: quick change of temper, unsteady on their feet and tendency to fall asleep.He also offers plenty of activities to discourage his customers from sinking their drinks too quickly. When the Guardian visited there was a skittles match in the back room and Three Chord Smash, a covers band, playing in the front. The pub is equipped with quiz and poker computers, and there's darts, pool, shove ha'penny, cribbage, wireless internet access and food at any time. "Everything is something to do other than drinking quickly," said Jones. Not everyone is convinced. Boff, a 36-year-old man drinking in another pub, the Nelson, said the extension of drinking hours has been a mistake because it gives people time to "pre-load" at home on cheap supermarket drinks before going out. "Before, when you went out it would be a session from 8 to 12, but now it's 100 times worse," he said. "You end up drinking twice the amount you used to. I go to Cyprus and Spain and the drinking hours are similar to here, but it's totally different. The people are so much more relaxed. It's the English way and we just can't handle it."Alcohol Concern, which opposes the spread of 24-hour licences, is most worried about the availability of cheap drink from supermarkets. As if to illustrate the point, Jones is alerted to someone who seems to have enjoyed some "pre-loading" before coming to the Railway. Just as he's explaining how the more relaxed hours have slowed down drinking, his assistant manager, Amy Keogh, pops her around the door. A customer has urinated on the carpet and wall next to the pool table. For him, if no one else, it's last orders at the Railway.