The most serious incidents of "self-harm", as well as deaths in custody, by prisoners in the overcrowded jails of England and Wales should be the subject of official investigations, the chief inspector of prisons suggests today.In her annual report, Anne Owers says that the inquiries should not only ensure that help is focused on those suicidal inmates, but should also identify inmates who are so mentally ill that they should not be in prison. She says it is time that a new network of mental health units was set up to provide support and treatment to hundreds of disturbed offenders who could be detained there instead of in prison, where overcrowding is having an "insidious and chronic" effect. "In the worst of our overcrowded local prisons, prisoners may spend 23 hours a day in a shared cell with an unscreened toilet," she says. Even the best local prisons are failing to deliver activity and resettlement opportunities. Britain's prison population rose by 600 in the past week to 73,075. The overcrowding is so acute that the Prison Service may have to hold inmates in police cells by the summer. The chief inspector's annual report highlights a 30% rise in the number of incidents of "self-harming" by prisoners, such as cutting themselves. There were 7,700 such incidents in the first half of 2003. Ms Owers commends the decision to ask the prisons ombudsman to investigate deaths in custody, and also calls for the introduction of internal inquiries into serious incidents of self-harm which almost end in death. The inquiries would identify those inmates too mentally ill to be in prison. "What we need is places where people could be detained instead of going to prison. The need is for smaller environments with appropriate levels of security. I wouldn't call them a new generation of asylums, because asylum has the wrong connotation. It is a new generation of support and treatment services. "Care in the community for many of the people we see in prison simply doesn't exist. They end up in prison as the only safe and secure place." She warns that the needs of women, in particular, are in danger of being neglected or disregarded as a result of management changes, and urges the creation of a "strong women's policy group" in the prison service. Ms Owers says only patchy progress has been made on tackling racism in prisons, with few prisons actually promoting race relations. She adds that she is concerned that the future merger of the headquarters of the prison and probation services into the new national offender management service in June could lead to her independent role being "lost or blurred". But she says she has been encouraged by ministerial assurances that she will be able to inspect prisons without warning and report directly to the home secretary. She made 80 inspections in the past year.