A taxi driver who pretends he is a lottery winner before drugging and raping female passengers is thought to have struck at least five times and may have attacked many more women, police fear.Scotland Yard is re-examining unsolved sex crimes dating back to summer 2005 after linking attacks suffered by several women, aged between 17 and 33, who were picked up in streets across London - most recently earlier this month.A man in his early 40s was arrested at an address in the south-east of the city yesterday by officers investigating the case.In each incident the taxi driver pretended to have won a sum of money - varying from £1,000 to £50,000 - on the lottery, in a casino or on horse racing, before inviting the woman to help him celebrate with a glass of champagne or wine. In some cases large amounts of cash were in the vehicle. The women were incapacitated with an unknown substance and attacked in the back of the cab before being dropped off close to their original location up to three hours later. Victims described feeling powerless and suffering memory loss after accepting the drink, police said. One had complained to the driver of a headache and was given a tablet. In some cases he also charged them a fare. The vehicle in each attack was a traditional London taxi cab, but while some victims described it as black, others said it was a different colour. Toxicology tests are under way to try to identify the drug. Detective Chief Inspector Tim Grattan-Kane, who is leading the investigation, said he believed there may be many more victims who had not come forward. "We are appealing for any other women who might have got into what they believed was a safe taxi cab in the London area over the last few years and have had a similar set of circumstances presented to them," he said.The most recent incident was on February 5, when a 33-year-old woman flagged down a cab in Tooley Street near London Bridge railway station and was subjected to a serious sexual assault as she was driven to her home in south-west London. The other known cases were in January this year, October and December 2006 and June 2005.Bob Oddy, general secretary of the London Taxi Drivers' Association, said: "We do realise that there will be some concern with women passengers but there are basic and simple checks you can undertake." These included checking for a meter, a square white plate on the back of the vehicle, and the driver's metal pendant badge with their number on.Ed Thompson, of Transport for London, said: "We do not want people to be scared away from the good licensed services like Hackney carriages and licensed private hire. It is the unlicensed services out there we have concerns about."The driver was described as a white man, aged in his late 30s or early 40s, with grey or brown hair and distinct bags under his eyes.