Terrorism has always been driven by technology. Fenian dynamite terrified 19th-century Britain just as IRA semtex did a few generations later – both "weapons of mass destruction" of their day. Radical improvements in TV cameras made the drama of Palestinian violence global news in the late 60s, and a little later live feeds added enormously to the compelling power of the aircraft hijacks and hostage seizures that were such a feature of the 80s. Then came rolling news and the terror blogs – beheading hapless victims in home movies that owed more to porn than politics.Now we have DIY terror stars, trading liberty for five minutes of infamy, fully aware of what they are doing, seizing the camera for speeches and calmly apologising to female viewers for the butchery they had forced them to witness. The audience now also become the reporters, spreading the word as well as seeing the action.But what "word" exactly is spread? Subversive terrorism has always sought to use the media to communicate a message, but has invariably failed in this. As with this event, the ideas sought to be conveyed are always overwhelmed by the horror of the acts that are done to grab our attention: a massacre may make us aware of this or that injustice (dispossessed Palestinians; an illegal war; an army occupying "sacred" land; "our people" being killed) but we ignore these facts because of our shocked fury at the way they have been brought to our attention. This is the terrorist catch-22: "I hear what you are saying but I don't listen, because of how you caught my attention."The political subversive can never quite get that his (or her) complaint is one among many in an unjust world – they are an extreme version of the kind of people who jump the queue because they assume their needs trump others. Of course, there might be no alternative to political violence, but while this might help us understand it, it is never enough in itself to justify what are bound to be futile acts of violence. This is why rational violent groups such as the PLO and the IRA, as well as the ANC, move reasonably quickly towards nonviolent political engagement, albeit invariably leaving splinter groups in their wake to remind them of their past and to make it easier for their opponents to continue to make political capital out of their bloody backgrounds.Events such as that which took place in Woolwich are much closer to the maniac school and movie theatre killers than they are to the sort of subversive violence that we associate with "mainstream" political terrorism. Sure, the killers used violence to communicate a message of sorts, rather than for personal gain. But the demands they made are so diffuse as to be effectively meaningless – "change your government!" or "stop acting the way you do" being more infantile ejaculations than efforts at any kind of serious discussion.The victim was reportedly an off-duty soldier, so some effort may have been made to identify a "culprit" but, given that the alleged bad conduct was so vague, it is hard to see how this unfortunate person could have been plausibly guilty of anything. His killers resemble the anarchist bomb thrower who said he "struck at random and did not choose [his] victims" because in his eyes everyone was guilty.Is this the delusional, one-off act of a pair of desperados, unhinged behaviour camouflaged in a flimsy political disguise, like the man who killed himself in Notre Dame cathedral earlier this week or the bombers of the Boston marathon?What will concern the security and police services is that it might be the start of something systematic. If it is then fear will certainly spread. It is amazingly easy to cause mayhem anywhere (and not just in liberal democracies) if you are happy to die in the process. Fortunately, few of us have the stomach for it. The likelihood is this is a horrible one-off, a price paid by an occasional misfortunate being for the turbulent despair that lurks in the souls of a very few and then (in even fewer) boils over. It neither underpins nor undermines the need for new laws. We need to keep our nerve and hold our breath.• Comments have been removed for legal reasons