Security was stepped up around Buckingham Palace yesterday after the embarrassing lapse that allowed a protester dressed as Batman to storm the building. Extra armed officers were posted in the palace courtyard and two uniformed constables stood guard at the corner where Fathers4Justice activist Jason Hatch propped the ladder that allowed him to clamber on to the building. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said he would not shy away from sacking those in charge of royal security if it turned out they had failed in their duty, while the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, was scrutinising a report of how Mr Hatch managed to get within a few metres of the royal balcony. The activist was released from police custody yesterday, on bail but without charge. The Met said he had been arrested on suspicion of criminal damage - understood to be of pigeon netting he disturbed as he moved across a ledge - but well-placed prosecution sources said there was a good chance he would not be charged. One said: "The lawyers will have a very close look at the incident but it may be judged that it will not be in the public interest to take Mr Hatch to court. For one thing, it would simply give him another high-profile platform." Commander Peter Loughborough, the head of the royalty protection group, and Brigadier Jeffrey Cook, the royal security coordinator appointed after the comedian Aaron Barschak gatecrashed Prince William's 21st birthday party, are at the centre of the palace security inquiry. Speaking at the Police Superintendents' Association conference in Warwickshire, Mr Blunkett said: "I'm prepared for heads to roll if the head is of the person responsible for failing to do their duty." But he also hinted at tension between the police and royal family over security. "When you are dealing with the security of the royal family, the royal family does have a hand in who works alongside the police on the ground," he said. "I respect that but it does mean there is shared responsibility." The report, which the commissioner had demanded be on his desk first thing yesterday, is understood to confirm that alarms and CCTV cameras, installed at the palace after the September 11 attacks in the US, had worked effectively. But it is understood to accept that the defences at the point where Mr Hatch propped his ladder were weak. Mr Hatch and his accomplice, Dave Pyke, who was dressed as Batman's sidekick, Robin, had only to step over a metre-high fence to get to the palace walls. The police and royal family will have to decide whether to introduce stronger security measures to keep the public further back from the palace, as happens at Downing Street. The royals - and Mr Blunkett - are known to be against the idea of creating a "sterile area". Meanwhile Mr Hatch, 32, walked free from Charing Cross police station on bail yesterday afternoon. Mr Pyke, 48, was arrested on suspicion of aiding and abetting a criminal offence. When Crown Prosecution Service lawyers examined Mr Barschak's Windsor Castle incident, lawyers considered bringing charges ranging from burglary to assault - he planted a kiss on the prince - but it was thought none would stand up in court. Trespass is a civil rather than criminal offence. The Batman case may increase pressure on the government to introduce a criminal offence of "royal trespass" to stop intruders invading royal property. Less than 24 hours after he allowed himself to be lowered from his precarious perch, Mr Hatch, who claims he is denied access to two of his children, was back in front of the palace giving a press conference. Clearly emotional, he said: "The government has made activists of loving fathers. It was easier to get to the Queen's balcony than it is to see my own children." He admitted he had been frightened when an officer pointed a gun at him. But he said: "I focused on my children - a picture in my mind of my children - and just kept going."