The man on my right looked thoroughly bored. He had been cornered by a small, yapping man of 50, who was offloading half-baked conspiracy theories like an over-excited child, apparently driving his audience to distraction. The man on my right wore a blank, glazed expression and stared around the synagogue disinterestedly, as Yappy warmed to his theme, "I mean - the BBC actually apologised for calling Jerusalem the capital of Israel! Apologised! Can you believe it?" My right hand man barely blinked as he continued, "But seriously, like it won't belong till the UN vote Israel out. Yeah. Within 5 years, some Arab state will propose it, the UN will vote and bang! They'll dissolve Israel. Good bye."This was the fourth time in as many hours that I had heard the yapman cram his three pet hates into one anecdote, and I was delighted finally to see another man as bored with his nonsense as I was. Or so I thought. But then the man to my right looked up at the yapper and fixed his gaze. He paused, heavy with solemnity, before finally speaking: "You ready for the war?" He asked. " ... It's gonna be big."Fantastic. I was in a room full of idiots.But, unfortunately, these were idiots with guns. As the circle sang and danced round the bimah, celebrating the start of Shabbat; white shirts, white table cloths, white muslin decorating the shul walls and tiny children clinging to their fathers legs; as the congregation clapped and smiled and one of the babies spilt out over his father's arm, my eyes were drawn to the man's waist, where I noticed a large black pistol tucked into his trousers. The circle danced on and I looked to the waist of another man: another gun, nuzzled close to the trailing white tzitzit. And like the moment in vampire films when the hero notices that all the people in the room have sharp teeth, that was the moment when I realised just where I was.Not all of the people that I met in this small, remote settlement were stupid and only some carried guns, but within the small American minority amongst whom we were staying, the mixture of guns and ignorance emitted an ominous odour. This was so far from anything Seth and I had experienced thus far on our trip and was a million miles away from my experiences of left-leaning, liberal Tel Aviv. That here, on this desert mountain, only 20 minutes from Jerusalem, there lived such an isolated group that had such an incredible monopoly over the truth was deeply discomforting.The dominant ideology of this small group of American immigrants - who pray and study in a separate synagogue from the bulk of the settlement - is based on the teachings of Meir Kahane, who formed the now outlawed Kach party. Kahane preached a radical solution to dealing with the conflict between Jews and Arabs and this has had a profound effect on the residents of the settlement.In our Talmud session on Saturday afternoon, held over a bottle of non-specific alcohol - 95% - the teacher talked about how the new temple will not arise in times of peace, but rather through war and bloodshed. "Those Liberals think it's all about peace. Yeah right - like there wasn't blood in the last temple. Like David didn't kill thousands of people. Was he wrong? Hell no. He killed evil people, he was a righteous man."The teacher went on to say that the fact that we don't know where the holiest spot on Temple Mount is shouldn't stop the Jews from going to look for it in order to rebuild the temple. The al-Aqsa Mosque now stands on Temple Mount and most rabbis forbid Jews from going there. With the now familiar picture of the rebuilt temple hanging on the wall of the synagogue (which is itself held inside a bomb shelter), talk of bloodshed in order to bring that image to fruition was quite alarming.However, the presence of those such as the Yapper mean that the chances of this irregular band of merry men ever organising to bring about such a coup is unlikely. Nevertheless, the fact that a small group of Americans can be so remote and isolated from Israel's political reality as to hide behind the warmongering rhetoric of an outlawed racist political movement is a shameful reality for a generally well-educated and politically informed country.Our host was a warm and friendly woman who genuinely believed the narrative that the peaceful Jews want to live in peace, but the hate-filled Arabs just won't stop killing them. The answer, she said, was education. Without education, the Arabs would remain fundamentalists, full of violent hate.Sadly, she seemed oblivious to the irony of her words. And as she resorted to the safety of her "only" two solutions to the Israel-Palestine problem - that of ethnic cleansing of Arabs or of a world in which everyone believed in the Jewish God. Fundamentalism, hatred and a lack of education were shown to be just as dangerous on the Jewish side of the conflict as they are on the Palestinian.