A black-cab driver who sexually assaulted two young women who had fallen asleep in his taxi after nights out has been jailed for 10 years.David Perry, 52, attempted to rape his first victim and sexually assaulted the second after climbing into the back of his cab and removing the women’s clothing while they slept, in separate attacks 16 months apart.Judge John Lafferty said the victims had suffered serious psychological harm as a result of the attacks, as he sentenced the father of two to 10 years in prison and a subsequent five-year licence period.Snaresbrook crown court heard how Perry told police after his arrest that he had been “worried about what he might do” because of his high hormone levels after the breakup of a relationship and had sought help from his doctor.Both women, in their 20s, were drunk after socialising in east London when they were assaulted in the early hours of the morning, the first attack in January 2013 and the second in May 2014.Prosecutor Peter Clement told the court that Perry was in a high position of trust when he took advantage of the women. “Both victims had been out with friends, both had been drinking and both were at the relevant time highly intoxicated,” he said.“They were, by virtue of their drunkenness, particularly vulnerable. Their incapacity made them no less deserving than anyone else of being safe. They each sought the security and safety they were entitled to expect from a London taxi – a black cab.“[Perry] exploited his passengers’ obvious vulnerability for his own sexual gratification. Whilst each was asleep in what should have been the … safety of his black cab, he stopped, got in to the back of his cab and stripped and sexually assaulted each victim while they slept or were semi-conscious.” Perry pleaded guilty last month to one count of attempted rape, one count of assault by penetration and one count of sexual assault against the first victim and one count of sexual assault against the second victim. Lafferty also sentenced Perry to a Sexual Harm Prevention Order – which will stop him from driving a cab – and ordered him to sign the sex offender register indefinitely. He told Perry: “Undoubtedly you pose a very significant risk of causing serious harm to other women by committing offences of a sexual nature were you at large in the community. “You were aware of the danger you posed to women in the back of your cab.”Perry, who, the judge heard, was of previous “impeccable” character with no criminal record, smiled and waved at family and friends in the public gallery before being led away.Police believe the cab driver of 25 years may have preyed on more women and urged potential victims to come forward.