Surrey police today described how a man held a knife to the throat of Abigail Witchalls' young son before stabbing her in the back of the neck and running away.Though left paralysed by the attack on a rural path in Little Bookham, Surrey, on Wednesday, Mrs Witchalls, 26, met officers for six hours yesterday in hospital. By responding to yes and no questions and mouthing words, she recounted the harrowing attack and gave police a detailed description of the man who stabbed her.Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper retold the details of Mrs Witchalls' account to a press conference at Surrey police headquarters in Guildford today.He said she told officers she did not know the man and did not know why he had attacked her as she walked along a path with her 21-month-old son, Joseph. Police said there was no obvious motive for the attack, such as robbery or sexual assault. She told officers she first spotted the attacker driving past her on the path in a four-door, older-style blue estate car at about 3.45pm. As the vehicle drove by, she and the driver looked at each other. She began to feel uneasy, so put Joseph into his buggy and started to walk home along the path, Mr Harper said.When she was about three-quarters of the way along the path, she saw that the car had pulled up behind her. She started to panic and began running along the footpath with Joseph in his buggy. She reached a gate that leads on to the lane off Burnhams Road, but could not open it. Mr Harper said she heard the man say something like, "You have dropped your purse." When she turned around, she saw that the man had grabbed Joseph and was holding a knife to his throat.On his instructions, she walked towards the man. He grabbed her by the hair and stabbed her once in the back of the neck. After she collapsed on the ground, the man pushed the buggy, with Joseph in it, on top of her. He then fled the scene.Mrs Witchalls described the man as aged between 20 and 35 years old, around 1.78 to 1.93 metres (5ft 10in to 6ft 4in) tall, with short, dark, wavy, scruffy hair. He was wearing looped silver earrings, one in each ear, about 2cm in diameter. He had a long, thin, pale face and prominent cheekbones, a deep voice and bags under his eyes. Mr Harper said Mrs Witchalls was determined to help catch her attacker: "She is an incredibly brave and determined young woman." However, he warned members of the public that the man was an "extremely dangerous offender". "Anyone who is prepared to threaten a young child and try to kill his mother in front of him is clearly capable of anything." He warned that anyone who saw the man should not approach him but contact Surrey police on 0845 1252222. Mr Harper said detectives had now ruled out a man with a blue Peugeot who was arrested and bailed this weekend. Mr Harper added that the interview had been an emotional experience for Mrs Witchalls, her family and the officers involved. Through the police, Mrs Witchalls sent her thanks to everyone who had prayed for her since the attack."I am improving and everyone's prayers are immensely helpful," she said in a message from her hospital bed at St George's hospital, Tooting, south London.Mrs Witchalls was pregnant with her second child when she was attacked. It has not yet been revealed if her unborn child survived.Surrey assistant chief constable Mark Rowley said Mrs Witchalls' condition was improving and she was no longer in a critical condition, but her father, Martin Hollins, said she faced a life of long-term disability. She was given only a 50% chance of survival after the attack and was given the last rites. However, she has regained some feeling in parts of her body. Mr Rowley said Mrs Witchalls had demanded that police return to the hospital today to continue the interview, despite their offer to give her a day off to rest. "She is an extremely intelligent young lady and has a determination that we should all be in awe of," he said. "Abigail is not suffering frustration with the process, there is no difficulty in establishing what she wants to communicate at this time and she has her family there as support. At the moment we are not having difficulty clarifying what she is saying, as you have heard. We expected a much more difficult process."