It is never difficult to pass yourself off as a Glasgow gangster in Edinburgh. A long coat, some deftly placed profanities and a scowl that hints at an attitude problem usually does the trick. Bacardis and cola begin to appear from unseen hands amid some whispered salutations. A nickname also helps, accompanied by a brief, but grim, narrative. Iain "the Biscuit" Stewart: he once smothered a victim in Walkers shortbread. It's less easy in Glasgow simply because such a description could fit most of the men leaning on a bar of an evening in the city centre.Glasgow is proud of its gangland culture and glories in the nicknames it provides for its outlaws, for you will never be taken seriously in the chib game if you don't have a good middle name: Joe "Bananas" Hanlon, Frankie "Doughnuts" Donaldson, Ian "Blink" McDonald. There's an "Iceman", a "Fatman" and a "Hawk".Glasgow's gangland even has its own faithful chronicler, one Reg McKay, a former social worker whose books on famous gangland feuds and the hoods who star in them fly off the shelves. McKay's canon will come to be regarded as an important commentary when historians look back and attempt to identify the rise of the underclass in Glasgow and how they devoured the unsuspecting and complacent middle classes. The venerable Reg.Glasgow's modern-day obsession with gang culture began in 1991 with the death of Arthur Thompson Jr, also known as "Fatboy" and son of the renowned Arthur Thompson, aka "the Godfather". On the day of young Arthur's funeral, two men whom his father suspected of murdering his son were found dead in a car parked on a half-built motorway, having been shot in the head and up their arses, a form of dispatch for which Glasgow now owns the copyright.The funeral itself was like a grim, vampire version of the Mad Hatter's Tea Party as an assortment of pasty faced and scarred hardmen, uncomfortable in the sunshine, filed into the cemetery. If you've ever seen the last half of the film From Dusk Till Dawn, you'll get the picture. Previously, we had thought that they only existed in the News of the World's imagination, but here they all were in their dark splendour, handing out cigarettes and fierce hugs amid a flotilla of black limousines.The trial that followed the killing of Arthur Thompson cost £4m and made a star out of its charismatic and, as it transpired, innocent young defendant, Paul Ferris, formerly a lieutenant in the Arthur Thompson crime clan. Yet the entire city was transfixed by the events of those summer days in August when a stone was lifted and we got a glimpse of the nether world, a fully functioning society with its own government, law and economy. In every pub from the Colston traffic lights in the north of the city to the end of the Gallowgate in the east, drinking men nudged each other and claimed obscure lineage to the characters in this Hogarth painting.Glasgow has indulged these bad men in our midst and been content to bask in a perverse and reflected glory about their colourful misdemeanours. Only rarely, after all, do their actions impact on those of us who live above the ground. And they do add to the gaiety of the nation, do they not?The government and police chiefs don't think so and have become alarmed at how much organised crime there is in Scotland. They have just revealed there were almost 400 organised crime networks operating in the country involving 4,000 operators and costing the economy £2.6bn a year.More than 150 of these enterprises thrive on the streets of Glasgow and are helped by an army of crooked lawyers and accountants or "specialists" who advise them on tax and investment. Indeed, there are family consiglieres, smart kids who are nurtured within the network for the specific purpose of securing pukka law degrees with which to serve the dark pursuits of their clan.Around 2,000 of the foot soldiers employed by these criminal enterprises are involved in murder, severe violence and have access to firearms. Now the government wants to hit them hard and go after their bent familiars armed with a £4m budget and a sophisticated, multi-agency task force. The odds are stacked against them, though.A facile street philosophy surrounds organised crime which eulogises these people, especially in Glasgow. It is the same one that says that big Tam frae Possil could have played for Scotland if only he'd laid off the salvadors. They are often portrayed as benign, golden-hearted chaps who adhere to a strict code of honour that only visits retribution on their own kind. The only factors missing from this romance is that they wear Lincoln green, jouk around Bellahouston Park in tree houses and have the services of a sweet, old defrocked whisky priest to sanctify them and administer the sacraments. Often, they are regarded as sharp and astute businessmen who would be running Unilever or ICI if life's lottery had only just given them a better ticket at birth.But wouldn't we all be successful businessmen if we could avoid trifling fiscal concerns like, you know ... corporation tax, national insurance, capital gains, PAYE. Or if we could cheerfully outmanoeuvre those pesky business rivals by crucifying them on the floor of a handy warehouse before reinforcing the foundations of the M74 extension with their bony carcasses?Look again at those statistics. Four thousand men, half of them committed to murder and torture and with access to guns facilitating a £2.6bn, multi-layered national corporation built on drugs and money-laundering. They don't even begin to tell the story of the tens of thousands more who are literally enslaved to the firms and who turn to smaller crime to support a narcotics habit that funds the industry. Does anyone seriously believe that an extra £4m a year will hurt the big men and their teams?There are entire neighbourhoods to the north and east of Glasgow under the control of around a dozen major drugs and money-laundering entrepreneurs. Relentless unemployment and a sense among tens of thousands of poor young people that normal society has locked them out mean that there will always be an army of light-fingered infantry to maintain the crime empires.They even have their own dialect, a modification of the working-class Clydeside rasp of Jimmy Reid and Billy Connolly which announces itself in a slow, high-pitched and nasal whine stunted by long exposure to class-A drugs and fortified beverages. The favoured apparel is a white tracksuit, white trainers and a Burberry baseball cap and they live on a day-to-day basis where the achievement of seeing the dawn of another day is a small triumph.Their community leaders, protectors and providers are the men with the long, black coats and the colourful nicknames. And it is to them that they turn to be lifted out of poverty and the hope of one day being able to hang out in wine bars, drive a sleek wee alloyed jalopy and have a box at Parkheid or Ibrox.Yet not a single one of them will be alive to taste the forbidden fruit of the heights of the East End mafia and its Barlanark Eden. The rest of us shouldn't forget it.