The Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) is that rare thing – a public body of which the UK can be proud, indeed which is envied in many countries around the world. Yet at home the CCRC seems dogged by criticism, the latest of which concerns the appointment of Richard Foster as its chairman.These concerns represent a rush to judgment that not all those working in the field of wrongful convictions support. We recall that the appointment of Sir Frederick Crawford as the first chairman of the CCRC was criticised due to his membership of the Freemasons, yet those criticisms subsided once he was judged on his performance. Foster was chief executive of the Crown Prosecution Service, but he was not, in fact, a prosecutor. This is not to suggest that it is axiomatically a bad decision to have former prosecutors in the CCRC; one former (David Kyle) and one current commissioner (Jim England) have a background in prosecutions.As for the perception of the CCRC among the "innocence community", it should be understood that there are Innocence Projects in the UK aside from those affiliated to the Innocence Network UK, that were not established because of any outrage at the record of the CCRC. Indeed, their founders work in collaboration with the CCRC and seek to assist its work by helping more applicants to write better-quality applications, especially those unable to get professional legal help (who are increasing in number), and, at the same time, to educate law students. Their processing of cases does not depend upon proof of innocence but upon findings that might influence the CCRC.This stance leads us to differ from the suggestions posited by Dr Naughton on the role of innocence in the criminal justice process. The CCRC does not require evidence of innocence for the very good reason that innocence is almost impossible to prove in the absence of compelling forensic evidence. The USA has various "Innocence Acts", primarily because those convicted do not have access to a body such as the CCRC that will investigate the case of anyone who claims to be a victim of a miscarriage of justice. Some states provide funding for some convicts to seek access to evidence and to carry out DNA profiling, with a view to seeking an appeal or a pardon. Yet the CCRC will refer convictions even if it has not found proof of innocence but merely "a real possibility that the conviction, verdict, finding or sentence would not be upheld".Law students are taught in the first term of their first year that it is for the prosecution to prove a defendant's guilt beyond reasonable doubt. If this has not been done within the bounds of legality and propriety, then a conviction cannot stand. It is dangerous and wrong to create two tiers of appellants: the innocent and those "freed on a technicality". A test of "innocence" will lead to fewer referrals from the CCRC, fewer convictions being overturned; and offers fewer protections for the integrity of the system. These are challenging times for the CCRC, which faces an annual budget cut of about £300,000 over the next three years. Its vital work must continue and be supported, so that it can ensure that victims of miscarriages of justice are given a fair opportunity to return to the appeal courts. There is more that the CCRC could do in terms of reducing waiting times and also in reflecting upon systemic causes of miscarriages of justice. We do not believe that either the CCRC or the Court of Appeal is perfect, but we wish Foster well in his new post and hope he can match our high expectations of the CCRC.