It is every detective's nightmare - a murder with no witnesses and no discernible motive, the victims a quiet, middle-aged couple, devoted to each other, with no known enemies or problems, blasted to death with a shotgun in their remote Cornish home.Graham Fisher, 60, and his wife, Carol, 53, were killed last November 5, at the bungalow behind the small petrol station and car repair centre they had run for 20 years, on a country road a few miles from Wadebridge, north Cornwall. Several people have been arrested, but nobody has been charged, and now, seven months on, police have decided to examine every item in their well-ordered but jampacked house in an attempt to trace DNA evidence or find other clues. Mr and Mrs Fisher, who had no children, had just closed up the garage for the night and were about to sit down to their evening meal when a horrifying sequence of events took place. "We think at least one person came in through the porch door, but a planter [flowerpot] was thrown through the living room window, leading us to think there may have been more than one attacker," said Baxter Provan, a press officer with Devon and Cornwall police. "Mr Fisher was shot twice in the house, and collapsed, but Mrs Fisher was shot once in the house, once on the porch, and a third time on the footpath outside, as she tried to flee. The couple were then bludgeoned with a blunt instrument as they lay dying." People reported hearing loud bangs in the vicinity that evening but the nearest house is several hundred yards away, and, as it was Bonfire Night, police fear fireworks may have masked the gunfire. Forensic experts determined that the Fishers were shot with Eley 12-bore, six-grade shotgun cartridges, the kind used to hunt small game, but all the spent cartridges were taken from the house, possibly by the killer or killers. Mr Fisher had two shotguns, a 12-bore double-barrel and a 9mm single-barrel. Neither was used in the murders, but the barrels of both were found in a safe in the bungalow, and the wooden stocks hurled in a hedge, as if from a moving vehicle, about a mile and a half away. Inexplicable Robbery would appear to be the most obvious motive. Maybe the Fishers had resisted, sparking terrible violence. However, there were several seemingly inexplicable factors. Officers found an open safe, the keys still in the lock. But there were hundreds of pounds inside, along with Mr Fisher's shotgun barrels, and other cash lying around the house. If the murders were the result of the robbers' panic, why take time to bludgeon the pair, steal the shotgun stocks, and pick up the gun cartridges? "Picking up the cartridges seems a very cold-blooded thing to do," said Mr Provan. Perhaps the motive was something to do with their business dealings, or someone bearing a private grudge? If so, a large team of detectives and a pyschological profiler from the National Crime Faculty have been unable to find it. "As far as we can see, the Fishers were a hard-working, very private couple, but very caring toward each other," said Mr Provan. "There wasn't a hint of anything untoward in their financial affairs. If they had any worries, they certainly didn't confide in any of their friends."The Fishers were reasonably wealthy. Both had inherited properties from relatives, and did not need to work, but friends said they enjoyed running the garage. Mr Fisher had recently started to have flying lessons. Perhaps the slightly odd thing about them was their extreme need for privacy, which has proved a stumbling block for the inquiry. Detectives discovered that even the couple's closest friends had never been inside their house, so they still have not been able to work out what, if anything, was taken, apart from the gun stocks. "Mr Fisher had a sister and Mrs Fisher a brother, who both live in the county and they had a few close friends locally," said Mr Provan. "They had a silver wedding anniversary party, but it was held next door in the garage, with a tablecloth spread on the bonnet of a car. It could be that the only DNA inside the house is theirs and that of the murderer or murderers, which would be useful. But we just don't know if there was money taken, or jewellery, or anything else of value. "We have started to clear out the house, and although they were hoarders who threw very little away, it seems they also meticulously kept all their receipts and correspondence, which could be of great help. But we still don't know who killed the Fishers, or why."