Take one look at Sir David "Rambo" Ramsbotham and you know he's an army man. Not any old army man, but a top army man. The fiercely parted hair, the huge hands, the proud stature. You can't get more establishment than Mr Ramsbotham. But according to Home Office whisperers, he's a loose canon, a turn-coat - even worse, a liberal. As Jack Straw tells Britain's judges, yet again, that he wants even more people banged up, Mr Ramsbotham is illustrating exactly why and how Britain's jail population must be cut right back. The one word Mr Ramsbotham uses again and again is "appalled". Her majesty's chief inspector of prisons is appalled by the drug problems, health problems, overcrowding problems, funding problems, you name it. As the prison population has increased by 50% over the past 10 years, so its budget has been slashed. The biggest problem, he says, is many of the people shouldn't be in prison in the first place. Take the elderly. "When I discover an 87-year-old on a Zimmer frame with Alzheimer's in a so-called high-security training prison on the ground that he represents a danger to the public, now I'm sorry but I think this is a nonsense." So what would his policy be? "When you reach the cut-off age, 60 or 65, the local social services should become involved. Early release on humane grounds should be considered." Mr Ramsbotham has spent most of the past five years visiting prison after prison - unannounced. He and his team (doctors, psychiatrists, educators, work-skill people, engineers) then take up residence for a week, wander round the prison, observe, and talk to the prisoners about the problems they face. When I ask what has shocked him most about what he has seen he returns to his first prison visit - to Holloway. There were rats and cockroaches, used tampons thrown outside windows, 15-year-old girls locked up in the antenatal unit. "I said to the midwife, 'Are those girls pregnant?', and she said, 'No.' I said, 'What are they doing here?' She said they don't know where else to put them, and I said, 'Are all the other women pregnant?' 'Oh no,' she said there's a psychotic, a psychiatrically disturbed ... I said, 'What's going on here?' She shut the door and looked at me and said, 'I'm an Ibo from Nigeria where they're meant to be less civilised than here, and I have to tell you I have never seen anything as inhuman and disgusting as the way they treat people in Holloway.' I've never forgotten that." He talks about the number of women in prison for minor offences, mainly drugs, many of them banished from their children. Surely they would be better off rehabilitated in the community? "I couldn't agree with you more. Holloway represents all that is impossible about the imprisonment of women at the moment. The average length of stay is 28 days. What can you actually do useful in 28 days?" Does he think the age of criminality is too young? In Norway it is 15 as opposed to 10 in Britain. "I do not believe that prison is anything other than an adult environment and children should be out of it. I'm not saying there should not be children in custody, but it shouldn't be in prison service custody." Mr Ramsbotham approaches prisons with his old military precision. He laughs at the notion he's a liberal, says he has no politics, he just wants to see an efficiently-run service. The job, is not so different from the days when he bossed the streets of Belfast. Ultimately, he has always dealt with law and order. Although his approach is the same, his attitudes have changed; in some cases radically. He talks about the fact that 60% of prisoners are using class A drugs at the point of entry. Obviously, this is a problem prisons are left with rather than one of their own creation. He says he has often asked himself whether the criminalisation of drugs has caused more problems than it has solved. "I can see the arguments in legalising everything when I look at the amount of money involved in all of this. I met a man in prison the other day who has admitted assets of £56m, and he's a drug dealer. That amount of money is a very dangerous part of the corruption in prisons; the bullying and intimidation of prisoners. It can also be used as a weapon to bribe and corrupt prison officers." Mr Ramsbotham says one of the difficulties of discussing all this with politicians is that they have no first-hand experience of prisons. Amazingly, no serving prime minister has ever visited a prison. "No minister has ever accompanied me on an inspection. When ministers go to prisons they show them what they think ministers would like to see." We do a tally. There are currently 63,000 people in UK prisons. When you take away the kids, the elderly, the mentally ill, the asylum seekers, those inside for trivial shoplifting or drug offences, Mr Ramsbotham reckons you've stripped a good 20,000 away. While Mr Straw expects the prison population to rise to 78,000 by 2007, Mr Ramsbotham reckons it could be cut to about 40,000 now. Mr Ramsbotham says that since he has been doing this job he has kept a statement on his desk to remind him why he is there. "It was made just before 10 o'clock on the evening of July 20, 1910, by Winston Churchill. It's the famous phrase that the mood and tenor of a nation can be judged by the way it treats its criminals, and there's a treasure in the heart of every man if only you can find it. When I look at that, and when I look at the magnanimity within that, which is something I think as a nation we've stood for, I'm frankly appalled by some of the things I've heard being said by politicians." It's not a political issue, he repeats, it's one of national responsibility. What's his relationship like with Mr Straw? He answers elliptically. "Well I think frankly the job of home secretary is almost impossible. He's got far too many things to do. In ideal circumstances I would have liked to see as much of Jack Straw as I saw of the secretary of state for defence when I was adjutant general of the army." And how often has he seen him? "Four times last year. Each time at my request." Perhaps they now regard him as the enemy? "Well, I would have thought as a home secretary you wanted to have your prisons run properly. Then your chief inspector should be regarded as an ally. To me, if I was home secretary my enemy would be those people working in prisons who are not doing their job." This summer Mr Ramsbotham is due to retire. He says he has loved the job, feels significant progress has been made, such as the setting up of the youth justice board. There is so much left to do, he says. He talks enthusiastically about the thematic review of inequalities he has begun - race, gender, disability, the elderly and people with mental health problems. "I may well not be allowed to finish it." So why is he retiring? "You'll have to ask the home secretary. I would be happy to stay." And they won't extend his contract again? "Well they've announced that I was retiring so presumably they've made up their minds." He says that he first heard his impending retirement announced in the press and no one from the home office has yet discussed it with him. Perhaps it's a measure of his success that they feel the need to see him off? "My answer to that is, OK, shoot the messenger, but the message won't go away."