The jailing of one-third of women prisoners is a waste of money as they are not a danger to the public, the chief inspector of prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, said yesterday.Publishing a follow-up of a year-long inquiry released in 1997 into the state of the 15 women's jails in England and Wales, he said that too many women are held in high security prisons.Women inmates who are not assessed as high risk should be held without security restrictions, according to Sir David.The report claims that "excessive costs" are incurred in providing security levels that are equivalent to male jails. Since the 1997 report the female prison population has risen from 2,600 to almost 3,800. Sir David, who steps down from the post this month, advocated a much greater use of open prisons where women are allowed into the community as part of their resettlement process. He said: "There is a serious need to reconsider the security restrictions under which women are put." "The women do not need the same physical degree of security as men. It is a waste of public money."Sir David said much has been achieved by the Prison Service in addressing the recommendations of the 1997 inquiry, but warned that there is "still a long way to go".He voiced concerned that the two most senior Prison Service managers responsible for women's jails are men. "It's not that I doubt the capability of either of them but it doesn't send the right message around the women's estate," he said.The report also said girls who are under 18 and on remand should not share cells with convicted adults. This was "absolutely out of the question" he said, and the matter had been reported directly to the home secretary after it was discovered in Holloway prison in north London last year.Sir David said Holloway was "virtually unmanageable" because of the wide range of prisoners it holds and that it should be urgently reviewed.He repeated concerns raised in 1997 that many women are needlessly jailed by the courts and welcomed comments made by the home secretary, David Blunkett, which questioned the effectiveness of short prison sentences. A new high security unit should either be built in the south of England or the Midlands to limit the disruption faced by high-risk women inmates who have to move far away from their home and family. The only high security unit for women in England and Wales, in Durham, currently holds 41 prisoners.