If it was not for a cold case review by Dutch detectives in 2008, the identity of the headless, handless corpse found in an army kitbag in the Westersingel canal in Rotterdam in 1990, might never have been linked to six holdalls containing body parts discovered in Regent's Canal, London, 10 years later.Familial DNA tests revealed the Dutch victim as Melissa Halstead, 33, the daughter of an Illinois dentist, working as a freelance photographer and beautician. She had moved to London to further her career and met John Sweeney, a carpenter, while living in Chelsea, and the two embarked on a relationship said to have been fuelled by drink and drugs.When Halstead was deported for overstaying her visa, he followed her around mainland Europe including to Italy, Austria and the Netherlands. A man "disposed to using serious and escalating violence" toward girlfriends, he already had convictions for assaulting Halstead in London, and in Vienna attacked her with a claw hammer.Yet she bailed him out. "I asked if she had lost her frigging mind," her sister, Chance O'Hara, 63, told the jury. But she said Sweeney had "cried and begged and promised to leave her alone". So Halstead, then living in Amsterdam, obliged – and then simply vanished.Halstead had, with chilling accuracy, predicted her death at Sweeney's hands, telling her sister, who was living in California, if she ever went missing he would have killed her "and would make sure no one would ever find her body".He almost succeeded. With no identification – her head and hands have never been found – it took 18 years for forensic scientists to put her name to the remains. Cause of death has never been determined.It was not until the Dutch set up their first missing person DNA bank in 2007, that samples from the remains in Rotterdam were matched with reports of Halstead's disappearance in Amsterdam, and a link to a British police investigation was made.Sweeney, who described himself in what police claimed were "confessional" poems as a "manimal – twisted, confused, and very dysfunctional", returned to London and embarked on a relationship with a nurse, Delia Balmer, living in Kentish Town.She ended it in 1994, a decision she almost paid for with her life. Sweeney responded by holding her hostage for a weekend, tying her to her bed, torturing and threatening to kill her.When police, alerted by a concerned friend, arrived and arrested him they found in his rucksack plastic sacks, waterproof clothing, Marigold gloves, rolls of tape, a saw blade, string, rope and a sponge. Everything required to kill, dismember and dispose of her was there. But as no one yet knew of Halstead's fate and, as a carpenter, he could explain the items away.Eventually granted bail a month later, he headed straight to Balmer's flat. On hearing her screams and seeing Sweeney repeatedly hacking at her with an axe and knife, a male neighbour ran to her rescue and whacked him with a baseball bat. Sweeney ran off, and would remain on the run for six years.Balmer, who was severely injured, told police of a bizarre confession Sweeney had made while holding her hostage. He spoke of having killed before, mentioning a girlfriend called Melissa, and two German men who were friendly with her. He would make the same confession to his best friend, and later his former wife, whom he had married at 18 in Skelmersdale, Lancashire, and with whom he had two children. But still no one knew of Halstead.During the six years before he returned to Britain, Sweeney worked on building sites all over Europe under various aliases. One of these was Scouse Joe, and this was what Paula Fields, a fellow Liverpudlian, knew him as. A crack addict leading a chaotic life that involved prostitution in the UK capital, she vanished in December 2000, three months after meeting him in Highbury, north London.In February 2001, her remains were discovered in Regent's Canal. Like Halstead, her head and hands were missing, and so were her feet. Subsequent inquiries led police to realise Scouse Joe was John Sweeney.He was arrested at a building site in central London, and charged in connection with the Balmer attack. A search of premises connected to him yielded a hoard of violent drawings and poems, depicting bloody attacks on female victims.One, entitled The Scalp Hunter, showed a female skull hanging from a belt and an axe. A poem written on the back of a scratchcard read: "Poor old Melissa, chopped her up in bits, food to feed the fish, Am*dam was the pits". Removing correction fluid, police revealed a gravestone with "RIP Melissa Halstod born 12th December 56. Died -".Sweeney was convicted of Balmer's attempted murder in November 2001 and sentenced to life. He denied any involvement in or knowledge of the two murders, indeed he tried to suggest Fields may have been the victim of Anthony Hardy, a serial killer at large in Camden, two of whose victims were prostitutes and who lived a few hundred yards from the Regent's Canal.But for today's convictions, Sweeney would shortly have been able to apply for parole.Rejection was not in Sweeney's lexicon, the jury heard. Both Halstead and Balmer were attacked as a result. As for Fields, with whom he also had a sexual relationship, the motive may have simply been he believed she stole money and his phone from him for drugs.When arrested in his cell at Gartree prison, Leicestershire, last April for the two murders, police discovered another drawing, an image of a headless body dissected into 13 pieces in the way Fields's had been. As the jury heard, time had failed to dim Sweeney's fascination and preoccupation with dismemberment.