The complex and vague fraud laws in England and Wales should be simplified to create a single offence of fraud, the government's official law reform body says today.A single, comprehensive definition of criminal fraud would mean simpler indictments and trials would be shorter and less confusing for juries, argues the law commission. The issue was referred to the commission four years ago by the then home secretary, Jack Straw, who asked it to review the law on fraud to see if it could be made more comprehensible to juries. Four years on, the government has decided to remove the most complex fraud cases, possibly around a dozen a year, from juries and have them tried by a judge alone. The government faces a battle over the highly controversial measure and those who oppose any inroads on jury trial will see the law commission's proposals as strong ammunition for their case. They are certain to argue that the move would be unnecessary with simpler fraud laws. The commission says existing fraud laws suffer from "undue complexity and vagueness". There is no one offence of fraud, but eight separate offences of deception under the theft acts, such as obtaining property by deception, and obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception. There is also a common law offence of conspiracy to defraud, used when two or more people plan a fraud together. The result is that the wrong offence may be charged, leading to unjustified acquittals. Several different offences may need to be charged in one indictment to cover all the fraudulent conduct, leading to long and confusing trials. A single general offence of fraud should be drawn up to replace the eight deception offences and the common law crime of conspiracy to defraud, says the commission. The new definition of fraud would be: "Where a person dishonestly makes a false representation, or wrongfully fails to disclose information, or secretly abuses a position of trust with intent to gain or to cause loss or expose another to the risk of loss."