Police are investigating an alleged attempt to kill a former KGB double agent who spied on Russia for British intelligence during the cold war.Oleg Gordievsky, 69, one of Britain's most important double agents in the 1980s, says he was poisoned at his home in Surrey in a Russian assassination attempt. He said that after falling unconscious for 34 hours he was taken to a private clinic where he spent two weeks recovering. He still has no feeling in his fingers."I've known for some time that I am on the assassination list drawn up by rogue elements in Moscow," he told the Mail on Sunday. "It was obvious to me I had been poisoned."Last night sources familiar with the case told the Guardian detectives were taking Gordievsky's claims seriously, although no evidence had come to light to support his allegation that he had been poisoned by Russian agents. They also said there were concerns about the former Soviet colonel's wellbeing.In yesterday's interview Gordievsky said he was the latest victim of revenge attacks by the same Russian intelligence agents who murdered Alexander Litvinenko, a Russian spy who criticised the Kremlin, in London in 2006. "The targets for assassination are well known," he said. "First Boris Berezovsky [the multimillionaire oligarch and critic of the Kremlin, who lives in London], next the prime minister of Chechnya, then Litvinenko and then I was fourth. Now I remain third."Gordievsky accused MI6 of trying to cover up the incident. "I realised they wanted to hush up the crime," he said. "There has been accusation and counter-accusation. If they are saying I am not affected by the poison, why did I spend two weeks in hospital?"Gordievsky was the highest ranking Soviet spy to defect to the west. From 1982 to 1985 he passed information to British security while serving as KGB bureau chief in London, running Soviet intelligence-gathering and espionage in the UK.His cover was blown - possibly by the US double agent Aldrich Ames - and he was recalled to Moscow and kept under close surveillance, but managed to escape to the UK in 1985.In October he was honoured by the Queen at Buckingham Palace in recognition of his services to UK security.He was made a Companion of the Most Distinguished Order of St Michael and St George (CMG), the same accolade held by the fictional spy James Bond, as relations between Russia and the UK reached their lowest point since the Soviet era following the murder of Litvinenko and Russia's threat to target Europe with nuclear missiles.Last night Surrey police confirmed there was an ongoing investigation into Gordievsky's claim that he had been the victim of an assassination attempt but declined to comment further.