There was no mistaking the sound of gunfire. Even in the most incongruous and unexpected of settings - a sunny, afternoon in a pub garden full of families and children - those eight loud cracks were wearily familiar.'One minute I was opening a packet of crisps for my wee boy, and the next the world was exploding around us,' said one man, still so shaken by the memory of last Sunday's drive-by shooting at the Arch Bar in Manchester that he insists on remaining anonymous. 'I just grabbed my son and dived under the table. I could see women and children running out of the garden, screaming and crying ... it was all so chaotic and unreal. My son and I huddled under the table until the police came.'In a city where more than 3,000 firearm incidents have been logged in the past 15 months, the sound of shots is just background noise for too many people. But last week's ambush, which left a 25-year-old man struggling to survive serious wounds to his leg and abdomen, has taken gang warfare in Manchester, mainly black on black, to a new level.'The community has become hardened to living in the middle of violence that most people in the country see only in films, but even we are reeling from last week's attack,' said Erinma Bell, chair of Community Alliance for Renewal, Inner South Manchester Area (Carisma), which she set up in2002 to tackle gang violence and improve the life of young people in the inner Manchester area of Moss Side. 'Shootings used to take place at night and be focused on a specific person, but this attack showed a new level of violence,' she said. 'It stepped up the danger to us all through its complete, brazen disregard not only for the law but for the lives of all the other, innocent, people all around that day.''Gun crime is a reality around here, but those of us living in this community don't understand why it's happening,' added Bell, whose dedication was lauded in Gordon Brown's book, Britain's Everyday Heroes.UK gun crime is still rare, but the numbers injured by firearms in England and Wales has more than doubled since 1998, with London, Greater Manchester and the West Midlands accounting for 54 per cent of recorded incidents. So concerned has the government become that last February Tony Blair held a gun crime summit at which plans were outlined for more funding for community groups and tougher punishments for offenders.The man at the centre of the Arch Bar attack was more fortunate than 15-year-old Jessie James, who was gunned down last year in his local park. The day after the Arch Bar shooting, Jessie's mother, Barbara Reid, told how her son had been murdered for refusing to join a gang.'The gangs made Jessie's life a living hell,' she said. 'He was cornered, pointed out and intimidated at every opportunity. He was coerced and compelled to join the gang. Time and time again Jessie humiliated the gangsters to their faces by saying no. This infuriated them and because they could not stand his rejection, they killed him. He was shot repeatedly and left to die alone like an animal.'The history of south Manchester's street gangs goes back to the 1980s, when violence flourished between the notorious crime syndicate Gooch Close, named after a road on Moss Side's Alexandra Park estate, clashed with the north side rivals and the Cheetham Hill and Pepperhill Mobs, who later became the Doddington Gang after the street where they had their new headquarters. In the past few years, however, the number of gangs has multiplied and the age of those involved has fallen dramatically.'While we have to remember that the number of gang members is a fraction of the youths in this area, we are now talking about children aged from 14 owning guns, and those as young as 10 coming under pressure to join a gang,' said Detective Inspector Paul Miller of Excalibur, the task force set up by Greater Manchester police to combat gun crime.There are thought to be up to 30 groups operating mostly to the south of the city centre. Newcomers include the OT Cripz from Old Trafford, Rusholme Cripz and Fallowfield Mandem - all of which claim affiliation to the original and still notorious Gooch gang. Members of these newer gangs already bear grudges against the Longsight Crew, Young Doddington Crew and MSB (Moss Side Bloodz). These in turn lay claim to have ties to the original Doddington Crew.The motives have changed, too. In the past, gangs operated against a background of major drug deals and protection rackets that relied on bare-knuckle violence and knives. Now the gangs are less focused and profit is not the main motive. Some street gangs are boys who have known each other all their lives, who simply like hanging out together under a name. Others scrape enough to buy flash clothes and accessories by dealing in drugs and committing burglaries and muggings.The reality that terrifies the community is that these boys are learning to communicate first and foremost with guns. 'They've nothing else in their lives apart from their desperate need to feel a sense of power over others on the street,' said Bell. 'Their days and nights revolve around whether they feel "disrespected" by their peers or whether some petty grievance of other has flared up into a score that needs to be settled.'What even police find hard to comprehend is how these gangs coexist within what the press call the Triangle of Death; an area south-east of the city centre comprising Longsight, Hulme, Chorlton-on-Medlock and Moss Side. 'These gangs exist in small areas, often separated simply by the width of a single road,' said Miller. 'Their territories are so close that it's very easy to wander from one area to another without noticing. It's a mystery how they live like that, but although they are at each others' throats many members of these gangs have known each other intimately for years.'Such geographical closeness leads to intriguing situations. 'It is not uncommon to have different members of the same family going with different factions, or even gang members moving from one group to the other,' Miller said.Such disorganisation has served only to make the gangs more reckless, he said. 'One of the most common shooting styles we see now is for bullets to be randomly fired into a group of people because there's one or two in there being targeted. Shots are fired from a moving car, from a distance by people with no expertise with a firearm. The fact that they are highly unlikely to hit the right person no longer seems to bother them.'The Arch Bar was one such attack. It was, say witnesses, sheer chance an innocent bystander or child wasn't shot down. It is assumed by locals to be yet another tit-for-tat revenge attack, this time for the murder of 23-year-old father-of-three Tyrone Gilbert, who was killed on 27 July in a drive-by shooting just half a mile away as he attended the wake of 24-year-old Ucal Chin, who was shot dead in June.Manchester's Chief Constable, Michael Todd, last week admitted that tracking gun crime had become his 'greatest priority'. He announced a £500,000 package, 70 extra officers, as well as armed units on constant patrol, mounted officers and high-speed cars ready to race to crime scenes. 'We will be relentless in bringing these people to justice. We are never going to let this city go back to the old "Gunchester" days.'Locals have heard such promises before. 'There's this cycle that just goes round and round,' said Patsy McKie, who founded the group Mothers Against Violence when her son, Dorrie, was gunned down in 1999. 'There is a shooting, followed by community complaints that there is nothing for youths to do. This is followed by promises by the police and local authorities of regeneration, which do achieve a drop in gun crimes, but then there's another spate of shootings and the cycle begins all over again.'While the police claim there has been a drop in gang-related shooting, McKie is sceptical: 'I don't know if numbers have gone down, but I know we have buried three young people in the last three months, and have one more funeral to go. You can't ask me to celebrate statistics when the reality is that you have a community living in fear.'Locals agree. For them, motiveless attacks have become a way of life. Last week friends of Jessie James sat in the park, yards from where he was shot, and quietly disagreed with his mother's assertion that he was killed because he refused to join a gang. 'It's worse than that. He was shot for no reason at all,' said one boy who said he knew Jessie well. 'The gangs come over here in taxis and even on bicycles, and just blaze out. Lots of kids have lost innocent people like Jessie. It's made people realise it's not like the old days any more. There ain't no glamour now, or glory. It's not about gangs fighting each other for respect. It's about hitting innocent people.'In a nearby street a 20-year-old youth worker, who also asked not to be identified, admits he has no idea why he was shot in a drive-by shooting last June just hours after he returned from taking disadvantaged children on a holiday to Spain. 'I was still wearing my flip-flops and just rolling down the street telling people I was back when this black car drew up beside me and let rip,' he said, display the scars where the bullet ripped through his arm. 'It's tempting to join a gang to get protection, but I'm too smart for that. If I'm not in a gang, I might get killed at random, but if I am in a gang I'll get killed deliberately for certain.'While some youths do join gangs for protection, others are groomed into it. One youth worker described the process she has seen in the club she helps run.'These young people don't wake up one morning and say "I'm going to get a gun and be in a gang",' she said. 'In my club, there are a few boys in their early twenties who were priming and prepping the younger kids.'The method, she said, was to identify the poorest, most vulnerable children and shower them with attention, money and gifts. 'They then ask the younger boys to do them a favour - pick up a drugs package or look after a weapon. If the boys refuse, the pressure starts. Once they give in, the older boys have something to blackmail them with.'Bell, who was on the committee that wrote the report for Communities Secretary Hazel Blears into how to improve the prospects of young, black men, is keen to emphasise the gang issue is not confined to black boys: 'The hand that pulls that trigger can be any colour.'It can also be girls, according to 21-year-old Reaghelle Peltier, co-founder of Next Generation, a community project that creates jobs for local youths. 'People don't like to believe it, but a lot of females are involved in gun crime,' she said. 'They're the ones who hold the guns for the men. Every time there's a nightclub shooting, that gun has been slipped in by a girl who knew she wouldn't get searched. Some are threatened into doing it, some are bribed with money, but the majority do it willingly because they love having a thug for a boyfriend and will do anything for him.'Bell believes that by focusing on the individuals committing the crimes the government is evading its responsibility for the core problem. 'This is a national issue,' she said. 'Our youths are firing guns because there are guns to be fired. How has it become possible for them to get those weapons? Where are they coming from and why aren't they being stopped? If the supply of weapons is continuous, it will never stop.'Another problem, said Khan Moghal, chief executive of the Manchester Council for Community Relations, is that the younger gang members are now so out of control that they are unstoppable. 'Many older gang members are as horrified as anyone else at the spiral of violence and don't want to be in this any more because the stakes are raised and they have families and don't want to die,' he said. 'We know that some older ones want to patch up with the other side, but the younger elements are not listening .'Peltier agrees: 'People our age are saying the children are running wild ... I have family members who are members of both side of gangs, but even I had a childhood. Kids don't play today. They don't know about water fights in the sun or going on bike rides for fun. If they do ride their bikes, they put their balaclavas on first. If they do sit down and talk, it's about who got shot at most recently.'It is a trend that scares McKie. 'I'm terrified for the upcoming generation,' she said. 'We're creating a generation of traumatised children. They're having to confront death far too young and are not receiving any special counselling for it. You see them walking around; they're cold and hard. They look at you to intimidate you.'But Bell has proof that seemingly untouchable gang members can be reached. She and her husband opened a room in their house to young men on Sundays to play computer games and relax. 'We had boys from different gangs who might have gunned each other down had they met on the street, but in my house they were just ordinary boys.'By the end of last year, 25 young men were regularly coming. 'I asked why they liked it and they said because it was a home. They liked the smell of cooking, young children running around. They liked my husband and me bickering in a loving instead of a violent way. It was as if they needed a space to be safe in.'The violence racking Britain's citiesManchester Doddington Boys, Pitt Bull Crew, Pepperhill Gang, Gooch Close Gang, Longsight Crew. All based around the Moss Side area from where they have been fighting a vicious turf war since the Nineties.Liverpool Croxteth Crew are the rivals of the Strand Crew from Norris Green. Liam Smith, 19, alleged leader of the Strand Crew, was shot dead last year.Birmingham The Burger Bar Boys gang were responsible for the killings of Letisha Shakespeare and Charlene Ellis in 2003.London The A Team, The Bombers, Clapham's Clap Town Boys, Peckham's Blood Set and the PDC in Brixton - which claims to have renounced violence - are all established gangs. Recently a number of immigrant gangs have come to the fore.Nottingham Two members of the Waterfront Gang were jailed for life in October 2005 after being convicted of the drive-by murder of a schoolgirl.