The announcement that an independent panel is to hold an inquiry into the murder more than quarter of a century ago of a private detective, Daniel Morgan, is to be warmly welcomed. The fact that no one has ever been convicted for a killing that could and should have been speedily solved is more than shameful. We can only hope that, as with the Hillsborough panel, the decision by the home secretary helps finally to shine a light into the darkest corners of this disturbing case.Morgan, who was thought to be about to blow the whistle on police corruption, was found with an axe embedded in his head in the car park of a south London pub on 10 March, 1987. There have been five separate investigations into his death but none resulted in a conviction. The final one ended at the Old Bailey in 2011 with the abandonment of the trial of the four men in the dock.The case is scandalous on many levels: scandalous in that a young father's murder was not properly investigated in the first place; scandalous that the Morgan family were fobbed off when they sought to have the case re-opened; scandalous that the initial inquiry by the Police Complaints Authority (now the Independent Police Complaints Commission) failed to uncover the reasons behind the botched investigation; and scandalous in that an estimated £30m of public money has now been spent on the various inquiries.Had it not been for the dogged persistence of Daniel's brother, Alastair, the case would long since have been shelved. It is more than 20 years since Alastair contacted his MP after the first failure of the Metropolitan police to investigate. "Daniel died because he had found out about and was going to expose an incident of serious police corruption," he wrote then, adding that they had found the police to be "silent, evasive, arrogant".For many years afterwards, the family bashed their heads against a brick wall of indifference and worse. When the case was finally reopened in 2006 there was a heady optimism that finally the guilty would be brought to justice. This proved to be just the latest in a long line of false dawns, despite the undoubted dedication of the murder squad who would dearly have loved to have given the Morgan family that inadequate and overused word, "closure".At the end of the aborted trial, the Met's Detective Chief Superintendent Hamish Campbell expressed his regrets: "This current investigation has identified, ever more clearly, how the initial inquiry failed the family and wider public. It is quite apparent that police corruption was a debilitating factor in that investigation."Campbell accepted that there were "important issues which we need to examine now in order to understand what led to today's decision". That examination is now the remit of the new panel of inquiry. Those who thought they had got away with murder may still have reason to keep looking over their shoulders. The worrying evidence of links between the detective agency for which Morgan worked and the News of the World merely gives the panel an added and topical relevance.Theresa May is to be congratulated for instituting this panel under Sir Stanley Burnton, a retired judge. She showed herself, in the Gary McKinnon extradition case, to have, on some issues, a greater grasp of basic justice than some of her Labour predecessors.The Daniel Morgan case should count as an unresolved miscarriage of justice. It stands alongside the case of the Cardiff Three as a stain on both the police and the criminal justice system. The Hillsborough inquiry demonstrated that, even after a long passage of time, important truths can be unearthed despite the massive quantity of evidence that has to be sifted; there are some 750,000 documents related to the Morgan case. Let us hope that the new inquiry can achieve the same as Hillsborough so that Daniel's family can finally understand why his young life came to an end in the car park of the Golden Lion all those years ago and why no one has yet been jailed for it.