The first thing one has to say after such a terrible night is that – so far as we can tell – no one was killed, only property looted and burned. That's awful, and must be stopped, but it could have been worse. It usually can be.The economic cost to us all may be far beyond the mere business of cleaning up the mess and further overcrowding of our crowded jails.On hearing that there was trouble in Ealing, on my side of London, shortly before midnight, I reluctantly got out of bed and headed towards the local riot. I'm not voyeuristic, and a bit old for this sort of thing. So I gave up after my second attempt to get through to Ealing Broadway, at the comfortable western end of the District Line on the London Underground. I use the line every day.Longevity on the District Line, west to east, is a bit like travelling from Kensington to the poorer parts of Manchester or Glasgow. By the time you get to parts of east London, people are living several fewer years, on average, than in Ealing, Wimbledon or Richmond, the line's three western terminals.Was poverty or hopelessness the chief driver of last night's riots in London and other major cities – I am conscious that they are less well covered by the Guardian's live blog, though local readers can make the difference there – or was it something else?I acknowledge the case that the mayoral candidate Ken Livingstone, among others, was making in the BBC News 24 studio last night – that government cuts to educational maintenance allowances and much else, plus mayor Boris's curious concern to cut the taxes of the rich, leaves many young people feeling no one cares about them or their future. He does it very well, though he skates on some thin ice. Many people agree.But watching the TV pictures of arson and looting in London suburbs and the centre of Birmingham for hours last night didn't leave me with that impression. As a poster on the Guardian's live blog put it, "they weren't rioting for food, but for luxury goods".Even Diane Abbott, Hackney's leftwing Labour MP, seemed sobered by the violence. "These young people are trashing their own community," she kept saying. And "it's going to be very hard to get investment back".That was the sort of impression I reinforced at the police cordon in Ealing at midnight too, one in which alienated – do I mean mindless? I'm not sure – anger provided the fuel. This was an anger riot, psychological, not economic.Ealing is a comically respectable London suburb, part Victorian with plenty of later infill. The riots centred on shops in Haven Green, quite close to the legendary Ealing film studios and not far from the North Circular Road.Its shopping centre has taken an economic beating in recent years, the most recent from the huge Westfield centre, which opened in nearby Shepherd's Bush last year and survived last night in one piece. I know because I drove around the nearby Victorian suburbs – Shepherd's Bush, Hammersmith, Chiswick, Gunnersbury and Acton at 1am to check that all was quiet.It was. Bin men and rail gangs were busy doing overnight jobs as usual, though the night buses all looked pretty empty. Only in Acton – next to Ealing and not so comfortable – were there groups of young men (they all look feral at that age) still on the streets. Perhaps it's always the case (I rarely drive at that time of night), but probably not.What impressed me most from my excursion was the attitude of civilians at the police cordon across the Uxbridge Road which leads from the North Circular into Ealing shopping centre. From what I could piece together, some rioters had passed by an hour or so earlier, smashing car windows in this ultra-respectable area overlooking a green, and frightening people.They tried to barricade the road, but the police moved in and they ran off towards the east – about 100 of them, so I was told. By midnight, the law – about a dozen cops, no riot shields – were frisking anyone who wanted to pass their line to go home, though I saw them let a young family through with an encouraging wave.Some of the coppers were being a bit aggressive. "STAY BACK WHEN I SAY STAY BACK," one kept bellowing. There again, some of the young men, aged 25 or so, were really pushing it. Rioters or mere pedestrians, it was hard to tell. "What planet do they live on?" I asked myself, much as a later interviewee (his shop had been burned down, putting 15 jobs at risk) asked of candidate Ken on BBC News 24. The testosterone count was high on both sides.More eloquent still was the bloke fuming outside the cordon. Fiftysomething, I'd say, he was a local resident whose car had been trashed. The police had seen what was going on and backed off. "Report it to your police station," they told him, which seems reasonable enough to me, but not to Matey."I hope they fucking get smashed up tonight," he said and – repeatedly – "they wonder why we hate them when they behave like this".His young friends, seated nearby, seemed to be treating the night as a bit of a joke, but shared his underlying attitude: it was the cops, not the kids, though actually both at different times.Watching TV interviews, you caught some of the same confusions. Self-appointed spokesfolk for "the youth" started out attacking economic conditions, but ended up deploring the riots, which were hurting their own communities. They praised the police for restraint, but condemned them for not doing more to quell the unrest.The cops were nice enough to me, as they tend to be to white-haired old gents. They wouldn't let me through, and referred me to Scotland Yard and its website for information – ho ho. I tried to get through by a side road. But a stream of pedestrians and motorists told me: "You can't get through there, there's a burning car." All this in streets where many of the houses must cost £1m or more.Why so angry? Well, that's a deeper question which I ask when I read the threads on blogs or Twitter every day, listen to phone-ins or read the letters pages.Incidentally, I had not realised, until the Guardian explained, that my BlackBerry is such a subversive tool, virtually a rioter's brick. Thank God the Ealing cops did not frisk me too!Of course, most people aren't that angry, and most of those who are don't riot. Despite the mayhem on TV – exaggerated by TV's tendency to keep re-showing the same violent scenes without explaining every time that it is recycled footage – most angry people don't riot and loot either.This was small groups of adolescent opportunists, copycats and wannabe consumers, some of whom may this morning be inspecting their loot with sinking hearts. What's actually the point of most of the stuff we're encouraged to buy? It usually disappoints at one level or another, so there must be some sad little hoodies waking up to realise that three new pairs of Nike trainers haven't made them happier after all. Good.But it can't be allowed to go on, and that probably means the police – wary of excessive force after years of public disdain for it and associated mistakes – will get a public mandate to get tougher. I have not yet dared to read today's Daily Mail, and the rougher redtops will be far worse.Water cannon? Plastic bullets? The army? A curfew? Sensible people have been talking about them and no doubt David Cameron, hastily back from Tuscany, has been taking advice on such options at his Cobra meeting in Whitehall.Water cannon and plastic bullets are used "without anyone batting an eyelid" in Northern Ireland – riots there lately – the experienced and level-headed Tory MP, Colonel Patrick Mercer, said this morning.It may come to that. I have been on the receiving end of water cannon myself during a police riot in Panama City years ago, and it is not pleasant.But when defenders of the 16-year-old girl whose rough treatment by police in Tottenham on Saturday – you do remember Tottenham? – seem to concede that she had thrown a champagne bottle at them, you realise times have changed. Remember, anger works both ways, as the counter-rage already shows on Facebook, and the police will get a freer hand as a result.A 16-year-old girl in a riot? Yes? And she wasn't the oldest, the youngest or the only one. Throwing a very heavy champagne bottle? Anger, champagne and heavy bottles add up to a potent arsenal.Social deprivation is part of this story, but not, I fear, the larger part. At bottom, these were not riots for social justice, but for Nike shoes – in Ealing and Croydon, for heaven's sake.Truly, as Napoleon almost said, the British are a nation of shoppers.