Crime in England and Wales has fallen by 11%, according to the latest figures from the British Crime Survey, published today.The survey - which is regarded by the government and many analysts as the most authoritative study - is based on thousands of interviews asking about people's experiences of crime. Its findings also indicated there had been a 10% fall in the kind of offences it records as violent crime. The latest BCS figures, released by the Home Office, compared data from last year with that for 2003. They suggested that the risk of becoming a victim of crime was 24% - the lowest since the survey began in 1981. However, the simultaneous publication of a second set of crime statistics by the Home Office prompted a political row over violent crime. Figures detailing the number of crimes recorded by police showed a year-on-year rise of 9% in violent crime in the final quarter of last year.The police figures, which also showed a general total fall in crime, were seized on by the Tories as proof that violent crime had risen "very fast" under Labour.But the prime minister, Tony Blair, dismissed the disparities between the "authoritative" BCS and the police recorded crime figures. Mr Blair attributed the increase in violent crime in the police figures to changes in the way in which the data was calculated. "Recorded and violent crime has risen, but that is because, for example, we [now] ask people to come forward in domestic violence crime and rape cases," he said. "There are common assaults that are included in the figures that were not included before."Both sets of figures showed there had been a sharp increase in the use of replica and imitation firearms, with the police figures concluding there had been a 66% increase in these offences.The biggest fall came in what police describe as the "volume crimes" that affect the largest number of people, such as burglaries and car crime.The police figures suggested there had been a total fall of 5% in the number of crimes recorded by police in England and Wales - a smaller decrease than the BCS statistics indicated. Alan Travis, the Guardian's home affairs editor, said today's crime figures brought "good news and bad news for Labour", adding that the "headline numbers show that the crime rate, which has been falling overall since 1995, continues in a downward direction". He noted that Mr Blair had recently promised to reduce crime by a further 15%, and today's figures showed the prime minister had "already got at least 5% of this in his pocket". Commenting on the rise of imitation firearms, he said it was "no wonder Tony Blair has promised to introduce a 'reduction of violent crime bill' within a month of the general election".The police figures showed violence against the person had risen by 10% from October to December last year to 258,200 recorded offences, compared with 234,000 in the same period the year before. They said firearms offences in the year to December also rose 10% compared with 2003 - reaching 11,082 - including a leap in the number of incidents involving imitation firearms.The total number of crimes recorded by police in England and Wales fell 5% in the quarter to 1,381,400, compared with the same period the previous year. Robbery fell by 6%, domestic burglary by 17% and vehicle thefts by 16%.Sexual offences increased by 18%, but this was thought to be due to attempts by the government and police to encourage victims to report the crimes.The BCS said the number of fatal injuries from firearm incidents had fallen by 9% to 70 in 2004, and the number of serious injuries had dropped 12% to 390. However, there had been a 74% leap in the number of slight injuries, from 1,754 in 2003 to 3,051 in 2004.· Election blog: Investigating the crime figures