Only one in 17 women reporting a rape will see her assailant convicted, according to the latest official figures, which show that rape convictions have dropped to a new low.Figures for 2001 reveal that only 5.8% of reported rapes end with a conviction, down from 7.5% in 1999 and 33% in 1977. The number of rapes reported to the police rose 27% last year to 11,441. A report yesterday from the Fawcett Society, a women's equality organisation, found that rape victims face a "postcode lottery" in the way they are dealt with after an attack. There are just seven specialist sexual assault referral centres in England, where rape victims can see a woman doctor and a counsellor and can report the attack to specially trained police officers. Only 18% of the forensic medical examiners are women, so most rape victims cannot be guaranteed an examination by a woman doctor. The seven specialist rape centres are in Manchester, London, Leicester and Swindon, and in Northumberland, Lancashire and Cambridgeshire. The Fawcett Society's commission on women and the criminal justice system - which includes peers, lawyers, police officers, crown prosecutors and a high court judge - called for similar centres elsewhere, backed up by a national 24-hour rape crisis helpline. The commission urged the director of public prosecutions, Sir David Calvert-Smith, to undertake that only specially trained barristers would be allowed to conduct rape prosecutions. "We found it was a postcode lottery how rape victims are treated," said Vera Baird, a criminal QC and Labour MP for Redcar, who chairs the commission. "If you are going to be raped, you should try to arrange to be raped in an area where there is a sexual assault referral centre." She said rape complainants were treated at the centres "like a patient and not like a witness". She added: "We call on the government in the very short term to establish a network of centres to ensure there is one in every major centre of population." Targets should be set to improve the way rape cases are handled and prosecuted, she said. The inquiry was unique because the commissioners interviewed up to 50 women with experience of the criminal justice system, said Ms Baird. The report recommended that every women who complained of rape or domestic violence should have a specialist police officer allocated throughout the case.