News coverage of police forces undercounting some of the most serious violent crimes and Swindon getting rid of speed cameras has overshadowed a more important issue. There has been an almost 20% decline in the number of traffic police in England and Wales over the last decade according to new government figures analysed by the AA.It is alarming that there are now 1,507 fewer police officers engaged in patrolling the roads than there were 10 years ago. The figures came out in a written Commons answer to a question posed by opposition transport secretary, Teresa Villiers.I have been arguing for some time that we need more cops in cars to target crooks in cars. If the police target disqualified drivers and those who cause motoring offences they will be more effective in reducing general crime. A speed camera does not pick up a car with stolen plates but a traffic cop can. We need to reverse this trend and increase traffic cops not only to make our roads safer but to make society safer. We should never forget that it was a police officer on traffic duty who caught the Yorkshire Ripper.Research shows a strong link between those committing motoring offences and other general crimes. Some serious criminals are slipping through the net undetected due to this massive decrease in traffic police.The research from TRL (The correlation between motoring and other types of offence, Broughton, J TRL, UK) examines the link between traffic offences and criminal offences in Great Britain statistically by linking offence data from DVLA and the Home Office. A sample of more than 52,000 drivers was selected from DVLA records and matched with the Home Office Offenders Index. The numbers of motoring and non-motoring offences committed by these drivers between 1999 and 2003 were compared and show a strong correlation. Men who committed between four and eight non-motoring offences committed on average 21 times as many serious motoring offences as men who committed no non-motoring offences. The research also found that those who commit general crimes are much more likely to be disqualified drivers.Almost three quarters of AA members believe that roads would be safer if money was spent improving accident trouble spots rather than more speed cameras, according to an AA/Populus panel of 17,500 members. When asked to pick one way of making the roads safer, 72% selected road and junction improvements, 25% thought more traffic police and just 4% said more speed cameras.These results highlight the dilemma over cameras as the debate rages due to Swindon's decision to cut camera funding. The AA believes there are good arguments both for and against speed cameras. But cameras are just one weapon to use in the road safety fight. Our problem with them is that quite often they are seen as the first and last resort. Sometimes, a simple junction improvement would be far more effective than the placing of a speed camera, which leaves the dangerous junction still in place. Cameras have slowed motorists down and road safety has benefited. The cameras have sent out a message that it's not OK to speed. But cameras are over-deployed. Some are in the wrong places. There has been one on a slip road to a motorway on which motorists have to speed up to join much-faster moving vehicles on the motorway. Thousands of drivers have been caught there. More traffic police would help. Cameras can show no discretion. They cannot be flexible. Sometimes a word from a police officer about your driving can have a huge impact and can show you the errors of your ways.Making UK roads safer requires a broad approach with safe cars, safe drivers, safe roads and more cops in cars. Keeping these measures in balance is the key. In Scotland traffic police levels have been maintained while the 20% cut in England and Wales is allowing many criminals to get away.