The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday September 23 2006In the article below we refer to the death of Fiona Stephenson and say she was tracked down and murdered by her ex-husband. Her family would like to make clear that she was not estranged from her husband, and was living with him at the time of her death. On a cold February morning last year, Colette Lynch was stabbed to death on her doorstep. She was 24 and the mother of three small children. Her death was witnessed by neighbours, some of who tried to revive her at the scene. It was also witnessed by two members of her family. Helen Lynch, her mother, ran out of the house in an attempt to protect her daughter. She was also stabbed but survived. Lynch's two-year-old daughter, Tia, was in the arms of the killer when he struck.The death of Lynch has resulted in serious criticism of the conduct of two agencies - the police and mental health services - both of which, her family believe, let both Lynch and her killer down, and must bear some responsibility for her death.The killer was 35-year-old Percy Wright, Lynch's partner and father of Tia. In the months before she died, Lynch, her friends and family, and Wright's GP had been desperately seeking help for Wright from mental health services. They also begged for protection for Lynch. In the previous few weeks, Wright had become very hostile and aggressive, and had threatened to kill her.Lynch met Wright in 2000, when she was a single mother of two children. "She was vulnerable and, like many young, single mothers, had experienced depression," says her sister, Patricia Lynch. However, as Wright's mental health deteriorated, Lynch became more and more desperate to get him help and to protect her children from his wild mood swings.On February 1, two days before Lynch was stabbed to death, Wright came to her home and screamed that he was going to cut her throat. He then smashed the front room window before leaving, promising that he would be back. Lynch called the police and reported the incident. But, in contravention of their own policy on domestic violence, police failed to arrest Wright. Lynch contacted them again to insist on pressing charges but, again, no action was taken. Several of Lynch's friends and family phoned the police on her behalf, but the police failed to respond. The incident was not recorded as a crime, and nor was a report followed up that Wright was at large and carrying knives.Any thorough risk assessment of Lynch's case should have rung alarm bells for all the agencies involved, particularly because a recent tragedy bore all the hallmarks of her circumstances.Exactly one month before Lynch was killed, Fiona Stephenson, whom the Lynch family knew, was stabbed to death by her ex-husband. Having been under the care of the mental health services for a year, he was discharged from hospital without the family being informed as to how potentially dangerous he was. Three months later, he tracked down and stabbed Stephenson to death in what was described as a "frenzied attack".Prevent tragedyThis case did not, however, result in lessons being learned that would prevent a similar tragedy. "When I told Colette about Fiona," recalls Helen Lynch, "she went very quiet. I think she saw her life flash before her eyes."The day before she was killed, Lynch told her sister Patricia: "It must take someone to get murdered before the police will do anything."Had the police's domestic violence policy been followed, Lynch's life might have been saved. The Association of Chief Police Officers' guidance on investigating domestic violence states: "Where a power of arrest exists in the context of domestic violence it will normally be necessary for the officer to exercise that power."Davina James-Hanman, project director for the Greater London Domestic Violence Project, says: "This was a wholly avoidable tragedy, with multiple opportunities for effective intervention. It just shows that domestic violence is still not taken seriously by the very people on whom women's lives often depend."Helen Lynch believes her daughter was treated "with contempt" by the agencies she approached for help, and that she became despairing and depressed at the lack of support. "She had a black partner, three mixed race children, and lived on a council estate," she says. "I often wonder if she would have been treated better if her circumstances had been different."Wright's mental health had been deteriorating in the months leading up to the incident, with his family and Lynch desperately trying to access emergency intervention from the Linden Unit, a mental health crisis centre in her home town, Rugby. And Wright's GP had repeatedly been requesting a psychiatric assessment.On January 31, four days before she was killed, Lynch had taken Wright to the unit, begging for help. Nothing was done. On February 1, the day Wright smashed Lynch's window and threatened to kill her, she again begged the unit to detain him. Again, nothing happened.Lynch's brother, Joseph, called the Linden Unit twice on February 2, telling staff he felt there was an immediate risk posed to her life. On the day she died, he called the unit eight times. Five of the calls were to the crisis team.One exchange between a nurse and a police communications centre officer, which took place over the phone two days before Lynch was stabbed to death, makes chilling reading. Wright had voluntarily attended the local hospital, but later dismissed himself. As a result of calls from Lynch, a police operator contacted the nurse who had attended to Wright to ask whether he should come back to hospital. "Well no, thank you very much," she says. "Not if he is carrying knives, no." The nurse goes on to say: "If he's willing to come to A&E to be assessed, fine, but given his current state and given his aggression and risks, I wouldn't particularly be happy assessing him down there." To which the operator replied: "Right, OK. No worries."The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) official in charge of the investigation into police conduct wrote in the report that this exchange was an example of "a shortcoming ... in empathy for Colette's predicament".The family is also deeply critical of the role of social services in relation to the care of both Lynch (who herself had mental health problems, and was thought to be vulnerable) and Wright. The family is concerned that social services failed to identify that Lynch and her children were at risk from Wright, despite the fact that they had acknowledged that his young nephew, who had been living with them, was at risk and took steps to protect him. The family say that, on February 2, social services failed to respond to Joseph Lynch's phone calls, informing the crisis team about Wright's violent conduct and threats to kill, or to the many calls he made on the day his sister was killed.Diminished responsibilityIn August 2005, Wright was convicted of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility and sent to a secure psychiatric unit for an indefinite period. The family have no way of knowing his release date. "I wouldn't be surprised if I opened the door one day and saw him standing there," says Helen Lynch.The effects of the case on Lynch's family are immeasurable. "All our lives changed when Colette died," says her mother. "We just keep thinking, 'What if?', and feeling regret that we could not protect her." The family live in hope that lessons learned from Lynch's death will prevent it happening to other women."We will keep going," says Patricia Lynch, "not because we can bring her back, but in order to expose the scorn and contempt with which Collette was treated by those who are supposed to protect."Lawyers representing the family called for the case to be passed on to the IPCC, which published its findings last month. The report contains several recommendations, including that all reported domestic violence incidents are brought to the attention of a supervisory officer, and that the force's domestic violence, call handling and crime reporting policies be reviewed and improved.After the report was published, Assistant Chief Constable Nick Croft, of Warwickshire police, said: "We have learned the lessons from this incident and, as a force, we took immediate steps to address the failings in our service."West Midlands strategic health authority is to hold an independent inquiry, following a report by the North Warwickshire primary care trust (PCT), in which several failings in the system were identified. "Any recommendations contained in the forthcoming report will be taken very seriously indeed," says Simon Crews, communications manager for the PCT.The Lynch family are determined that, as a result of the inquiries and the ongoing campaign to expose the failures in the system of care towards both Lynch and Wright, no other family will have to endure the pain that is, for them, a daily reality. "On the day we lost our beautiful daughter," says Helen Lynch, "we lost all faith in the police, mental health and social services. How they can call themselves emergency services is beyond me."· Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".