A wealthy landowner has been found guilty of murdering his wife after she demanded a divorce settlement of £800,000.Adrian Prout killed his estranged wife, Kate, in November 2007 after falling in love with a house-sitter and having a string of bitter rows, Bristol crown court.Mrs Prout, a former teacher, went missing from the couple's £1.2m farm in Gloucestershire on 5 November and her body has not been found.Prout denied murder but the jury heard details of how their relationship became violent. On one occasion Prout, 47, pushed his 55-year-old wife so hard against a car that she dented the bodywork and on another occasion he threatened to kill her by throwing her into their swimming pool.He had once boasted that he knew "people who could get rid of bodies", it was alleged.The judge, Mr Justice Nigel Davis, adjourned sentencing until Monday but indicated that the mandatory life sentence would be handed down.The court heard that Prout was confronted with an increased divorce demand the day before his wife went missing.Paul Dunkels, prosecuting, said Prout offered his wife a settlement of £600,000 but after discussion with accountants she demanded £800,000.It emerged in court that he fell for his house-sitter, Diane Bellamy, and sent her a text message on 5 November – the day his wife was last seen – telling her he loved her.At one point after Mrs Prout vanished, Bellamy confronted him about her. The jury was told Prout replied: "Don't ask me. They've taken her away. Don't ask me any questions." He later told her: "If you do the crime, you do the time".Officers searched Redhill farm in Redmarley for five weeks using underwater search teams, aerial surveillance and ground penetrating radar. Officers sifted through animal excrement in the belief she may have been fed to the animals.After the verdict, Mrs Prout's brother, Richard Wakefield, urged Prout to tell them where the body was. ""Then we can bring her back and give her a proper burial. All we are looking for is closure. I have sat through every day of the trial because I wanted the full facts."I have known for a long time that Kate is dead. If she was alive she would never have allowed everything to go forward like this."She left everything behind – car keys, handbag, cheque book, credit cards, purse and makeup. She would never go out without her makeup. If she was going to go away she would have told me."Wakefield said it had been difficult watching Adrian Prout – who has a new partner with whom he now has a child – move on with his life. "He was married to my sister and has another lady now with a young child. He's just moved on."Acting Detective Superintendent Neil Kelly appealed to Prout. "The fact that we never had a body meant we had to introduce far more circumstantial evidence to try and establish certain facts in a much more difficult way."It has been a very frustrating investigation in that respect. We had to prove that Kate was dead, without a body. We had to prove that someone killed her, and finally that Adrian Prout was the one who did it."Unless Prout reveals the whereabouts of the body it may never be known how she was killed or what happened to her since, Kelly said.