In the Broadwater Farm community centre preparations were being made all day for the family's wake for Mark Duggan, the man shot last week by police in Tottenham.Organisers said they hoped it would be a quiet occasion for family and people who knew Duggan, whose death was the initial trigger for the wave of violence that spread through the country this week.There would be music, food, a chance for people to play dominoes, and talk to each other. Speeches would be saved for the funeral, expected to be held in September.But there was anxiety that the event could become politicised, and attended by a wider cross-section of people from the estate and local community, coming to register their concerns about the role of the police in Duggan's death.Community organisers were in touch with the police, anxious to ensure the occasion would be policed sensitively.The suggestion that the IPCC may have led journalists to believe that Duggan shot at police was likely to further antagonise the local community, already feeling angry at the police's actions both before and after his death.There was already considerable cynicism locally about the police account of the death, according to Clasford Stirling, who runs the Broadwater Farm community centre, and who was helping arrange the wake. "The police very speedily went to the press and said he shot at the police. It has all gone pear-shaped for them. Why lie in the first place? Is all the rest of what they tell us going to be lies?"He said the inconsistencies in the police account of what happened was making a much wider section of the local community angry about Duggan's death than might otherwise have taken a view."Everyone's involved now. I hope the family can handle it."On Thursday tensions were raised on the estate when five riot vans and three police cars drove through the centre."It's very, very unusual to have that. I only hope that kind of sightseeing doesn't happen tonight; it's going to be so sensitive. This will be local people paying their respects. I'm not expecting any trouble. We're not going to tolerate any trouble. But people have said they hope the police don't come over and drive around in their vans, peering out of their windows."Stirling said he had known Duggan, who was 29, all his life. "Mark Duggan as a person was a nice young man. I'm not saying he was an angel. He had his fair share of problems with the police, but he was a good father. He was the same age as my son – he was like a son to me. He was not a danger to our community."He said a lot of the parents who sent their children to his club were more frightened of the rising police presence than of the violence that has hit central Tottenham. "Parents are frightened of letting their child go to football, in case they come home late and are picked up by the police," he said.Elsewhere local residents and politicians were calling for calm and asking people to wait for the outcome of the police inquiry.On a walkabout along the riot-scarred Tottenham High Road, Labour leader Ed Miliband said it was too soon to draw any conclusions about Duggan's death.He said he had just met a jeweller whose business was destroyed and expected the insurance to cover only a quarter of what he had lost."We have to help these people but we also have a responsibility to think about the root causes of what happened," he said.People needed to reflect on the theme of responsibility, he said, "the responsibility of parents is part of that" but more widely in society, "whether there is responsibility from top to bottom, among the bankers and the MPs as well."Politicians also needed to think about what opportunities were available for young people growing up in Tottenham."Also we need to think about hope, whether we can give them a legal sense of hope … people being able to get on in life and do well for themselves."At the Tottenham Green leisure centre Haringey council has set up a Community Assistance Centre, to help up to 200 people living in the 45 properties destroyed in the riots. Lance Chinnian, whose flat in the building above the Allied Carpets showroom was destroyed, said it was regrettable that concerns about Duggan's death had been overshadowed by the violence which later swept through the country."There are serious issues with police and elements of the black community, and that has to be addressed. The shame about the riots is that it has totally obscured the issue of what happened with that shooting. There are questions that need to be asked," he said.Bernice Vanier, Haringey's mayor in 2009-10, said she planned to attend Duggan's wake to pay her respects."I want to give support to the family. I have felt quite humbled by their dignity in the face of the grief they are going through. They have been extremely dignified in the way that they have tried to continue to advise people not to take the law into their own hands. That is not what they want," she said.The local Labour MP, David Lammy, said: "I have to make a distinction between what happened in Tottenham and what happened in the rest of the country, but for us in Tottenham, part of this week's events are related to Mark Duggan's death, and that's why I am calling for calm."He said there were serious questions that the police needed to answer, and stressed that it was critical that the IPCC was seen to be independent."There are questions for the police – why wasn't the family informed?" he said. "We need to get the facts out there as quickly as possibly. In the absence of facts rumours start to spread. On the estate there is a lot of concern about Mark Duggan's death because part of our youth do have experience of being stopped and searched."The Labour party had already expressed its concerns about a recent loosening of the regulations governing stop and search tactics. "We are deeply concerned about that. We need to get to grips with that," said Lammy.But he said he was hopeful that calm would prevail."The Mark Duggan family made a peaceful protest. They condemn the violence and don't want to be associated with it. All the people I speak to in Tottenham say not in our name, criminality, looting, violence, not in our name."He was interrupted by an elderly constituent who said: "Mr Lammy. I need to have a word with you."This is so terrible. It hurts to see Tottenham like this," she said pointing to the boarded-up shops and burned out houses. "I've lived here since 1958. We are not bad people. But how do you justify burning buildings over people's heads. Suppose that was your place."She urged fellow residents not to jump to conclusions about Duggan's death. "They should wait until the police investigation into what happened to Mark Duggan comes out. Wait, don't jump on the bandwagon," she said, asking not to be named."Are you the MP? It's a bit late don't you think?" a young mother, wheeling a pushchair, interrupted to say."Late for what?" he asked."All this police …""That's the situation we're in," he said. "That's the situation we're in."