Scotland Yard’s investigation into payments by journalists to police and other public officials has officially closed after five years.Operation Elveden was launched in 2011 following the phone hacking scandal at the News of the World and led to 90 arrests, most of them in dawn raids. The investigation, which cost £14.7m, was criticised by journalists who were brought to trial and out of the 29 cases against them, only one, the Sun crime reporter Anthony France, has been convicted by a jury. He is appealing against the conviction.Among the journalists acquitted of conspiring to cause misconduct in public office were the former News of the World editor Rebekah Brooks, now chief executive of News UK, Rupert Murdoch’s publishing operation.The majority of journalists were acquitted after they were able to prove the leaks were in the public interest. They ranged from information about Prince William and Prince Harry at Sandhurst, to information about high-profile murderers such as the boys who killed toddler James Bulger.Operation Elveden in numbersMany of the public officials, mostly police officers, prison officers and army staff, pleaded guilty and did not go to court. In total there were 34 convictions. A second journalist, Dan Evans, who worked at the News of the World and the Sunday Mirror, pleaded guilty to an Elveden offence.The Sun’s former news editor Chris Pharo, and its Thames Valley district reporter, Jamie Pyatt, described the operation as a “monumental error”.Among the public officials who were convicted were:April Casburn, a counter-terrorism officer jailed for offering to sell information about the phone-hacking investigation. No money changed hands and no story resulted from her telephone call. She was jailed for 15 months.Bettina Jordan Barber, a “mole” at the Ministry of Defence who made £100,000 from leaking stories to the Sun, was jailed for 12 months after verdicts were delivered in a related trial.Paul Flattley, a former Metropolitan police officer who sold information to the Sun about the Duchess of Cambridge, former footballer Paul Gascoigne, Tetra Pak heir Hans Rausing and a 15-year-old girl who died after taking drugs, was jailed for two years.Scott Chapman, an ex-prison officer who sold details about Jon Venables, one of James Bulger’s killers, to a journalist and was jailed in 2014 for three and a half years.Former police officer Simon Quinn, who was jailed for 18 months last year for leaking information to journalists about murder inquiries, including the investigation into the death of Surrey teenager Milly Dowler.Assistant commissioner Patricia Gallan described Elveden as one of the “most difficult and complex investigations” undertaken by the Met. She said nine police officers had been convicted and 21 other public officials.“Their actions caused irreparable damage to public confidence, and it is right that they faced prosecution. These were not whistleblowers but people working in some of the most trusted positions in the police, prisons and healthcare, who were only seeking to profit,” she said. 