The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday June 12 2008In a report of a court appearance by Blake Fielder-Civil, we said he pleaded guilty to grievous bodily harm with intent. He was charged with GBH with intent, but admitted a lesser charge of GBH.  The chaotic life of Amy Winehouse had its latest twist yesterday with the revelation that her husband has pleaded guilty to beating up a pub landlord and attempting to cover up the crime.Blake Fielder-Civil, who married the singer a year ago, has been on remand since November accused of assaulting James King, a pub landlord, in 2006 and of conspiring to prevent him testifying at the trial. He and three co-defendants pleaded guilty on Friday to grievous bodily harm with intent and attempting to pervert the course of justice, but reporting restrictions were imposed until yesterday because King is himself due to face trial for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, which he denies.The group will be sentenced later; GBH carries a maximum sentence of five years, while perverting the course of justice, in the most serious instances, can warrant anything up to a life sentence. Winehouse's spokesman declined to comment yesterday on the guilty plea.For Winehouse, 24, and her 26-year-old husband, it is the latest in a long line of revelations during their short but turbulent marriage that have delighted the tabloid press as much as they have alarmed the singer's management and family.The singer was rebuked a number of times by court officials at Snaresbook crown court in east London during last week's legal arguments, after shouting that the proceedings were "like Disneyland" and making a "yap yap" gesture at one of the lawyers. She mouthed "I love you" and "you are fit" at her husband, at one point brandishing a padded heart.Last month Winehouse and fellow singer and heroin addict Pete Doherty posted a bizarre video on YouTube in which they had filmed themselves playing with baby mice. At one point Winehouse adopts a baby voice and says, pretending to be one of the mice: "Blake, please don't divorce mummy! If you divorce her you'll have me to deal with. I'm only a day old but I know what love is."The singer's management and record label have struggled to keep Winehouse's career on track as her behaviour has become increasingly erratic, and repeated visits to rehab have failed to persuade her to kick her habit. She failed to show up to collect an Ivor Novello award last month, and was booed at a performance in Lisbon last week when she took to the stage an hour late.