The police commander in charge of the operation which ended in the killing of Jean Charles de Menezes told an Old Bailey jury yesterday that she had not given an order to shoot him.Deputy Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick admitted that she used the word "stop", expecting a "conventional armed challenge" from firearms officers. The 27-year-old Brazilian electrician was killed on a tube train at Stockwell station on July 22 2005 after police surveillance officers thought he was Hussain Osman, one of the failed suicide bombers who had targeted London's transport system the day before. They both lived in the same block of flats in Scotia Road in south London.Ms Dick told the jury: "The death of Mr De Menezes is a terrible tragedy and one that I, and I think the whole of the Metropolitan police, regret. I think he was the victim of the most extraordinary and terrible circumstances."Referring to her evidence on Thursday about Mr De Menezes' apparently agitated and nervous state, she added: "He also looked extraordinarily like that person who lived in the same block. Through his behaviour that day, as I understand it, that behaviour when challenged, he came to be shot." The Metropolitan police is accused of a "catastrophic" series of failures leading up to the death of Mr De Menezes, who was shot seven times by officers from the SO19 firearms squad. The Met denies a single charge under health and safety laws.Ronald Thwaites QC, defending, asked: "Did you use the word 'stop'?" She replied: "I did at one point." She also recalled using the words "challenge" and "arrest" to convey different types of stop. She said: "My anticipation was that the firearms officers would challenge the person I believed to be Nettletip [the code word for Osman]. I absolutely anticipated that it would be an armed conventional challenge."Mr Thwaites asked: "Did you give any instruction that he would be shot?" She replied: "No, I did not." Making decisions that day involved a "considerable amount of professional judgment, despite the guidelines and procedures which officers have to abide by," Ms Dick said. Asked by Mr Thwaites if other people in her position might have taken different decisions, she replied: "Possibly yes."Cross-examined by Clare Montgomery QC, prosecuting, Ms Dick agreed that the police should be accountable. She said the events of July 2005 were "unique and unprecedented".The trial continues.