Almost 48 hours after Raoul Moat allegedly embarked on a shooting spree at 2.30am on Saturday, he reportedly called at his friend Andy Mcallister's house and gave him a handwritten letter, explaining that he wanted it passed on to the police and press.Moat had visited Mcallister at around 11.30pm on Saturday, and police had spent most of Sunday interviewing Mcallister after he called to tell them he had seen Moat. Then around 1.30am on Monday, Moat is reported to have returned to deliver the letter to his friend to tell his side of the story, according to the Sun.These are extracts as reported in the Sun today:Last night I called 999 and declared war on Northumbria police before shooting an officer on the West End A69 roundabout in his T5. Sitting there waiting to bully someone. Probably a single mum who couldn't afford her car tax.Rang again and told them they're gonna pay for what they've done to me and Sam. I went straight but they couldn't let it go. The public need not fear me but the police should as I won't stop till I'm dead.On the night 3/7/10 I shot Chris Brown and Samantha Stobbart, after an argument earlier that evening, and here I will make all the facts clear so there is no misunderstanding.They took it all from me, kids, freedom, house, then Sam and Chanel. Where could I go from there? Obviously I have issues but I was pushed. I never beat my kids. I could simply admit to anything now cos it doesn't matter. I'm a killer and a maniac but I ain't no coward.I was terrified of losing Sam, as I knew I'd lose the plot and that, and not wanted to do so stopped me from ever beating her and anyone saying otherwise can go on a lie detector.Now I've realised Sam is really hurt I am gutted. I never meant that.Moat then threatens to target hospital staff if they fail to save his ex-girlfriend.Those doctors better save her or I'll hit that hospital. I still love her despite everything but my head is a mess right now and I know I'm too far gone to make much sense of it.I guess I've finally lost it. I'm not on the run, I will keep killing police until I am dead.They've hunted me for years, now it's my turn.I am very sorry about Sam and wish I hadn't shot at her. Just make sure she stays alive.I never cheated on her, I wish she hadn't on me. She pulled the trigger by doing so just as much as me.