The phenomenal pre-Christmas sales of 5m mobile phones, nearly all "pay as you talk" models, is clear evidence that many parents thought they were the perfect gift for their teenage children - if only because they wouldn't face any further bills.But it has turned out that this rapid growth in mobile phone culture, particularly among the young, is fuelling a new rise in street robbery. Even before this pre-Christmas sales surge it was estimated by the telecommunications industry that in October 2000, around half the population had a mobile phone and there were already an estimated 34m in circulation. There are not as yet national figures to demonstrate this growth in mobile phone theft but the Metropolitan police have reported a four-fold rise in street crimes involving mobile phones over the last two years. The Greater Manchester police say that in four of their sub-divisions the number of robberies involving mobile phones have risen from 3% to 12% over a similar period. Industry sources estimate that more than 15,000 mobiles are now stolen every month and they expect the number to increase as mobile phone ownership explodes. This increase has taken the police and many others by surprise yet the last British Crime Survey shows that a significant part - possibly as much as one-third - of a 14% rise in street robberies between 1997 and 1999 were down to mobile phone thefts.The same survey showed that many involved children stealing other children's phones in and around school. The police argue that the number of street robberies recorded by them is rising because while in the past an after-school scuffle might have led to somebody's pocket money being stolen or somebody being bullied, it was not reported to the police. Now parents need a police crime number to claim the cost of a new mobile phone from their insurance company so they are usually reported. This, they say, has pushed up the robbery figures. One problem which the home secretary, Jack Straw, said he wants to discuss urgently with mobile phone companies and manufacturers is the fact that 90% of those pre-Christmas sales involve pre-paid "pay as you talk" models which have no registered user. Mr Straw wants to set up a "technical working group" with the mobile phone industry to crack the problem. They will be looking at using pin (personal identity numbers) and serial numbers as possible solutions. But the pace of technological change has proved once again that the old criminological explanation that "there is more about to nick" is what lies behind the rise in violent crime.