The number of violent crimes reported in Britain during the third quarter of 2003 rose 14% compared with the same period the previous year, crime figures released by the Home Office showed today.Violent offences against the person between July and September last year rose 17% period-on-period, a figure that included an 18% rise in more serious violence such as homicide and serious wounding, and an 8% rise in sexual offences. There were 11,800 offences of serious violence in the period, while crimes involving less serious violence, such as minor woundings, harassment, common assault and the possession of weapons, rose from 203,800 offences to 238,000. While reported violent crime rose during the quarter, statistics collected by the British Crime Survey, which include crime that is not reported to the police, suggest that violent crime fell 3% overall in the 12 months to September.Today's figures cover a period when seven-year-old Toni-Ann Byfield was fatally shot in the back in north London, and 64-year-old Marian Bates was killed during a robbery at her Nottingham jewellery shop. The Home Office suggested that the rise in violent crime was partly due to the continuing impact of changes in the way that police record offences. Criminal damage also increased by 7% in the third quarter last year, while recorded robberies fell by 2%, house burglaries fell by 3% and thefts from vehicles fell 8%, compared with the same period in 2002. Overall, recorded crime levels were stable, Home Office statisticians said. The Home Office also announced that, from today, offenders in possession of an illegal firearm would receive a mandatory five-year prison sentence. A breakdown of gun crime in the October data showed that total firearms offences in England and Wales increased by 2% in the past financial year. This was less than one-tenth of the 34% increase seen the year before, leading Home Office officials to conclude that the increase in gun crime peaked in autumn 2002. Within the overall gun crime figures, however, imitation weapons were used in 1,815 reported crimes, a leap of 46% on the previous year.Data showed that homicides rose by 21% to 1,045 in 2002-03, but this included 172 victims of serial killer Harold Shipman. Excluding Shipman's victims, the rise was 1%. "It is important to put the increases in police recording of violent crime into context, said the Home Office minister, Hazel Blears. "Better police crime recording policies mean that local forces now have a clearer picture of crime in their area and that anti-social behaviour and low-level thuggery, which are included in the violent crime figures, are more accurately recorded.""We are also making significant progress in the fight against gun crime, and the rate of increase has slowed considerably. "The five-year mandatory sentence for possession of a firearm, and the new offences of possession of an air weapon or imitation firearm in a public place, as well as the ban on high-powered air cartridge weapons, will deter offenders and punish the perpetrators. "We are determined to drive down gun crime and this sends out a tough message that anyone flouting our gun laws will face a lengthy time in prison," Ms Blears added. But Paul Cavadino, the chief executive of The National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders, warned that the new sentencing policy was wide of the mark."Tough minimum sentences will have little effect on gun crime. We will only tackle it effectively by reducing the supply of illegal weapons and combating the macho glamorised gun culture which attracts young people to firearms," he said. Mr Cavadino also insisted that, in order to reduce violent crime, alcohol abuse had to be tackled."A high proportion of violence is alcohol-fuelled, ranging from fights around pubs and clubs to domestic homicides. We badly need a national alcohol strategy covering prevention, education and treatment facilities for problem drinkers," he said.Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, welcomed today's data from the Home Office. "It is good news that reported crime generally is not rising, and in many categories continues to fall. However, the continued rise in reported violent crime remains an issue of particular concern," he said.