Tucked away off a main road a few minutes' walk from well-to-do Wandsworth Common in London, with its upmarket bars and Michelin-starred restaurant, sits a potential crime hotspot.College Gardens in Tooting is a horseshoe-shaped street hugging a tight network of cul-de-sacs packed with 1980s Barratt homes. One local estate agent describes it as 'the Brookside Close of Wandsworth'. But last week College Gardens was awarded an even more dubious accolade: it is at the centre of a sub-district of SW17 which faces the highest risk of identity fraud in the UK. A report by credit reference agency Experian reveals that the number of identity fraud cases has soared by 66 per cent in the past year. It has used data on 10,000 victims of identity fraud to create profiles, and then applied the resulting 'consumer types' across a map of the country. Those identified as most at risk are wealthy business people and company directors in London, but others at high risk are the 'Looking to the Future' set - young people in rented accommodation, often in major cities. Those who rent are at high risk because they are more likely to share mailboxes and tend to move house more frequently than homeowners. This provides fraudsters with a greater opportunity to misuse people's credit histories where addresses have not been updated, says Experian.College Gardens contains the potentially dangerous combination of a high proportion of renters and the Looking to the Future set. And crucially, while the street is not particularly wealthy by London standards, it is in the same postal district as the posh gated communities and enormous family homes owned by the very people most at risk of ID fraud.'The street is full of first-jobbers who stay for a year or so and then move on,' says Jeremy Best, who runs the local branch of estate agents John D Wood. 'From a rental and sales point of view, there is a huge turnover of residents in College Gardens. People love living there because they are surrounded by the affluent bits of Wandsworth.' A one-bedroom house in the street is worth around £250,000, he says. But for the street's residents, the tag of 'national ID fraud hotspot' is a bit of a shock. Cash knocked on the doors of around a dozen homes down the street and most of the residents were not even clear what identity fraud was. 'Does that happen online?' one asked.'I'm absolutely staggered that our street is seen as most at risk,' says Imelda Smith (not her real name), who has lived on the road since 1984. 'I have never been a victim of ID theft and don't know anyone who has. I am about to go and alert Marks & Spencer, though, as I have a credit card with them and I want them to keep a close eye on my account now.'Down the road, another homeowner is equally bemused. 'The street has changed from being filled with owner-occupiers to renters over the last few years,' he says. 'I believe there are more eastern Europeans and they contribute to the higher turnover, but I doubt they would be people fraudsters would target. Estate agents do keep flyering us saying they want rental accommodation for business personnel, though, so that could fit in with the findings.'Further around the arc of College Gardens, another resident of 12 years believes the street's unusual position as an affordable enclave in an otherwise highly affluent area could explain the mix of people living there and the high turnover of renters. 'I will definitely be shredding my bank statements more carefully from now on,' she says. Experian has identified 10 different methods of identity fraud but the method that has resulted in the highest incidence of fraud in the last year is 'forwarding address fraud'. The number of such cases has soared to 36 per cent of all ID fraud reported to Experian, while other methods of obtaining someone's identity, such as rifling through their bins, has fallen. Forwarding address fraud is where a fraudster redirects the victim's post to a drop address that he or she then visits to collect mail.The internet has also played its part in the growth of ID fraud, says Experian's James Jones. 'Victims don't tend to know how their information got into fraudster's hands,' he says. 'Part of the growth, however, is fuelled by the sheer volume of data out there about people - especially on social networking sites.'Protect yourself· Keep an eye on your mail. Fraudsters often obtain documents by stealing or redirecting it - so look out for post that you are expecting and report missing items quickly if they don't arrive. If you move home, have your mail forwarded to your new address for at least six months.· Destroy documents showing your personal details before throwing them away. Use a shredder to destroy bank statements, utility bills, application forms, chequebook stubs and receipts.· Keep your information up to date. Make sure the Royal Mail, your bank and organisations such as your mobile phone provider are informed of any change of address. · Regularly monitor your personal credit report through one or all of the three credit reference agencies; Experian, Equifax and Callcredit. Source: Experian