It could be a group straight out of a Benetton advertisement - teenage girls from China, India, Africa and Europe. But these are residents of a secret safe house in the Netherlands for children who have been trafficked by criminal gangs into prostitution and other forms of forced labour in Europe.Some of the 14 have come from Sierra Leone and Taiwan, others from Bulgaria and Gujarat in India. The youngest, a 14-year-old, has a baby who is starting to crawl. Four of the girls are pregnant - most likely a consequence of their exploitation as prostitutes.In the UK, evidence emerged last month that more than 400 suspected victims of trafficking have gone missing from local authority care, triggering calls from politicians in the three main parties for the government to act. Keith Vaz, chair of a home affairs select committee investigation into human trafficking, says he is "shocked by the number of children going missing" and his committee is taking evidence about how it can be stopped. An increasing number of child protection campaigners and politicians in Britain believe the Dutch-style system of guardians for every foreign child suspected of having been trafficked may hold the answer to protecting these vulnerable youngsters from falling back into exploitation.In the Netherlands, there are 2,157 rescued children looked after by guardians. These are professional social workers who handle the legal status, housing and education of their charges. The most vulnerable are given 24-hour care and chaperones when they go out. For some, the fear of being taken back by traffickers is so great that they cannot even skip in the safe-house yard without someone to watch over them. The Dutch ministry of justice funds the €25m (£19.7m) a year system run by Nidos, an independent child protection agency. Now 8% a year go missing from care, a third fewer than estimates for the UK. So far, the Home Office has said a similar guardianship system for Britain is unnecessary, but in the Netherlands the challenges facing the authorities are much the same as in the UK."There is a big risk the traffickers will pick the children up [from care] and we have seen it," says Karin, a guardian at the safe house. "The trafficker tells them their future will be better, so they go with them. Often, [the children] have to pay back a lot of money - we hear about fees of €40,000 [£31,600] for their trip to Europe - so the pressure [to go with the traffickers] is very big. The traffickers also threaten to hurt their family."CCTV cameras film all the approaches to the safe house. The social workers operate a system of green, amber and red alerts relating to the threat of abduction of each child, based on police intelligence and information the girls give. But from the outside, the house offers few clues to its purpose. It stands in the heart of Dutch suburbia in an acre of gardens. There is an exercise bike and a box of skipping ropes to make up for the regular confinement that is for their own safety.The property is one of four safe houses - two for girls, two for boys - located in north Netherlands, away from the big cities of Rotterdam and Amsterdam where the traffickers are most active.The guardianship system aims to make the children self-reliant by the time they reach 18 and focuses on educating them about what has happened to them so that they appreciate the criminal behaviour of the trafficker. It also helps them plan a future in the country. The children must learn basic Dutch before they can attend school.Life in the safe house can be frustrating and many of the girls are eager to move away from 24-hour care. "I eat, I sleep, but I am not living a good life," says Lauren, a 17-year-old from Guinea. "Eat and sleep is not life for me. When you sit here, you have to think about the problems when you came here. That for me is painful. My pain is not for lack of sleep, food or clothes but I have big pain in my head.""I need something good for me in the future," says Maya, a 17-year-old from Sierra Leone. "I'd like to go to school to learn more to be a better child for my parents and myself tomorrow. I'd like to be a nurse. I don't know if this will happen here. I don't have anyone here, only the guardians who help me. I feel safe when I am in here inside. But I am not safe for the future. I want to learn more."