As anyone with a toddler, terrier or a black belt in karate will know, distraction techniques can work wonders. The latest to realise this is the taxi company Uber, which is hoping distraction will protect its drivers from being assaulted by drunken fares. In one US city, Uber drivers are taking part in an experiment in which they leave a Bop It – a noisy, electronic children’s toy – on the back seat, for their tipsier passengers to play with. Drivers, the company hopes, will be safer from physical attacks, though not, presumably, from intense irritation.“An intoxicated rider who is engaged in something interesting is less likely to be irritable and aiming aggression at the driver,” said Joe Sullivan, Uber’s chief security officer. It is not the only behaviour-modification experiment the company is trying. In a rather less infantilising move, it has also advised drivers to install mirrors on the back of seats so passengers can see themselves – the thinking is that this is more likely to make them aware of their actions.Can a children's toy stop drunken Uber passengers from attacking their drivers? The idea that sparking behavioural changes can reduce crime or undesirable acts has been around for decades, and runs from flimsy psychological theories to widely accepted guidelines taken on by governments and urban planners, such as the Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED) approach.In Tokyo, for example, blue street lights are said to have reduced crime and resulted in fewer suicides when they were installed at stations. There are a number of theories for this, from blue being a calming colour to the strangeness of it making people behave differently, but there is no reliable data that proves it works. This hasn’t stopped the idea from taking off – blue lighting was installed at Gatwick station in 2014 after a high number of people had killed themselves there, and according to a spokesperson involved with the scheme, it has worked, with no suicides at the station since. In a similarly colourful vein, academics from the University of Birmingham advised construction site managers to paint JCBs pink to deter thieves.One plan even tried to harness the power of parental instincts. In 2012, large murals of babies’ faces were painted on shop shutters in Woolwich, south London, in a bid to prevent antisocial behaviour (the shops had been targeted in the riots the previous year). “The evidence suggests that babies’ faces, the round cheeks and the big eyes, promote a caring response,” Tara Austin, from the advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather, which ran the project under its behavioural changes arm, told the BBC.There are other, more pernicious, schemes. Critics have said the use of classical music at stations to deter teenagers from hanging around is part of a wider assault on young people and their right to use public space (even that it is “a form of low-intensity class warfare”). The Mosquito anti-loitering device, which has been used by several councils and shops, has a “teenage setting” that emits a sound only those under 25 can hear, but has attracted criticism from human rights organisations.And as for drunks in taxis? Seamus Balfe has been a London taxi driver for 16 years and says drunken aggression is very rare. “If they do [get aggressive], I just stop the cab and tell them to get another one.” His bigger problem with drunk passengers wasn’t them wanting to fight him, but forgetting where they wanted to go. In that case, of course, a Bop It is no help at all.