The solicitor of a man who spent 27 years in jail for a murder he did not commit hit out at the police's handling of the case today as he revealed that the defence team were not told another man had confessed to the murder.Sean Hodgson was freed by the court of appeal in March after it overturned his conviction for raping and killing gas board clerk Teresa de Simone in 1979.Today police named her killer as David Lace, whose body was exhumed last month. His DNA was a complete match for samples taken from the original crime scene, they said. Lace, who had confessed to the murder in 1983, killed himself in 1988.De Simone's parents, Mary and Michael Sedotti, expressed their relief that their only child could now rest in peace. "It's a shame for [Lace's] family having just found out all these years later," Mrs Sedotti said. "I feel sad but I don't feel angry. It's a shame that he never told anybody why [he did it]. We are just relieved, I suppose, that all this has come to a close."Hodgson, who was jailed at Winchester crown court in 1982, now lives in a respite home in Bishop Auckland, County Durham.Julian Young, his solicitor, said Hodgson was pleased that the DNA results ruled out any doubts over whether he was responsible for the murder.But he said that barrister Robin Gray QC, who represented Hodgson at his 1982 trial and first appeal in 1983, had not been made aware of Lace's confession. Young said he was only told of it after Hodgson's conviction was quashed.He said Hodgson had been very ill since his release. "It is all very sad for a number of reasons. Obviously, it brings closure to the victim's family and, equally, it vindicates Sean's position, specifically that he was not guilty."It brings great sadness to Mr Lace's family and these revelations mean that Sean and I will have to discuss the question of claims for compensation."Lace killed himself nine years after the half-naked body of De Simone was found in her car behind a pub in Southampton, Hampshire. She had been raped, strangled and her jewellery had been stolen.Detective Chief Inspector Philip McTavish, of Hampshire police, said: "Following the exhumation of the suspect on Wednesday 12 August, the Forensic Science Service has now completed DNA testing and comparisons against DNA found at the original crime scene."It has been confirmed that the DNA from the suspect is a complete match and belongs to David Andrew Lace, born 2 September, 1962, formerly of Brixham in Devon."At the time of the murder Lace was 17 and living in his home town of Portsmouth. He did not feature as part of the original investigation but confessed in September 1983.At a press conference, McTavish added that Lace, whom he described as an aggressive loner, had confessed when being questioned about a series of burglaries."He stated that he could no longer live with what he had done and that he was better off in prison. He then submitted to a more detailed interview by officers from the murder investigation."A record of the interview made in September 1983 revealed that Lace said he had stolen a rucksack and cash from a meter at his lodgings in Portsmouth and walked to Southampton, where he saw De Simone being dropped back to her car by a friend.After tapping on the car window and asking her the time, he had forced his way into the vehicle, locked the doors and used violence to subdue her."She struggled, he sexually assaulted her and strangled her using the passenger belt in the car. He admitted subjecting Teresa to a violent assault and sensed he had killed her," said McTavish.He removed her cash and jewellery, leaving his victim across the back seat. "He hid for approximately 10 minutes before going back to Southampton railway station and catching a train back to Portsmouth."But officers investigating the confession had decided it revealed "numerous and significant inconsistencies", including giving the wrong colour of the car, its number of doors, times, an incorrect description of De Simone's clothing and a description of violence that seemed inconsistent with her injuries.Seven men, including Lace and Hodgson, had confessed to the crime. "We are not aware of the full content of these confessions or indeed the full rationale for the exclusion of these men from further consideration."McTavish said, to date, no link had been established between Lace and any other unsolved serious crime. "There is no indication either that David Lace and Mr Hodgson had any contact with each other. The evidence overwhelmingly bears out [Lace's] involvement in the rape and murder of Teresa de Simone and we are not seeking anyone else in relation to this matter."Simon Cole, Hampshire's deputy chief constable, said: "It's hugely regrettable that a man spent 27 years in prison for a crime he did not commit. We were focusing on putting right this miscarriage of justice and finding the truth."