We welcome the comments made by the chief inspector of prisons (Report, 19 July), and we agree we are still a long way from a "rehabilitation revolution" in the UK. In the interests of public safety and public spending, it is critical that governors are motivated to implement greater rehabilitation programmes, given that almost half of all adults leaving prison are reconvicted within a year.At Impetus Trust, we have invested in over 20 charities and social enterprises in the past decade, seven of which are committed to reducing reoffending by changing offenders' behaviour. They equip prisoners for a productive life outside prison, particularly via employment. We know that the successful programmes we support struggle to scale up and reach more people in more prisons, despite the evident and overwhelming need for more rehabilitation places.Charities are very effective operators in a sector that requires a casework approach. They fill the gap between standard provision and providing nothing at all. Michael Spurr's comment that the national offender management service "will use this report to help accelerate change" is heartening: we are calling on Noms to make it easier and quicker to expand successful programmes.Daniela Barone SoaresChief executive, Impetus Trust• Reading in prison can indeed be a route to rehabilitation. We run an annual six-book challenge taken up by around 100 prisons and young offender institutions. Targeted at the 60% of offenders with low literacy, the scheme is also used by more confident readers and staff. Governors say it improves literacy and self-esteem; prisoners talk of changed attitudes to reading and to life itself. But none of this could happen without a resource often overlooked in debate about prison reform – the prison library. With a new round of procurement for prison library services under way, there is a chance to recognise their essential contribution to a positive experience for prisoners and staff.Genevieve ClarkeThe Reading Agency