Five leading judges are considering a key case that is likely to help determine how much the police can monitor and record the political activities of campaigners. For three years, John Catt, an 89-year-old campaigner, has been seeking to compel the police to destroy the records they hold on him documenting his presence at protests. It is a legal battle that the pensioner - who has no criminal record - has fought in the highest court in the land. He discovered that the police’s “domestic extremism” unit logged details of his activities at peace and human rights demonstrations 66 times over a four-year period.These articles here and here show how some of the entries in the police documents recorded how the Brighton campaigner sketched the scene at demonstrations. Other entries logged his clothes, his appearance and his vehicle.Catt won a crucial victory in the court of appeal last year when senior judges ruled that the secretive unit had unlawfully recorded his political activities.But the police went to the supreme court in an attempt to overturn the court of appeal’s ruling. The case was heard over three days last week. Detailed accounts of each day were published here, here and here by civil liberties group, the Network for Police Monitoring (Netpol).A Guardian article about the opening day can be found here, and reports here from the BBC and Brighton’s Argus.The supreme court judges are now deliberating and their verdict is expected next year.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Catt explains why he objected to the police monitoringBefore the hearing, John Catt said: “This hearing comes over five years since I first asked the Association of chief police officers (Acpo) to explain the surveillance of my lawful political activities. “In my view at every stage the police have failed to provide an adequate answer to my simple and straight forward question: how can they seek to justify in law the way in which they have sought to keep tabs on me and my lawful political activities? “I look to the supreme court now to help them understand that this is simply not tolerable in a democracy of the kind for which I fought in the last war”.He is represented by Shamik Dutta of London lawyers, Bhatt Murphy. Netpol made a legal submission to the court supporting Catt. Its coordinator, Kevin Blowe, spelled out what he believes is at stake in this case: “The outcome of this hearing is extremely important, because a victory for the Metropolitan police will make it significantly easier for intelligence-gathering officers to continue to obtain and retain data about protesters on an almost industrial scale.”“If, on the other hand, the supreme court upholds the court of appeal decision that gathering information on John Catt’s political activities was unlawful, the police will struggle to justify continuing the blanket collection of data on individuals taking part in political protest.”Netpol has started a legal challenge against the legality of “domestic extremism” database. It is encouraging campaigners to use the data protection act to find out what records the “domestic extremism” unit is holding on them. A guide on how to do this can found here, while Netpol’s solicitor, Rosa Curling of the Leigh Day law firm, is on hand to help. Six journalists have also started legal action against the police over records held on them by the “domestic extremism” unit.