The mother of a girl kidnapped at the age of three and assaulted twice before a terrifying 100mph attempt to escape police has condemned a £9,000 compensation offer to the child as "the final insult".The woman from Cardiff said that she thought officials were having a laugh when they contacted the family with the sum, saying that it was based on a national tariff for criminal injuries. She told the BBC that "everything had gone wrong" for her daughter in the two-and-a-half years since the attack by Craig Sweeney, who was then 24 and living in Newport, Gwent. He had befriended the child after early release from a previous sentence for assaulting a six-year-old girl.He was jailed for life in June 2006 for the second attack but told by the court that he could apply for parole after serving five years and 108 days. Passing sentence, Judge John Griffith Williams described him as a "devious" man.Sweeney abducted and sexually assaulted the girl, who is now six, in January 2006. He then drove her to a layby near Swindon in Wiltshire and abused her again before police chased and caught him.The toddler suffered minor cuts and bruises when he dragged her from the car after swerving off the road when a police helicopter joined the chase.The child's mother said: "This is a baby involved, a little girl who was abducted and attacked by a paedophile. But it's just like any other crime to everybody in the system. There's no justice for my baby at all."The girl has received 10 counselling sessions but still talks about the "nasty man" and the high speed attempt to escape police. Her mother said: "She remembers his face... It will take a hell of a lot of counselling to get rid of that face."In a statement, the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority said it could not comment specifically on applications in order to protect applicants' confidentiality. It operates under the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme 2001, as set down by parliament. "The scheme sets the levels of compensation depending on the injuries sustained."