The home secretary, David Blunkett, tonight said he would ask the new independent Police Complaints Authority to review the case of a black former paratrooper who choked to death while handcuffed and in custody.CCTV footage of Christopher Alder, 37, dying with his trousers around his ankles at a Hull police station in April 1998 will be screened tonight in a BBC documentary on his death. Mr Blunkett said: "We deeply regret the terrible distress that has clearly been caused to the family and understand perfectly well the reaction of viewers seeing these distressing scenes. "It is, however, six years, a trial and two inquiries later that we are having to assess whether there is any beneficial purpose in reopening the case. "Public inquiries in such circumstances cannot be triggered by TV footage of material which was already known during the judicial and inquiry investigations. "However, I am asking the new independent police complaints commission to have another look at this and to report back." Humberside Police said they welcomed the decision by the home secretary and would cooperate fully with the review.The move comes after Mr Alder's sister Janet, of Burnley, Lancs, called for a public inquiry into the death. She told BBC Breakfast: "There have been 150 questions asked at an inquest and a criminal trial. Not one has been answered. There have been no apologies, absolutely no explanation." But Jon Savage, joint branch board chairman of the Humberside police federation, said it had been one of the most closely examined deaths in custody in the history of the British police service and "little" could be gained from a public inquiry. An inquest concluded Mr Alder, a Falklands veteran who was also decorated for his service with the Army in Northern Ireland, was unlawfully killed. Sergeant John Dunn, 40, and PCs Neil Blakey, 42, Mark Ellerington, 37, Nigel Dawson, 41, and Matthew Barr, 38, of Humberside Police, were cleared of manslaughter and misconduct. An independent hearing cleared them all of neglect of duty allegations. Mr Savage said: "Everyone who watches the CCTV coverage of the events knows the outcome. The officers did not have the benefit of hindsight. "They thought they were dealing with another disorderly male. One that a doctor had seen a few minutes previously and had passed fit for police detention. "One of the key issues to bear in mind is that none of the officers knew Christopher Alder was in trouble. If they had, the officers would have taken action sooner than they did. All of the officers deeply regret the death of Christopher Alder." Monkey-like noises were heard on an audio tape as Mr Alder lay dead and actual CCTV footage of his death at Queen's Gardens police station, Hull, will be screened in tonight's documentary, titled Death on Camera. Deputy chief constable Steve Love, of Humberside Police, said: "The BBC has chosen to show the CCTV footage, which was not provided by Humberside Police. We firmly believe that a film which portrays someone dying is not for public viewing. Mr Alder, of Dagger Lane, Hull, banged his head during a scuffle outside a city centre hotel and was arrested for an alleged breach of the peace after being taken to Hull Royal Infirmary for treatment. He later choked to death on his own blood and vomit as he lay on the floor of the police station, without moving, for 11 minutes. He died half an hour after he left the hospital. During the trial, in which the judge ordered the jury to clear the five officers, there was conflicting medical evidence about why Mr Alder became unconscious, and about what killed him.