The prime minister, Tony Blair, today said that the British public should not rush to judge the police and the judicial system after the acquittal of two boys for the murder of Damilola Taylor.His comments came amid increasing demands for an inquiry into the heavily criticised police investigation. It has also emerged that police failed to provide vital information about a key defence argument - the calls made from the boys' mobile phones two miles away from the scene of Damilola's death shortly after he died.Sources among the prosecution team at the Old Bailey trial have revealed that a street short cut was not disclosed that would significantly reduce the time that would be required to get between the two points.Mr Blair, speaking in Blackburn, Lancashire, said: "Of course we must learn the lessons, but we should also realise the police have a difficult job to do and we shouldn't rush to judge, we should consider it carefully so we get it right."In respect of the Damilola Taylor case, our first thoughts should be with Richard and Gloria Taylor, who are good and decent people, whose sense of grief must be heightened by what has happened." He declined to answer questions on whether there should be a parliamentary review of the actions of the police and crown prosecution service.But members of the Metropolitan Police Authority, the Metropolitan police watchdog, called for an urgent review of the case. Toby Harris, the chairman of the Police Authority, said: "We feel enormous sympathy with Damilola's parents that there has not been a proper resolution in this case."We have discussed with the [Metropolitan police] commissioner that there should be a review of how the case was taken forward and the various decisions taken as part of the investigation. There should also be a review of how vulnerable witnesses are treated. Since the death of Stephen Lawrence, improvements have been made to family and community liaison. It is equally essential that we look at what lessons can be learnt from this tragedy."Such a review would be expected to consider the disclosure that police did not mention a short cut that would reduce the time required to get from the stairwell in Peckham, south-east London, where Damilola died to where the defendants' mobile phones were activated seven minutes later in Bermondsey, two miles away. The trial judge, Mr Justice Hooper, said that for anyone to get from the site of Damilola's death to the place the calls were made would involve running "a four-minute mile".But the prosecution did not present to the jury evidence that the distance between the scene of Damilola's death and the location of the calls could be reduced by cutting across a park rather than following the road. The shortcut is now fenced off but was freely accessible at the time of Damilola's death.Meanwhile, Damilola's parents have said that they are ashamed that Britain has become a society where a little boy cannot get justice. Gloria Taylor, 51, told the Daily Express: "The jury's decision to discharge the suspects is a terrible blow to our family and I don't believe that justice has been given to the innocent soul who was murdered." Her husband, Richard, said the justice system needed to be reviewed. "It leans too far in favour of the suspect. No one wants to see innocent people convicted, but when you have a situation where a suspect has an absolute right to say "no comment," not cooperate one inch, and then not go into the witness box and yet no one has the right to say 'Is this suspicious behaviour?' - it isn't sensible."