Promising schoolboy footballer Kiyan Prince died after a 16-year-old boy stabbed him in the heart after Kiyan intervened in a play fight outside a school's gates, the Old Bailey heard today.The 16-year-old defendant, who cannot be named for legal reasons because of his age, yesterday admitted the manslaughter of Kiyan,15, but denied murder. The prosecution does not accept his plea to the lesser charge, and the defendant is on trial for murder.Today Nicholas Hilliard, prosecuting, said Kiyan - whom a teacher described as "well liked by all who knew him" and "a gorgeous boy" - was attacked shortly after leaving his school, London Academy in Edgware, north London, on the afternoon of May 18.Mr Hilliard said there was no evidence of any previous "bad feeling" between Kiyan and the defendant, who had been excluded from school.Before the stabbing of Kiyan, who played football for the Queen's Park Rangers youth team, there had been some play fighting between the defendant and another boy, known in court as witness A, Mr Hilliard told the jury. After Kiyan had told the two youths to "stop playing around", the defendant went up to him and asked "What's going on?", Mr Hilliard said. Witness A told the court he had seen the defendant push Kiyan, and Kiyan push him back. The defendant then became angry, the witness said. "He said, 'If you push me one more time, see what I will do to you.'" When he was pushed again, the 16-year-old produced a knife, got Kiyan in a headlock and stabbed him, witness A said. "He went for his leg and chest. He was stabbing everywhere. Kiyan made a painful noise. It was pretty fast." The court heard that the defendant asked "Who's laughing? Who's laughing?" before stabbing Kiyan. According to witness A, the defendant stabbed Kiyan once in the chest and once, he thought, in the leg, Mr Hilliard said. As the defendant went to stab Kiyan a third time, the witness intervened, the court heard.A teacher at the school, Liejhe Hernandez, witnessed the earlier play fighting, during which she thought she had seen the defendant force another boy against a red car, snapping off the wing mirror. She called the deputy head on her mobile phone, Mr Hilliard said. As Ms Hernandez approached, the defendant allegedly said: "You can't grass me up ... I was just playing."After being stabbed, Kiyan had collapsed to the ground, Mr Hilliard said. The court heard he had tried to hide the blood as the teacher approached. Ms Hernandez broke down in the witness box when she described how she found Kiyan. She said: "I saw a little nick on his chest and told him [Witness A] to apply pressure to that. I did not realise how seriously he had been injured at first."When witness A was asked by police later whether he had thought the defendant was playing around, he replied: "I want to say he was playing about but I think ... he knew ... his friends were watching him."Mr Hilliard said Kiyan was taken to the Royal London hospital but was pronounced dead. The fatal stab wound had passed upwards from the lower part of the chest wall into the heart. The following evening, police arrested the defendant, who allegedly replied: "Yes, I know. But I want to talk to my mother first." The defendant allegedly told police he had given the knife to another boy. Police later recovered a small silver pocketknife, the jury were told. The 16-year-old allegedly told police it was accident. He said witness A had been "showing off his chest and stuff like that".The defendant said Kiyan had punched him, and he had taken out the pocketknife and opened it. Kiyan had punched him again, he said, so he had grabbed him in a headlock. He had intended to wound him in the right arm "to leave a little cut there". The court heard he told officers Kiyan had started swinging him about and he had "got him somewhere - I think it was in the chest or something ... I know I got him in the stomach and the arm - that's when it stopped." He had been trying to cut Kiyan on the arm, he said - "just a little scratch there, but it went deep in ... cos I never used a knife before". Police asked why he had been carrying a knife in the first place. "It was a little toy. It was like a toy I carried around every day," he replied. Kiyan's parents, Mark Prince and Tracey Cumberbatch, were in court. The defendant, wearing a short-sleeved white shirt, sat at the other side of the court, behind his lawyers. The trial continues.