The ex-wife and daughter of Siôn Jenkins, the deputy headteacher jailed for killing his foster-daughter Billie-Jo, may for the first time give evidence at his appeal which begins today.Jenkins' daughter, Lottie, 17, is likely to be called by Jenkins' legal team to give testimony in the high court which they hope will demonstrate he could not have battered the 13-year-old to death with a tent peg. However, Jenkins' former wife may be called by the crown to provide details which it believes will undermine her daughter's evidence. Both were flying into London from Australia, where they now live, for the hearing. The appeal, which is listed for three weeks, is also likely to hear details of new forensic evidence which Jenkins' lawyers will argue help prove his innocence. Jenkins became one of the most notorious killers of the last decade following his high-profile trial at Lewes crown court in 1998. The prosecution claimed that Jenkins killed Billie-Jo in a fit of rage on the patio of the family home in Hastings, East Sussex, in February 1997. It claimed that after bludgeoning her, he drove two of his daughters, Lottie and her older sister, Annie, on an unnecessary trip to a DIY store to give himself an alibi. The crucial forensic evidence against Jenkins, now 46, was microscopic drops of blood which the prosecution said spattered his clothing as he attacked Billie-Jo. Lottie and Annie gave statements to the police which largely backed Jenkins' accounts of his movements, adding weight to his alibi. However, during the trial, Jenkins' defence team was reluctant to call the girls, who were 10 and 12 at the time of the murder, because it feared they may have turned against their father. The prosecution's argument against calling them was that it believed Jenkins may have put pressure on them to go along with his version of events. If Lottie is to be called to give evidence which supports her father's alibi, it is understood the prosecution will argue that allegations which Mrs Jenkins made about her husband's treatment of the children should be heard. Sources close to the case have said that Annie has given fresh evidence about what happened. At an appeal in December 1999, Jenkins' lawyers claimed that the scientific evidence was flawed, arguing that he was spattered with spots of blood when Billie-Jo breathed out as he tended her. But the appeal failed. Last year the criminal cases review commission decided the conviction should be looked at again because the trial jury had not heard the daughters' evidence. New evidence about the blood spots will also be heard. Claims that the police did not pursue a paranoid schizophrenic who was seen near the Jenkins' house at the time of the killing may also be put forward.