Even in a city where burglary is commonplace enough to be almost unremarkable, this was a crime of almost Dickensian heartlessness: the theft of wrapped Christmas gifts awaiting distribution to seriously ill children at London's Great Ormond Street hospital.Up to 20 presents were stolen from a part of the famous children's facility not open to the public at some point between Friday and Monday, the Metropolitan police said, describing the crime as "beyond belief".The gifts, including portable DVD players, games consoles and toys, were due to be given to children in the intensive care unit.The hospital was immediately flooded with offers to replace the items, with an anonymous "long-term supporter" stepping in to provide replacements. Staff said they had taken a number of calls from individuals and companies asking if they could help.Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, said the crime was "pretty disgusting". Speaking on LBC radio he said: "You can't imagine anything worse in a way: children who are very ill and at Christmas. And somebody's taken the time to buy them something to cheer them up and somebody's stolen them. So it's pretty awful."A statement from Inspector Neal Anderson said: "To steal presents that were supposed to be for children too sick to be at home with their families at Christmas is beyond belief."I would urge anyone who has information about the individual, or persons, responsible to contact officers so that we can try and get the items back before Christmas Day. I would also urge the thief to try and think about their actions and do the decent thing and return them."Great Ormond Street, which marked its 160th anniversary this year, is probably the most famous hospital in the UK and a world leader in paediatric care and research. Its celebrity has been further boosted this year with a BBC1 documentary series about its work and its inclusion in a section of the London Olympics opening ceremony celebrating the NHS.The hospital is funded by charitable donations, notably royalties from Peter Pan, which author JM Barrie bequeathed to Great Ormond Street.A hospital spokeswoman said: "We can confirm there has been a theft and are fully co-operating with the police. We have been overwhelmed by generous offers from individuals and companies to replace the missing items. These items have now been replaced by a long-term supporter. Thank you to everyone who has contacted us for their concern and kindness."