A Home Office minister was forced to admit last night that it had failed to eradicate racism among staff, more than a year after the publication of the Macpherson report into the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence.Mike O'Brien expressed his disappointment after a survey found that 30% of staff in his department felt they had suffered discrimination. "The Home Office is institutionally racist," Mr O'Brien wrote in the latest issue of the Parliamentary Monitor. "The Home Office is the lead department on race equality within the government. If we wish the wider public to share our vision of the way forward, the Home Office needs to ensure it gets its house in order as does the rest of the public sector as well." Mr O'Brien said that he was particularly disturbed by the survey which found that many staff were encountering racism. "All too often we are losing the best and the brightest people from ethnic minori ties because our organisation is not encouraging them." However, Mr O'Brien insisted that most Home Office staff were not racist. "Indeed, 20% of our staff are from ethnic minorities and our policy is one of strong anti-racism," he wrote. "But our organisation, both internally and in the services it delivers, fails to reflect our multi-racial society." His frank admission will dismay anti-racism campaigners who look to the Home Office to set an example as it implements the recommendations of the Macpherson report. Mr O'Brien attempted to challenge racists who wrap themselves in the union flag by saying that racism was "un-British". "To be British is not to adopt some narrow cultural norm, rather it is to be part of a new vibrancy," he wrote. "Racism in all its guises endangers and undermines the future success of Britain." Mr O'Brien's remarks echoed the admission by the home secretary, Jack Straw, who said in February: "There are a large number of institutions, and some private ones, which are institutionally racist - and that includes the Home Office."