Luke Mitchell, the teenager convicted of murdering his girlfriend Jodi Jones, has failed in a bid to have his conviction overturned.Mitchell was found guilty in 2005 of killing 14-year-old Jodi, who had gone missing after going out to meet him in June 2003.The 19-year-old was detained for life with a minimum of 20 years in prison after the longest single-accused trial in Scottish legal history.But his lawyers have argued Mitchell was the victim of a miscarriage of justice and that an "enduring sense of unease" surrounded the evidence.However, Scotland's highest judge, Lord Justice General Lord Hamilton, ruled today that the appeal against conviction was refused. Sitting alongside Lords Osborne and Kingarth, at the court of criminal appeal in Edinburgh, he said: "The court is satisfied that there was sufficient evidence in law upon which a verdict of guilty could be returned." Jodi was stripped, tied up and stabbed to death in woods near her home in Dalkeith, Midlothian, on June 30 2003. Her windpipe had been cut and the main artery in her neck was severed almost all the way through.Her body lay behind a wall alongside a walkway known as the Roan's Dyke path. More than 200 police were involved in the inquiry, taking 3,150 statements from more than 2,000 people. The appeal court found that crucial evidence came from Andrina Bryson, a witness for the prosecution, who testified to seeing a male and a female at a specific time on the day of Jodi's death.Lord Hamilton addressed the six grounds of appeal put forward by Mitchell's defence and rejected each one of them in turn. In part of the judgment he said: "The absence of any signs of struggle on the path side of the wall which ran along the northern side of the Roan's Dyke Path suggests that, if Jodi Jones went through the break in the wall close to where she met her death with someone, she did so with someone she knew — such as the appellant, whom she had gone expressly to meet that evening."The appellant's conduct later that evening was also significant - not least in the apparent ease with which he was able to identify the location of the body in relatively dense woodland on the far side of the wall." Mitchell, who was also 14 at the time, has always denied killing the schoolgirl. The defence counsel, Donald Findlay QC, said there was not enough evidence to find his client guilty beyond reasonable doubt and that police made errors in their investigation. The defence also claimed the case was heard too close to the crime scene and that "emotional" media coverage after Jodi's death would have had the greatest impact in the minds of people living in and around Edinburgh.The murder weapon has never been recovered and there was no credible DNA evidence linking Mitchell to the killing. As she left court this morning, Mitchell's mother, Corinne, defended her son, saying: "Luke's innocent — the fight goes on."Jodi's mother, Judith, spoke of feeling, "relief, total relief". The solicitor general, Frank Mulholland QC, said he was pleased the conviction had been upheld: "The decision of the appeal court will be a comfort to Jodi's family that justice has been done."