At 10.30pm on April 22 1993 a gang of racists murdered Stephen Lawrence. In the turmoil and pain of those first days, no one could have imagined the struggle that lay ahead for his family: demonstrations, campaigns, a trial, an inquest and finally an inquiry into his death, chaired by Sir William Macpherson, that reported in 1999.Since then there has been new legislation, such as the Human Rights Act and the Race Relations Amendment Act. And now the cultural, ethnic and racial fallout in Britain from the events which followed September 11 - all in the shadow of the Stephen Lawrence murder.The Stephen Lawrence inquiry was of profound significance for race relations. It attempted to diagnose what was rotten at the heart of the police and, by implication, most institutions in our society. Its most important contribution was to produce the mantra of recognition, acknowledgment and acceptance of the problem of racism, particularly of the institutional kind. It was in essence a kind of truth commission in which official acknowledgment was finally given to the evil of racism which had been perpetrated for years on the black communities of this country. Discrimination on an institutional basis was accepted, and we now understand that, when discrimination becomes institutionalised, we are dealing not with individual prejudice but with power. That power is derived from racist laws, constitutional conventions, judicial precedents, institutional practices - all of which have the sanction of the state and the blessing of our establishment. It is seen in the figures for usual stop and search by the police (you are eight times more likely to be stopped if you are black); in exclusions from school (eight times more likely if you are a young black male); deaths in custody; in the number of black people in prison (25% of the prison population are from minority ethnic communities at a time when the minority ethnic community is about 9%).  Despite the evidence, some have fought the very idea that there is institutional racism in the police or in society. Sections of the media have deliberately linked the issue of race and immigration, using exaggerated and inflammatory language. Leading politicians have set about demonising asylum seekers and refugees. Rightwing politicians (and some "entertainers") continue to complain about how hard it is to have a frank discussion about race. What these individuals really want is a licence to be racist. What they call "frankness" I call "offensive"; what they call "open" I call "abusive". But it is not just a problem created by a set of individuals. It is a problem sustained by this government. We all know that individuals and organisations do not operate in a vacuum. They are influenced and guided by the political culture around them. And it is the state which, through its pronouncements, declarations, laws and edicts, sets the tone for race relations in society. There is a hypocrisy at the heart of this government. In the words of James Baldwin: "What it gave, at length and grudgingly with one hand, it took back with the other." Its commitment to anti-racism with the Stephen Lawrence inquiry and the Race Relations Amendment Act has been neutralised by the most racist asylum and immigration legislation this country has ever seen. Yet, despite these mixed messages, what we have seen since the publication of the Lawrence report is a genuine attempt by some institutions to recognise, acknowledge and accept that they are institutionally racist. We have had reports indicating endemic racism in the NHS and the crown prosecution service. We have had an audit of prisons in England and Wales. Regrettably, though, not all institutions have taken the leap: education remains an obviously neglected area. Those who have accepted the truths of the Lawrence inquiry have moved on, striving to ensure that they and other institutions provide a service to all in our society. Those carping about so-called political correctness over racism are pining for a return to ignorance and the acceptance of discrimination that the Lawrence inquiry had sought to bury. Progress has been made. Thanks to the monumental struggles and determination of the Lawrence family, the past 10 years have brought us to the point of accepting that there is a problem. But there is still a great distance to go. Racist violence continues to rise - due in large part to the attacks on asylum seekers, an issue which the BNP has been able to exploit. The biggest threat to further progress is complacency. It is, therefore, apt to remind ourselves of the words of Bishop John Sentamu, an adviser to Macpherson. He quoted from Dante's Divine Comedy: "The hottest places in hell are reserved for those who, in times of great moral crisis, maintain their neutrality." · Imran Khan is the solicitor for the Lawrence family.