These things, as always, come like a bullet out of a blue sky. I was sitting having dinner in Edinburgh with three friends. Three good friends who I've known for years. My memory is a little vague on some of the details but I remember we'd been having a rumbustuous argument about, well, I'm sure it was something important. I was enjoying myself.Then it happened. "How do you describe yourself?" asked one friend. "Afro Caribbean," I said. There was a short pause. "What?" another friend responded. "That's rubbish, you can't describe yourself as that." Another friend laughed a little uncomfortably. Jesus, he must have been thinking, he must have thought, I know what Afro Caribbean means and he doesn't. It means people who come from the Caribbean and are of African decent.Bullet out of a blue sky. We had gone from laughing about nothing very much to an argument about my identity in three seconds. I spluttered, tried to defend my line, explain that Afro Caribbean meant, at least to me, and a number of black friends, people who are of either African or Caribbean decent.More importantly, in this country, it means black. I also describe myself as black British. My father is from Sudan. My mother is from Yorkshire. But my friends didn't say, "I don't understand", they didn't say, "why do you call yourself that?". They said I was wrong.I felt hot, I reddened. Bloody hell, maybe I was wrong. You're sitting at dinner and you start questioning yourself. This is what happens when you are black in Britain. It's one of those small things that makes our experience is different. On their own they may not even be a big deal - the conversations, rows, incidents that suddenly put you under the microscope. But all these small things build into a bigger picture. It doesn't even mean that my friends were wrong. They are some of the people I am closest to and I cannot sit around and say, "No, I'm afraid race is off the agenda." Since Macpherson, race has become more of "an issue" for white people. But they are daytrippers into a house I live in always occupy. At least they should take their shoes off. Many white people have asked for my thoughts on race. I have many. But once, at a dinner in London this time, I told a fellow guest that I didn't want to go into it. I was sick of arguing about race with people who were all full up of defensiveness. I didn't want to go through another race ABC lesson. There was silence. He didn't get it.Small things, bigger picture. Another day. An article in a newspaper was about a white photographer who was taking pictures of the lives of "immigrant communities". The piece was actually about black people in Britain, some of them immigrants, some of them British. "Immigrant communities" was used as a shorthand for both.That's wrong, I thought. And then, as with so many things, I suddenly caught myself. Am I being over-aware, crying foul at every little slight in a world where ignorance and insensitivity are all around What about when they use "blacks" in a headline rather than black people. Is that important? Maybe not. But then Duwayne Brooks, the friend who was with Stephen Lawrence the night he was killed, mentioned it in an interview, said it was demeaning, and I thought, yeah, I noticed that as well.Small acts which mean something bigger. I've not been stopped by the police driving my car since I was 19. I've not been kicked to the floor by a gang of white thugs. I've not had graffitti daubed on my door because I'm luck y and live in a middle class neighbourhood. But I have bben asked, before a trip to Bangladesh, when I was setting off for "bongo bongo land". I have sat in a pub in the pub and been told to "play the white man". I have sat on football terraces and heard screams of "you fucking coon" and "black bastard" from people sitting around me who are angry that a black footballer hasn't done what they would like him to do. When I walk into a strange bar I look for a black face, just so I can feel more comfortable.I used to work in Aberdeen. It was a land of oil workers, many from America, many of whom had travelled to the Middle East. People who say they used to know a Kamal from Libya and he was a great guy.I find it supremely irritating when people ask me where I'm from just because my name isn't John Smith. When someone keeps asking you about your dad and your home and how you feel about racism that drips, drip, drips around you every day, that sometimes, just sometimes I reserve the right to say "Why don't you just shut up?" That everyday I think about my race and this country we live in. And I want to say that without it blowing up into a horrible ugly row about me and being black and how I don't understand anything anyhow.