Once upon a time Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary issued reports with titles like Antisocial Behaviour: A report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary. No longer. Today's much publicised report was called Stop The Rot and did nothing to discourage the alarmist headlines that inevitably followed: the Sun gave us "Rise of the Yobs"; the Express "26 Yob Crimes Happen Every Minute".It's worth pointing out, however, something that the report nowhere mentions. According to the British Crime Survey, the proportion of people reporting that antisocial behaviour is a problem where they live fell from 17% to 15% between July 2008 and August 2009 – and is down a full 6% since the question was first asked eight years ago. This is not a problem that is out of control.That said, this thing we call antisocial behaviour remains a major political and policy challenge. Labour and liberal politicians emerged from the election surprised and discomforted by how often the issue was raised on the doorstep. That Gordon Brown never quite got it, or found a convincing narrative on it, was one of the things that did for him.And it's true, as yesterday's report emphasises, that antisocial behaviour still too often mars lives. It tends to be the greatest problem in the poorest neighbourhoods and is often directed at their most vulnerable members. Witness Fiona Pilkington, driven to kill her disabled daughter and herself after years of abuse from young neighbours; or David Askew, a man with learning difficulties who collapsed and died while being harassed by a teenage boy.But how should we respond to antisocial behaviour? The gist of Stop the Rot is that the public looks to police to tackle it on their behalf, and that police must lead efforts to address it. And it is deeply disturbing that some forces are still providing a far from adequate service, especially for people who are, like the Pilkington family and David Askew, repeatedly victimised.But the report's emphasis on the central role of the police is only half right. Antisocial behaviour is a notoriously catch-all category. At one extreme it encompasses almost any criminal activity perpetuated in the public realm – theft, street fighting, drug dealing, mugging. At the other it stretches to less serious offences – littering, dog fouling, petty vandalism, rowdy behaviour. While the police have a major role in tackling the more criminal end of this spectrum, there is only so much they can do to tackle the less serious offences. We can't have, and most of us would not want to have, a police officer on every street corner.Indeed, while governments and police tend to view antisocial behaviour through a lens marked "crime", public concern with it can be seen as part of a broader concern with local incivility – with a perceived decline of local institutions and norms of neighbourliness and trust. (I stress "perceived" because in fact most of the trends in this area are neutral or positive.)Strengthening civility and neighbourhoods is important, but the police have only a minor role to play. Other things – the way places are designed, traffic is managed and the public realm is maintained; the character of shops and local public services, the provision of activities for young people – are just as important as anything the police can do.And there is a role for the rest of us. Policing depends on members of the public willing to obey the law, and to intervene when they see things going wrong. Some figures have a particularly important role to play in maintaining local social order – park keepers, estate managers, shop keepers. But the capacity of a community or neighbourhood as a whole to help police itself is also crucial.There is little doubt that people are increasingly nervous about intervening, and that this is a peculiarly British problem. One 2006 survey found that whereas 60% of Germans say they would intervene to stop a gang of children vandalising a bus shelter, only 30% of British people say they would do so – the lowest response out of the six European countries surveyed.It is surprising what little thought has been given to how to strengthen ordinary people's capacity to tackle incivility. One option – one I developed in a paper for the Royal Society of Arts earlier this year – would be to promote a first aid approach to community safety, training people beyond the police to deal with antisocial behaviour. I called this the Woolwich model, because Woolwich was the place where the first course in first aid was taught in 1878.People can be taught how to read a situation so they know when it is appropriate and safe to intervene, and when to call the police. They can be shown how to protect themselves and others from attack. And they can be given mediation and conflict resolution skills. As with first aid, this training should be available to anyone who wants it.The police will always have a role in dealing with more serious instances of antisocial behaviour. But if the rest of us had a better sense of how to defuse conflict, then we might see fewer alarmist headlines.