Two teenagers were given life sentences today for murdering 20-year-old Sophie Lancaster because she was a goth. Passing sentence the judge called the murder a "hate crime" against completely harmless people because of their appearance. Ryan Herbert, 16, who had pleaded guilty before the trial started last month, was jailed for life today at Preston crown court and ordered to serve a minimum of 16 years. His accomplice, Brendan Harris, 15, who was found guilty at trial, was given a life sentence with a minimum of 18 years.The two teenagers killed gap-year student Sophie Lancaster last August. They kicked and stamped Lancaster to death as she begged the pair to stop beating her boyfriend, Robert Maltby, 21, in Stubbylee Park in Bacup, Lancashire. Neither of the defendants knew the couple, who were both goths, and the only motive for the violence was that they looked different from them, a jury was told last month. Judge Anthony Russell QC said both victims were totally innocent and were subjected to cruel and sadistic behaviour. He described goths as "perfectly peaceful law-abiding people who pose no threat to anybody". He added: "The intolerance you displayed in this case is shocking evidence of the attitudes of some of our people. "I am satisfied having heard all the evidence there was an intention by each of you to inflict severe pain and suffering. "This was a hate crime against these completely harmless people targeted because their appearance was different to yours." Speaking after sentencing today, the chief crown prosecutor for Lancashire Robert Marshall described the case as "truly shocking". "Very occasionally, in spite of all the tragic and distressing cases that the CPS has to deal with, we come across a case that stands out as truly shocking. "The murder of Sophie Lancaster and the vicious attack on her boyfriend Robert Maltby stand out for their utter pointlessness and sheer brutality."Worse still, it seems very likely that the attack started as a form of amusement for those involved."Passing sentence today, Judge Anthony Russell QC, told the defendants he thought their behaviour in court had been unacceptable and described it as "swaggering"."I noticed the wink that one of you exchanged with the public gallery when the murder charge was not proceeded with against you and that one of you thought it appropriate to shout out 'love you mum".'The court also heard today how Maltby, who did not appear in court himself, still suffers from long-term physical and emotional damage after the attack. A statement from him was read out by Michael Shorrock QC, prosecuting: "Before all this happened I was settled into a life quite independent. "My life was set up and I had control over everything. Now I have regressed to being something similar to a child. I really just like to think I'm now only eight months old. I'm finding the whole world a terrifying place."Lancaster and Maltby had crossed paths with Herbert and Harris on their way home from a friend's house in the early hours last August, initially having a chat and offering the youths cigarettes. Then, according to four teenage witnesses, who were praised by Judge Andrew Russell QC for defying gang loyalties, someone shouted "let's bang him" and Harris landed a flying kick on Maltby's head.Herbert and three other youths joined in by kicking and stamping on him as they beat him unconscious. When Lancaster cradled her boyfriend in her arms and pleaded for mercy, Harris delivered a flying kick to her head and Herbert volley-kicked her in the face "like a ball in flight".The injuries to both victims were so severe that paramedics could not tell which sex either was. A clear footwear pattern was visible on Lancaster's head. Both fell into comas but Lancaster never regained consciousness and died in hospital 13 days later. Following the trial verdict, Maltby, who has no recollection of the attack in the early hours of August 11, said he had "lost his entire world" and wished he had been kicked to death instead so his girlfriend could have been spared. Lancaster's mother Sylvia, 52, said she was uncertain she could continue her job as a youth worker — trying to prevent teenagers following a life of crime. Today Sylvia Lancaster, along with Maltby's mother, father and brother, and 15 other friends and relatives, some in goth clothing, sat in the jury box and seats alongside it to hear the sentence. Detectives investigating the murder criticised the conduct of the defendants and their families throughout the criminal proceedings as "appalling". Harris and his mother were said to have been "laughing and joking" when they were first interviewed about the incident. Harris, of Spring Terrace, Bacup, had denied the murder charge but pleaded guilty to assault causing grievous bodily harm to Maltby. Herbert, of Rossendale Crescent, Bacup, pleaded guilty to murder and assault. During the trial it also emerged that Harris, who admitted starting the frenzied attack because he was "drunk and showing off", had been convicted of kicking and stamping on a 16-year-old in April 2007. He and Herbert, who was also involved, were given six-month community sentences. Three other teenagers who took part in the initial attack on Maltby can now be named after the trial judge, Anthony Russell QC, lifted an order banning the press from identifying them. Brothers Joseph, 17, and Danny Hulme, 16, both of Landgate, Whitworth, near Bacup, and Daniel Mallett, 17, of Rockcliffe Drive, Bacup, all pleaded guilty to grievous bodily harm with intent on Maltby. They did not take part in the attack on Sophie, the court was told. They will also be sentenced this afternoon.