Black military officers are to be drafted in to work with youths at risk of being sucked into inner city teenage violence, the Guardian has learned.Senior figures, including Air Commodore David Case, the highest ranking black officer in the forces, have been approached as part of a drive to tackle the gang problem. The initiative will also involve senior police officers, such as Tarique Ghaffur, the Met assistant commissioner and highest-ranked minority officer at Scotland Yard.Their main role will be to identify more junior colleagues in the armed forces and police who can act as mentors, and to give the scheme credibility with donors.The hope is that the experiences of those who have carved out successful careers in the "uniformed services" will impress young men whose horizons are often severely limited.The approach comes amid growing concern about teenage gang violence. This year there has been an unprecedented wave of teenage killings, with 17 gang-related murders in London alone. Two weeks ago, a government-sponsored report urged the promotion of a wider variety of black role models.It is understood that the central figures are being brought together behind the scenes by Trevor Phillips, head of the new Commission for Equalities and Human Rights. The Guardian has learned that he has been asked by No 10 to draw up a wider strategy for diagnosing and addressing the gang problem.Leaked documents reveal that one tactic being advocated by Mr Phillips is to challenge the negativity and parochialism of those involved in gangs by throwing them together with people from different areas and backgrounds. Two summer "adventure camps", organised by ex-army personnel and involving the Commission for Racial Equality and the army, have been run for the past two years, involving up to 100 teenagers each time. The first was piloted while Mr Phillips was chair of the CRE and the second assisted by the army through the offices of Lieutenant General Anthony Palmer CBE, the former deputy chief of defence staff. Both were hailed as successful and more are planned.Exemplars such as Mr Case, the director of the department of specialist ground training at the RAF college and a former grammar school pupil raised in south London, are seen as critical to the success of the role model programme.Briefing papers suggest the effort is being backed by senior figures in and outside the government. Strategy discussions have involved Lady Amos, the former leader of the House of Lords who is now EU representative to the African Union, Lady Scotland, the attorney general, the culture minister David Lammy and the peer Lord Alli.One unexpected figure also set to play a role is Patrick Mercer, the Tory MP and former soldier who was sacked by David Cameron in March from his shadow frontbench post as homeland security spokesman. Mr Mercer departed amid controversy about his claim that some "useless" minority soldiers used racism as a cover and that being called a "black bastard" was a normal part of army life.But according to the documents, the MP is now seen as someone who could make a contribution through his contacts in the armed forces and the City.In a briefing note, Mr Phillips tells the others involved that Mr Mercer, despite his "injudicious" comments, has long been working to address the gang problems. Prior to his sacking, the MP had been working with Skillforce, the organisation behind the two adventure camps.Mr Phillips reveals that on meeting Mr Mercer he had some "pretty hard words to say" but that by the end he had realised that, despite his army background, the MP was "certainly not a racist". "If anything he is a bit naive," said Mr Phillips. His involvement should be kept low key "as it would look as if he's trying to do penance for his remarks". "In the end we have to judge people by what they do," he adds.The CEHR chairman is known to have recently set up a charity, the 1807 Trust, as a vehicle for a raft of social projects.In a briefing document sent to Downing Street, he warns against comparing UK gangs to those in the US. "The British gangs operate more like a loose network of friends," he says."They are extremely localised and the edges of the networks involve people who are not involved in serious crime." But the model of loose association makes it easier for young men to be sucked in.Mr Phillips flags up concerns about the involvement of young men who have come to Britain from conflict zones. "Many of the young men have grown up inured to a level of violence unthinkable to most British people." They are, he says, "raising the bar on violence" and desperately need "better and more focused integration programmes, including proper psychotherapeutic assessment and help".Mr Phillips was unavailable for comment yesterday. Mr Mercer's office called his involvement "a private matter".· This article was amended on Monday August 27 2007. Baroness Amos was formerly leader of the House of Lords, not the Commons. This has been corrected.