The number of race hate crime allegations reported to prosecutors leapt by 13% last year, according to figures published today.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said it dealt with 4,728 files between April 2003 and March 2004. Of these, 3,616 were taken to court - an increase of 2% on the previous year. Separate figures on religiously-aggravated crimes showed there were 49 cases referred to the CPS during the period, only the second year for which the data has been published. Previously there were 18 cases during a 16-month period from December 2001, when the power to charge suspects with religiously-motivated crimes was introduced.Of the 49 cases, all but five went to court, with Islam the "actual or perceived" religion of victims in exactly half of the cases. A further eight victims were Christian, five Jewish, three Hindu, two Sikh, one Jehovah's Witness and the remaining three unknown.The overall conviction rate for religiously-aggravated crimes was 77%. Examples of offences included an attack on a 12-year-old Sikh boy by a 14-year-old Muslim boy who threw a lit aerosol at him, setting his hair and turban alight. The attacker was convicted of religiously-aggravated actual bodily harm, sentenced to a three-month action plan order and ordered to pay £200 compensation to his victim and £100 costs. In another case, two youths claiming to be Satanists harassed a Christian minister and his family over a period of three months. Both were convicted, with one receiving a six-month restraining order and the other 12 months' imprisonment. Another defendant, who subjected his Muslim taxi driver to racially and religiously abusive language, pleaded guilty to religiously-aggravated common assault and received four months' imprisonment.The 3,616 race hate cases resulted in 4,710 charges, of which 3,247 were racially-aggravated. The conviction rate for all those charged with racially-motivated crimes was 86% - up from 85% in the previous 12 months.Ken Macdonald QC, the director of public prosecutions, said: "I am reassured that the conviction rate for racially-aggravated offences remains high but there is still work to be done. In this report, witness difficulties accounted for 26% of dropped charges. "We have high hopes that the witness care units, which are being rolled out to all 42 criminal justice areas in England and Wales, will provide more dedicated care to witnesses to help them attend court for all types of case." A CPS spokesman said the majority of cases in both race hate and religiously-aggravated categories were public order offences dealt with in the magistrates' courts. Seamus Taylor, the service's equality and diversity director, said: "Whilst there are comparatively few religiously-aggravated cases, these are still early days for this new offence. "What is significant is that 50% of the 44 victims' perceived or actual religion was Muslim. To build awareness that we will prosecute this type of hate crime rigorously, we will build on our current work and deepen our engagement with all faith communities over the next year. "This will include engaging with the Muslim community which should contribute to raising awareness and building confidence in this area."