If the Jimmy Savile case really does prove to be a watershed moment for sexual crime, then remember: this four-decade, one-man festival of blatant, manipulative cruelty is what it took. He fooled everyone except his hundreds of victims, and sometimes he fooled even them. He truly did groom the nation. His focus on working in children's television at a trusted national institution, his hospital portering, his charity work, the peripatetic life those commitments demanded, the double-bluff flamboyance of his "colourful" image – all were calculated to bring him into contact with potential victims while simultaneously suggesting that he was beyond suspicion. Savile was truly an evil genius, surely the most pathologically perverted creature that popular culture has yet fostered.Yet, hard as it may be to believe, that is precisely why the promised watershed is not guaranteed. Savile's crimes are so startling, in their scale and in the sheer, open confidence with which they were committed, that there's a real danger that they will quickly be labelled entirely exceptional, utterly unrepeatable. The tendency has been there since the scandal first broke, after so many years of desperate silence.Some said it was wrong to accuse a man who was dead and could not defend himself. Others suggested that since Savile was not around to answer for them, there was little point in further investigating his crimes. Yet more people lined up to say that Savile had operated in different times, when the sexual abuse of children was less frowned upon that it is today. One still comes across the occasional person who will claim to have been sexually abused as a child without it doing them "any harm". If you are able to dismiss the suffering of others so cavalierly, then I'm afraid that indeed you were harmed.All of these opinions are symptoms of an ongoing problem. A lot of people simply don't want to know, even now, when it is so clear that Savile was able to take such massive advantage of precisely that.The trouble with this culture's attitude to sex crimes, against adults as well as children, is that it is paradoxical. The paradox is that such crimes are considered so unspeakably heinous that even accusing a person of committing them is seen as an awful thing to do.It is accepted, and has been for a long time, that sexual crimes are hard to prove, because it's in their nature that there are typically no witnesses. The logical conclusion of such a situation would be that those reporting crimes have to be listened to very carefully and seriously. Instead, the opposite happens, and it is very common for the person doing the accusing to come under scrutiny, in an all too human attempt to blame the messenger.Supposedly bold iconoclasts think nothing of warning hysterically against the danger of an epidemic of false rape accusation being unleashed. Civil liberties campaigners wring their hand over the idea that the details of people who have been accused of sexual crimes but not convicted should be held on a central file nevertheless. Even those who believe most passionately that the horror of rape should be fought tooth and nail damage their cause by insisting inflexibly that rape is rape is rape. Even suggesting that it is possible for a poorly socialised man to misread signals in a situation that is unfamiliar to him is considered dangerous and unhelpful.Ian Huntley, the Sohan killer, and John Worboys, the London black cab rapist, are just two of the most notorious among other men whose crimes were reported to the police a number of times without action being taken. One result of this is that many women don't even report the crimes against them.In 2010, a few hundred yards from my home, a woman was raped on the street by the same stranger on two occasions in the space of 12 weeks. She did not report the first attack, but after the second O'Nile Huggins was apprehended from the e-fit the police constructed from her description, and convicted.It is so important that all victims of such crimes report them, and feel safe in the knowledge that even if their carefully recorded, thoroughly examined evidence is not immediately useful, it may turn out to be part of a pattern of evidence at a later date. That is the watershed that is needed now.