The parents of missing Madeleine McCann admitted yesterday they would feel guilty for the rest of their lives about leaving her alone in her bed as Portuguese police finally issued a description of a man they believe may be her kidnapper.The sighting of the suspect reportedly came from one of the group of people who went on holiday with the McCann family to the Ocean Club complex at Praia da Luz in southern Portugal.Chief Inspector Olegario de Sousa last night described the man as having been "possibly carrying a child" near the holiday apartments at the time four-year-old Madeleine disappeared. He was described as "Caucasian, approximately 35 to 40 years of age, medium built, approximately 5ft 10in tall, with hair that is mainly short but [long] on the neck".Police said the man was wearing a dark jacket, beige or golden coloured trousers and dark shoes. It was the first sign that police were looking for anyone other than Robert Murat, the 33-year-old Briton who has been formally named as a suspect in the case but who insists he is innocent.The McCanns were pleased that police, who refused to explain why they had taken three weeks to make the description public, had finally made the appeal. They are reportedly convinced the child was Madeleine and had considered taking legal action to force police into making the description public.Earlier yesterday the McCanns talked openly of the guilt they carried with them, and would always carry, after leaving their three children alone in their holiday flat on the fateful night. "I think it's fair to say the guilt we feel having not been there at that moment will never leave us," her father, Gerry McCann, said.In the couple's first interviews since Madeleine disappeared, they said they had told their two-year-old twins, Amelie and Sean, that their older sister had gone on a trip. Mr McCann said: "We have said she's gone on a little trip just now and Amelie came out with one really cutting line that went right to the core; she said: 'Madeleine's on trip, back soon'. We certainly pray for that every day."Madeleine's parents explained how they had felt totally safe at the Ocean Club in Praia da Luz, and that going to eat at the tapas bar a few dozen yards way did not feel like a risk. "For us it really wasn't very much different to having dinner in your garden, in the proximity of the location," Mr McCann said. "We have been reassured by the thousands of messages from people who have either done exactly the same or said they would have done the same."Madeleine's mother, Kate, added: "I think at worst we were naive. We are very responsible parents, we love our children very much. I don't think any parent could ever imagine or consider anything like this happening."The McCanns described how, on the evening of May 3, Kate McCann went back to check on the children and found Madeleine missing. They had not seen anything suspicious before that night."It was such a relaxing holiday and as a family unit, up until that night it was as good a holiday as we've had with the children," said Mr McCann.They admitted they had been hurt by the criticism they had received for leaving the children on their own. "No one hurts you as much as the hurt that we had, but we have tried to remain very positive in our outlook and even small levels of criticism make that hard when you're trying to do everything in your power to get your daughter back," said Mr McCann.They did not give details of which doors and windows were open at the flat, but said they did not think, that night, that Madeleine had woken up and wandered off. "We double and treble checked but we certainly had no doubt in our minds that she'd been taken," said Mr McCann. Police were called out within 10 minutes and the resort manager had activated a missing child protocol within half an hour."I think people are aware we were checking regularly on the children and it was during one of my checks that I discovered she had gone," Mrs McCann said. "I can't really go into any details but I'm sure any parent will realise how that felt."The McCanns said they still thought of Madeleine as alive and well. "We have to be hopeful, it's what keeps us going, keeps us focused," said Mrs McCann. "We need to believe that she's coming back to us."They described Madeleine as an extrovert, lively girl who loved running and playing games of chase. "We must continue and we do believe that if anything really bad had happened we would have found her by now," said Mr McCann. "I'm constant and believe this strongly that we will find her. It's not hard to continue believing that. We love her more than anyone can possibly imagine."Last night's interviews came as the McCanns try to maintain the high profile of the case and prepare to travel around Europe amid fears that Madeleine may have been taken out of the country.