Shock disclosure – journalists sometimes behave unethically. The reptiles behave like reptiles. As they slither round the swamp, they even run out of prey, and are now consuming their own, the News of the World. Their victims are delighted. Bruised MPs jump with joy. Starlets pout. Over-sexed footballers are ecstatic. Bankers roll on the floor and kick their legs in the air. Rarely has so much pleasure been given to so many by so few.The full ramifications of the hacking scandal remain unresolved, but some things are already clear. Many celebrities found that their voicemails were hacked into by reporters, of whom the most reckless were from the News of the World. The police were negligent in not warning the said celebrities of this fact, and the owners of the News of the World were less than assiduous in pursuing internal inquiries. This was hardly the Iraq war, but it was careless, as the massed ranks of politics and the media were bound to miss no opportunity to take power down a peg. The BBC news department, rival of the News of the World's sister, Sky, could not conceal its glee and revelled in the story all day.Press lawyers sweating into the night claim that the law on all this is impenetrable. Hacking into someone's messages, like pointing a camera at them from a public place, may seem odious, prurient and of negligible public interest. But a close reading of various acts on data protection, intrusion, privacy and "regulation of investigator powers" is unhelpful.At one point the Crown Prosecution Service told the police that it was illegal to hack into a message before, but not after, a recipient had heard it, a distinction that would have to be proved in court. This absurdity is apparently no longer the case, but, like the royal eavesdropping scandals of the 1990s, what can be proved as a crime is different from what might pass muster in a civil damages suit. And then the police have mixed motives, given their historic ties to newspaper news desks. Whenever you read the word "exclusive" on a crime story, assume a policeman is at work.The case was further complicated by the antics of the publicist Max Clifford. This Croesus of kiss-and-tell pulled off the coup of the year by getting £1m from the News of the World for hacking into his phone messages. Presumably this would also allow Clifford to continue to feed the paper lurid material from his "provocatrices", who hack themselves into the private lives of celebrities, much to their profit and the interest of the public. It would take an Aristotle or a Kant to disentangle the morality of the Clifford deal.Journalistic ethics, if not a contradiction in terms, are a mess. This is the downside of fierce media competition and weak legislation on surveillance technology. It is also a consequence of a thoroughly confused boundary between the public and private realms, between openness and secrecy, publicity and privacy, rapacity and trust.Newsgathering has recently seen the dissemination of the supposedly secret WikiLeaks material, which has brought down one bad regime and is aimed at two more. It has seen the entrapment by the Daily Telegraph of the business secretary, Vince Cable, and of Fifa executives by the Sunday Times. Similar entrapment by Channel 4 last year humiliated Geoff Hoon, Patricia Hewitt and Stephen Byers. None of this is particularly new. Back in the 1990s, the "Camillagate" and "Squidgygate" tapes set a low in electronic prurience, yet were widely reproduced across Fleet Street. Lest the Guardian be accused of hyprocrisy, it too forged a letter in 1993 from the Tory MP Jonathan Aitken to reveal his perjury.In most such cases, journalists have claimed "public interest" in defence of actions that others might consider unethical and lawyers illegal. The reality of the matter is that one person's brave investigation is another's illicit intrusion. Journalists may claim a licence to judge the public interest for themselves, but this requires public trust, which is wearing thin. While their stories may sometimes be in the public interest, and not just of public interest, that does not mean there was a public interest in breaking the law to obtain it.Believe it or not, the now-abused "mainstream media" do subject their work to some legal and ethical filter. That is not true of the now-eulogised internet. Its champions deride the "censorship" of newspaper editors and their lawyers, and imply that such professional discipline is for wimps. The result has been a real ethical collapse.The press's supposed self-regulator, the Press Complaints Commission, is a patsy of the tabloids and a broken reed. Electronic surveillance and internet dissemination mean that secrecy and privacy have come to mean little more than that you are unimportant. Privacy is for nobodies. Hence the queue of celebrities outside the News of the World, though how they can prove damage is puzzling.Those in the public eye must assume they are never out of it, never off the record. From Sky soccer commentators to Gordon Brown or John Major or Carol Thatcher, there is no such thing as off-air. No one can be trusted. No email is safe. Walk down the road, enter a shop or pub, or talk to a friend, and someone somewhere will claim a "public interest" in revealing it. All of human life is on Facebook and YouTube: hackable, audible, visible. The world is its own paparazzo.The smart advice to journalists is just to obey the law. But which law? Official secrets law is a shambles. Privacy law is made up on the hoof. Court injunctions are improvised explosive devices. If some journalists take their cue from the police, the police are licensed by the government to behave like journalists. Labour ministers, without a peep from MPs, passed laws on surveillance and intrusion that should offend any libertarian society.The databases being amassed by the police, the banks, the NHS and Whitehall agencies are as insecure as those of the US state department. There is no way the NHS computer, the identity card computer or the criminal record computer is or would be safe. Computers are inherently insecure.The media need a new philosophical map of the boundary between secrecy and trust on one side, and transparency on the other. There must be protection for some individual and collective privacy, or private and corporate life will retreat into gated communities of body and mind. There must be such a thing as a secret worth keeping.The job of the journalist will always be to go after the story, pushing the limits of the law where clear public interest can be proved. But this pushing will attract public trust only where professional self-regulation can be seen to work, as it works up to a point for doctors and lawyers. For the moment, anarchy rules. The old message still applies. Put your own house in order, or someone else will do it for you.