I lived in Brixton from 1979 to 1982. Then, as now, the spark that exploded in the riots of 81 was attributed to "insensitive policing". Fortified by the Scarman inquiry and the posturing of Rudy Narayan that followed, history chose to depicted the 81 riots as a social protest.  Illustration:Gary KempstonMuch has been made of the difference between then and now. In fact, just like the recent troubles (Report, 13 August), the Brixton protest rapidly degenerated into rampant criminality. Moreover, just like in north London and Clapham Junction, the principal stores targeted were electrical stores, albeit Currys and Rumbelows rather than Richer Sounds and a Sony warehouse. The only difference was that the hefty TV sets of the 80s needed two people to carry them, while I recall microwaves (somewhat aspirational at the time) being especially popular.Back then, supermarket trolleys were deployed to allow looters to maximise their bulkier takings. At the time, I called it "frustrated consumerism". This week the Guardian referred to "lack of consumer fulfilment". Plus ça change.Nick Hopewell-SmithEye, Suffolk • Whatever people may argue about the riots, they are not a sign that modern society has deteriorated compared to past decades nor that today's youths have become uneducated law-breakers compared to past generations. Was there ever a happy-family, happy-country era when all criminals got their comeuppance, all children were disciplined and all people respected the police?In May 1964 there were running battles between police and up to 400 teenagers on Margate beach, and more than 1,000 youths causing riots in Brighton. Newspapers reported that "they threw deckchairs around, broke them up to make bonfires, shouted obscenities at each other and at passers-by, jostled holidaymakers and terrified elderly residents".Gavin Mortimer (author of The Blitz) describes how during the war there were thousands of cases of looting across UK cities and many of them carried out by gangs of children. When London's Cafe de Paris was struck during an air attack in 1941 it was looted almost immediately. Even the wounded had their jewellery stolen in the chaos. And as far back as 1919 there were race riots in Britain. In Newport that summer white mobs wrecked so many properties the South Wales Argus report said that it looked as if there had been an air raid in the town.Those using recent events to lament the good old days of respect for the law are making a rose-coloured spectacle of themselves.Emilie LamploughTrowbridge, Wiltshire • Reporting of the riots has led to comparisons with similar outbreaks of violence over a quarter of a century ago, but it is the 18th century which provides the most appropriate focus for understanding one aspect of the recent upheavals.Michael White has critiqued Boris Johnson for talking of the rioters' sense of entitlement (Report, 11 August), but Johnson has an unlikely ally in the late Edward Thompson, an expert on 18th-century popular protest, who recognised that rioters were and are motivated by a sense of economic entitlement, albeit that in the 18th century this sense of entitlement was to food and land rather than sportswear and electronic goods.Yet we should not perceive this desire for consumer goods as a new phenomenon. British people have defined their identities by possession of manufactured commodities since at least the 18th century, and their desire for such products led to a series of "consumer revolutions" which enabled Britain to lead the way in industrial production and financial services. What is changing is the ability and willingness of people to pay for these products, particularly in a period of economic downturn when social and economic polarisation is significant.Dr Tim Reinke-WilliamsUniversity of Northampton • If our response to the riots is only to have more and more efficient policing (Editorial, 12 August), it might be well to remember Tom Paine's words on why the "vulgar and ignorant mob" came into being in the first place: "They rise as an unavoidable consequence, out of the ill construction of all old governments in Europe, England included with the rest. It is by distortedly exalting some men, that others are distortedly debased, until the whole is out of nature."Michael LawSt Albans, Hertfordshire• In the 60s there were riots in Rochester, New York. My grandfather, an orthodox rabbi, was one of the few white residents living in a public housing estate in that city. Shortly after the riots, several of his black neighbours came to him and said, in effect, "We've done terrible things and in the heat of the moment took things from stores that were being looted. We are ashamed. What can we do?"My grandfather asked them if they knew where his synagogue was and when they said they did, he said: "I will leave the door there unlocked." The next day when he went to the synagogue it was filled with TVs, shoes, clothing, electrical items and many other things that had apparently been looted. My grandfather then called the police.The police asked him where the loot came from. He replied: "I have no idea." He would not give them names and his estate returned to peace. Governor Rockefeller came to Rochester and asked his advice. I don't know what he told him, but there were no more riots in Rochester.Martha Jean BakerLondon• The politicians and experts will debate the reasons for the riots. But sometimes it is the poet who gets to the heart of the matter. For example, WH Auden, in The Shield of Achilles: "That girls are raped, that two boys knife a third / Were axioms to him, who'd never heard / Of any world where promises were kept / Or one could weep because another wept."Peter NicholsonGlasgow