Aside from various republican and loyalist terrorists, Martin Cahill was the most infamous outlaw in Ireland. Before he was shot dead in Dublin in 1994, the master criminal known as The General was the key figure in Ireland's underworld. His exploits and ruthlessness became the stuff of legend and the raw material for a number of crime books as well as a Hollywood movie directed by John Boorman. A teetotaller and family man, Cahill masterminded elaborate jewellery heists, stole paintings from an aristocrat's house and ran the Irish police ragged throughout the 1980s. But when his daughter attempted to tell her story about life with the crime boss she was engulfed by a firestorm of moral and media outrage. Frances Cahill's book Martin Cahill - My Father provoked screaming headlines in newspapers; she was shouted down on Ireland's most popular television talk programme, RTE's The Late Late Show, and accused of exploiting her father's life of crime. Many of those attacking her had themselves sold stories and published books about The General.The 37-year-old mother of four detects a trace of misogyny in the coverage. "If any of my brothers had written this book I wonder would the reaction have been so hysterical? Almost every headline contained words like 'her' and 'she' in them. It was as if they were saying, 'how dare this woman write this book?' I feel as if they are attacking me as a woman."People such as crime journalists have every right to write books about my father. So why are these same people objecting to me doing the same? "I wrote this book because all the coverage of my father was one-sided; he was painted as this monster. In fact he was a very good and loving father to all of us."Cahill denies she has glossed over her father's reputation for ferocious violence - he is reputed to have nailed one of his associates to a floor for allegedly pocketing loot behind his back. The controversy revives the question of whether convicted criminals or their families should make money from a story of crime and violence. Frances Cahill insists she is not making a penny out of the book - the proceeds will be donated to a school for autistic children. She refuses to name the school and will not say if anyone in her family has autism.Given that she has written about such a controversial figure, is she not in danger of putting her own children in the firing line? "I wrote this for them as well as him," she says. "The children [one girl and two boys] hardly knew their grandfather. I wanted to give them a rounded picture of Martin Cahill."She refuses to apologise for showing her father's softer side. "I can only tell it as it was for me; as a child growing up I had a loving father who cared for all. I had to portray the human side of Martin Cahill. That's my right as much as it's the right of others to do books about him as well."Such steely resilience is not going to quell the ire of those in Ireland calling for a boycott of the book. Yet she believes that the Irish people are ahead of the tabloids in understanding why she told her side of The General's story."Whether I'm out walking the kids or standing in the supermarket checkout people come up to me, wish me luck or say 'fair play to ya'. They don't seem to be as vindictive as the Irish media."