A woman's head in a plastic bag was found yesterday by two young sisters playing on a beach on the east coast of Scotland. Last night police had cordoned off the section of beach at Arbroath in Angus after a human hand was also found nearby. The two girls made the macabre discovery on a stretch of foreshore beside the small fishing and tourist town. Their mother then called the police and scenes of crime officers carried out an extensive search for further body parts.A forensic pathologist was last night examining the head to discover when it had been severed and to establish the age and identifying characteristics of the woman. A Tayside police spokeswoman said there had been no recent reports locally of women going missing in suspicious circumstances and there were no women listed on the force's website of missing people about whom there is concern. Neighbouring forces were being contacted, she said. A Home Office large and major crime enquiry system (Holmes) team has been set up to assist the investigation.Diego Batard, a barman at the Old Brew House, on the Seagate, yards from the beach, said: "A lot of people thought it was an April Fool's when they heard something had been found on the beach. They were saying, 'are you kidding me?'."We got here around 10.50am and there were a couple of policemen on the beach, but we thought nothing of it, maybe a dead animal or something. Then the news started coming in that it was parts of a body that had been found. There are police still out there now combing the beach."Angus MSP Andrew Welsh, who lives just outside Arbroath, said: "My reaction is one of absolute shock that such an incident should have happened, especially when young children have been involved. This would be a shock in any area of Scotland, but especially in Arbroath, which is a family, holiday town. It may well be that future body parts are found and all youngsters should be kept away from the beach." Patricia Millar, 54, chairwoman of the Royal Burgh of Arbroath Community Council, said: "I was shocked and appalled to hear of this tragedy in our town. This is the kind of thing you hear about in big cities. I never expected it to happen here. My sympathies go out to the two children who made the discovery. It must have been terrible to see such a gruesome thing at such a tender age."Last month the headless body of a man was found in Ickleford, Hertfordshire. In February the head of an Algerian man was found in the Grand Union Canal in London shortly after his body had been discovered in Kilburn, north-west London. Last year the headless body of a woman was washed up in the Thames at Greenwich.