An entire murder squad has been pulled off an inquiry into the death of a London accountant following a review of the case which criticised the team for failing to treat the incident as a racist attack.Sussex police admitted yesterday the hunt for the killers of Jimmy Abatan, 42, had been taken over by a new squad which had started with a much clearer focus. The decision was welcomed by Worthing West's MP, Peter Bottomley, and members of the Abatan family who have long believed that Jimmy, who was known as Jay, died at the hands of racists. The father of two was attacked on January 24, 1999, outside the Ocean Rooms nightclub in Brighton, where he had been celebrating an imminent promotion at PricewaterhouseCoopers with his brother, Michael. As they left, they had a row with a group of white youths over a taxi. The brothers were kicked and punched. Jay, of Eastbourne, East Sussex, suffered brain damage. He was pronounced dead after five days on a life support machine. Two men were arrested within 24 hours of the attack and charged with manslaughter. However, the charges were dropped and they were later cleared of causing Michael Abatan actual bodily harm. Sussex asked Essex police to conduct a review of the inquiry last July and a first draft of a report by Superintendent Steve Reynolds was handed to senior officers at the beginning of the month. Sussex refused to disclose the details, but it is understood Mr Reynolds made sweeping criticisms. Although the original murder squad did not rule out the possibility of a racial attack, it was not pursued as a priority. "There were issues that needed to be addressed and so we took immediate action," said a force spokesman. Detective Superintendent Ken Probert, who is in charge of the new inquiry, added: "We are treating Jay's murder as a racist killing and 36 detectives are working on this case, taking a fresh look at the original investigation and developing new lines of inquiry." Sussex has asked the police complaints authority to review the first investigation to see whether there are any grounds for disciplining officers. It will be conducted by the deputy chief constable of Avon and Somerset, Ken Jones, under the supervision of the PCA. Michael Abatan has asked Sussex to publish the findings of the review and wants Scotland Yard's racial and violent crimes task force to become involved. He said: "It's positive that there is a new team investigating my brother's death, but two years is a long time. I hope this is not a PR exercise. I want to work with the police."