Civil liberty campaigners said last night they would raise no fundamental objections to plans to introduce compulsory lie detector tests and satellite tracking of sex offenders in Britain.The human rights organisation Liberty said it remained sceptical about the reliability of polygraph, or lie detector, tests but had no objections as long as the results were not used in court as evidence and the results would help prevent reoffending. The home secretary, David Blunkett, confirmed yesterday that he was hoping to introduce the American technology into Britain. Speaking during a visit to a police training centre with the prime minister, Tony Blair, he acknowledged that there was a lot of scepticism about the idea. He said: "We are all a bit sceptical because we've all been brought up with the spy films and the way in which the KGB are allegedly able to train people to avoid them. But we are talking about really modern technology in the 21st century and we are testing it. "It won't only just pick up whether a person is lying, it will be a major deterrent to people actually telling an untruth when they are under supervision and when it is necessary to find out what they've been up to." As disclosed in the Guardian yesterday, Mr Blunkett hopes the lie detector tests can be used to prevent sex offenders committing further crimes after they have been released on licence. The results are not expected to be used as evidence in court but ministers believe that early trials of the technology have shown that it can be helpful in establishing the offender's pattern of behaviour and past history because they are less likely to lie while being monitored. About 120 sex offenders in Britain are being tested every six months as part of the voluntary two-year trial in 12 of the 42 probation areas of England and Wales. The trial costs £342,000 and the government is expected to decide this summer whether a compulsory scheme, which would need legislation, should be introduced. All offenders on the sex offender treatment programme in the areas taking part have been asked whether they would be willing to take the tests. The Home Office has bought five polygraph machines costing £3,000 each from an American company based in Indiana. Five psychologists and a former police officer have been trained to perform the tests. The machines work by measuring the offender's "unconscious physiological reactions" to questions. Those currently undergoing the tests have to wear two bands around their chest to measure their breathing: an arm cuff similar to those used to measure blood pressure; and two finger cuffs to measure sweat. The ensemble is linked to a laptop computer which plots the results. The probation service said yesterday that only those with extensive training are allowed to interpret the results, which are checked by accredited experts. The questions asked may vary from the sex offender's masturbatory habits to whether they have visited any parks or burger bars recently. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, lodged an official complaint yesterday about the Mr Blunkett, accusing him of breaking the political convention not to make any official announcements during an election period. Mr Davis said that the tests could be beneficial but he expressed concerns about the reliability of using satellite global positioning technology to track the movements of convicted paedophiles and others. For the Liberal Democrats, Mark Oaten, said he had already tried the satellite tracking for a day and found it to work. He supported the measures and said they were preferable to someone lying around a prison cell for 23 hours a day.