Ian Huntley complained that he was being "hounded" by the media and police within a few days of Holly Wells' and Jessica Chapman's disappearance, a jury at the Old Bailey heard yesterday.The vice-principal of Soham Village College, where Mr Huntley worked as caretaker, added that he had repeatedly referred to being the last person to see the girls in one of several telephone conversations made during the search for the schoolfriends. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the 10-year-olds, who disappeared on August 4 last year. Their bodies were found just under a fortnight later. Margaret Bryden said the caretaker had called her on August 8, saying that "he was being hounded by the press and police and needed to go away for the weekend". Five days later, when police wrongly believed that they might have discovered the girls' graves, he spoke to her again and told her several times that he had been the last person to see them alive. Mrs Bryden added: "I was asked by Ian, did I think they were still alive, and I said yes, I did. He didn't." On another occasion he referred to the police's attempt to contact the girls' assumed abductor via Jessica's mobile phone and asked how someone could recharge the phone if the battery was dead. The vice-principal also recalled phoning the caretaker to discuss in detail whether there were any areas on the site which police might not have searched thoroughly. He said some areas had been searched fully, but suggested police look in an access area to a ceiling and an area under a stage. The court has heard that the charred remnants of the girls' clothes were later found in a hangar building on the college grounds. Mrs Bryden told the court that Mr Huntley had keys to the hangar, and that he and two other caretakers had alarm codes and keys for all buildings on the college site. In the same conversation, on August 16, the caretaker confided that his GP had given him medication for depression and that he was suffering from high blood pressure. Mrs Bryden said the caretaker had previously confided in her about rows with his then girlfriend, Maxine Carr, particularly towards the end of summer 2002. Ms Carr, 26, denies two charges of assisting an offender and one of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. She had been a classroom assistant at Holly and Jessica's school. When she was rejected for a permanent post there, Mr Huntley told Mrs Bryden that he "did not know how he was going to cope with her". The vice-principal told the court Mr Huntley had referred to rows with Ms Carr a few times, "more in the form of shouting or throwing things at each other". Asked about the nature of the relationship, she said: "He would make reference at times to a relationship whereby Miss Carr was telling him what to do." Cross-examining the vice-principal, Michael Hubbard QC, for Ms Carr, asked: "He made some pretty shocking and outrageous allegations about his father, did he not? About what had happened to him in his early life? "Did you ever think he was making things up?" She replied: "There were times when I felt he exaggerated things, but I don't think he made things up." The vice-principal also recalled that Mr Huntley would have seen Jessica a few weeks before her disappearance, while he was putting up decorations for the college's end-of-year prom. The 10-year-old arrived with her mother and had to wait because her older sister, Rebecca, had not finished helping. Other witnesses told the court of their dealings with Mr Huntley on the weekend that the girls vanished. Jonathan Butler, who worked as a junior caretaker at the college, said Mr Huntley had told him that Ms Carr was in Grimsby. In a statement to police last autumn, he said Ms Carr had been due to go away for a week, but had returned home early. Mr Butler also described getting a lift from Mr Huntley several days later and noticing a "strong, quite sweet" smell which he compared to car bodyfiller. Three witnesses claimed to have seen Mr Huntley outside the Ross Peers sports centre in Soham at around 10.30pm on the night Holly and Jessica went missing, and said that he denied having seen the girls. But Stephen Coward QC, for Mr Huntley, pointed to discrepancies in the statements that Mark Abbott, Wayne Short and Jonathan Watkins had given to police, and questioned whether they had embellished their versions of events. Mr Coward asked Mr Watkins: "Following the arrest of Mr Huntley, he became public enemy No 1 and you felt under pressure to try to help a bit more, is that fair?" Mr Watkins replied: "No." The case continues.