An argument between two shoppers in a supermarket queue ended with a bystander being killed, a court heard today.Antonette Richardson, 37, was so angry after being accused of queue jumping at the Sainsbury's in Merton, south London, last June, that she summoned her boyfriend to the store, Southwark crown court heard.Minutes later, Tony Virasami, 38, joined her and, mistaking another man, Kevin Tripp, 57, for her accuser hit him with "a most almighty" blow, in an incident caught on CCTV. Tripp, who had a five-year-old daughter, fell over and died of head injuries. Virasami pleaded guilty to his manslaughter last year. Richardson, of Catford, south-east London, denies manslaughter.Michael Worsley QC, prosecuting, said Richardson was implicated in Tripp's death. "A young man called (Adam) Prendergast took the view that Miss Richardson was jumping the queue and trying to get served out of turn. They had an argument. It was a fairly fierce argument."Richardson rang Virasami, who was in his car nearby. As members of Tripp's family listened from the public gallery, Worsely said: "They went up an escalator to the Sainsbury's store and she pointed to someone. She obviously intended to point at the man, Prendergast, with whom she had a row. But the male defendant thought she was pointing at someone else. He went over and gave the most almighty hit to that person, who fell over, banged his head hard and suffered not only bruising to the face where he had been hit to the head, but suffered as a result of the fall a brain injury which caused him to die not very long afterwards."As he lay on the floor, Richardson allegedly said, "that is the wrong person", prompting her boyfriend to reply, "well you pointed to him". Richardson was then heard to say "I didn't point at him" and pointed at Prendergast, the court heard.The store manager's Philip Jeal, told Virasami, "I think you have hit the wrong person", the jury was told. Worsley alleged that Richardson replied: "Yes, we need to find the right guy."That, said Worsley, was "very important evidence". He told the jurors: "Her boyfriend had hit what turned out to be the wrong person who was lying on the floor bleeding and she says 'We need to find the right guy'. When you are considering what her purpose and intent was at the time when she fetched or caused the other defendant to come to the premises, these words give a significant clue."Richardson later told the police that she had not prompted the violence and only wanted Prendergast to apologise. "But she didn't say to anybody at the scene all she wanted was an apology," Worsley said. "If she wanted a peaceable solution, why didn't she go to the security staff instead of her boyfriend?"After being told to calm down, Virasami told a security guard he was "sorry he hit the wrong person but wanted to make sure the person abusing his missus didn't get away", the court heard.The case continues.