A talented A-level student was stabbed to death by two masked men in front of his parents, who were injured when they tried to help him, it emerged today.Aamir Siddiqi, 17, was at home in Cardiff on Sunday afternoon when the two men burst in armed with a blade and stabbed him. Police gave Aamir first aid at the scene but the teenager could not be saved.His parents, 55 and 68, who have not been named but who were described as successful business people and highly respected members of the community, were badly injured and received treatment in hospital. Detectives do not yet know why the boy was targeted, and one theory is that it was a case of mistaken identity.In a statement, the parents said: "Aamir was passionate about sport and especially cricket, American football, and football. He was keen on current events and politics and wanted to do law, and had a place at Cardiff University after his exams."He was like his dad – he was a gentleman, kind and sensitive and really funny. He was a unique character always ready to help anybody and any time, he was devoted to his family and friends."Detective Chief Superintendent Stuart McKenzie said: "At around 1.40pm on Sunday two masked men forced their way into a house armed with a bladed weapon and attacked 17-year-old Aamir. This was a horrific incident witnessed by Aamir's mother and father who were both injured in their attempts to come to their son's assistance."Aamir was a talented young man from a loving family who had a bright future ahead of him. There is no motive at this stage as to why anyone would wish to harm Aamir and extensive enquiries are under way to trace those responsible."Chief Superintendent Bob Tooby, divisional commander for Cardiff, said: "This was an extremely serious and unusual incident and I wish to reassure residents and the wider community that a full investigation is ongoing."Aamir went to Cardiff high school until he was 13, when he left to go into private education at the Cardiff Academy. A former classmate, Laura Biggs, 17, said: "He was so sunny, everyone got along with him. He literally wouldn't hurt a fly, he was just so lovely."Emma Rees, 17, told how Aamir would impress friends by pretending to box like his hero Amir Khan. She said: "He used to sit in the classroom shadow boxing and making everyone laugh. He was really flirty with all the girls and loved making people happy."