Tom Happold: What made you a Tory? Oliver Letwin: I don't think I really am a Tory. Every political party is an alliance of all sorts of different kinds of people with all sorts of different kinds of views. And you pick the party that most closely represents your view and least contradicts your view. And for some people that's a natural exercise and you're a dyed-in-the-wool Tory or you're an old fashioned Christian socialist from the valleys of south Wales, or something. I don't fit in those lucky categories. So I was looking for a party that most closely allies favouring the liberty of the individual, being sceptical about large states and which pays most attention to the rather delicate fabric of civilisation which I don't think is invented in a moment. And I'm therefore not a socialist, because I don't believe in a big state, and I'm not a proper liberal because I do believe in the inheritance of civilisation and the things that have been built up. And so the Conservative party is the nearest thing I've got to the party that I agree with.TH: What's your attitude to New Labour and the "third way"?OL: I think it was a very brilliant conception, I think what Blair and Mandelson said to themselves was: "We're never going to persuade the British public that they should go back to old fashioned clause IV socialism: running the whole of industry, trying to keep full employment by inflating where necessary, and taking the view that capitalism was a dangerous phenomenon which one tolerated at best and tried to squeeze out where one could. But they wanted to rescue out of the ashes of old fashioned command socialism a degree of what it had been aiming at delivering all the way along - redistribution of funds from the well-off to the poor and the provision of a huge range of universal public services provided free at the point of use and run by the state. And they said to themselves if we adopt Tory economics we can bolt onto that massive redistribution and a vast expansion of state-run public services. And this will be a cocktail that will be attractive to the British public - it's always been interested in the redistributive elements of British socialism and has always believed in things like the NHS but never really believed in the socialist planned economy. I think it was an attractive prospect and, I have to say, as far as they were aiming at adopting Tory economics they did a reasonable job. They've also, in their terms, done a very good job at redistribution - Gordon Brown has achieved a huge shift of funds through a massive extension of means-tested benefits. I think the area in which they've most notably failed is public services. They've built up vast bureaucracies that are going to continue to be hugely ineffectual. And I suspect that's where the "third way" thesis will fail.TH: Touching on your antipathy to the big state - during the election campaign you were reported as saying that you could slash taxes by £20bn - your colleague, Howard Flight, has recently made a similar statement saying you could cut up to 20% in some parts of the public sector. How much can we expect a Conservative government to cut back on the state?OL: Well I think the honest answer is that none of us really knows. We don't really know what the fiscal arithmetic will look like two-and-a-half-years from now. We don't know just how inefficient the various services will be, which things the government will be spending money on. So it's impossible to say what we'll inherit, how we'll find the books. Secondly, we don't know how far the reform of the public services that we're determined to engage in - handing back power, in education and other services, to the consumers, the professionals - we don't know how much it's going to cost on a transitional base to achieve these changes and we can't delude ourselves that it's free. Initially it always has costs.TH: In the short term you might spend more?OL: Indeed, we've been at pains to say that we don't know and that in the short term it might have transitional costs. But it will have transitional costs and they might be net transitional costs.TH: On an issue that's being discussed this week: should students and their families pay more towards their higher education?OL: Before I answer that, let me answer the question you didn't ask but I want to answer. Which is that we absolutely do not approve, and we'll fight to the last gasp to stop - and I think they might in the House of Lords stop it - this grisly idea of a regulator to govern admissions. The idea of having a regulator set over university seems to me intrinsically, deeply obnoxious to every principle of academic freedom. Going back to the question you did ask, we were responsible originally for introducing student loans, so we've always recognised that if you do reasonably well out of going to university you should bear some of its cost and not just leave it to all the people who didn't go to university and the rest of society. I think it's a corollary of that that any scheme of loans ought to have a high threshold for repayment. Before the last election we put forward a scheme in which the threshold for repaying a loan would have doubled. So that it exceeded rather than being significantly under the national average wage.So, to answer your question, you have to know what is the method of support that's going to be available and how far is it a rational reflection of the extent to which the individual concerned benefits financially from going to university. If there's that relationship and if the amounts are not prohibitive to able students with lower incomes, then unlike the regulator, I don't think we've got a sort of huge ideological objection to it. There may well be very serious practical objections to the way in which the government is going about it. TH: Should students from well-off backgrounds have to pay more to go to Cambridge rather than North London University? OL: I certainly don't share the view that it's intrinsically wrong that there should be differences between some institutions and others. I think it would be entirely incoherent for me to take that position because I believe in a society in which there are all sorts of differences in all sorts of areas and some things cost more than others. So, I don't have any deep ideological objection, the question is one of practice. As long as we can make sure that people who are not well-off but are able will go on wanting to come to Cambridge and will be willing to do so, then within that, it's perfectly reasonable that people who do well should bear a bigger burden.TH: Touching on your brief - the Guardian has been complimentary about your approach ...OL: That is very dangerous to my career.TH: But it has been said to me that your approach is under threat - the polls are not improving for you, the local elections are coming up and a more Ann Widdecombe-esque approach is being pushed by your colleagues. Does that worry you? OL: Well, there's always a temptation for a political party to seek to shore up its core vote and that is something which we sought to do in the last parliament. I'm not giving away any state secrets, it's very well known. I have to say I think the empirical evidence is that it didn't work terribly well and therefore I think there is a strong political reason - quite apart from matters of principle - that makes it likely that we won't fall into that error again. I think it's less likely this time rather than the last. I think that some of the propositions that we've put forward - for example, arguing that young people who are addicted to heroin and cocaine ought to have available to them, and ought to be forced into, mandatory intensive rehabilitation - can either be described as intensely rightwing or as serious and liberal propositions to try and get people off the habit. I don't really recognise this sort of dichotomy between its "let it all hang out" liberalism or its tough reactionary right wing. I think most of the things that it's right to do in the field of criminal justice lie between these extremes.TH: OL: Your leader seems to be suggesting that all asylum seekers should be detained. Would you rule that out? OL: No. I haven't ruled it out. But although it was our policy before the last election, it hasn't been our policy now. I think that there is a serious problem that not just our asylum system, but the whole of our immigration system is not working adequately to prevent the entry into this country of fairly tiny fraction, but nevertheless a significant number, of people who are intent on blowing us up. And this seems to me inconvenient. I'd prefer not to be blown up. And I don't think we can go on with a system where it's becoming clearer and clearer that it's allowing in a significant number of people who are in that category. TH: Can you see yourself advocating detention of all asylum seekers? OL: If there's no other route to making sure that we are not blown up, if I really became persuaded that there's nothing else one could do, then, as in Holland, I think that is what we'll have to do. I hope we can find a more radical, more effective, less draconian solution.TH: How will you go about getting tougher on crime? OL: The present criminal justice system is failing dismally to control crime on the streets. My view, based on my experience of American cities, is that you won't actually control crime on the streets until you have a large number of police officers on the streets, available to be quickly at the scene of crime or potential crime. My experience is that crooks are very reluctant to wait until the police arrive. And that having long response times and no police visible is a bad route to lowering crime. And if the chances are - as they are at the moment on Mr Blunkett's statistics - that 97.5% of people will get away with a crime it seems to me that's a good reason why people think they will get away with it. And I think that the reform of system, if it's to be serious, has to be about lifting young people off the "conveyor belt to crime" - trying to get them out of the drugs culture, trying to rehabilitate them and reform their characters if they are persistent young offenders - and trying to get police back on to the streets. That seems to me to be the main thrust of an appropriate policy on criminal justice. TH: Rehabilitation will take a long time to cut crime. Do you think you can cut it in the short term by increasing police numbers? OL: That is something - although even that will take five or 10 years to achieve at the levels I hope we will achieve it at. Apart from anything else, even if you had all the money in the world you simply can't recruit police officers and train them immediately.TH: How many more do you want? OL: I'm toying with that at the moment, I hope at spring conference to make an announcement about this, but a lot.TH: Double? OL: I'll come up with the answer at the spring conference. But in order to make a significant increase, you need time. And I've been trying to persuade people - and Iain has been trying to persuade people - that there is no short-term fix. This is the problem of rising crime in this country and of intolerable levels of crime in some parts of this country - in inner cities. It's a problem that's been with us a long time and if you actually want to solve it you've got to swallow hard and admit that you need a coherent, long-term policy, which will probably produce most dividends 5 to 8 years later. I think when you get there, as with New York - New York used to be a very dangerous place - 10 years on it is a much less dangerous city than London, and I think New Yorkers looking back on that time don't think 10 years was a very long time. I hope that we can persuade people that is better to spend 10 years doing it, rather than have a series of quick fixes which this government has done, but which I guess people will see in two and a half years' time and after eight years of Labour government, will have delivered almost nothing by way of a reduction in crime. And that eight years could have been used properly if instead of looking for a quick fix each week they'd actually constructed some coherent policies to begin with and followed them through.