A fourteen-year-old boy hid his younger brother in a cupboard and phoned 999 when an armed gang forced their way into the house and threatened to shoot their mother, a court heard yesterday.Joshua Cuby acted quickly when heard his mother threatened downstairs in their home near Northaw, Potters Bar, Hertfordshire, hiding his 10-year-old brother Sam and speaking to a emergency services operator.The prosecutor Michael Speak told St Albans crown court: "The emergency operator was a little nonplussed. She was dealing with a very frightened young boy."Brenda Cuby, 36, wife of the actor Joe Cuby, who appeared in the TVcult series The Prisoner in the 1960s, had opened the door of the six-bedroom house to two of the gang, who pretended to be from an estate agent. When she became suspicious, one of the men forced his way into the house. "Mrs Cuby flailed about and tried to kick him," said Speak. "She screamed and he told her to be quiet and twice put his hand over her mouth."The pair were joined by three other youths, one of whom threatened Cuby with an imitation Beretta pistol, the court heard. The gunman told his victim: "I am not going to hurt you, but I will if you don't stop screaming." Another said: "Be quiet or I will kill you."The gang marched Cuby and her seven-year-old daughter upstairs, repeatedly threatening her and demanding to know the whereabouts of the family safe.After they located the safe, she refused to give them the keys. The gunman grabbed Joshua and pointed the gun at him. The boy said: "Oh shit. He has got a gun, he is going to kill us." The gunman said: "You see, your mother doesn't care. She is going to let me shoot you."After the case, Joe Cuby, 62, who was not at home during the raid, said the family had been traumatised and since moved home. Praising his son's bravery, he said: "He was very quick-thinking. I am very proud of him."Chloe Doltis, 18, Jake McLean, 18, Dalton Lawal, 18, Courtney Mitchell, 17, Tristan Harriette, 18, and Dario Wokorach, 17, all from east London, were charged with aggravated burglary.Doltis and Harriette were found guilty after a trial, while the other four pleaded guilty. Mitchell also admitted dangerous driving, after crashing into a parked car at speed while trying to escape from the scene with Lawal and Doltis.Doltis was sentence to four years six months in prison, Harriette to five years, while Lawal received four years and McLean three years seven months. Mitchell was jailed for four years and four months and was banned from driving for 18 months, while Wokorach was sentenced to four years and five months.