As the Metropolitan police force braced itself for damning criticism of its track record on racism, other institutions were yesterday forced into an uncomfortable assessment of their own attitudes to race. With the release of Sir William Macpherson's broad definition of 'institutionalised racism', public bodies were examining whether they could claim to be innocent of the charge. Leading figures within the medical establishment admitted that the term could be applied to the health service, while representatives from the judiciary, education and the armed forces conceded racism was a serious issue, but denied that it could be described as institutionalised. Sir William defined the term as: 'The collective failure of an organisation to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin. It can be seen or detected in processes, attitudes and behaviour which amounts to discrimination through unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness and racist stereotyping which disadvantages minority ethnic people.' Sir Herman Ouseley, chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality (CRE), said: 'This is a definition that must be applied across all our institutions. From the judiciary to our education system, they all have similar frailties and deficiencies, and this needs to be recognised if we are to have fair treatment for everyone.' Health service The British Medical Association yesterday admitted there was institutionalised racism within the NHS. Dr Jane Richards, former chairwoman of the BMA's working party on racial equality, said: 'It isn't just about the service we provide, it is the whole culture. ' Research has showed how white applicants to medical school were twice as likely to be accepted than their black or Asian peers, while applicants with an Asian surname were half as likely to be interviewed for a job as a hospital doctor. Ethnic minorities were shown to be six times more likely to be disciplined by the General Medical Council, while white consultants were 3.33 times more likely to be granted a merit award.  The army The armed forces has faced strong criticism over its poor record on racism. Stories of ethnic minority recruits undergoing Ku Klux Klan-style beatings and suffering vicious verbal and physical abuse are legion, but the Ministry of Defence yesterday refused to concede that racism was institutionalised. 'Our position is that we do not tolerate racism in any form,' a spokesman said. 'We accept that serious mistakes have been made in the past but we have turned a corner.'  The total ethnic minority strength across the three services is just over 1 per cent, but the MoD has set challenging recruitment targets. The aim is for ethnic minorities within the services to rise annually to reach 5 per cent by the end of the 2002. Education Underachievement and high exclusion rates for ethnic minority children is as endemic in education as elsewhere, the CRE says. Black and white children start school with similar levels of attainment but by secondary school a wide gulf has opened. Young black men are more than three times more likely to be permanently excluded from school than their white peers, while Pakistani, Bangladeshi and black pupils are only half as likely to get five or more good GCSEs as white pupils. A spokeswoman for the National Union of Teachers said it was 'extraordinarily unfair' to condemn the whole system. 'The teaching profession has done more than any other institution to counter racism. It is true that we need to see a greater representation of ethnic minorities on the staff, but this doesn't represent racism.'The law David McNeill of the Law Society said: 'It is an issue and we do take it seriously, but we do not think racism is institutionalised . . . When you consider there are 75,000 practising solicitors, there will always be a degree of racism - as there is in all elements of society.' The profession as a whole is reluctant to accept that racism might be an institutionalised problem, although none of the 98 High Court judges come from ethnic minorities, and only four of the 562 circuit judges and five of the 360 district judges come from ethnic backgrounds.Local government Some local government organisations conceded that the definition included them. Chairman of the Association of London Government, Lord Harris of Haringey, said: 'Institutional racism is a reality in all large organisations, in both the private and public sectors . . . And if we are to eradicate such discrimination it is essential we first acknowledge its presence.'Media Tim Gopsill, spokesman for the National Union of Journalists, said there was a 'woeful' under-representation of black people in the media. 'We run a voluntary ethnic monitoring group, which shows that 1.6 per cent of paid membership comes from ethnic minority groups, compared to something like 6 per cent of the total population.'  The editorial content in many national newspapers was also rife with racist overtones, he added: 'The national media, particularly some of the tabloid elements, tend to reflect racism in society. It is not open, people are too aware for that now, but they do it in the reporting of crime and with immigration stories.' 