Feltham young offenders institution came under renewed fire yesterday after an inquest jury found its neglect contributed to the suicide of a 16-year-old.The jury at Hammersmith and Fulham coroner's court, in west London, unanimously decided that "systematic neglect" by the institution, the youth justice board, and Lambeth social services had helped to lead Kevin Jacobs to hang himself when left alone in his cell in September last year. The inquest heard that Kevin, who had been in care since the age of seven and was serving a six-month detention and training order for robbery and assault, was released from the institution's health centre two days before his death - despite staff finding sheets he had ripped up to hang himself and an apparent suicide attempt 15 days before. Delivering its verdict the jury cited "gross deficiencies in the system" as factors which contributed to his suicide. After the case, Kevin's father, Rudolf Grabarek,said: "I don't blame social services so much, I blame the prison, because they should have had 15-minute checks and not hourly checks. If they had done that, Kevin would still be alive today." Deborah Coles, co-director of the campaign group Inquest, said: "The neglect verdict is a damning indictment of the statutory authorities that had responsibility for Kevin's care." Kevin's death was the fifth suicide by a teenager at Feltham in five years. After the hearing, the governor of Feltham, Nick Pascoe, expressed his sympathy to Kevin's family. No one from Lambeth social services, which was responsible for his care, was available for comment. A Home Office spokesman said of the policy of incarcerating juveniles: "We need to be absolutely clear that protecting the public from violent sexual and other serious offenders is our priority. But the courts do need to strike the balance between the need to deal effectively with this and the need to keep prison as a last resort." The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Monday October 7 2002In the above report, we said that the youth justice board was among the agencies implicated in "systematic neglect" that had preceded the death. This was a misinterpretation on our part and we accept that the coroner made no reference to the board, which has no responsibility whatsoever in this case.