A serial paedophile who was deported from an Australian prison back to Britain yesterday will have to sign the sex offenders register and tell the authorities where he is living, the Home Office has said.Raymond Horne, 61, was detained by police on arrival at Heathrow amid claims - stirred up by tabloid headlines - that he posed a severe danger to the community.The state minister for police and corrective services in Queensland, Judy Spence, told a radio station on his departure that the state was "well rid" of him."He is a paedophile," she said. "He was convicted of indecent dealing against a boy under 14 years of age. If he had stayed in Queensland, we would have regarded him as someone we would have wanted to watch for the next 15 years under very close supervision." Having emigrated from the UK at the age of five, Horne has been sent back because he never applied for Australian citizenship. But he has no immediate social or family support network in the UK. According to campaign groups working with victims of abuse, that will increase the likelihood of his reoffending. A British child protection expert agreed that Horne's isolation in the UK might make him more likely to offend. Paul Roffey, a director of RWA Child Protection Service, an independent agency, said: "He has already been identified as somebody who is high-risk. This is a situation that could only exacerbate that risk." But the Home Office insisted Horne would be put on the sex offenders register and could be the subject of a sexual offences prevention order (Sopo), which can impose restrictions on, for example, how closely he can approach a school."Where it is known that a sex offender convicted in another country is to be deported to the UK, he is met at the port of entry by the police, who interview him and pass relevant information to the police in the area in which the offender is proposing to live," a Home Office spokeswoman said yesterday."Sopos not only make offenders sign on the register but also impose prohibitions - for example from being alone with children or from being within a certain distance of a playground." Breaches of the sex offenders register or Sopos are punishable by up to five years' imprisonment. The Home Office maintains that the UK has one of the world's most robust monitoring systems, but admits that a very small proportion of those under supervision do commit serious offences. Shy Keenan, of abuse campaign group Phoenix Chief Advocates, called for fresh legislation to control ex-prisoners on their release and the creation of an international sex offenders register. "The law needs to change to empower authorities everywhere when it comes to sex offenders," she said. "[The police] can say to him: 'We think you're an absolute risk - but we have to wait now until you do something before we can do [anything], despite the fact that we know you're likely to do something'. "He will probably be given contact numbers for charities that will help him with housing and food ... and a hostel - an ordinary hostel, not an offenders' hostel." Horne's case is far from unique. In July 2005, Robert Excell was deported to Britain after spending 37 years in Australian prisons for child sex convictions dating back to 1965, when he raped a seven-year-old boy. Excell was born in the UK and emigrated to Australia when he was 10 but, like Horne, never became a citizen. Last May it was reported that a high- risk paedophile, Keith Jamieson, was being deported to Britain following a lengthy sentence for offences on young boys despite having lived in Australia for 36 years. Keenan estimates that for every child sex offender whose return to the UK was reported in the media, there were another 50 who received no publicity.Britain also deports serious offenders who are not citizens at the end of their sentences. Last year the UK sent 4,200 foreign national prisoners abroad, an increase of 80% compared with the previous year. The deportation powers can even prevent convicted EU nationals from returning to this country.