Amanda London-Williams had just begun watching EastEnders, at 7.40pm on December 10 1996, when she heard her stepfather's car in the drive. Moments later she heard two shots. Peering through the curtains, she saw the outline of a man wearing a balaclava and holding a gun.Richard Watson, 55, had been murdered by a hitman. That proved to be the start of a long and traumatic ordeal for Miss London-Williams, now 25, and her mother Linda, now known as Linda Henderson. The two women, who were in a state of shock, were left alone inside the house while police kept at a safe distance and waited 50 minutes for an armed support unit to arrive from Brighton. Although a doctor arrived at the house by car he immediately reversed away again. Neither he nor an ambulance team were allowed to treat Watson. Subsequently family friends, summoned by telephone, arrived, and it was they who broke the news to Linda Watson that her husband was dead.  Screamed  The police complaints authority concluded that there had been "a breakdown in communication aggravated by various staff failings". When the police did enter the house, Mrs Henderson was hurt by the offhand way in which members of the family were treated. Although full details had been given over the phone, the police still had no idea who owned the house. One officer gestured to the body and said: "Is that the landlord?" Mrs Henderson recalled: "I screamed at him, 'He's my husband and' - pointing at Mandy - 'her father.' He actually said 'Oh, shit.' The only compassion shown through all of this was a message of apology from one of the uniformed police and the ambulance men, who had wanted to help that evening but were not allowed to." The PCA told the women: "There is evidence to support some of the allegations you make of incivility towards you." The inquiry also found that the initial mistakes jeopardised the entire investigation, explaining that "potential forensic evidence may have been lost as a result of a lack of leadership and poor communications at the scene". The family were taken to a local hotel, the Copthorne, and given rooms on the ground floor. Mrs Henderson was alarmed to notice that the police entered their correct personal details in the register. "I was petrified that this person had seen Mandy and was going to come back to get her," she said. "They then said they had to release details to the press. I asked the police please not to put out Mandy's name. I was then abruptly and coldly told, four hours after losing Richard, 'Look, I know you have had a hard night, but would you just shut up?' "This was where I came unstuck with the police, because I criticised them very strongly. They don't like strong women." From that point the two women were regarded as prime suspects, and interviewed at length. Miss London-Williams was only present at the house that evening because she had just been seriously ill with food poisoning. She was awaiting a brain scan and, according to her solicitor, Jeff Hide, was "in a state of almost total collapse". On receiving information about the murder her GP recommended that a clinical psychologist should be on hand, and personally arranged for Nigel Gordon to attend her. But although Mr Gordon waited for more than four hours, the police refused to allow him to see either of the women. The PCA found that this part of the complaint was substantiated, and pointed to the "clear evidence" that the interviews with Miss London-Williams were in breach of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act. "The cruelty was terrible," said Mrs Henderson. "To mentally damage people to the extent that they have done with Mandy and I - they shouldn't be allowed to do that." Mrs Henderson sold the house: she knew she could not live there again. But no sooner had she and her daughter moved into their new house than 14 officers arrived early one morning. She was arrested and taken to East Grinstead police station. It was only later she found out that her daughter had also been arrested and taken to Haywards Heath. They were held in custody for five days before being released without charge. They subsequently found out that police had planted listening devices in their new home. Builders saw men breaking into the house, and apprehended them. When the builders threatened to call the police, the intruders had to admit that they were the police: they had broken in to remove the bugging devices. The builders gave statements to defence solicitors. Had the trial gone ahead, however, it is likely that the police would have tried to suppress this through the use of public interest immunity certificates. Although solicitors for the two women had made it clear that their clients were willing to answer further questions at any time, the two women were then arrested in a public and humiliating way - Mrs Henderson as she arrived back at Gatwick airport from a trip to Scotland, and her daughter as she was walking in Brighton. One of the major grounds of criticism of police conduct was that by this time Watson's body had finally been released to his wife. She went ahead with the funeral and had him cremated. At that stage, she had no idea that she and her daughter would have to face murder charges. By releasing the body at that juncture the police deprived the defence of the opportunity to have an independent postmortem examination performed on the body. The PCA told the women its investigation had found that "at the time you were documented as suspects. Your allegation is substantiated." The PCA did not find evidence in favour of the women on every allegation. As evidence of the animus of Sussex police against them, Mrs Henderson cited officers' reactions when she and her daughter were sent to Holloway. "There were shouts of 'Yes!' from the detectives present," she said. "They raised their arms in a cheering gesture, like football hooligans." The PCA reported that the officers "refuted the allegation and the evidence of an independent witness supports their account". There were many other leads that could have been pursued in the murder inquiry. Watson, whose company had helped to install the main telephone exchange in Moscow, had some shady business contacts, both in this country and overseas. Moreover, he had been the victim of a stun-gun attack, by two men wearing balaclavas, only a month before he was murdered.  Concealed  Crown lawyers halted the prosecution late on Friday June 5 1998, with the trial due to start on the Monday. The entire prosecution depended on the theory that the two shots that killed Watson were fired from the balcony of the house, and thus the gunman had been aided by those inside. Yet the very first scientific report made it clear that it was "not possible to determine positively from where each shot was fired". One of the women's complaints was that throughout the inquiry the police had concealed the weakness of their case from the crown prosecution service. The PCA found that: "Too much significance was placed upon the belief that Richard Watson had been shot from the balcony. The evidence did not justify the scenario. The papers submitted by officers to the CPS overstated this issue and, although there was no evidence of malice, the investigation concludes that your prosecution was ill-founded as a result." Related story  Police slated for murder case failings