Fraudsters and criminal gangs who escape prosecution by the police will face a hit squad of senior tax investigators ready to impose heavy fines and tax penalties, the government said yesterday.The Criminal Taxes Unit, which is due to begin operation by the end of the summer, will join forces with the police, the Serious Organised Crime Agency and the Assets Recovery Agency, to track down suspected criminals and strip them of their wealth.HM Revenue & Customs said the unit aimed to disrupt criminal activity by imposing tax charges and in cases of serious crime "will instigate and advise upon criminal prosecution opportunities using tax evasion and cheat charges".Sir David Varney, chairman of HMRC, said: "It will use every method of taxing and penalising suspected criminals, taking away their profits made from crime. The new Criminal Taxes Unit will aim to ensure that suspected criminals who have gained from their criminal activity are made to pay their fair share of tax."Tax advisers said the new unit would aim to pursue criminals in the same way the US tax agency, the IRS, tracked down the infamous Chicago gangster Al Capone.Capone was wanted for murder and racketeering, but eventually went to prison in 1931 after several years on the police's most-wanted list when he was convicted for income tax evasion.The announcement follows severe criticism of HMRC and other agencies for their failure to crack down on fraud and tax evasion by major criminal gangs. A slump in the number of prosecutions by HMRC was highlighted in a recent National Audit Office report. The tax agency also came under fire for allowing criminal gangs to defraud its own tax credit system of millions of pounds.The Assets Recovery Agency has come under fire in its first year of operation for capturing £4.4m at a cost of almost £20m. Police prosecutions have also been hampered by a lack of specialist staff outside London, especially in anti-fraud units.Ministers are understood to believe investigations by the new unit could tip the balance in favour of the state in its struggle to clamp down on criminal activity. Tax inspectors can impose penalties without needing to prove the guilt of suspected criminals. Individuals who fail to show their wealth has been properly taxed will be vulnerable to punitive penalties and prosecution for tax evasion.Ministers are also preparing to allow tax inspectors extra powers to use sophisticated surveillance techniques and arrest suspected fraudsters. New "police" powers would allow them for the first time to enjoy the same ability as Customs officers to monitor suspects and arrest them.Chas Roy-Chowdhury, head of taxation at the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, said that while he applauded efforts to clamp down on crime, ministers needed to avoid a repeat of mistakes by the police in pursuing suspected terrorists. "Look what happened at Forest Gate," he said referring to the raid earlier this month on a home in east London by more than 230 officers. "We must make sure tax inspectors don't take the same heavy-handed approach when they go after suspected criminals."The move is likely to heighten concerns that innocent individuals identified by the new unit would be unable to appeal to an independent watchdog. Currently taxpayers, including tax credit recipients, who appeal against HMRC judgments must complain to the adjudicator, Dame Barbara Mills QC. Critics have complained that her independence is compromised because her staff is largely made up of Inland Revenue employees.