Evicting Shane and Jackie Annable has been an expensive process, financially and emotionally. In monetary terms, it has cost at least £20,000; in human terms, it has been devastating.But for anyone who has to live among nuisance teenagers the costs may appear justifiable. If Shane's behaviour has changed and the community he used to live in has benefited from his departure, the money may have been well spent. In the £650-a-week hotel room they currently call home, Shane, 15, will say he has learned his lesson. But the facts dispute his rhetoric. The police have been called several times; he has locked his mother in her room, demanding money; he continues to drink and use drugs. There has been no attempt to address his behaviour or his attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Shane's behaviour is as at least as bad as ever. For Ms Annable, too, dealing with Shane has become more difficult. At their former home in Eastwood, Nottinghamshire, she had her father, sister and brother close by to support her when Shane kicked off. Jackie and Shane's new home is at least 10 miles from Eastwood. She can't run round the corner when she needs a hand. "Coping with Shane without us is going to be the hardest part," said her sister, Denise. On Princes Street, where the Annables used to live, some are happy to see them go. "He caused a lot of problems round here," said one former neighbour. "Kicking him out may not solve all our problems, but you've got to start somewhere." Another said the streets, which are peppered with boarded-up houses and riddled with drug addicts, were quieter since Shane left. "But it's difficult to tell if it's him going that has made much difference," said another former neighbour. "It's winter now, so most of them are inside. It's in the summer when they kick off. Partying in the street all night long; parents letting them run wild." Another neighbour said the eviction by Broxtowe council under an anti-social behaviour order, or Asbo, had made little difference. "Look at this place," she said. "Half the houses are boarded up. It's a bloody ghetto. Who would want to live some place like this? What difference does it make kicking one out - there's always another little toe-rag to take their place." Every Asbo case is unique, but the homeless charity Shelter says the Guardian's series following the Annables shows that the "balanced approach" and "commitment to support" that ministers say they offer as the carrot to go with the Asbo stick often fails to materialise. "From start to finish, the way this family has been dealt with shows the abject failure of current policy on anti-social behaviour," said Adam Sampson, director of Shelter. "Six months on and what has changed? A 15-year-old has suffered the trauma of homelessness and, unsurprisingly, his behaviour has worsened, the council has paid for expensive eviction and rehousing costs, and a mother and her son are about to move into a new home away from their family. "Using the threat of homelessness is no way to improve behaviour. Until a more constructive approach is adopted we will see many more families suffering like this, and the problem of anti-social behaviour continuing." Broxtowe council refused to discuss the case, but said that Asbos, in general, were a success and it would continue to use them.