The parents of Madeleine McCann yesterday launched a campaign for an alert system for missing children embracing all of Europe, arguing that such a system could have helped to locate the then three-year-old when she vanished in Portugal almost a year ago.Kate and Gerry McCann went to the European parliament, the commission in Brussels, and officials of the EU member states to press their case for a Europe-wide system modelled on the US Amber Alert project, which is said to have helped in the recovery of almost 400 children in America over the past five years."We are exasperated at the lack of progress, considering this has been discussed for several years," said Mr McCann. "We have no doubt it saves lives."Working with a coalition of non-governmental organisations active on children's rights and some politicians, the McCanns delivered a declaration, drafted by Geoffrey Robertson QC, calling on the EU's 27 countries to establish a common missing child alert system. Under the system, police forces would cooperate with customs services and media to act promptly when a child is reported missing.They said information during the first 72 hours after a child disappears was crucial to the chances of the child being recovered. "The key time is the first few hours, that's the critical period," said Mr McCann. The alert bulletin should be issued as soon as the police are satisfied that an abduction has taken place. Mrs McCann said the scheme should work as a "voluntary partnership" between police authorities and media. A photograph of the child would be issued and a telephone hotline set up. Previous attempts to establish such a system across the EU have foundered. The declaration needs the support of half of the European parliament's 785 MEPs before becoming an official demand for action which is submitted to the European commission and to the European council, representing the member states.Only England and Wales, France, Belgium and Greece operate similar systems, with very mixed results.Paul Tuohy, who runs the London-based Missing People, said there had been about 700 reported abductions in England and Wales last year, but the child rescue alert system had been activated only three times. He added that the efficacy of the scheme hinged on police and legal problems.The McCanns insisted they had not given up hope of finding Madeleine. They said they would like a "Crimewatch-style reconstruction" of the evening at Praia da Luz to be staged with actors on the first anniversary of the girl's disappearance on May 3.