A former convent school head girl told her parents she loved them and that she feared she would die as she lay with terrible injuries after being run over twice in an allegedly deliberate attack, a court heard yesterday.Eileen Sheedy rushed to her daughter's side after she got a call from Kate, 18, saying she had been run over as she walked home. Sheedy told how she found her "little body" yards from the family home in Isleworth, west London.The impact of the attack punctured her lung, crushed her liver and tore open her back and it was feared that she might die, the Old Bailey heard.Sheedy told how she kissed her daughter as she lay on the ground in "immense pain" awaiting the ambulance. Kate told her: "If they don't get here soon, I'm going to die."The teenager was in so much pain she had to be sedated for a week in hospital, with a police officer keeping a constant vigil at her bedside.She is alleged to have been attacked by Levi Bellfield, a nightclub doorman from west London accused of a three-year campaign of murder and violence in which he preyed on young women in his car late at night.Following the attack, on 28 May 2004, Kate tried to crawl home but collapsed in pain. The jury heard a statement from her mother, who was in bed when she was woken by a "panicky" phone call from her daughter."Mummy, I've been run over, I'm in our road," she said.Sheedy ran out into the street to look for the teenager, who earlier that day had given a speech at a school leavers' mass at Gumley House convent school, then arranged a party for fellow sixth formers.At first she could not find her, she said, and went back into the house as she felt she was having a "bad dream". She called her daughter and went out to look for her again but still could not find her, before hearing the house phone ringing and running straight back inside.It was her daughter, saying: "Mummy, where are you? Why is it taking so long? Come out of the house, keep going left, and you'll find me."Sheedy ran outside to find her daughter lying near a parked car."Kate said to me: 'I am on the phone to the lady from the ambulance and she needs to speak to you'. The lady from the ambulance was telling me to calm down."I asked Kate how she was feeling. She said: 'I am in a lot of pain, someone ran me over on purpose, it was definitely on purpose. He's a bastard'."She took off her jacket and put it over her daughter, who was shivering, as Kate's father, James Sheedy, who is separated from her mother, arrived.Sheedy's statement continued: "Kate told me she loved me. I said that I loved her and gave her a kiss."Kate was asking for her dad and was extremely anxious and crying. She said: 'I love you, Daddy, I love you, Mummy'."The court was also read part of the 999 call Kate made after being hit. In it, she said: "I thought he was going to take me in his car but, when he saw that I knew he was dodgy, he just ran over me."Kate wept as she was cross-examined by William Boyce QC, defending Bellfield.She said she had been in "immense pain". She held her face in her hand as she was repeatedly asked about a U-turn she said she had seen the vehicle making before it struck her. She fought back tears as she said: "It's very difficult to explain."Now 21, Kate has fully recovered from her ordeal and is studying history and politics at university.Bellfield, 39, denies the attempted murder of Kate, the murders of students Amelie Delagrange and Marsha McDonnell, and attacks on two other women.The trial continues today.