Detectives are questioning a 20-year-old man who was arrested in Surrey yesterday in connection with the murder of a young passenger who tried to stop a man throwing takeaway food around a London bus.Police held the man after a "good" response to national appeals for information about a black man in his 20s who stabbed Richard Whelan six times before coolly walking down from the top deck of the number 43 service and getting off at a bus stop in Holloway, north London. Officers moved in on an address in Walton-on-Thames yesterday morning after a tip-off, and the man was arrested without a struggle and taken away in a police van. A spokesman for Scotland Yard said that he was being held in a police station in central London for questioning about the murder, which took place last Friday night on a route busy with people heading home after an evening out. Police also said that they needed to speak to several passengers who were on the bus but have not yet come forward with information. Travellers were stunned by the sudden brutality of the attack, although several tried to help, call the emergency services and trace where the killer had gone. Detectives are also studying closed circuit TV images from the bus and stops along the route through north London. The attacker boarded the number 43 in Upper Street, Islington, at about 9.45pm along with a queue of other people, including his victim, who had been eating out in one of the area's many restaurants. Most passengers left the top deck when the man began throwing food around. But Mr Whelan stood up and protested after chips were thrown at his girlfriend. The killer, who was wearing a puffa or leather jacket and had an Afro haircut half-hidden by his hood, then launched a "totally unprovoked" attack on the 28-year-old, according to police. The victim's girlfriend, who has been too upset to talk about the incident, tried to push the killer away but was brushed aside. The stabbed man, a hospitality agent who sold tickets for sporting events, followed his attacker downstairs but collapsed at the foot of the stairs. Mr Whelan, who lived in Kentish Town, was taken to the Whittington hospital nearby, where he died soon afterwards. It emerged later that he had lost his best friend in the July 7 bombing on the Piccadilly tube line and had played a key role in comforting the family of the man, Ciaran Cassidy, 22. Mr Cassidy's mother, Veronica, 53, said: "They were good friends and Richard was a quiet lad, not the sort to get into any trouble. "He was here right from the moment Ciaran was missing and tried all he could for us, until Ciaran was confirmed as dead. "Richard was a real support and what has happened to him is tragic."