A husband ordered the killing of his special police constable wife on the doorstep of their north-west London home because he was having a "passionate" affair with a Lithuanian prostitute and wanted to cash in on a life assurance policy, a court heard yesterday. Nisha Patel-Nasri bled to death after being stabbed in the groin with one of her own kitchen knives the night after her third wedding anniversary. The 29-year-old hairdresser, a volunteer police constable in her spare time, died after being attacked just before midnight while at home alone. Her husband, Fadi Nasri, 34, is accused of organising her killing so that he could clear his debts by claiming £350,000 in insurance taken out just months before her death. The prosecution says that "although he didn't do it himself", Nasri "organised the killing" and "deliberately contrived an alibi" by arranging to play a late-night game of snooker with a friend.The Old Bailey was told that Nasri, a former escort agency owner, organised a go-between to arrange the killing. Michael Worsley QC, prosecuting, said that a drug dealer, Rodger Leslie, 38, orchestrated the hit, using Tony Emmanuel, 42, as the driver and Jason Jones, 36, as the killer. All four men deny murder."The prosecution say on May 11 they acted together in the sense they combined together in bringing about a certain result, namely the death of Nasri's wife. That was done at her home in Sudbury Avenue, Wembley. There was a single stab wound through an artery in her left groin that caused her to bleed to death. Nasri had a number of motives which taken together provided the motive, we suggest, for murder in this case. The motive in itself of course is not enough to prove guilt. Nasri wanted his wife dead. He used Leslie to get somebody as the tool to do the job. Emmanuel took the killer to the scene and the killer, we say, was Jones."He went on: "After the killing was done, Jones got back into the car, drove off to a nearby street parallel to Sudbury Avenue. Jones got out of it and disposed of the knife in a drain. Unluckily for him, there was a CCTV camera which caught the car and the knife being disposed of in the drain.""Ceaseless" mobile phone calls before and after the killings connected the men to each other and Emmanuel's car was placed in the area for an hour and half around the killing time. Worsley asked: "Is he driving around in readiness, in order to do the job when he knows that Nasri's left the house and is on his way to his safe alibi?" A witness, he said, would tell the jury that Jones had confessed he had carried out the killing.Five days before her death, Patel-Nasri complained to police after intruders tried to get into her home. "That incident was either a reconnaissance for what was to be done or an unsuccessful and bungled attempt to do what happened and succeeded five days later." That night there was a call between Leslie's and Nasri's mobiles. Nasri was later told by his wife that she had armed herself with a kitchen knife in case she had to defend herself.In spite of having promised to order a CCTV camera for their home the next day, Nasri had not done so until the lunchtime of the day of his wife's stabbing. "Why was there the delay?" asked Worsley. "Did he have her killed and have it done that night before the camera she was so anxious to have was installed?"Worsley told the jury that Nasri had been leading a "double life", travelling to Egypt and Lithuania with his girlfriend, Lithuanian escort Laura Mockine. The pair also visited Ascot and Olympia but when police asked about the three photographs of Mockine on his mobile phone, Nasri denied knowing who she was. He later admitted lying. He sold the home he owned with his wife, and when he was arrested in his new flat, Mockine was living there with him."No sooner was she dead than through a solicitor he was claiming her half of the Rugby Road house [Patel-Nasri's family property and business]. He would soon be able to clear the indebtedness he had crept into," said Worsley. Describing Patel-Nasri as "bubbly, energetic and hard-working, with many friends", Worsley said she had been thinking of divorcing her husband because she wanted to have a baby but he was "always pushing her away saying he was too tired to have sex". Patel-Nasri had helped fund her husband's stretch limousine business - registered in her name - and paid the deposit on their home but suddenly found herself in debt. Her husband had been "pestering her either to add his name to the business as a partner or transfer it to him". Nasri was the executor and sole beneficiary of her will. The case continues.