To lock up a child is a sign of failure. Experience demonstrates that using prison to contain and rehabilitate vulnerable children is misguided at best. Yet in England and Wales we lock up more children than almost any other country in Europe and have one of the lowest ages of criminal responsibility. And now the government is embarking on a policy that is resulting in more young people being imprisoned, including many who have yet to be found guilty of any offence.The Children's Society recognises that children who are repeatedly caught committing minor crimes cannot be ignored and that the children who commit serious violent offences do need to be dealt with according to the law. Yet the Government's new law, Section 130 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act, 2001, is unjust because it lumps both of these groups of children together; it is unjust because it locks up children as young as 15 on remand who have not yet been found guilty of an offence.Section 130 is already being piloted in ten areas and will be fully implemented throughout England and Wales on September 16th. In the past, children could only be locked up on remand if they posed a risk of 'serious harm' to the public. Now, alleged 'persistent' offenders who, in the words of the Home Secretary 'thumb their nose at the law' will be remanded to prison for minor offences such as shoplifting. Being on remand means you are waiting trial and, under the law, technically innocent. This clause means that innocent young people will be imprisoned.This raises important questions for all of us. For example, how do we work with these troubled members of our society who come into conflict with the law? Locking children up is expensive and does not work. Children who are thrown in prison come out more damaged, angrier and alienated. All they learn is how to commit crime more effectively. The Government is increasingly isolated in its belief that imprisoning children for minor offences benefits anyone at all.For all the improvements to prisons, children on remand remain the most vulnerable in the prison system. Our new research reveals that many of them are processed through prison haphazardly; vital information about their history of mental health, drug misuse, family and educational difficulties is rarely available. Locking up vulnerable young people in prisons only further isolates them, intensifies the tension and violence in their lives and ultimately, one way or another, writes them off. How can we change this? Consistency has to be the hallmark of a justice system, yet the treatment of young people in trouble with the law is a lottery. The question at the heart of the youth justice system is who, finally, is accountable for such an inconsistent system? Where is the corporate responsibility for these children? Our experience of working in prison confirms Prison Inspectorate reports that violence, bullying and racism are endemic in prisons. Our prisons are overcrowded and yet the Government's policy changes have already increased the prison population by approximately 400 young people. Parents can hardly be held responsible for young people while they are in prison. If children were in residential care, the local authority would be in loco parentis. In prison they are disowned, de-parented, they are neither adults in their own right, nor children under the protection of their parents or childrens legislation. They are, effectively, corporately orphaned during their stay in prison. The Government must acknowledge that all children need protection - including those in prison - from violence, abuse, bullying and racism. The way to do that is to implement the Children Act 1989, which applies to all children apart from those in prisons and Secure Training Centres.But the immediate need is to repeal Section 130. It is currently being piloted and its implementation should be halted immediately. By doing so, the Government could herald a start for a new, humane, fully accountable system that confronts crime without abusing human rights.Children behind bars campaign· If you wish to lend your support to our campaign, write to Children Behind Bars, The Observer, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email: childrenbehindbars@observer.co.uk