The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 28 September 2009In the article below about a policing initiative in Kent that has reduced antisocial behaviour and fear of crime we suggested it had been funded solely by cuts and savings within the police budget. The Kent police authority has asked us to make clear that a rise in the police's share of council tax in Kent and Medway contributed to the funding of the scheme A pioneering drive by one of Britain's biggest police forces to tackle antisocial behaviour and low-level offending is being linked to a massive reduction in crime and people's fear of crime – the elusive combination perennially sought by ministers.Officers in Kent are attributing a virtuous set of crime-fighting and performance figures to the creation of neighbourhood task teams, units specifically tasked to deal with antisocial behaviour, vandalism, petty offending and nuisance issues flagged up by the public.Eighty-four officers across the county work solely on these priorities, deployed separately to the beat officers who conduct routine patrols and those colleagues who deal with major offences and emergencies. They are ringfenced and cannot be redeployed to other duties save for under exceptional circumstances. The results, Kent says, have been dramatic.Last year, with the teams leading a package of initiatives, the force saw a 7.1% reduction in reports of antisocial behaviour. Government-approved surveys show that the percentage of local people worried about crime in their communities has dropped from 37.7% to 30.8% in the past 12 months. By the year ending in June this year, the number of people saying they feel safer had increased from 83.3% to 93.4%, the highest level since Home Office-approved surveys began in 2005. Victim satisfaction is at its highest too, with 85% of people saying they are satisfied with the service from the police.And in the biggest prize for officers obliged to show the government that they are having an impact, crime overall has fallen in the throes of a recession. The force recorded 30,477 crimes in the year 2007/8. The most recent figure is 24,763 offences. That is an 18.7% reduction in crime – or 5,714 fewer offences.The police minister David Hanson has already been down this month to spend time with officers on the Task Teams. He is said to have left impressed – and is unlikely to be the last politician beating a path to Kent in the run-up to an election.Chief Constable Mike Fuller says the force felt it had to innovate. "We were looking at some of the academic links between antisocial behaviour and fear of crime. We have been very successful reducing crime and disorder but what we had was disproportionately high levels of fear of crime."Higher levels than other places in other parts of the country. That was why we had to find a robust way of tackling it. These officers are an enforcement arm for the neighbourhood teams and they have had a huge impact."He added: "A lot of the antisocial behaviour is low-level. I was with a team in North Kent and while we were out people were saying that at 8pm every night we get young kids throwing stones at cars … Officers in North Kent will be getting calls to fights and drunkenness and accidents and domestic violence and in that context, something like youths throwing stones will be given a lower response priority."The thing about these dedicated units is that they to deal with these things. They can tackle that in a sustained way while the other response officers deal with the other calls. It was a new concept. We didn't know whether it would work . But we have been totally convinced by the results."Ministers also note that the innovation didn't cost the government any more money. "We saved about £3m each year from our budget and used the saving to grow police numbers," says Fuller."These teams will be paid for by the savings we have realised. When the MoD were ordered to make big cuts, they employed a company and principles of lean management and that is what we have been doing. Staff look at various administrative processes and say where there is waste."We choose officers for these teams who are willing and flexible. Often they have to change hours and shifts at short notice. But what they have is a great deal of job satisfaction because the community really appreciates what they are doing. Because these are quality of life issues, you have a far bigger positive impact on the local community."The concentration on low-level offending borrows heavily from the "broken windows" theory, which was first articulated the 1980s by the criminologist George L Kelling. "Consider a building with a few broken windows," he wrote."If the windows are not repaired, the tendency is for vandals to break a few more windows. Eventually, they may even break into the building, and if it's unoccupied, perhaps become squatters or light fires inside."Ten years later Rudy Giuliani made the idea the guiding philosophy of his New York mayoralty and took the credit for reductions in serious and low-level crime. Critics, however, suggested that its effect may have been exaggerated because crime also fell in some other cities not wedded to the broken windows approach. There was also criticism that the concentration on misbehaviour gave officers licence to be heavy handed. But in Kent, they say the approach has been refined by dint of its work with other local agencies.Problem areas identified become the focus for follow-up work by partners such as the council and can lead to a variety of longer term solutions being tried. Housing estates may get new facilities; individuals identified as habitual troublemakers may receive support from social agencies.Christopher Allen, Dover council's community safety manager, said: "We have developed broken windows. We are trying to deal with the people who might cause graffiti and vandalism without bringing them into the criminal justice system."View from the estatesCarrots and sticks replace stones It's all quiet now on the hilly, mazy Buckland estate, a mile outside Dover city centre, but it was hardly that a month ago.Scores of youths would gather in the central square, outside the faded shops, drinking and generally being rowdy. There were routine incidents of vandalism and it seemed clear that the loiterers had the upper hand. People were scared to venture to the shops.Inside the shops wasn't safe either. Hairdresser Margaret Morris was with a customer when a yob raced his mountain bike through the door into the middle of the premises. It all kicked off a month ago when police tried to arrest two boys who had broken into an empty building behind her business. Morris, 65, says she wasn't surprised. "Something was always going to happen because things were getting worse and worse. We were just relieved when something was done."The something was the deployment of Dover's neighbourhood task team, and a strategy of carrot and stick. Arrests were made after the disturbances but officers also sought the co-operation of the youths themselves, extracting a promise that they would instead congregate 20 feet away, on a stretch of grass."It seems to be working out so far," said Sgt Steve Callow, who leads the team. "We didn't move them far but where they are is less intimidating. We have been a visible presence here, supporting the PCSO who routinely patrols. It definitely has an impact."In traditional terms success or failure is hard to quantify.The objective, according to the five-strong Dover team, is not to amass arrests. But managers can assess impact. Two or three weeks after deploying a team into an area or on to an estate, they will want to see the level of public contentment, as measured by surveys and the number of complaints.Some, like Cheema, a shopkeeper trading in the uneasy calm of the square, say the teams are all very well but they want even more visibility and tougher sanctions against unruly youths. Indeed, his customers discuss the desirability of bringing back the stocks. One says he would like first throw.But officers say they are keen to find better long-term solutions to avoid demonising young people who are often just bored or disadvantaged. That doesn't mean it's easy. "We're from the neighbourhood task team," Callow tells one boy on a mountain bike."Does that mean you're going to beat us up?" says the unsmiling youth, quick as a flash."What causes trouble around here?" PC Darren Lane asks a sullen boy on a black-framed bike. "Old Bill coming around," the youth replies. Even so, they part with a wave and a smile. Buckland is quiet. Things are fine.