Charles Dickens cut his teeth and learned his trade as a court reporter, and looking round the courts of the north, you can see why.The days have long gone, sadly, when we could afford a watch on all or even a large number of them, but every so often a case catches your eye, beyond the high profile examples of mayhem which give such a false impression of contemporary life in our three regions.Here are a couple: who could resist a headline reading: 'Aliens told me to do it' claims son who burgled his mother. The case at Teesside Crown court made an interesting change of pace for Recorder William Lowe QC.He dealt gently with John Michael Kirby, 29, who told police about the extra-terrestrials when he was arrested after his fingerprints were found amid the aftermath of a burglary at his mother's home. He had not been there for many months after stealing money from her to buy drugs.The aliens told him not only to take food from the house but to give it to the homeless, he said, in a well-mannered interview in which he admitted everything and said that he would enter a guilty plea at court, which he did. He also elected to represent himself, a course which alarms most professional lawyers because of the possible complications, especially in a defence involving aliens, and the danger of an accused messing things up and getting a severer penalty than might otherwise have been the case. Recorder Lowe warned Kirby of this, especially with regard to burglary which carries the prospect of jail.Kirby went ahead, but only to say 'No, thank you,' when the judge asked him if he wanted to say anything in his defence. This was taken into account along with his straightforward guilty pleas and although Kirkby was given a year's sentence, he could have got a lot more (he had previously robbed his uncle as well) and will only serve half.  Guinness World Records Gamer's Edition. Might they be interested? Photograph: Public DomainThese cases almost always involve human tragedy, or at the least, failings occasioned by circumstances, upbringing or misfortune, as Dickens described without condoning the actions themselves. This was also the case in legal proceedings last week at Hull which are being put forward as a record for England and Wales, as the shortest criminal jury trial on record.I will be flabbergasted if this isn't challenged by an expert in pre-Victorian litigation but nonetheless the treatment of 42-year-old Rodney Walker was extremely swift. The jury was sworn in 3.53pm on Thursday last, Crown and defence submissions concluded before 4.18pm when the jury retired. The six men and six women returned their verdict at 4.21pm and Judge Mark Bury passed sentence two minutes later.The offence was indecent exposure and it was established that Walker was unfit to plead because, in the judge's words, he had an IQ of 60 and thought, for example, that a can of baked beans cost £8. The jury's job was simply to decide whether he had carried out the act, and they decided that he had. Judge Bury imposed a three-year community order for Kirkby to confront his sexual offences problems, so treatment was humane and designed to prevent repetition as well as a penalty.Twenty nine minutes. Unlikely to become the norm, but interesting for anyone who has sat through apparently interminable cases, listening to gossamer-spinning on tiny points or waiting for participants to turn up.