A man questioned about the murder of Brighton teacher Jane Longhurst was released on police bail last night.Sussex police said the 35-year-old suspect was released without charge after being interviewed by detectives at a police station in Brighton. The man, who has not been officially named, was detained on Thursday at an address in Hove.Shortly before Sussex police made the announcement, a man was seen leaving the custody suite of the police station, holding an umbrella up to his face and accompanied by a plain clothed police officer and another man. He was driven away in an unmarked car.The man, to whom police had spoken at least once before, was held in custody in the same building where Miss Longhurst's sister and mother paid emotional tributes and renewed their appeals for information yesterday.Police said it was believed Miss Longhurst knew the suspect. It is thought he is the boyfriend of one of her friends, although officers would not confirm any details.Miss Longhurst, a special needs teacher, disappeared five weeks ago. Her strangled body was found set alight on Wiggonholt common, West Sussex, last Saturday.Miss Longhurst, 31, a part-time musician, was last seen on March 14 carrying shopping bags to her front door. She was reported missing that evening by her partner, Malcolm Sentance, 34, an education welfare officer. Police believed her body was kept somewhere cool before the killer panicked suddenly, dumping and setting light to it at a bird sanctuary Miss Longhurst often visited.Mr Sentance, who had left Sussex to recover with friends, told police he could not face the press conference. But Miss Longhurst's mother read a message from him at the press conference."I miss my Jane every hour of every day and night that we have been apart," he wrote. "It is heartbreaking when a life comes to an end and that person is not there to share your life."She was my best friend and I would have been happy to spend the rest of my life with her. She used to say to me 'Malc, are we going to get mar ried sometime?' and I would say 'Yeah, whenever'."I would have loved to have had some children with her. We were going to buy a house together. I was praying she would be found alive. I miss her laughter, the pillow fights we used to have together, and swimming in the sea with her." I want her to know I will still love her, wherever she is. I feel everyone involved has moved heaven and earth to find her and I believe nothing else could have been done before the body was found."He added: "I am happy for the pathologist to carry out tests so we can have a funeral. I hope the killer is found soon and I don't feel any malice towards the killer. My thoughts are just with Jane and her family following the heartbreaking loss of a brilliant friend."Liz Longhurst, 71, Miss Longhurst's mother, said: "There must be someone out there who knows something and who hasn't yet come forward. If you are that person, then please, please call the police."Detective chief inspector Steve Dennis appealed to the owner of a brown or dark green Ford Focus, seen near the wooded area where her body was found, to come forward. Police would today be stopping motorists in an attempt to trace witnesses. Two cars have been eliminated from the inquiry.