In the pubs and bars of central London yesterday, the Drink Detective did not win a universal welcome. Office workers escaping for a lunchtime drink were first bemused by the matchbox-size gadget, and then sceptical that it could prevent sex attacks. Charlie Cassell, a 21-year-old shop worker, was with her friend Casie Swash. "Where are you supposed to use it?" said Charlie. "It's not something you can really get out in front of someone who's just bought you a drink, is it? "I would have thought if you are that unsure, you shouldn't be with them - or certainly not be taking a drink from them. You could wait until they go to the toilet, but it looks so fiddly that it would probably take a while. And what happens if the test comes back positive? You still don't know for sure who's done it, or that the test has worked." Casie, a 20-year-old student, agreed that the kit was not perfect but said it could be useful. "I heard about a bar recently where two girls were drugged and attacked - so it is something I've thought about, although I'm always out with my friends, and we keep an eye out for each other. "In theory this will give people the chance to check if they are worried about a drink. But in reality, when people have had a few, are they going to go and buy one of these things for £4 and come back and do this test? Surely it would be cheaper and easier to just buy another drink if you're not sure about the one you've got - you could get two for the price of this." Despite the scepticism, most drinkers agreed that the device could prove a deterrent. "If these are available in a bar it might make potential attackers think twice and remind women to be careful about what they are doing," said Charlie. "But on its own I don't think it is the answer." Statistics from the Roofie Foundation show that 15% of victims are male, but many men remain sceptical. "It is not very relevant to me," said Mark Pocklington, 32, who was out with work colleagues in Islington, north London. "I can honestly say this is something I've never thought about, because I never realised it happened to men. "If I did need it, I would have thought they could make something much more discreet. Could you not just get a tablet to drop into your drink which would turn a certain colour if there was anything suspicious in it? It would be far easier than all this fiddling around." Others felt the device was an attempt to cash in on people's fears without offering any practical help. Louise Page, 24, said: "It seems to me that they are trying to make money out of people; I just don't see it being very popular in a busy bar or club, it's not practical. "You can only use the kit once, and at £4 each it could easily double the cost of your night out if you were trying to test every drink. "It could put people off trying anything if these are around. But, in the end, common sense and your friends are much better protection."