The man at the centre of the 'bodies in bags' case was released into the community late last year from a secure mental hospital and was seen by staff there as recently as 27 December, only days before human remains were found in his north London flat.Anthony Hardy, 51, who has a history of mental illness, was an in-patient at St Luke's Hospital, in Muswell Hill, north London, which operates locked wards, but was discharged as he was not considered a risk to the public, The Observer has learnt. The tragic details emerged as police disclosed last night the identity of one of two women whose body parts were found wrapped in black bags and hidden in rubbish. Elizabeth Selina Valad, a 29-year-old prostitute of English and Iranian parentage, was named as the woman whose legs were found last week by a vagrant as he searched for food amid rubbish bins behind a pub. Police then discovered a torso in Hardy's flat. Valad, who was also known as Liz or Lizzy, moved to London from Nottingham when she was 17. She was identified by her breast implants, but parts of her body are still missing. Her family have been informed by police and were said to be distraught by the discovery. Police today appealed for anyone who knew her or saw her at Christmas to contact them, as detectives continued to question Hardy over the murders after being granted an extra 36 hours by magistrates. The other body is thought to be that of a younger woman, possibly in her teens. Police are now investigating a possible link to the murder of Paula Fields, 31, whose body was found in Regent's Canal near King's Cross, London, in February 2001. The circumstances surrounding the death of another prostitute, Sally White, who was found in Hardy's flat earlier last year after suffering a heart attack, are also being re-investigated. As concern grew over the scale of the crimes, Camden and Islington Mental Health Trust last night confirmed it had launched an internal inquiry into why Hardy was released. A spokeswoman confirmed Hardy was under supervision throughout Christmas and even kept an appointment with his carers outside the hospital on 30 December, the day the vagrant first discovered the body parts behind a pub in Camden Town. A hunt for Hardy, a divorced father of four, was launched on New Year's Eve and he was finally arrested last Thursday at Great Ormond Street Hospital in central London. Murder investigators had ordered a watch on London hospitals after it was confirmed that Hardy visited University College Hospital on New Year's Day, seeking medication for a condition related to diabetes. The case will raise new concerns over care of the mentally ill. The mental health trust told The Observer that Hardy was discharged under a care plan, which would have put him under the supervision of a team of local health care workers, including a psychiatric nurse and social worker. He should also have received home visits to ensure that he was taking any medication needed to keep him stable. The trust said it had launched an inquiry, led by an independent non-executive director, but added that no one had been suspended. 'We are carrying out a thorough investigation, as we would do in any such incident involving one of our patients.' At Christmas hospital psychiatrists, particularly in the inner cities, are under considerable pressure not to admit any new patients unless they are in a psychotic state because of the pressure on beds and lack of nursing staff. In London, some medium secure units such as St Luke's have been running at a bed occupancy rate of 120 per cent - in other words, there are 20 per cent more patients than there are free beds. It is not clear what kind of care plan the patient was under when the local community outreach team - a group of doctors, psychiatric nurses and social workers - took responsibility for him once he was discharged in the autumn. However, their caseloads have been growing heavier, with one nurse responsible for as many as 80 or 90 patients in some areas. It remains to be seen whether in this case the patient simply slipped through the net of community care. The case will also raise new questions over the fate of the Government's attempts to bring in tougher legislation to protect the public. The new Mental Health Bill, whose draconian proposals have been put on hold by Downing Street following an outcry from both psychiatrists and civil liberties groups, would have given hospitals the power forcibly to section anyone with a personality disorder, even if they had not done anything wrong. It appears, however, that existing legislation was sufficient to deal with Hardy, as his condition - believed to be manic depression- can be sectionable if the patient is considered to be dangerous. The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the Record column, Sunday January 12 2003 We should clarify that, contrary to the headline of this article, St Luke's Hospital, in north London, is not a medium secure unit. It provides general acute mental health services.