The brother of a nurse who was found in the boot of her car after being missing for more than a week said he had clung to the hope that she was alive, despite his family fearing the worst.Magdeline Makola, 38, was discovered on Boxing Day, dehydrated and suffering from hypothermia, in Airdrie, Lanarkshire, 11 days after she disappeared. Police said Makola, a cardiac nurse at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, could have been trapped in the vehicle for up to 10 days. A man appeared in court on Monday charged with her attempted murder.Makola's younger brother, Refilwe Makola, flew to Scotland from South Africa this week to be with his sister as she recovers in hospital. Speaking in Livingston yesterday, Refilwe Makola, 35, said his sister was making a good recovery, but declined to go into details about the treatment she is receiving at Monklands hospital in North Lanarkshire, where she was taken after being freed from the car by two policemen."When I arrived she just laughed and opened her hands to hug me," said Makola. "Then she started asking how is everyone at home? She ended up being concerned about me instead of me being concerned about her in hospital."Makola, from Sasolburg in Free State province in South Africa, said his sister was very strong. "She is laughing now and starting to make some jokes." He described the family's torment after they learned that Magdeline, who moved to Scotland from South Africa six years ago, had gone missing. She was last seen leaving work at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary on 15 December to return to her home in Livingston and was reported missing when she failed to turn up for a shift on 18 December."We could not believe it," said Makola. "We thought she went somewhere and she would come back. Ever since childhood she is not a person who would leave the house without telling anyone where she was going." As time went one, he said, the family, particularly his mother, began to fear the worst. But Makola refused to believe that she had come to harm.Two police officers heard Magdeline's cries for help from her car, parked at the end of a cul de sac. She was wearing only her nightclothes and was said to be extremely traumatised. It took police officers several days to question her. On Monday Justice Ngema, 35, appeared in private at Linlithgow sheriff court charged with the attempted murder of Magdeline Makola. Ngema, from South Africa but living in Airdrie, was remanded in custody until next week.