When Alice Stevens went to England's first parenting centre in Collyhurst, Manchester, she was losing control of her life. Her partner, Mike, had died and she had been evicted from her rented house. Homeless, the 50-year-old mother of three began touring Manchester's temporary night shelters with her 12-year-old son, Lee, and turned to drink during the day. "I spent nearly all day down the pub. Lee would come to the pub with me in the mornings and hang out with his mates in the afternoons. He hadn't been to school in 18 months."A year on, with the help of staff at the Foundations centre, an initiative set up by the children's charity NCH and Manchester city council to offer support to vulnerable families, Alice has stopped drinking and her youngest son has returned to school. "I never thought he'd take GCSEs," said Alice. "I still can't believe it."The project, first piloted in Dundee, is now to be expanded nationwide.The Manchester centre houses up to five families on its top floor. Each family has its own flat, and is responsible for paying bills and covering maintenance repairs. The rest of the building is set aside for the offices, classrooms, kitchens and relaxation rooms in which Foundations' 13 members of staff support, advise and train their families.To qualify for a place, a family must be at risk of losing its home and express a will to address parenting issues. A stay in the centre will usually last around a year, and around 70% of Foundations' intake either have been rehoused or are in line to be.The aim is to teach parents how to manage their home, stick to a routine and discipline their children. Each day parents receive classes geared towards good parenting, including lessons in healthy eating, DIY and literacy. "This isn't a soft option," says Andy Duff, project manager.The most controversial rule at Foundations is the compulsory observation session, conducted by staff four times a day. "Staff have to check up on families," explains Duff. "We go in every morning to make sure the kids are up for school and breakfast is ready," he says. "In the evenings we make sure a healthy meal is in the oven."Alice initially resisted the intrusions, says her support worker, Jill Atkins. "But we're not about standing on the doorstep, we're about getting stuck into these families. After a tricky start we find most families can turn their lives around."Alice agrees: "People from my estate told me not to go in," she says. "But this place has changed things for me. I'm going to go back to my friends and live with my boys again. I wouldn't have done it without them, without Jill."· Family names have been changed.FAQ: Getting supportHow do the support schemes work?Pilot projects in Manchester and Dundee are run by NCH Foundations. In east Manchester the scheme provides residential support for five families. After signing a support licence agreement, each family receives its own flat and is held responsible for furnishing and maintaining its space. Families consisting of up to six people stay for up to 18 months.Which families qualify?They must meet three criteria: one member of the family must be guilty of antisocial behaviour; the family must be homeless or about to lose their home; parents must accept the need to improve parenting skills.What does the programme entail?Parents have a tutored class a week and daily support. Parents receive accredited lessons in sewing, DIY, healthy living, cooking, relaxation, self-esteem, anger management and counselling sessions. Afterwards, families get a certificate and are rehoused.Is the scheme voluntary?The NCH schemes are, but a concern for staff is that, under proposals unveiled yesterday, problem families would be referred to residential "sin bins" on a compulsory basis.